A LETTER FROM AVANGRID ACCELERATING TRANSFORMATION At AVANGRID, we aspire to be the leading sustainable energy company in the U.S. 2021 marked the start of a decisive decade and a coordinated effort globally to address the causes and impacts of climate change. While much has been done in the past, there seems to be a renewed effort towards seeking solutions and moving collaboratively. We see this as a tremendous opportunity for our company. Over the last year, AVANGRID has taken bold steps to further our clean energy leadership and to accelerate transformation. We’re bringing safe, reliable and affordable energy to the 2.3 million electric and 1 million gas customers we serve today, while creating the clean energy solutions we all need for tomorrow. In 2021, our Networks and Renewables businesses invested $3.3 billion to build a cleaner, connected and more resilient energy system. AVANGRID remains one of the cleanest utilities in the U.S., with over 90% emissions-free generating capacity producing close to 20,000 gigawatt-hours of clean electricity – enough to power nearly two million homes. And as a pioneer in offshore wind, green hydrogen, and other innovative technologies, we’re proud to be a central part of history in the making. AVANGRID is shaping the American clean energy industry, which will deliver affordable energy to millions of families, spur local economic growth, and create good-paying jobs while substantially reducing our national carbon footprint and expanding our country’s energy independence. As we publish this report, construction on the nation’s very first commercial-scale offshore wind farm – Vineyard Wind 1 – is underway. This is one of three AVANGRID projects that will revolutionize New England’s clean energy future by delivering 2.4 gigawatts of offshore wind to the region by 2027, driving over $10 billion in investments that will catalyze new clean energy hubs for our communities and create thousands of jobs. True to our Environmental, Social, Governance and Financial (ESG+F) principles, we strive to show that clean energy is a win-win-win: not just a beneficial outcome for the environment and society, but an opportunity to help people and communities participate in the clean energy transition through new jobs, and for leading companies like ours to make critical and strategic investments. AVANGRID is setting the pace for other utilities and, through our actions today and our visionary goals for the future, we don’t want to just be a leading sustainable energy company – we aspire to be the leader. This means we must continue to raise the bar, challenge ourselves to push boundaries and be more agile in making adjustments along the way. Our talented employees are providing the fuel for creativity and innovation. As companies, governments, and other organizations work to achieve their climate goals, AVANGRID is confident that we will develop the solutions our country needs if we put our minds and our resources to it. Because our customers, our communities, and every one of us deserves a future built on cleaner domestic energy – and because American innovation has been a driving force for progress for centuries. AVANGRID is dedicated to and driven by accelerating transformation, and as the U.S. navigates its next energy chapter, our company is committed to leading the way. We’re shaping the American clean energy industry, which will deliver affordable energy to millions of families. LETTER FROM OUR VICE PRESIDENT OF SUSTAINABILTIY WELCOME TO AVANGRID’S 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability is more than just a concept at AVANGRID: it is in our DNA and it is part of everything we do. We think about sustainability through the lens of ESG+F – or our Environmental, Social, Governance and Financial impact on the communities we serve. As described in this report, we’ve made the ‘F’ or Financial factor a key component along with the E, S and G because we know that when we focus on making lasting responsible and positive impacts on our world, we will deliver strong financial returns for our shareholders and for our communities. This report reflects the culmination of our sustainability efforts and leadership during 2021, our continued work to accelerate the transition to a clean energy future and our push to achieve our company’s bold and visionary climate and social impact goals. In this report you’ll see how in 2021 we brought this work to life, with detailed insights including a comprehensive overview of our business and: • Our environmental commitments – from further reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, to building partnerships that help protect our natural world. • Our social commitments – from the Avangrid Foundation’s support for organizations focused on a broad range of social issues, to creating opportunities for our employees to engage with their communities. • Our governance commitments – including efforts to embed our sustainability commitments across our supply chain and ensure our employees have the resources to navigate a particularly challenging world in the face of COVID-19, social injustices and increasing global tensions. • Our key performance indicators (KPIs) – across each of these commitments. In addition to this report, throughout the year we share information from trusted outside organizations about our sustainability journey, including our standards reporting through the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), as well as the Edison Electric Institute and the American Gas Association. We take great pride in our ESG+F leadership, and we will continue to evolve and accelerate our commitments to address climate change and to be stewards of the environment and partners to our communities, while building the leading clean energy company in the United States. We hope our work, as described in the pages of this report, gives you inspiration and a sense of promise for the future. Laney Brown | Vice President – Sustainability +386 MW  ~100 miles  15,000  of new wind and solar projects  of cast iron and bare steel pipe  new EV charging station network  reached Commercial Operation  replaced annually to reduce  committed to by 2025  Date (COD) in 2021  emissions of methane  STRATEGY & VISION OUR STRATEGY AND VISION: TO ACCELERATE THE CLEAN ENERGY TRANSFORMATION At AVANGRID, we are accelerating the transformation to a cleaner tomorrow. This report highlights our ongoing efforts to become the leading sustainable energy company in the United States by creating clean energy solutions for our customers and communities that advance progress on climate, economic and societal issues. The roadmap to our success is based on several key elements – informed by our Environmental, Social, Governance and Financial (ESG+F)-led strategy – which shape our business decisions and help further our sustainability commitments. We know that you cannot make lasting positive impacts on our world if you’re not also delivering strong financial returns. This is why we include the F (for Financial Stewardship) in our ESG+F sustainable business model. ENVIRONMENTAL Investing in a Cleaner Energy Future SOCIAL Investing in People and the Community GOVERNANCE Operating with the Highest Ethical Standards FINANCIAL Maintaining a Strong Financial Position In 2021, our Networks and Renewables businesses invested $3.3 billion to build a cleaner, connected and more resilient energy system, as part of a total planned capital spend of more than $20 billion across Avangrid Renewables and Avangrid Networks from 2021 to 2025.* These investments in a connected and resilient grid will help accelerate the clean energy transformation while also ensuring that we’re providing our customers with safe, reliable and affordable power to meet their daily energy needs. Today we also generate enough clean energy to power approximately two million homes, with over 8.8 gigawatts (GW) of wind, solar and thermal capacity across 22 states, and we’re just getting started. For example, in 2021 we began construction on our joint venture project, Vineyard Wind 1, the first commercial-scale offshore wind project to break ground in the United States, and we continue to expand our more than 8 GW onshore wind and solar portfolio with approximately 1 GW currently under construction. In this report, we show how we made significant progress toward our ESG+F commitments in 2021 and how we’re continuing these efforts moving forward to create a clean energy future that benefits all of our stakeholders. To learn more, visit the Sustainability section of AVANGRID’s website at avangrid.com. ESG GOALS AVANGRID ESG GOALS AND AWARDS >100% 50% 35% Increase Renewables’ installed Reduce 50% of paper used Reduce Scope 11 GHG emissions capacity >100% by 2025 vs. 2015 by 2030 intensity 35% by 2025 vs. 2015 60% of AVANGRID’s fleet Scope 11 ~900L2/L3 charging stations (100% of light duty) converted to carbon neutral by 2035 installed for fleet and employee cleaner energy vehicles by 20302 vehicles by 2030 25% >15Kchargers and 50% reduction in CO2 footprint make-ready infrastructure for light Green energy used in AVANGRID in AVANGRID facilities by 2030 duty, medium/heavy duty and facilities by 2030 transit buses by 20302 $300M 35,000 2030 Increase annual Supplier Diversity Employee volunteer hours achieved Full gender parity for women in senior spend to $300M by 2025 in 2025 leadership roles3 by 2030 1 Scope 1: GHG emissions from electricity generation, methane leaks, SF6 fugitive emissions, fuel consumption in buildings and company vehicles. 2 Subject to regulatory approval and availability of vehicles and charging equipment. 3 Senior leadership roles include director-level and above. AWARDS Sustainability Ratings & Indices GLOBAL CARBON CLEAN 200 LIST For the fourth year, AVANGRID is on this list of companies leading the way with solutions for a clean energy future. 2021 Awards & Honors WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL COMPANIES For the third consecutive year, AVANGRID received this award from the Ethisphere Institute – one of only nine honorees globally in the Energy and Utilities sector. THE JUST 100: 2021 AMERICA’S BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS – FORBES AVANGRID was recognized by Forbes and JUST Capital, ranking #1 among utilities for its commitment to the environment and the communities it serves. This list recognizes companies doing right by stakeholders and making an impact above and beyond their industry peers. S&P GLOBAL CLEAN ENERGY INDEX AVANGRID was chosen as one of 100 clean energy-related companies worldwide. The Index aims to track companies from both developed and emerging markets that produce energy from wind, solar, hydro and other renewable sources, as well as companies that build and provide clean technology. S&P SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK 2021 was AVANGRID’s first year placing on S&P Global’s annual and comprehensive listing of the world’s most sustainable companies. WELL HEALTH-SAFETY RATING – INTERNATIONAL WELL BUILDING INSTITUTE AVANGRID received this rating across 17 of our workplaces. More than 80% of employees now work in WELL Health-Safety rated workplaces. The evidence-based, third-party-verified rating focuses on operational policies, maintenance protocols, stakeholder engagement and emergency plans. ENERGY STAR PARTNER OF THE YEAR Three of our operating companies – United Illuminating (UI), Connecticut Natural Gas (CNG) and Southern Connecticut Gas (SCG) – were recognized as Energy Star partners for demonstrating outstanding leadership in energy management year over year. This distinction is the highest level of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recognition. EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE EMERGENCY RESPONSE AWARDS Four of our operating companies – Central Maine Power (CMP), New York State Electric & Gas (NYSEG), Rochester Gas and Electric (RG&E) and United Illuminating (UI) – were each recognized for their efforts supporting power restoration in Louisiana following Hurricane Ida in September 2021. COMPLIANCE LEADER VERIFICATION AVANGRID received certification by the Ethisphere Institute, for the second consecutive two-year term, for its corporate compliance program. Ethisphere is a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices. The verification process involves a rigorous review of an ethics and compliance program and corporate culture. 