AVANGRID is a recognized leader in ethics, compliance and corporate governance, creating clean energy projects to benefit the communities we serve. RECOGNIZED LEADER IN ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AVANGRID is a recognized leader in ethics, compliance and corporate governance, creating clean energy projects to benefit the communities we serve while maintaining a deep commitment to socially responsible business practices. In 2021, we were honored to once again be included in the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies (for the third consecutive year) by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining standards for ethical business practices. We also earned Ethisphere’s Compliance Leader Verification Certification for the second two-year term in a row. This certification is awarded exclusively to companies that maintain best-in-class corporate compliance programs and that have demonstrated their commitment to compliance through an extensive assessment process administered by the Ethisphere Institute. The due diligence process to achieve Compliance Leader Verification requires that Ethisphere Institute’s researchers and analysts conduct detailed assessments of an organization’s compliance and ethics-related initiatives, benchmarking them against what they consider to be best practices in the field of corporate ethics and compliance. Additionally, in 2021, we were named by Forbes and JUST Capital to the annual JUST 100, a list of America‘s best corporate citizens. We ranked first among utilities for our commitment to the environment and the communities we serve. And for the third year in a row, we received the Best Corporate Governance Award for a U.S. Company by World Finance Magazine. We earned this honor for having a robust governance program and for our efforts to actively address and promote diversity awareness across our company; to help address the needs of the diverse communities we serve; and to create greater opportunities for diverse businesses that are (or could be) a key part of our supply chain. We were also recognized for adjusting to an increasingly digital world in the face of COVID-19; for adapting new behaviors and practices that enable more of our people to work remotely; for allowing our customers to engage with us more easily through digital resources; and for using technology and digitization to increase our transparency and accountability to all of our stakeholders. 2021 (much like 2020) was also a year where companies needed, more than ever, to elevate the health and safety of customers, communities and employees above everything else as the impacts of COVID-19 continued. We were recognized through this award, in part, because of our leadership in helping all our stakeholders manage through the pandemic while still providing a critical service – access to energy – to those we serve. Committed to a Robust Governance System for Long-Term, Sustainable Shareholder Value and Social Contribution Our strategy is to adhere to a principled and robust governance structure – and a disciplined capital investment strategy – that, when combined, will build long-term shareholder value while creating positive social and environmental impacts. We have committed over $20 billion through 2025* to help deliver on these commitments. Our investments will generate earnings and a growing cash flow for AVANGRID, while increasing access to clean, renewable power for millions of customers and creating healthier, more sustainable communities. For example, Avangrid Networks is increasing access to renewable energy to millions of customers in the areas we serve, and Avangrid Renewables is increasing access to clean, renewable power across the U.S. * Based on AVANGRID’s Long-Term Outlook as of November 5, 2020. WE’RE PROUD TO SHARE THE RECOGNITION WE’VE EARNED FOR OUR COMMITMENTS TO SUSTAINABILITY, SOCIAL IMPACT, JUSTICE AND FAIR AND EQUITABLE GOVERNANCE. THESE INCLUDE: • The Ethisphere Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Companies. For the third year in a row, we received this honor for our commitments to ethical governance, leadership and reputation, with a focus on creating a culture of ethics and compliance with the law, and for our ESG commitments. • The Ethisphere Institute’s Compliance Leader Verification Certification. For the second consecutive two-year term, we received this certification for building and adhering to a best-in-class corporate compliance program, assessed and certified by the Ethisphere Institute. • JUST Capital and Forbes’ annual JUST 100 ranked AVANGRID among the top 100 citizens for our commitments to all of our stakeholders. • World Finance Magazine’s Best Corporate Governance Award for a U.S. Company, for our efforts to create and support a diverse workplace, to address the needs of the diverse communities we serve and to create more opportunities for diverse business across our supply chain. Governance Is a Key Pillar of Our Sustainability Strategy How we govern our organization is a key pillar of our sustainability strategy, and in 2020 we established the AVANGRID Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee. The ESG Committee is comprised of key members of the senior leadership team appointed by the CEO, including representatives from the CEO’s Office, Human Resources, General Services, Environmental, Health & Safety, Investor and Shareholder Relations, Communications, Risk Management, Legal Services, Compliance, the Avangrid Foundation and the Networks and Renewables businesses. Its purpose is to effectively coordinate our ESG commitments throughout the organization as well as support the relevant ESG risk management processes. This committee helps provide guidance on sustainable development strategies, policies, programs, practices and initiatives across our organization. In 2021, to further strengthen this commitment, we centered on sustainability and our broader ESG commitments in our governance system by replacing our existing traditional corporate governance system with a “Governance and Sustainability System.” To help ensure that our sustainability commitments are embedded in our governance practices and are aligned with our business strategy, our Board of Directors provides oversight of ESG+F and sustainability issues and informs AVANGRID’s policies and procedures for managing risk associated with ESG+F and sustainability. The Board of Directors has delegated oversight of ESG+F risks to its Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (CNCGC). ESG+F and sustainability risks, activities, initiatives and goals are regularly reviewed during CNCGC and Board of Directors meetings. With the assistance of the CNCGC, the board also regularly reviews, updates and approves an extensive set of sustainable development policies that provide the framework for our ESG+F and sustainability goals, actions and policies. Our CEO is also a member of our Board of Directors, and is responsible for our sustainability and citizenship efforts, and for regularly reporting on the status of our ESG+F and sustainability goals, actions and initiatives to the CNCGC and the board. The short- and long-term incentive compensation programs for our CEO and other members of senior management include specific performance metrics based on achieving key ESG+F goals and directly aligning our executive compensation program with the company’s effectiveness and success in meeting our ESG+F goals. This ESG Committee helps provide guidance on sustainable development strategies, policies, programs, practices and initiatives across our organization. AVANGRID’s Purpose Is Inspired by Core Values Based Around Being Sustainable, Agile and Collaborative At AVANGRID, we define our purpose as working together to deliver a more accessible clean energy model that promotes healthier, more sustainable communities every day. To achieve this, all of our actions are based on – and inspired by – three key values that inform how we govern our organization. These include: 1. Sustainable: We seek to be a model of inspiration for creating economic, social and environmental value in our communities, and we act positively to affect local development, generate employment and give back to the community. 2. Agile: We act efficiently, and with passion, to drive innovation and continuous improvement in all that we do. 3. Collaborative: We work together toward a common purpose and mutual benefit while valuing each other and respecting our differences. To ensure we’re adhering to these values, we engage in a constant process of continuous improvement, looking to incorporate the best governance practices from the U.S. and globally. Within the framework of our governance practices, our business strategy is guided by our Environmental, Social, Governance and Financial (ESG+F) commitments. Compliance Organization AVANGRID’s Compliance Division is one of several internal organizations tasked with ensuring our compliance with a broad set of ethical requirements related to our performance. In collaboration across the organization, the Compliance Division works to ensure we meet or exceed commitments to the highest ethical behavior, compliance with the law and performance when it comes to delivering our ESG+F strategies. Our Compliance Program is based on the AVANGRID Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the criteria for an effective compliance program established under Chapter 8 of the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines. The AVANGRID Board has adopted the AVANGRID Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all our officers and employees. Our code describes our core ethical values, establishes standards of conduct and provides guidance for employees to make appropriate decisions when faced with issues of an ethical nature. The code is reviewed and updated at least annually to ensure that it remains current with ethical challenges our employees may face. The code is also supplemented by a Supplier Code of Ethics that is included in all vendor contracts. The Supplier Code of Ethics establishes an expectation that vendors will comply with the law and key ethical principles (e.g., anti-corruption and human rights) if they wish to conduct business with us. AVANGRID has a 24/7 independent reporting helpline available to employees, contractors, consultants and suppliers, as well as the public. The helpline is used both to seek guidance on ethics and compliance-related matters and to report situations that may require investigation. The Compliance Division is responsible for addressing issues and concerns raised through the helpline and any other forms of communication. The AVANGRID Audit and Compliance Committee approves the compliance plan annually. Typical activities within the plan include employee training and communications, conflict of interest reporting and resolution, compliance risk assessments, third party reviews and due diligence, ethical culture measurements, a crime prevention plan and an annual external review of the effectiveness of the program. To help ensure compliance, we provide our employees with training and education in numerous areas, including training to advance our commitment to creating an inclusive and diverse work environment and to help our contractors address climate change by adapting practices consistent with the principles contained in our Climate Action Policy. 24/7 independent reporting helpline available to employees, contractors, consultants and suppliers, as well as the public. Strategy and Risk Management As a leader in enabling clean energy solutions, our company plays an essential role in the fight against climate change. While climate change represents an unprecedented challenge, we also see it as an opportunity for creating a more sustainable, equitable energy system through renewable energy generation, building of smart grids and investing in infrastructure across our Networks business to protect our customers and communities from the increasing threat of severe weather events while continuing to deliver energy safely and reliably. Our strategy aligns with the Paris Agreement and is designed to mitigate and reduce risks associated with climate change. Our efforts to combat climate change focus on electric energy generation through renewable sources along with the development of innovative and efficient technologies with lower C02 emissions. AVANGRID’s Board of Directors considers contributing to the fight against climate change a strategic priority for the company, and in 2021 approved updates to our Climate Action Policy to incorporate new, aggressive emission reduction goals. Our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is also responsible for evaluating the risks of economic losses – both direct and indirect – that result from climate change (such as extreme weather events and flooding). To further our commitments to address climate change, our Board of Directors, in 2021, amended our Investment Risk Policy to require that new investments incorporate an analysis of risks related to climate change and to require that the company create a plan and a budget to mitigate for climate risk. To comply with our own Investment Risk Policy, we monitor for risks that arise from climate change, including risks to our operations and our supply chain. As part of our participation in the Climate Disclosure Project (a nonprofit organization that runs a global disclosure system for companies and governments working to manage and reduce their environmental impacts), we have shared various ways climate change may impact our operations and the communities we serve. These include impacts due to severe weather or other natural events, such as hurricanes and storms, which are climate events that occur annually and that can cause damage to our operations and power outages; for example, the significant impact of Winter Storm Uri in Texas that impaired every type of power generation. We recognize that such events result directly from climate change and have (or can have) direct and severe impacts on our operations and our customers. We must therefore prioritize our efforts to plan for – and protect against – the very real impacts of climate change. To comply with our own Investment Risk Policy, we monitor for risks that arise from climate change, including risks to our operations and our supply chain. Human Rights and Supplier Code of Conduct Respect for human rights is fundamental to our company, to the communities in which we operate and serve and to our ambition to help achieve a more just and sustainable world. Because of this, we have developed and strictly adhere to a set of guiding principles to ensure the protection of human rights in everything we do. This means that we respect and abide by internationally recognized human rights principles, and that we are committed to treating people with dignity and with respect. From protecting the rights of ethnic minorities and indigenous peoples, to respecting employees’ rights to associate and engage in collective bargaining, we’ve established mechanisms to identify, prevent and mitigate adverse human rights impacts. To help deliver these commitments, our policy and practices are consistent with applicable international standards including the United Nations Global Compact and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), the Social Policy of the International Labor Organization and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. In 2021, we also made plans to adopt the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, which sets out norms of responsible social behavior by multinational firms (including our controlling shareholder, Iberdrola, S.A.), and we adopted these Guidelines in February 2022. We also view our suppliers as strategic business partners that play an essential role in protecting human rights and require that they adhere to our Supplier Code of Ethics and associated contractual terms and conditions. Included in our Supplier Code of Ethics is an expectation that our suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations including in areas such as forced labor, child labor, freedom of association and collective bargaining, and health and safety. To further reinforce our commitment to protecting human rights across our supply chain, we updated our Supplier Code of Ethics in 2021 to provide additional guidance in this area. In addition, our Compliance Division has refined AVANGRID’s third party due diligence processes to undertake daily compliance screens that include reviewing for potential human rights violations. Respect for human rights is fundamental to our company, to the communities in which we operate and serve and to our ambition to help achieve a more just and sustainable world. Sustainable Development Goals At AVANGRID, we work toward, and support, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) approved by the member states of the United Nations. As a consequence of our goal to be recognized as a leading clean energy company, much of our focus is on SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). We also contribute (either directly or indirectly) to the achievement of all 17 SDGs, and we have embedded these goals into our sustainability policy and strategy. This means that in addition to our efforts to create affordable, clean energy, we are also committed to creating positive social actions by supporting sustainable communities through investments in development, innovation and research. Sustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Creating clean, emission-free energy from wind and solar power is core to our business and our commitment to a clean energy future. Today, the vast majority of our installed energy generating capacity is emissions free, and we’ve set numerous targets to further our efforts related to this goal. This includes increasing our 2015 Renewables installed capacity by 100% by 2025. We’re also investing over $12 billion in electric and gas networks to support beneficial electrification and greater resiliency by 2025.* And we’re working to install an incremental 500 MW of operational green hydrogen electrolyzer capacity by 2030. Sustainable Development Goal 13: Climate Action As part of our climate mitigation strategy, we are focused on reducing our own carbon emissions, with the goal of becoming Scope 1 carbon neutral by 2035. To accomplish this, we’re working to reduce our Scope 1 GHG emissions (those direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by us) by 35% by 2025 compared to 2015, and to achieve net zero for Scope 1 by 2035. And we’ve committed to transition 60% of our entire vehicle fleet to clean energy alternatives by 2030 while increasing the energy efficiency across all of our facilities by 2025. To help reduce carbon emissions outside of our operations, we’ve committed to install 15,000 new electric vehicle charging stations between 2021 and 2025. Sustainable Development Goals 1-6, 8-12, 14-17 Our support for the Sustainable Development Goals goes beyond just climate impact. For example, the Avangrid Foundation engages in mission-driven giving and operates as our principal philanthropic arm. Since 2002, the Foundation has invested millions of dollars in grants, contributions, scholarships and matching gift programs to support the creation of sustainable, vibrant and vital communities, while preserving cultural and artistic heritage, advancing education and improving the lives of people in the communities we serve. * Based on AVANGRID’s Long-Term Outlook as of November 5, 2020. 100% Renewables installed capacity by 2025 versus 2015 500 MW of operational green hydrogen electrolyzer capacity by 2030 35% intensity of Scope 1 GHG emissions by 2025 60% of entire vehicle fleet transitioned to clean energy alternatives by 2030 Scope 1net zero emissions by 2035 Creating clean, emission-free energy from wind and solar power is core to our business and our commitment to a clean energy future. Our environmental commitments include investments in extensive programs for wildlife protection, preserving healthy ecosystems and promoting biological diversity – all of which are essential for a sustainable future. Our Networks business, for example, invests in long-term plans for protected species, and our Renewables business has a long history of working with conservationists and local community leaders to determine how we can develop and operate projects that minimize environmental impacts. And while we have one of the lowest water use intensities among any U.S. energy company (since so much of the power we generate requires little, if any, water), we recognize that water is a precious, irreplaceable resource. Therefore, where we need to use water, we do so in the most sustainable ways possible. For example, our Klamath Falls combined-cycle cogeneration plant requires water for cooling. Here, we use recycled municipal wastewater from a nearby treatment facility. AVANGRID ESG Reporting Standards Our stakeholders, the communities we serve and our investors expect us to be transparent and thorough in sharing progress against our ESG+F commitments, goals and achievements. Therefore, in addition to this report, we disclose and communicate our ESG achievements in a number of different forums including: • The Global Reporting Index (GRI) • The Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB) • The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) • The American Gas Association (AGA) All of these reports are available for review at avangrid.com in the Sustainability section of our website. 