// FINANCIAL: MAINTAINING A STRONG FINANCIAL POSITIONPOWERING FORWARDAt AVANGRID, Sustainability equals ESG plus F. We know 
a company cannot make a material and lasting impact 
if it is not also delivering sustainable financial returns. 
Our investments over the next five years will help drive the 
energy transition, strengthening our business and positioning 
AVANGRID to be the long-term leader in clean energy. As the U.S. recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic, AVANGRID will support this recovery and the 
country’s future economic growth by continuing to invest in clean and critical infrastructure and by 
generating jobs that will directly combat climate change and build a road to carbon neutrality. 
Sustainability, both in energy and in business, is the future. To be a leader in Sustainability, AVANGRID will use its ESG+F framework – with a sharp focus on the financial component – to drive our strategy and inform our asset allocation decisions. Our Long-Term Outlook, as updated on November 5, 2020, includes a disciplined capital investment 
plan of over $20 billion through 2025 to deliver 
long-term consistent financial performance and build shareholder value. These investments in 
regulated and contracted businesses will generate predictable earnings and growing cash flows
for AVANGRID. In Networks, we will invest over $12 billion to 
modernize and strengthen the grid through 
advanced metering infrastructure, resiliency and transmission projects. The over $8 billion invested in Renewables will support the development of our pioneering offshore wind projects and significant buildout of an additional 5.6 GW of solar and wind resources across the U.S. With these additions, 
AVANGRID expects to reach a total installed capacity of 13.2 GW by 2025, an increase of approximately 74% compared to 2020.  To support these ambitious plans for growth, 
AVANGRID will continue to focus on maintaining solid investment-grade credit ratings and securing access to capital. Reflecting our dedication to 
ESG+F, AVANGRID is also focused on promoting responsible financing and ethical business practices and in maintaining these commitments across the supply chain.// FINANCIAL: MAINTAINING A STRONG FINANCIAL POSITIONSUPPLIER 
SUSTAINABILITYWith the responsibility and the ability to motivate its suppliers to improve their environmental, ethical and social performance through actions that foster excellence in their management of sustainability, AVANGRID is fervent in its efforts to do business with sustainable, transparent, fair and ethical providers. Consistent with our commitment to continuous improvement, AVANGRID’s purchasing division has designed a new assessment system that evaluates supplier performance aligned to our sustainable business strategy and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Our new assessment system is divided into three primary sustainability areas – Environmental, Social and Governance – with the results contributing to our strong financial position. This tool evaluates suppliers during the purchasing process to identify potential risk and confirm that their modus operandi is aligned with our policies, principles and responsibilities to meet sustainability goals. // SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT MODEL FOR THE SUPPLY CHAIN: INFORMATION ASSESSEDENVIRONMENTAL (40%)• Existing Policies• Management Systems• Greenhouse Gases• Biodiversity• Climate Change• Water ManagementSOCIAL (30%)• Human Rights• Diversity• Management Systems• Contribution to Society• Reporting and TransparencyGOVERNANCE (30%)• Existing Policies• SDG• Ethics and Compliance• Sanctions• Stakeholders• Supply ChainWE PROMOTE COMPLIANCE WITH HUMAN RIGHTS FROM OUR SUPPLIERS.Online awareness module “Together for sustainable development” accessible 
to all suppliers, their employees and stakeholders.// FINANCIAL: MAINTAINING A STRONG FINANCIAL POSITIONREPORT ON 
GREEN FINANCINGAVANGRID is now the eighth 
largest green bond issuer 
in the U.S., with a total issued 
of $2.1 billion.In 2020, AVANGRID continued to tap ever-deepening pools of capital, seeking to invest in the transition to a low carbon economy. On April 7, 2020, AVANGRID completed its third green bond issuance with a $750 million five-year bond, the proceeds of which are being allocated to projects that are expected to go into service during 2021. AVANGRID is now the eighth largest green bond issuer in the U.S., with a total issued of $2.1 billion.*1	Solar capacity is now being reported in MWdc. 2	The environmental and green attributes attributable to the electric generation from Avangrid Renewables’ facilities have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting and other rights to all renewable energy credits, emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emissions of greenhouse gas pollutants, 
collectively environmental attributes. Avangrid Renewables is not claiming ownership of any environmental attributes from its renewable generation fleet for any purpose, including 
compliance with any federal or state law or reporting to any federal or state agency, or any other present or future federal, state, local, international, foreign or voluntary renewable 
energy, emission reduction or emissions trading program.3	Data shown is the inventory (as of April 2021) to be submitted for verification in 2021 pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI).4	Measured according to London Benchmarking Group (LBG) model standards. It only recognizes projects that involve voluntary contributions for social or environmental protection ends, for nonprofit purposes and that are not restricted to groups related to the company. Includes Avangrid Foundation contributions.5	A new methodology has been implemented in 2020 based on a weighted average of the level 1 contractor rate (70%) and level 2 contractor rate (30%). Without the weighted average, Contractor LTIR is 0.28.// NON-U.S. GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESUSE OF NON-U.S. GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESTo supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), we consider adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share as non-GAAP financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures we use are specific to AVANGRID and the non-GAAP financial measures of other companies may not be calculated in the same manner. We use these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to GAAP measures, to establish operating budgets and operational goals, to manage and monitor our business, to evaluate our operating and financial performance and to compare such performance to prior periods and to the performance of our competitors. We believe that presenting such non-GAAP financial measures is useful because such measures can 
be used to analyze and compare profitability between companies and industries by 
eliminating the impact of certain non-cash charges. In addition, we present non-GAAP financial measures because we believe that they and other similar measures are widely used by certain investors, securities analysts and other interested parties as supplemental measures of performance.We define adjusted net income as net income adjusted to exclude restructuring charges, 
mark-to-market earnings from changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, 
accelerated depreciation derived from repowering of wind farms, a legal settlement, costs incurred related to the PNM Resources Merger and the impact of the global coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. We believe adjusted net income is more useful in understanding and evaluating actual and projected financial performance and contribution of AVANGRID core lines of business and to more fully compare and explain our results. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to adjusted net income is net income. We define adjusted earnings per share, or adjusted EPS, as adjusted net income converted to an earnings per share amount. The use of non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, AVANGRID’s GAAP financial information, and investors are cautioned that the non-GAAP financial measures are limited in their usefulness, may be unique to AVANGRID, and should be considered only as a supplement to AVANGRID’s GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies and have limitations as analytical tools.Non-GAAP financial measures are not primary measurements of our performance 
under GAAP and should not be considered as alternatives to operating income, net 
income or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP.Investors and others should note that AVANGRID routinely posts important 
information on its website and considers the Investor Relations section, 
www.avangrid.com/wps/portal/avangrid/Investors, a channel of distribution.* 	2020: Income tax impact of adjustments: $(1) million from MtM adjustment, $(2) million from accelerated 
depreciation, $(2) million from restructuring charges, $(8) million from COVID-19 impacts, $(1) million from legal settlement – gas storage and $(2) million from merger costs for the year ended December 31, 2020. * 	Includes corporate and other non-regulated entities as well as intersegment eliminations.* 	2019: $20 million from MtM adjustment, $(9) million from accelerated depreciation, $(2) million from 
restructuring charges, for the year ended December 31, 2019.During the year ended December 31, 2020, the company identified various immaterial corrections that originated in prior periods. The company has revised the prior periods to reflect these immaterial corrections. The corrections resulted in a decrease of $33 million in net income for the year ended December 31, 2019.// FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSFORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSCertain statements in this report may relate to our future business and financial performance and future events or 
developments involving us and our subsidiaries that are not purely historical and may constitute “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “expect(s),” 
“believe(s),” “anticipate(s),” “intend(s),” “plan(s),” “estimate(s),” “project(s),” “assume(s),” “guide(s),” “target(s),” “forecast(s),” “are (is) confident that” and “seek(s)” or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable 
terminology. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives and intentions, outlooks or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses or other future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations, or the impact of legal or regulatory matters on business, results of operations or financial 
condition of the business and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the 
current reasonable beliefs, expectations, and assumptions of our management and are subject to significant risks 
and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. Important factors are discussed and should be reviewed in our Form 10-K and other subsequent filings with the SEC. Specifically, forward-looking statements include, without limitation: the future financial performance, anticipated liquidity and capital expenditures; actions 
or inactions of local, state or federal regulatory agencies; success in retaining or recruiting our officers, key employees 
or directors; changes in amount, timing or ability to complete capital projects; adverse developments in general 
market, business, economic, labor, regulatory and political conditions; fluctuations in weather patterns; technological 
developments; the impact of any cyber breaches or other incidents, grid disturbances, acts of war or terrorism, civil or social unrest, natural disasters, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences; the impact of any change to 
applicable laws and regulations affecting operations, including those relating to the environment and climate change, 
taxes, price controls, regulatory approval and permitting; our ability to close the proposed merger with PNM Resources, the anticipated timing and terms of the proposed merger, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger with PNM Resources and our ability to manage the risks of the proposed merger; the COVID-19 pandemic and 
its impact on business and economic conditions; the implementation of changes in accounting standards; and other 
presently unknown unforeseen factors.Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the underlying assumptions prove 
incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any 
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of 
this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under 
applicable securities laws. Other risk factors are detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC,
and we encourage you to consult such disclosures.// SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSReleased in 2015 and projected out through 2030, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) channels an ambitious agenda for governments, 
businesses and organizations to inspire and accelerate 
action toward sustainable development. Many of the SDGs align with AVANGRID’s key sustainability issues, particularly the goals targeting affordable and clean energy (SDG 7) and climate action (SDG 13). Throughout the report and in the map below, we have identified our targeted goals and others where we make a direct contribution.