In this report, we look back at our efforts in 2022 to lead the way toward a clean energy future and create positive change in the communities we serve. These efforts include: •	Expanding the generation of clean, renewable power while continuously upgrading our network to help 
ensure the safe, reliable and 
affordable delivery of clean energy 
to our customers.•	Acting as stewards of the natural environment by protecting and enhancing ecosystems as we grow our network and renewable energy operations. •	Creating impactful jobs for people to participate and contribute to a clean energy future. Today, approximately 70,000 jobs rely on our activities and investments in the U.S., which contribute an estimated $10 billion to U.S. GDP.*•	Working in partnership with our communities to advance equity through education, affordable housing, workforce development, an inclusive work environment and more.We are bringing these commitments to life with projects 
like Vineyard Wind 1, the first offshore, large-scale wind 
power facility in the U.S. As we build Vineyard Wind 1, 
we’re delivering local economic benefits and workforce 
opportunities through collaboration with community 
organizations and universities. We’re also partnering with researchers from local universities to ensure that, as we 
build this first-of-its-kind facility in the country, we protect the biodiversity of the surrounding marine environment. We’re proud of the recognition we’ve received for our 
efforts such as inclusion on JUST Capital’s Top 100 
Workforce Mobility and Equity ranking and membership 
in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, we see this 
as validation of our commitment to be both a profitable 
company and a force for creating a more equitable and 
sustainable energy future. In the following pages we share how we’re bringing these sustainability commitments to life, including:•	Our environmental objectives – from stepping up our commitments to reduce emissions and minimizing our impact on the environment, to increasing our network’s resiliency against extreme weather events and building the first large-scale offshore wind facility in the U.S.•	Our social impact efforts – from helping our communities recover from the impacts of a global pandemic to elevating the impact of our employees in volunteerism and giving.•	Our governance commitments – from our ongoing efforts to implement best practices in compliance and governance verified by third parties to our green financing framework.•	Our financial outcomes – and how, by working toward our goals and objectives, we are also creating positive 
economic impacts for our investors and our communities.*	Jobs and GDP Impact include direct, indirect and induced impacts of AVANGRID’s investments and operations in the United States, including New York, Connecticut, Maine and Massachusetts based on an analysis by PricewaterhouseCoopers.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALA Message from AVANGRID CEO Pedro AzagraEnergy is vitally important to the world in which we live – it powers our cities and communities, businesses, homes and everyday lives. The events of the last two years, including a global energy crisis, supply chain 
disruptions and other impacts from the pandemic, demonstrate the need for energy to be clean, accessible and locally sourced. These events also reaffirm 
the need to accelerate the decarbonization of our energy model through the electrification of our economies.The current context is proving the success of our vision. As AVANGRID’s CEO, 
I’m proud to share how our company is leading the way in the transformation to 
a clean, renewable energy future while building on our commitments to people and our planet. As we look back on 2022, we are encouraged to see U.S. energy policy becoming more aligned with our strategy and vision. For example, historic federal legislation focused on infrastructure promises to generate a wave of investment in the grid and in a wide range of clean energy technologies. AVANGRID is at the leading edge of this work, with efforts already underway to pioneer the U.S. offshore wind industry, participate in a green hydrogen economy, and modernize our networks to bring more renewable energy online and to safely and efficiently distribute this power to our customers. Today, we serve the energy needs of over 
seven million people in the Northeast, operate across 24 states and have built 8.7 gigawatts of 
renewable energy capacity. Whether we are 
generating clean, renewable energy from the sun and wind, creating a smarter, more reliable and 
resilient grid, or building the first large-scale 
offshore wind facility in the U.S., everything we 
do as a company is focused on creating a more sustainable, equitable future.This includes efforts to engage our more than 7,500 
employees in creating a clean energy economy and an 
inclusive workplace for all. Today, for example, 35% of 
our executive leaders are women (compared to 28% just 
a year ago) and 20% are people of color (compared to 
17% a year ago). We consider this a good start, but as you’ll see in the pages of this report, we are continually working 
to create a more diverse and inclusive workforce.Furthermore, we are firmly committed to the communities we serve, and we invest in their vibrancy, vitality and 
continued prosperity. Our investments support approximately 70,000 U.S. jobs and contribute an estimated $10 billion to the country’s GDP. Our purchases, which totaled nearly 
$3.4 billion in 2022, promote economic growth and stability 
for thousands of local companies. Looking to the future, 
we are targeting to spend at least $300 million annually with 
diverse suppliers by 2025. We’re also focused on expanding the positive impacts we make in our communities through our corporate giving, through the Avangrid Foundation 
and by increasing the impact our employees make when 
they volunteer and give. At AVANGRID, we are committed to comprehensive action on all aspects of sustainability, demonstrated through our pledge to achieve carbon neutrality in Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by 2030, our strong Diversity, Equity and Inclusion commitments, our focus on uplifting our communities 
and preserving biodiversity, and more. Some might describe these goals as ambitious. I, however, see them both realistic and necessary if we are to truly create a more just, sustainable future. The sooner we can accomplish this, the better.I hope that after reading this report you’ll agree, and I’m grateful for the opportunity to lead such a dynamic and 
committed organization as we strive for a better future 
for all.

Pedro Azagra   |   CEOI’m proud to share how our company is leading the 
way in the transformation to a clean, renewable energy 
future while building on our commitments to people 
and our planet.” INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALAt AVANGRID,we are committed to 
comprehensive action 
on all aspects 
of sustainability, 
demonstrated through our pledge to achieve carbon neutrality in Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by 2030, our strong 
Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion commitments, 
our focus on uplifting our communities and preserving biodiversity, and more.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALIberdrola Group and AVANGRID –
Leading the Way in ESG and Climate ActionOur work is rooted in a commitment to take 
action to address climate change, to focus on 
our communities, employees and customers 
and to hold ourselves to the highest ethical and governance standards. We share these values with the Iberdrola Group, a global energy leader and 
our controlling shareholder. For over two decades, the Iberdrola Group has been leading the transition to clean energy and combating climate change while offering a sustainable and competitive business model that creates value for society. This commitment, which informs our own climate action strategy, was crystallized when 
Iberdrola presented the most ambitious climate action plan of any energy company during COP27 (the United Nations’ 27th annual climate change conference).At COP27, Iberdrola shared their long-term vision for the development of renewable energy, which includes two 
key goals: 1) achieving emissions neutrality across the 
company’s power generation plants and operations by 
2030 and 2) reaching zero net emissions by 2040. In addition, Iberdrola has developed a Biodiversity Plan with the goal of achieving a net positive impact on the ecosystems where it operates by 2030. This Biodiversity Plan was presented at the World Biodiversity Summit in Canada in 2022. Our efforts at AVANGRID regarding carbon neutrality and the protection and enhancement of biodiversity are informed by Iberdrola’s commitments, as illustrated throughout this report. As we work toward these and other ESG commitments, we also strive to provide the best service to our customers, and today more than seven million people who heat their homes, turn on their lights and use electricity in increasingly efficient and innovative ways rely on AVANGRID. The success of our operations allows us to fund the expansion of access to 
clean, renewable energy; to increase the security, reliability 
and efficiency of our energy networks; and to grow our 
commitment to help conserve and enhance our natural 
environment while addressing the needs of our customers and communities. We seek to drive continuous improvement and further 
enhance our operational effectiveness, which in turn will enable us to improve efficiency, deliver on our sustainability commitments and create long-term value. Everything we do – from serving our customers and 
communities, to creating a destination for talented, deeply dedicated employees, to building a clean energy future – reflects our commitment to this mission. We look forward to sharing how we’re bringing this commitment to life in the 
pages of this report.  As one of the nation’s cleanest utilities, we have 
a long history of sustainable business practices 
built around our robust environmental, social 
and governance goals. We also recognize that to make a lasting impact, we must consistently 
deliver strong and sustainable financial returns, which is why we’ve included F (for Financial) in 
our ESG+F framework. We work diligently to 
ensure that our environmental, social and 
governance commitments also contribute to 
our financial success. In September 2022, we announced new and expanded 
ESG+F goals to reflect the breadth of our commitment to sustainability. We added eight new goals that include 
commitments to implement new emission-reducing 
technologies, improve employee safety, strengthen
cybersecurity, and maintain our best-in-class compliance 
and governance practices. Our most aggressive new 
commitment is to speed up our targets to reach carbon 
neutrality in both our Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 – 
five years faster than our prior commitment, which focused solely on our Scope 1 emissions. Our industry-leading ESG+F commitments reflect our vision of the best path forward to create positive environmental 
and social change within a strong governance framework. 
As these challenges are always evolving, we will continue 
to review, change and expand our ESG+F goals to work as 
effectively as possible. CARBON AND ENVIRONMENTAL GOALSAVANGRID’s business model and our existing footprint of businesses and assets are helping us address the growing need for clean energy and green electrification. We are 
working to meet this demand while aggressively moving forward with our decarbonization objectives. Specific goals relevant to these commitments include: •	Reaching carbon neutrality for our Scopes 1 and 2 
emissions by 2030. This commitment is aligned with 
Iberdrola’s emissions goals, which have been certified by the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi).•	Increasing emissions-free installed capacity by 190% by 2030 versus 2015, supported by an investment of $4.3 billion in our renewables business through 2025. In addition, we have made commitments to implement new technology solutions such as green hydrogen and storage (Scope 1).•	Decreasing greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 
energy generation sources by 35% by 2025 and 70% by 2030 versus 2015 (Scope 1).•	Greening our physical footprint by sourcing 100% renewable energy in our corporate buildings by 2030 (Scope 2).•	Converting 100% of our light duty vehicles to cleaner 
energy by 2030 (Scope 1).•	Continuing development of plans to reduce emissions 
associated with our single thermal facility (the Klamath Falls, Oregon, gas cogeneration and peaking units). As part of this process, we are exploring technologies and other options to reduce emissions while using this highly efficient unit for managing our growing renewables fleet (Scope 1).•	Accelerating our gas pipeline replacement investments and innovative leak detection and prevention programs to reach 100% leak-prone pipe replacement (Scope 1).•	Committing to invest $167 million in our distribution networks for electric vehicle (EV) charging to enable the installation of more than 15,000 chargers for light, medium and heavy-duty vehicles, including buses, across our grid by 2030.SOCIAL IMPACT GOALSAt AVANGRID, we work to build a strong ethics-driven, 
continuous improvement culture that builds on our purpose and values within our company and in the communities we serve. Our focus on this work includes:•	Signing on to the Paradigm for Parity, a coalition of 
corporate leaders committed to addressing the corporate leadership gender gap. -	Members of Paradigm for Parity are working to 
significantly increase the number of women in “senior operating roles” – for us, that’s directors and above. 
Our aspirational near-term goal is to have 50% of these positions filled by women by 2030. To make progress, 
we are maintaining our focus on succession planning, mentoring and career development opportunities.•	Continue to engage a third-party to conduct an annual 
pay equity analysis. •	Expanding new goals focused on the health and safety 
of our workforce by targeting a 40% reduction in our 
accident rate by 2030.•	Advancing our training goals for all employees in areas 
like leadership, safety, and unconscious bias, as well 
as cybersecurity.•	Creating community at AVANGRID by providing employees with avenues to build connections both inside and outside the organization, by leveraging our network of Business Resource Groups and engaging in volunteer efforts.•	Setting a goal of 35,000 employee volunteer hours per 
year in 2025.•	Continuing to invest in strategic partnerships with 
organizations working to advance diversity in 
the workplace. •	Launching a supplier diversity program with the goal of increasing our annual spend with diverse suppliers to 
$300 million in 2025 (as part of our effort to broaden our reach and economic development opportunity we can 
help create in our communities).GOVERNANCE GOALSWe recognize that our company’s success is a direct result of 
our commitment to the highest ethical and governance 
standards. Our governance goals include:•	Striving for continuous improvement across our governance and compliance areas to ensure we are using best practices.•	Engaging an independent, third-party organization to 
annually assess our governance practices and the 
operations of our board and its committees. •	Ensuring the highest ethical standards through the 
AVANGRID Compliance Program, which has received the prestigious Compliance Leader Verification certification (given to companies with best-in-industry compliance 
programs). We have received this certification since 2019 and are committed to maintaining it in the future. •	Achieving a position as a leader in sustainable finance in the U.S. We believe that sustainable finance plays a critical role in expanding our ability to provide affordable, clean energy while taking substantive action to reduce climate risks. Looking ahead, we have set new goals to expand our sustainable finance leadership position, with 65% of our debt associated with sustainable criteria by 2025. AVANGRID demonstrates leadership in all aspects of ESG+F, and we are committed to raising the bar 
in all areas. Our ESG position is not new; for over 
six years, we have maintained an emissions 
intensity that is at least six times lower than the U.S. power sector average, with 91% emissions-
free generation capacity.* We continue to expand our carbon neutral commitments with a goal
to be Scopes 1 and 2 carbon neutral by 2030, 
and we’re developing a strategy to address our Scope 3 emissions. As an anchor institution in our communities, we play a 
critical role in contributing to the social and economic 
well-being of our communities and ensuring that we 
provide our customers with access to safe, reliable and 
affordable service. We have earned numerous awards and recognitions for 
our ESG efforts, and we see these not as an indication 
that our work is done, but instead as an indicator that we 
are moving in the right direction. Some of these include:• 	Ethisphere’s List of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for five consecutive years (in 2023 we were one of only nine honorees in the global Energy and Utility sector).• 	JUST Capital’s JUST 100 Companies (in 2021, 2022 
and 2023).• 	JUST Capital’s Workforce Equity and Mobility 
Ranking (2022).• 	Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (2023).• 	S&P Global’s Sustainability Yearbook Member 
for three consecutive years. • 	FTSE4Good Index Series for the fifth consecutive year. At AVANGRID, our focus on sustainability is core to every decision we make, and our business is 
guided and strengthened by our Environmental, Social, Governance 
and Financial (ESG+F) 
commitments. As we 
look to the future, we’ll continue to address critical issues like climate change, protecting biodiversity, building opportunities for our employees and 
helping our communities access the resources they need to thrive. This report provides a detailed look into how we bring these commitments to life.”Laney Brown
Vice President, SustainabilityExpanding Our ESG Goals to
Create Long-Term, Positive ImpactsENVIRONMENTALInvesting in a Cleaner Energy FutureSOCIALInvesting in People and 
the CommunityGOVERNANCEOperating with the Highest 
Ethical Standards
A Recognized Leader in
Sustainability and Social Impact