ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					Leader in Ethical 
Governance Practices	Empowering Our Compliance 
Organization to Ensure 
Best Ethical Practices 	Human Rights and Supplier 
Code of Conduct	Sustainable Development GoalsEthics, compliance and corporate governanceLeaders in EthicalGovernance Practices AVANGRID has consistently 
been recognized as a leader 
in ethics, compliance and 
corporate governance along 
with our deeply embedded commitment to being a socially responsible business and 
corporate citizen.In 2022, AVANGRID was listed among the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies for the fourth consecutive year by the Ethisphere Institute, was named by CNBC and JUST Capital 
as one of the JUST 100 Companies for the second year, 
and was honored with the World Finance Sustainability 
Award – Electric Services. The honors and recognition 
we’ve received for our socially responsible leadership 
reflect our commitment to ESG, including acting with the highest ethical standards. Our Governance and Sustainability System provides the structure and oversight needed to 
meet these commitments.To be recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical 
Companies by the Ethisphere Institute, a company must 
undergo an exhaustive process where researchers and 
analysts from the Ethisphere Institute conduct detailed assessments of its compliance and ethics-related initiatives. The Institute also benchmarks these initiatives against 
what they’ve determined to be the best practices in the 
field of corporate ethics and compliance. OVERVIEW OF GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY SYSTEM
AVANGRID’s Governance and Sustainability System is 
integral to the company’s corporate purpose and the 
creation of sustainable value for society, our customers, our communities and our shareholders. This system is informed by our commitment to ethical principles, transparency 
and leadership in the application of best practices in 
good governance. It is designed to be a working structure 
for principled actions, effective decision-making and 
monitoring of our compliance and performance with regard to our sustainability and governance commitments.As a leading sustainable energy company, we continue 
to evolve our governance structure and actions in ways 
that inform and advance our sustainability system. 
For over two years, the AVANGRID ESG Committee has 
helped drive our sustainability commitments forward. 
This internal management committee is tasked with 
coordinating our ESG commitments across the organization while providing leadership on sustainable development 
strategies, policies, programs, practices and initiatives to inform and advance these commitments. The committee includes representatives from Legal, General Services, 
Risk, Internal Audit, Investor Relations, Environmental 
Health and Safety, Avangrid Foundation, Compliance and 
the networks and renewables businesses. In 2022, our Board of Directors established a new committee, the Governance and Sustainability Committee, as part of a larger set of corporate governance enhancements. This 
committee is responsible for developing and maintaining AVANGRID’s Governance and Sustainability System while 
also overseeing our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, our social and governance activities and 
initiatives and our non-financial sustainability reporting 
including this report. Previously, AVANGRID’s Governance 
and Sustainability System was overseen by the Board of 
Directors Compensation, Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee. However, in recognition of the 
critical importance of this work, the Board of Directors 
determined that a separate committee was necessary. 
This committee works to ensure that sufficient time and 
resources are dedicated to its oversight responsibilities 
with respect to ESG risks, performance, activities and 
initiatives, as well as non-financial sustainability reporting.Our Board of Directors, with the assistance of the
Governance and Sustainability Committee, regularly 
reviews our Governance and Sustainability System to 
ensure AVANGRID’s business strategy aligns with our 
policies and procedures focused on risk management and our sustainability commitments. This committee regularly 
reports to the full Board with respect to the company’s 
ESG+F and sustainability risks, initiatives, activities and goals. The Governance and Sustainability Committee also assists 
the Board with reviewing and updating AVANGRID’s 
sustainable development policies. Finally, as in years past, our CEO, who is also a member 
of our Board of Directors, is responsible for executing our ESG+F strategy, and this includes regularly reporting on the 
status of our ESG+F and sustainability goals, initiatives and actions to the Board. Because we prioritize our ESG+F and sustainability commitments, compensation and incentive programs for our CEO and other members of senior 
management are based on the company’s effectiveness 
and success in meeting our ESG+F goals.DEMONSTRATING OUR COMMITMENT THROUGH 
OUR GOALSAs demonstrated throughout this report, we have set 
aggressive ESG+F goals across all aspects of our operations, and we are committed to meeting or exceeding these goals under the oversight of the Governance and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors. Our governance 
goals include maintaining: •	A Governance and Sustainability System that incorporates 
the best governance practices in the United States (verified via third-party independent assessment).•	An effective ethics and compliance program that utilizes best practices (verified via external certification).UPDATES TO POLICIES THAT REFLECT BEST PRACTICESTo accomplish our ESG+F goals while prioritizing our 
sustainability commitments, we have embedded governance and compliance best practices in a set of sustainable 
governance initiatives, including:•	Adopting a new Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy.•	Updating AVANGRID’s Climate Change Policy to include 
our new emissions goals.•	Earning the Compliance Leader Verification certification from the Ethisphere Institute with a goal of maintaining third-party verification of our ethics and compliance 
program.•	Conducting an annual evaluation of our governance 
system and board by an independent third-party (with 
the goal to maintain ongoing review and certification).•	Establishing a cross-functional corporate ESG committee.•	Becoming one of the top 10 green bond issuers in the 
United States.•	Establishing a Governance and Sustainability Committee 
of the Board of Directors responsible for oversight 
and accountability. AVANGRID’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our 14-member Board of Directors is instrumental in directing our successful path toward achieving our ESG+F goals, and our Board composition reflects our commitments. During 2022 our Board was comprised of:•	57% independent board members. •	71% of board members who self-identify as women and/or racially/ethnically diverse.•	Four-year average tenure for board members. •	71% of board members who have risk management 
experience.•	57% of board members who have financial experience.•	50% of board members who have ESG experience.AVANGRID’s Compliance Division, which is led by our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), is responsible for a corporate compliance program intended 
to ensure we comply with an extensive array of legal and ethical requirements. The Compliance Division collaborates across the organization, 
working to make sure we both comply with the 
law and align with our own ESG+F strategies while 
meeting or exceeding our commitments to the highest ethical behavior. The AVANGRID Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
(the “Code”) is the basis for our Compliance Program, 
as are the criteria for an effective compliance program 
established under Chapter 8 of the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Corporations. The Code is applicable to all directors, officers and employees across our entire company. It details our core ethical values, establishes standards of conduct and includes guidance designed to help employees at all levels of our organization make appropriate, informed decisions when faced with questions and issues of an ethical nature. To ensure that the Code remains current with any ethical challenges our employees may face, it is reviewed 
and updated annually.We also expect our vendors to act ethically, and we have 
supplemented our Code with a Supplier Code of Ethics that we include in our vendor contracts. The Supplier Code of 
Ethics establishes the expectation that our vendors comply with the law and with key ethical principles including 
anti-corruption, human rights including protections against forced/slave and child labor and human trafficking, fair remuneration, health and safety and expectations around non-retaliation measures if they are to conduct business with AVANGRID. The Supplier Code cannot be waived or amended without authorization from the Chief Compliance Officer.To put these expectations into practice, AVANGRID has a 
24/7 independent reporting Helpline to help employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers and the public seek 
guidance on ethics and compliance-related matters 
and report any situations that may require investigation. AVANGRID’s Compliance Division is tasked with addressing any issues and concerns raised through the Helpline 
or brought to its attention through any other form 
of communication.In addition to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, 
we maintain an operational Compliance Plan that is 
reviewed and approved annually by the AVANGRID 
Governance and Sustainability Committee. This plan 
encompasses activities like employee training and 
communications, conflict of interest reporting and 
resolution, third-party reviews and due diligence, a crime prevention plan, compliance risk assessments, ethical culture measurements and an annual external review of the 
effectiveness of the compliance program. As a statement 
of our commitment to ethical conduct, a more detailed report on our Compliance Plan and annual program activities may be found on our public website at avangrid.com.In addition to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Compliance Plan, we provide our employees with regular training and education to ensure compliance and ethical conduct. This includes training to advance our commitment to create an inclusive and diverse work environment and to help ensure understanding of the importance of ethics and compliance in our complex regulatory environment. Each year approximately 100% of our employees complete annual training on ethics and compliance.COMPLIANCE RECOGNITION REFLECTS COMMITMENTS TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYAs a recognized leader in ethics, compliance and corporate governance, we focus on creating clean energy projects 
that benefit our communities while keeping our deep 
commitment to socially responsible business practices. 
To ensure we meet these commitments to the absolute 
best of our abilities, we look to distinguished third parties 
to benchmark and assess our efforts. Following are some 
of the recognitions we received from such organizations 
over the course of 2022 and into early 2023:•	AVANGRID was honored to be included (for the fifth year 
in a row) in the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies 
by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining 
ethical standards for business practices. •	AVANGRID earned Ethisphere’s Compliance Leader 
Verification certification for 2021-2022, extending a 
previous 2019-2020 certification, after rigorous review of our ethics and compliance program and corporate culture.•	AVANGRID was also recognized, for the third consecutive year, by CNBC and JUST Capital as one of the 2023 JUST 100 (an annual ranking of the most just U.S. public companies). Additionally, in 2022 AVANGRID was recognized as one of the top 100 companies on the JUST Capital Workforce 
Equity and Mobility Ranking.•	For the third consecutive year, AVANGRID was named to the 2023 Sustainability Yearbook, which is S&P Global’s annual comprehensive listing of the world’s most sustainable companies. Inclusion here requires that a company be in the top 15% of its industry and achieve an S&P Global ESG score within 30% of the best in their sector.•	In September 2022, AVANGRID was included as a finalist for two awards in Corporate Secretary Magazine. These included the “Best in Compliance and Ethics Programs” category and the “Best ESG Reporting” (small to mid-cap) category.Respect for human rights is fundamental across our company – within our own operations, in the communities in which we serve and operate, 
and to our goal of helping to create a more just 
and sustainable world. To bring this commitment to life, we strictly adhere to a 
set of guidelines that require that we respect and abide by internationally recognized principles for protecting human rights and that we treat all people with dignity and with respect. To adhere to our commitment, we’ve established mechanisms to identify, prevent and mitigate adverse 
effects on human rights – from protecting the rights of 
ethnic minorities and indigenous peoples, to our employees’ right to associate and engage in collective bargaining. Our human rights policies and practices are consistent with applicable international standards, including the following: •	The United Nations Global Compact and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). •	The Social Policy of the International Labor Organization and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. •	The Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational 
Enterprises, which sets out norms of responsible social behavior by multinational firms. Because we view our suppliers as strategic business partners that play an essential role in protecting human rights, we also require that they adhere to our Supplier Code of Ethics and associated contractual terms and conditions. Within our Supplier Code of Ethics is an expectation that our suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including in areas such as: •	Forced labor, prison labor, slavery, human trafficing and other forms of modern slavery •	Child labor •	Freedom of association and collective bargaining •	Health and safety To further reinforce our commitment to protect human rights and prevent corruption across our supply chain, we updated our Supplier Code of Ethics in 2022 to provide 
additional guidance in this area, including:•	Adding a new section on fair competition, collusion and antitrust.•	Alerting suppliers to comply with AVANGRID’s internal gift and hospitality guidelines, and how they can contact our Compliance Organization for guidance.•	Ensuring that the AVANGRID Chief Compliance Officer has the sole authority to interpret our Supplier Code of Ethics, including any amendment or waiver.In addition, our Compliance Division has refined AVANGRID’s third-party due diligence processes to undertake regular compliance database screening that includes reviewing for potential human rights violations.At AVANGRID, we support and actively work 
toward the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) approved by the member states of the 
United Nations. In alignment with our goal to be recognized as a leading clean energy company, 
and in keeping with our efforts to advance access to clean energy, much of our focus is on SDG 7 
(Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 13 
(Climate Action). However, as a company with a deep commitment to 
social responsibility, we also contribute (either directly or 
indirectly) to the achievement of all 17 SDGs, and we 
have embedded these goals into our sustainability policy 
and strategy. This means that in addition to our efforts to 
create affordable, clean energy, we work to make positive social actions that support the creation of sustainable 
communities through investments in development,
innovation and research. SDG 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Creating clean, emissions-free energy from sources like 
wind and solar power is core to our business and our 
commitment to a clean energy future. Today, most of our installed energy generating capacity is emissions-free, and we’ve set numerous targets to further our efforts related to this goal. This includes increasing our 2015 renewables 
installed capacity by 190% by 2030, with the support of 
$4.3 billion in investments across our renewables business 
by 2025. And we’re working to install 300 MW (48 ktons) of operational green hydrogen electrolyzer capacity by 2030. SDG 13: CLIMATE ACTION As part of our climate mitigation strategy, we have 
escalated our plans to reduce our own carbon emissions 
with the goal of becoming Scopes 1 and 2 carbon neutral by 2030. To accomplish this, we’re working to reduce our 
Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions annually. We’ve also committed to transitioning 100% of our light-duty vehicle fleet to cleaner energy alternatives by 2030 while sourcing 100% renewable energy across all AVANGRID corporate buildings by 2030. To help reduce carbon emissions outside of our operations, we’ve committed to investments in our distribution network to support the installation of 15,000 new EV charging 
stations by 2030. SDGS 1-6, 8-12, 14-17 Our support for the UN Sustainable Development Goals goes beyond just climate impact. For example, we collaborate 
with the Avangrid Foundation in their mission-driven giving. Since 2001, the Avangrid Foundation has invested $36 million in grants, contributions, scholarships and matching gift 
programs to support the creation of sustainable, vibrant 
and vital communities, while preserving cultural and artistic heritage, advancing education and improving the lives of people in the communities we serve. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL71%OF OUR 14-MEMBER BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS SELF-IDENTIFY 
AS WOMEN AND/OR RACIALLY/
ETHNICALLY DIVERSEEmpowering Our Compliance Organization toEnsure Best Ethical PracticesAVANGRID’s Governance and Sustainability System provides the structure 
and oversight we need 
to meet our ambitious 
ESG+F commitments. 
We hold ourselves to 
the highest ethical 
standards to guide our critical work while we 
build a better energy 
future for generations 
to come."Alistair Y. Raymond
Vice President, 
Chief Compliance OfficerINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALHuman Rights and Supplier Code of ConductINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALSustainable DevelopmentGoalsUPDATES TO THE UNITED NATIONS ENERGY COMPACT 
To reach what it calls the Global Roadmap for Accelerated SDG 7 Action (Affordable and Clean Energy), the United Nations established a set of voluntary commitments for mobilization and implementation. Here, a global Energy Compact Action 
Network, supported by the UN, is being established to support strategic alliances and partnerships that will result in the 
delivery of Energy Compact commitments. UN member states and non-state actors such as AVANGRID can participate in these compacts. As a leader in the transition 
to a clean energy future, we are participating in this effort to help achieve SDG 7 and the goals set forth in the Paris Agenda (established during the Paris Climate Accord). AVANGRID has committed to supporting the achievement of these actions 
as part of our Energy Compact.AVANGRID, along with every other partner organization across the globe, is participating in a collaborative process to bring 
this work to life with the goal to significantly advance access to affordable and clean energy on a global scale. 