// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYDIVERSITY, EQUITY 
AND INCLUSIONAt AVANGRID, we believe we have a role to play in 
society to improve opportunities for our employees, 
contribute to the economic development of our 
communities and ensure our customers always have 
access to safe, affordable and reliable service for 
their energy needs.DESTINATION: AVANGRID Our vision is for AVANGRID to be a place where 
talented and committed people want to build 
long-term careers.Our employees provide the energy and innovation that drive AVANGRID, enabling us to continue 
putting customers first and to succeed in a 
competitive market. To meet the challenges of the future, we must 
ensure our employees are safe, empowered and enabled to bring their unique perspectives 
and personal best to the workplace every day. In 2020, we renewed our focus on Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) and invested in 
initiatives designed to build workplace culture, 
positively impact the day-to-day employee 
experience and respond to feedback about 
what matters most to our employees. DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION 
At AVANGRID, diversity encompasses all the 
dimensions that make each of us one of a kind, including ethnicity, race, age, gender, sexual 
orientation, personality, beliefs, experiences, 
perspectives and more. We believe innovation thrives in equitable and inclusive environments where inherent worth is recognized, authenticity 
is valued, and everyone feels part of a shared 
purpose. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
strategy has three areas of focus, with annual 
initiatives tied to each:1.	Increase Representation: Increase diverse 
representation, especially in positions of influence and decision-making at AVANGRID.2.	Drive Opportunity: Remove barriers and promote equitable opportunities to grow and develop 
at AVANGRID.3.	Build Community: Establish and sustain pathways for connection with others inside and outside 
of AVANGRID.LISTENING TO EMPLOYEESThe Loop, AVANGRID’s annual employee engagement survey, provides specific and actionable insights about how employees feel about working at AVANGRID. The Loop survey asks about a wide range of topics, from resources and leadership to culture and belonging. The Loop gives every employee at AVANGRID an opportunity to share their thoughts about what’s working and where we have room to improve, and to drive continuous improvement priorities each year.The 2020 results of The Loop indicate improvement across important measurement areas including:•	Engaged and Enabled – In 2020, 67% of employees feel engaged and 69% feel enabled – an improvement of 12% for employees being both engaged and enabled.•	Participation – Participation rate remained strong despite the challenges of COVID-19, with 73% of 
employees taking the survey this year, compared with 74% last year.
•	Safety – Rated as our greatest strength for three years in a row, 86% of employees agree that we are focused on safety. •	Respect & Recognition – Employees’ response to “AVANGRID shows care and concern for employees” 
had the largest gain among all survey items, 
up 18% from 2019.// INVESTING IN EARLY CAREER PROGRAMSEach year we invest in a variety of strategic early career and campus partnerships with organizations working to advance professional and leadership diversity in the workplace. Our 2020 Summer Intern cohort was the 
most diverse in AVANGRID history, with approximately 50% of participants being women and 35% identifying 
as a person of color. Over 50% of eligible summer 
interns are hired, making the program a key talent 
pipeline at AVANGRID.Finally, in a year when reducing the spread of 
respiratory illnesses, like influenza, was more important than ever before, AVANGRID rolled out its annual “flu” vaccination program in September 2020, which offered thousands of free vaccines to all employees as well as family members covered under the company’s medical insurance plan. Despite 
pandemic challenges, AVANGRID succeeded in 
conducting 15 on-site vaccination clinics safely.All these programs will be expanded in 2021 to 
further support employees’ overall health and well-being. ASR 2020: AVANGRID RENEWABLES AND AVANGRID NETWORKS BECOME ISO 45001 CERTIFIED In 2020, Avangrid Renewables and Avangrid Networks 
completed their ISO 45001: 2018 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems audits and became certified.  As safety is a core value at AVANGRID, Environmental, Health & Safety has adopted the international ISO standard for occupational health and safety to 
save lives by improving the safety of employees, contractors, visitors, customers and other interested parties. This standard helps to ensure the reduction of workplace risks and the creation of better, safer working conditions.  // ELEMENTS OF THE AVANGRID ISO 45001: 
2018 COMPLIANT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM While OHSAS 18001 focused on the concept of 
controlling hazards, ISO 45001 encourages 
risk-based thinking and an approach based in 
collaboration and prevention to reduce risks 
before they materialize. This philosophy aligns 
with AVANGRID’s goal to create and foster a “learning and improving” safety culture.These certifications were particularly meaningful because AVANGRID is currently in a “transitional” phase between OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001. 
The audits, conducted virtually due to COVID-19, 
were performed by TÜV Rheinland and supported by several members of the EH&S, Renewables and Networks teams.  Employees’ dedication and hard work throughout the year continuously advanced the effectiveness of AVANGRID’s management systems and helped to make AVANGRID the safest workplace possible. AVANGRID FOUNDATIONIn 2020, every community across the country was touched by disruptions in the social fabric and daily life as emergencies like hurricanes and wildfires, COVID-19 and inequities magnified as a result of the pandemic, including barriers to education, social 
and racial justice, and economic inclusion. As the primary charitable arm of AVANGRID, 
whose mission is dedicated to building sustainable communities and investing in the most vulnerable among us, the Avangrid Foundation was prepared 
to address unprecedented need through an 
exceptional $1 million COVID-19 emergency 
response, while providing more than $3 million as a “steady hand” to preserve venerable institutions and support organizations on the front lines protecting the environment, workforce development, youth and education, serving basic needs and promoting arts and culture. Starting in January, the Avangrid Foundation 
announced a special focus on investments 
supporting diversity, equity and inclusion with an emphasis on the 100th anniversary of the ratification of the 19th Amendment and women’s suffrage. Approximately $1 million in investment locally 
and nationally was aligned with this campaign to support programs and organizations led by women, serving women and girls, and honoring women, women-identified and non-binary persons, 
particularly with Black, Indigenous and people 
of color (BIPOC) and underrepresented groups 
in leadership. Investment includes grants for public art by 
femme/female/gender non-confirming artists, voter 
education and inclusion with organizations like 
the ACLU and the museum dedicated to heroine 
Susan B. Anthony, supporting Native American 
youth to connect to work and a cultural heritage in forest science, and continuing support for the 
traveling exhibit with the National Building Museum –
“Evicted” – illuminating how the American housing crisis has disproportionally impacted poor families and is a driver of poverty in communities of color across the country.The Foundation continues to deepen their 
commitment to this work and to support 
communities post COVID-19 recovery and into the future. This work embodies the impact of ESG+F through an unwavering commitment to invest in our customers, colleagues and communities. Driven to create and sustain vibrant places, promote greater equality and inclusion and improve well-being in 
our communities, the Foundation continues to 
execute its vision to make a meaningful impact.AVANGRID AT SEA: A GLOBAL VOYAGE FOR 
CLIMATE ACTION WITH DARWIN200AVANGRID and the Avangrid Foundation know
science and innovation drive us forward, equipping us with more information about the vast world around us and helping us create a better tomorrow.
In 2020, the Avangrid Foundation funded the 
Darwin200 project, a modern-day voyage retracing Darwin’s steps to bring into global focus modern issues facing the environment and oceans today.Consisting of 27 legs, the two-year global voyage 
is planned to set sail in 2022, departing from 
Plymouth, England, and returning to Falmouth, 
Massachusetts.The Darwin200 ship will stop in every major port where Darwin made landfall, including 50 one-week stays along the route, which spans from England, to the shores of South America, to the islands of the Pacific and beyond.A worldwide competition will identify the most 
capable young scientists, naturalists and 
conservationists from 200 different countries and states, representing at least 50 different languages and cultures from across the globe. The Avangrid Foundation will support 10 of these scientists, or “Darwin Leaders.” The Avangrid Foundation 
Leaders will be selected from various parts of
the U.S., including communities we serve in 
New England and across the country.In teams of four, the Darwin Leaders will visit one 
of the 50 ports visited along the HMS Beagle route and use the ship as a floating laboratory to study land-based wildlife and analyze the change of the last 200 years – with a focus on effective modern sustainability and conservation solutions to reverse detrimental impacts to the natural ecosystem. STEPPING UP TO HELP NEIGHBORS IN NEED DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMICThe Avangrid Foundation has helped respond to its share of emergencies – from Hurricanes Harvey, Maria and Irma to home fires, tornadoes and other natural disasters. The COVID-19 pandemic, however, posed new challenges as a widespread health, social and economic crisis. Its effects have touched every household and community across the nation and nearly every country around the world. With conditions rapidly evolving and new 
information emerging, answering immediate needs was essential, yet planning for the longer-term ripple effects was also critical. The common thread that emerged in our response efforts was collaboration.The $1.5 million activated by the business addressed needs at the local level, with the Foundation’s giving designed to intertwine with the local response 
wherever possible, ensuring the balanced response was both complementary and comprehensive. 
In doing so, the collective impact and benefit to the community were maximized; where local funds 
become constrained, regional and national funds can
step in to close the gap.WORKING TOGETHER FOR JUSTICE AND EQUALITY EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGNDuring 2020, as communities across the country began having critical conversations about equality, 
justice and civil liberties, AVANGRID upheld its commitment to be a driver of positive community change with the launch of an employee matching gift campaign. Standing with our communities, 
customers and colleagues in promoting greater
justice and equality across race, social and economic lines, AVANGRID and its philanthropic arm, the
Avangrid Foundation, announced the Working Together for Justice and Equality employee giving campaign 
to match gifts to eligible organizations dollar for dollar. This voluntary campaign was open to all AVANGRID 
full-time and part-time employees, and raised thousands of dollars benefiting organizations such as the NAACP Education & Empowerment Foundation, NAACP Legal Defense & Education Fund, ACLU Foundation and Southern Poverty Law Center.WILDLIFE REHABILITATION Part of our commitment to sustainable development is being dynamic stewards of our environment – helping safeguard critical species, habitats and natural resources to ensure the preservation of our planet and all that lives on it. Building on partnerships with wildlife rehabilitation centers aimed at sustaining efforts to treat a variety of injured wildlife in and around the places where AVANGRID has an expanding operating presence and to build awareness for biodiversity and habitat preservation, the Avangrid Foundation awarded $100,000 in grants through its first-ever nationwide request for proposals.Eleven grantees were selected to receive funding with an expanded scope of injured wildlife to include a focus on all terrestrial and offshore avifauna, as well as threatened and endangered wildlife. The grants span organizations in nine states including Arizona, California, Connecticut, Maine, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oregon and Pennsylvania.These grants will provide lifesaving care for 
injured wildlife by funding facilities upgrades at rehabilitation centers, equipment and medical supplies, operational expenses and expansion of educational and conservation programming to 
build awareness for biodiversity. The 2020 Wildlife Rehabilitation grantees were: 
Liberty Wildlife, UC Davis California Raptor Center, Ojai Raptor Center, Sharon Audubon Center, 
Roaring Brook Nature Center, Center for Wildlife, Hawks Aloft, Whispering Willow Wild Care, Nature’s Nursery, Blue Mountain Wildlife and Wildlife Works.AVANGRID FOUNDATION RESPONDS 
TO WESTERN WILDFIRESIn September 2020, multiple wildfires swept 
through parts of California and Oregon. Oregon 
was particularly hard hit. A deadly combination of unusually high winds and dry weather helped fuel the rapid expansion of multiple wildfires, resulting 
in hundreds of thousands of acres burned and countless residents being forced to evacuate.In response, the Avangrid Foundation supported several frontline organizations who provided 
emergency disaster relief to our communities 
great and small. As part of the Avangrid Foundation Disaster 
Responder Partnership, the Foundation provided a $50,000 supplemental gift to the American Red Cross to meet basic human needs, such as emergency 
shelter, medical care, food, water and hygiene. The grant not only helped the American Red 
Cross continue its relief efforts but ensured that 
the organization can prepare for and meet recovery assistance needs in the future. In California – where wildfires also engulfed wide swaths of land – the Avangrid Foundation provided 
a $20,000 grant to the Ventana Wildlife Society Big Sur Condor Sanctuary for emergency recovery 
and operations. As the Foundation typically partners with 
organizations invested in restoring the critically 
endangered Condors back to nature, portions of
this gift supported an emergency rebuild to several facilities that were destroyed during the Dolan 
Wildfire. The recovery efforts included a total rebuild of all facilities lost – including the Condor release facility – and a repair to all damaged facilities. The grant also provides operational support for the San Simeon, California, facility where ongoing work continues to address top recovery actions, such as increasing Condor population size and increasing the number of nesting pairs while reducing impacts from key threats. 	CREATING HOPE AND COMMUNITY THROUGH ARTArt and culture are at the heart of what makes
communities sustainable, vital and vibrant. The arts can be a powerful voice in the community, healing 
us in times of struggle and providing an outlet 
for self-expression, cultural representation and 
creative imagination. AVANGRID and the Avangrid Foundation have worked to amplify that voice as a vehicle for social good and community support through a 
challenging year. As a leading sustainable energy company, AVANGRID is dedicated to preserving 
and enriching our communities. The advancement of education and the arts, of heritage and of 
culture is a critical pathway to accomplish this. PUBLIC ART: WHERE ALL THE WORLD’S A STAGE Art of any kind connects and unites us. Particularly in a time of social distancing, breaking down barriers to access – barriers to connection – becomes essential. Public art stands out in this moment. It’s free to view, open to everyone and can build a sense of identity and belonging within a community. It revitalizes our public spaces and even helps boost local economies.WALL\THERAPYLaunched in 2011, WALL\THERAPY is an art and community intervention project, using public murals to inspire and build community in Rochester, NY. With the help of “community therapists,” dedicated volunteers, and co-curator and lead organizer 
Erich Lehman, WALL\THERAPY creates a 24/7, open-access art gallery. As the COVID-19 pandemic forced a new reality, 
WALL\THERAPY met the moment with a reimagined 2020 curation embracing all creative disciplines and artists through 10 mini-grants made possible by #AVANgives. Designed to honor the 19th Amendment centennial, the program has helped directly support local artists as they create pockets of impact citywide. It has shown firsthand how art can heal our cities, enhance representation and lend a voice to those 
unheard, and bring the community together into open dialogue. MAKE IT YOUR OWN MURAL FESTNortheast Indiana Regional Partnership’s Mural Fest shows public 
art can offer a new way to experience a city. Across 11 days in 
September, artists used Northeast Indiana’s 11 counties as their 
canvas, installing a collection of bold and vibrant murals for 
all to enjoy. The festival drew artists from near and far – from communities 
with strong ties to AVANGRID, like Portland, Oregon and Rochester, 
to overseas in Belarus – showing how art builds community 
beyond borders. Not only does Mural Fest beautify underutilized spaces; it puts an innovative spin on economic development. The festival represents a real investment in the local economy, quality of life and the region’s collective ability to attract and retain talent. CELEBRATING WOMEN: 100 YEARS OF THE RIGHT TO VOTEOn August 26, 2020, the 19th Amendment – which upheld women’s right to vote – marked its 100-year 
milestone. Securing victory took years of persistent agitation, resistance and protest. The amendment’s 
ratification stands as a symbol to women across the nation and around the world that they could be 
empowered to advocate for their needs, rights and interests.#wednesdaysforwomenTo honor this momentous occasion, Avangrid Foundation’s 2020 giving included a focus on diversity and 
inclusion, with special emphasis on women and girls. The Foundation organized a slate of grants, initiatives and communications dedicated to women and applied a hashtag to collect and share these stories across AVANGRID social platforms: #wednesdaysforwomen.#AVANgivesAt AVANGRID, employees have a voice in charitable giving through the #AVANgives program. The 2020–2021 #AVANgives series called for nominations 
of qualified nonprofits working for women, 
diversity and inclusion – and received responses from employees at all levels of the company and across all geographies. Twelve nonprofits were 
selected to each receive a $5,000 gift to further their work to advance equality and serve women, girls 
and diverse groups in our communities.Grantees: •	Judy Dworin Performance Project (Hartford, CT) •	Maine Women’s Lobby Education Fund 
(Augusta, ME) •	Rahab’s Sisters (Portland, OR) •	Days for Girls (Unadilla, NY Chapter) •	Child Hunger Outreach Partners (Towanda, PA) •	Portland Community Squash (Portland, ME) •	The Center for Family Justice (Bridgeport, CT) •	WALL\THERAPY (Rochester, NY) •	Camp Abilities (Brockport, NY) •	My Happy Place (Mason City, IA) •	Jessica’s Closet (Jacksonville, VT) •	Stand With Me (Binghamton, NY) COMMUNITY AND 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTProviding clean, essential energy to millions of 
customers safely is a critical part of what we do. 
We also seek to be a model of inspiration for creating economic, social and environmental value in our communities, and we act positively to affect local development, generate employment and give back to the community – it’s one of our core values.Sustainability is about meeting needs and then fostering the long-term growth not just of AVANGRID and our utilities and renewable energy companies, but also the communities where we live and serve. Our efforts and achievements in 2020 prove that by working together, we can deliver a more accessible clean energy model that promotes healthier, more sustainable communities every day.COVID-19 RESPONSE AND RECOVERYIt was an unprecedented year for companies and communities across the country. At AVANGRID, 
we met the demands of the moment, relying on existing community partnerships to respond to 
the COVID-19 crisis and help our communities 
begin to recover. Our philanthropic efforts are designed to help 
sustain strong communities and serve the needs 
of the most vulnerable. In 2020, the AVANGRID 
companies and the Avangrid Foundation joined 
forces to contribute $2.5 million, divided between nonprofits serving the communities where we 
operate and national organizations that also have affiliates and programs in the 24 states where 
AVANGRID has an operating presence. CENTRAL MAINE POWER INVESTS $100,000 IN FULL PLATES FULL POTENTIAL EMERGENCY FUND, ENSURING STUDENTS HAVE ACCESS TO MEALS DURING SCHOOL CLOSURESIn normal times, more than 80,000 Maine students rely on school meals as their primary source of 
nutrition. While Maine continued efforts to slow 
the transmission of COVID-19, the need for 
nutritious meals greatly increased as more and 
more hardworking families faced hardships.Seeing this increased need, CMP stepped up and 
donated $100,000 to the Full Plates Full Potential 
emergency fund established specifically for COVID-19 related school closures. The emergency fund was created to ensure students across 
Maine have access to nutritious school meals 
while schools are closed. JOBS FOR MAINE’S GRADUATESThrough the ongoing support of the Avangrid Foundation and the dedication of local CMP executives who serve on the Board of Directors of Jobs for Maine’s Graduates (JMG,) the national organization, Jobs for America’s 
Graduates, awarded the Foundation its prestigious Partner in Education Award for making investments in 
JMG and Maine students by “adding value to our Board of Directors, providing volunteers in our classrooms, and investing funds in our mission – all of which have enabled JMG to expand and deepen our services.”JMG serves 10,000 middle and high school students across Maine who face significant barriers to educational and career success. Longitudinal analysis first conducted in 1998 and replicated regularly since finds that JMG students achieve “significant, consistent and sustained wage increases after high school.” The Foundation is proud to support JMG’s persistent success in connecting at-risk youth with careers, higher education and overall life success. SMART KIDS PLUGGED INIn response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the introduction of widespread distance learning, UI began 
outreach through schools as an alternative to deliver efficiency measures and program information through the Smart Kids Plugged In project. The objective was simple: help customers save energy and money during an economically challenging time. More than 12,000 students across 50 schools were reached through the program.UI & SCG PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES AS THEY RECOVER FROM 
COVID-19 IMPACTS As part of a broader commitment to support COVID-19 relief and recovery, UI and SCG provided $20,000 to Bridgeport’s Downtown Special Services District to help small, independent, ground-floor businesses plan and execute their reopening. Another $20,000 grant helped the Economic 
Development Corporation of New Haven/REX 
Development provide micro-grants so that 
downtown restaurants and shops can provide safe outdoor dining and retail spaces.By offering this support, UI and SCG provided much-needed help to these small businesses as they adapted to new health and safety requirements and gave them a spring back as the economy reopens.The funding allowed the Bridgeport Downtown 
Special Services District to provide micro-grants 
and technical assistance to downtown businesses to develop reopening plans and successfully relaunch.UI, SCG AND CNG AWARD $441,540 IN GRANTS TO HELP 59 CT NONPROFITS CUT ENERGY COSTS UI, SCG and CNG distributed $441,540 in grants aimed at helping community and neighborhood organizations statewide improve energy efficiency and reduce their energy costs.The three Connecticut subsidiaries of AVANGRID awarded grants to 59 nonprofit organizations in
26 different communities throughout Connecticut. The grants, ranging from about $2,640 to $12,821, were provided under the state’s Neighborhood Assistance Act (NAA) Tax Credit Program.Connecticut’s NAA Tax Credit Program offers a 
corporate tax credit to encourage businesses to provide financial support to qualified local nonprofit organizations. Since 2010, UI, SCG and CNG have awarded $3.8 million in grants through the program.NYSEG AND RG&E TACKLE FOOD INSECURITY AS PART OF COMPANY’S VOLUNTEER WEEK EFFORTNYSEG welcomed dozens of volunteers and donors to their office location in Vestal during International Volunteer Week to collect canned food and empty bottles and cans in support of CHOW (Community Hunger Outreach Warehouse) Programs in the 
Binghamton area. This event was part of a global effort by AVANGRID to address food insecurity.More than 1,870 redemption bottles and cans and two barrels of canned goods were collected for donation to CHOW to support their meal programs throughout the Binghamton and Broome County area.Joining the effort, RG&E employees held a drive-
thru food collection today to benefit Foodlink and 
its partner agencies. The company collected more than 400 pounds of donated canned food and 
other nonperishable food items to help replenish Foodlink’s shelves as food insecurity remains a top issue in the region.With the uncertainty of our current world, especially in light of the pandemic and increased food 
insecurity, partnerships are indispensable toward relieving some of the burdens that the vulnerable 
in our communities face.NEW YORK STREETLIGHT CONVERSIONS BRING ENERGY SAVINGS TO MUNICIPALITIESIn 2020, NYSEG and RG&E replaced 27,723 older, cobra-head style streetlights with new efficient 
LED lights across 151 municipalities in New York. 
The streetlight program began in late 2019 and 
has since converted 35,069 streetlights within 
187 municipalities in the NYSEG and RG&E 
service areas. These streetlight conversions provide municipalities with significant energy savings while simultaneously helping beautify streetscapes, modernizing 
equipment and providing more direct lighting to 
the roadways. The company achieved 137% of its 
conversion goal in 2020 and continues to work 
directly with municipal officials to promote the 
benefits of these conversions and the positive 
impact they have on our communities. The company plans to continue to build on the
success of this program and convert another 
15,000 streetlights in 2021. The company will 
also expand the program in 2021 to include the 
conversion of decorative streetlights. In total, 
there are 103,612 streetlights eligible for 
conversion in the service area. 
// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYOver one third of respondents agreed “significant action” 
was taken based on last year’s Loop survey results, showing 
that department-level action plans and company-wide 
communications were successful.2020 ACHIEVEMENTS•	Joined as signatories on Paradigm for Parity 
and CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion.•	Offered special employee giving and match campaigns throughout the year for COVID-19, social justice and equality, and education.•	Launched new Gratitude employee 
recognition platform and celebrated 
over 3,000 appreciation moments and 
service anniversaries.•	Continual focus on mental health awareness and resources throughout COVID-19 response.•	Implemented a new online learning platform that offers all employees unlimited access to over 43 billion hours of courses ranging from professional development to technical skill-building.SUMMER INTERNS50% 	WOMEN35% 	PEOPLE OF 
	COLOR50% 	CONVERSION 
	RATE// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYTÜV Rheinland is an international 
company with more than 
140 years of experience in the 
security and quality fields. 
It is a leader in technical services worldwide and is the certification body in ISO 45001:2018 for the AVANGRID Group.// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYDriven to create and sustain 
vibrant places, promote greater equality and inclusion and 
improve well-being in our 
communities, the Foundation 
continues to execute a vision 
to make a meaningful impact.// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY“These young ambassadors, 
representing 200 different 
locations around the world, 
will all have the potential 
and opportunity to become
future leaders in the 
environmental movement, 
and to reach and inspire 
vast audiences worldwide.”	Dr. Sarah Darwin 
Charles Darwin’s 
great-great-granddaughterFollow the voyage:darwin200.com#DARWIN200// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYThe Foundation’s donations formed part of a larger 
$2.5 million response from 
AVANGRID in support of 
the vibrant and diverse 
communities served by its 
eight Northeast utilities and 
Avangrid Renewables. // SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYArt of any kind connects 
and unites us. Particularly in 
a time of social distancing, 
breaking down barriers to 
access – barriers to connection – becomes essential. // SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITYThe Avangrid Foundation is driven to help communities and individuals be vital, vibrant and resilient by putting our resources into what really matters, such as reducing barriers 
to access in education, arts and culture and enhancing health and wellness by preserving the natural environment and creating safe, green places and spaces. This work also 
means boosting basic services from neighborhoods to nationwide. // SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY“During this crisis, more than 
ever, school meals are the first 
and best safety net for kids. School emergency food programs are doing everything they can 
to reach their students. CMP’s 
donation is timely and critical 
for kids. We’re in this for the long haul, and thanks to CMP, Maine children will continue accessing nutritious meals.” 	Justin Alfond 
Co-Founder of Full Plates Full Potential.// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY// ENERGY STAR PARTNER OF THE YEAR 
SUSTAINED EXCELLENCE AWARDIn 2020, United Illuminating, Connecticut 
Natural Gas and Southern Connecticut Gas received the ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award for partners 
demonstrating outstanding leadership, 
year over year.  50 SCHOOLS 
 MORE THAN 12,000 STUDENTS 12 FOOD BANKS
 2,010 CUSTOMERSBRIDGEPORT, CT	HAMDEN, CT	MILFORD, CT
34 schools	10 schools	6 schools The program provided Energy Saving Kits to make energy-efficient 
upgrades to homes easier. In the box:•	4 - 9W A19 LED light bulbs (2700k)•	1 - Niagara Bubble Faucet Spray Aerator•	1 - Niagara Earth Showerhead (Chrome)•	1 - TrickleStar 7-Outlet Advanced Power Strip// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY// SOCIETY: OUR INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY“We’re very pleased to 
announce the start of an 
energy and cost savings 
project to upgrade our 
streetlights to LED fixtures. This project will save dollars, save energy and promote 
a green environmental 
practice in Orchard Park 
for years to come.” 	Wayne Bieler 
Orchard Park Town Engineer