BUILDING A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURE Throughout 2021, our efforts to expand access to cleaner energy and green electrification continued to benefit AVANGRID customers and communities across the 24 states where we are located. These efforts aren’t just about generating and delivering clean, renewable energy to our customers. At AVANGRID, we’re focused on decarbonizing the energy economy, creating equitable access to renewable energy and protecting the environment – today and for future generations – by reinventing how we power our world. Accomplishing these goals requires significant commitment, and we are investing to transform how we generate and deliver power. In total in 2021, Avangrid Networks invested $2.2 billion of capital investment to build a more reliable, resilient energy system that will support the clean energy future. We are also focused on improving existing infrastructure to help ensure our networks are best prepared to operate under all conditions. In 2021, for example, our electric and gas companies invested hundreds of millions of dollars to install new technology like smart meters; to expand our transmission capacity to bring energy to our customers; and to replace aging gas mains and infrastructure. These investments resulted in our New York companies once again being leaders in minimizing leaks across our gas infrastructure. This demonstrates our commitment to upgrading our systems and meeting our environmental goals. We also took important steps to help build charging infrastructure to support the growth of electric vehicles (EV), which we see as key to overall carbon reduction goals. From joining the Electric Highway Coalition and collaborating with other utilities to bring EV fast-charging stations online, to supporting the deployment of thousands of charging stations throughout the Northeast, launching innovative pilots that help inform EV adoption and creating incentives for our own employees to switch to EVs, we are taking a comprehensive approach to help usher in a new era of decarbonized transportation. Our electric and gas companies invested hundreds of millions of dollars to replace aging gas mains and infrastructure. AVANGRID Operations Selected 2021 Operational Data Net electricity generation (GWh) Total customers (M) Electricity customers (M) % Emissions-free capacity Natural gas customers (M) Installed capacity* (MW) Electricity delivered (GWh) CO2 emissions intensity (lbs CO2/MWh) Natural gas delivered (DTh) Employees * Total installed capacity for Avangrid Networks and Avangrid Renewables. THE FUNDAMENTAL ROLE OF INNOVATION AT AVANGRID Innovation is a fundamental element of AVANGRID’s Purpose and Values. In 2021, AVANGRID invested more than $90 million in innovation projects, up 14% over the previous year. AVANGRID invested $45 million in our Networks business, $30 million in Renewables and $15 million in Information Technology innovation projects, such as our Networks substation automation program, our grid analytics big data roadmap, robotic process automations for customer service and development toward a 4 MW battery storage microgrid non-wires alternation solution for a key customer, to name a few. We continued our construction in clean, renewable energy projects with $1 billion of investments in 2021. One of our projects, Vineyard Wind 1 (which started construction in 2021), is the first commercial-scale offshore wind project to receive federal approval in the U.S., and will generate 800 MW of clean, renewable energy to customers in Massachusetts, beginning in 2023. Vineyard Wind 1 is a 50/50 joint venture of Avangrid Renewables and Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners. Another project, our 1.2 GW Commonwealth Wind, will produce enough offshore wind energy to power 750,000 homes annually while transforming the sites of two former coal-fired power plants into clean energy hubs (including for offshore wind export cable manufacturing at Brayton Point in Somerset, and for Massachusetts’ second offshore wind port in Salem Harbor). Commonwealth Wind joins Park City Wind, an 804 MW project, as 100% Avangrid Renewables.owned projects (as of January 10, 2022) that will deliver power to customers in Massachusetts and Connecticut, respectively. In total, our offshore team will deliver approximately 2.4 GW of new clean capacity to customers in New England, making AVANGRID the largest offshore wind developer in the region. In 2021, we launched our strategy to become a leader in the emerging market for carbon-free, “green” hydrogen. Green hydrogen is an energy vector with tremendous potential to help decarbonize wide-ranging sectors of the economy including agriculture, steel, heavy-duty transportation and reliable power, to name a few. This business innovation proved timely when in June, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) launched its ambitious “Hydrogen Shot” that seeks to reduce the cost of clean hydrogen by 80% by 2030, to reach cost parity with gray hydrogen. In Connecticut, for example, we are evaluating a 20 MW hydrogen production and storage facility that could potentially be powered by renewable energy (including offshore wind and solar). A project such as this could produce roughly 2.9 million kg of hydrogen annually, with the potential to create 400 to 800 new jobs and reduce CO2 emissions by 25,000 metric tons per year. Support for clean hydrogen has never been stronger, as demonstrated by the $9 billion of federal funding for clean hydrogen hubs and demonstration projects that Congress approved in November 2021 as Turning animal waste into clean, renewable natural gas sequesters the methane emitted from the decomposition process and provides our customers with lower-carbon fuel. Fostering a culture of innovation that encourages, enables and rewards creative, customer-centric thinking is a critical driver of ESG+F. In 2021, AVANGRID’s Information Technology department hosted a Digital Summit featuring talks from leading researchers at U.S. national laboratories as well as from the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab. These updates on the research and development happening at the cutting edge of the energy sector were opportunities for inspiration for the more than 700 AVANGRID employees in virtual attendance. The IT Innovation group also garnered prestigious recognition when named a winner of the 2021 SAP Innovation Award for Excellence in Utilities Operations for their pilot with our Electric Operations team to develop an “Automated Overhead Network Inspection” solution that leverages the internet of things (IoT), grid-edge computing and machine learning to passively inspect our grid between scheduled maintenance calls. IT collected further accolades when Public Utilities Fortnightly Magazine named our Senior Manager of IT Architecture & Innovation, Mansur Mohammed, one of its “Top Innovators of 2021.” The full scope of AVANGRID’s innovation culture is showcased each year at our annual Innovation Forum, where teams from across AVANGRID’s businesses share insights with their colleagues on the most disruptive projects, pilots and proofs of concept underway. The 2021 Forum highlighted technologies ranging from AVANGRID’s new foray into green hydrogen production, to satellite-guided eco-surveys for marine mammals in our offshore wind business, to machine learning tools that provide next-generation insights on how weather will affect our Renewables resources and Networks infrastructure, as well as the development of new web-crawling trading software Calling All Students Hack the Clean Energy Transition at the 2021 AVANGRID Innovation Challenge that is giving our energy traders a leg up on the competition and much more. The Innovation Forum is also an organization-wide platform to recognize employees who contribute innovative ideas for making our business better, through our Employee Idea Awards, and to work closely with energy-focused students from top-tier universities as they compete in AVANGRID’s annual Innovation Challenge. The 2021 Innovation Challenge winner was a team of AVANGRID employees paired with students from Harvard University, who together delivered an insightful analysis of the benefits of grid enhancement technologies, such as dynamic line rating. Innovations like these are helping to grow a cleaner, more equitable energy economy – one where more people have access to renewable energy, where more clean energy jobs are created and where the health of our planet is prioritized. KEYNOTE SPEAKER Hal Gregersen Former Executive Director of the MIT Leadership Center Author of The Innovator’s DNA Empowering Our Customers, Improving Our Service Customer expectations of utilities continue to evolve, and we are working to meet and exceed those expectations across all of our operations. In 2021, we took on a robust planning process to better empower our Networks customers by improving their experience in the most cost-effective ways possible. To redesign the customer journey, we began with a hard look at common interactions like paying a bill, setting up new service or moving existing service, as well as addressing power outages or helping our customers reduce their energy usage. A driving force behind this effort is our goal to digitize the entire customer experience. To inform this effort, our Customer Experience (CX) team began conducting in-depth interviews with customer focus groups to better understand how they interact with the AVANGRID family of companies and where they face challenges. The process we’re employing, called Design Thinking, puts customers at the center of the decision so that we can see things through their eyes. By engaging our customers, we’re better able to test ideas, gain their feedback and create solutions that work for them. This approach will help us improve processes and be more innovative and effective in our problem solving so that we can increase customer satisfaction. As COVID-19 continued to impact our customers through 2021, we worked to assist those experiencing economic hardship due to the pandemic (for example, by providing access to over $100 million in government assistance to help customers pay their utility bills). We also provided home energy assessments through programs like Home Energy Solutions to help our customers reduce the cost of energy and their environmental footprint. Here, we help customers identify how much energy they may be losing through leaky doors, windows and ductwork, and assess how much they might be able to save with upgrades to their appliances and insulation. Through efforts like these we’re empowering our customers, listening to them so we can improve their experience, providing tools and resources to help them navigate economic challenges and collaborating to improve the energy efficiency of their homes. By engaging our customers, we’re better able to test ideas, gain their feedback and create solutions that 2021 Highlights We aspire to be the leading sustainable energy company in the U.S. and in 2021, we made progress in a number of areas – from health and safety, to investments and customer service, and in overall financial and business performance – to help us reach this goal. Some of these achievements include: Networks • Accelerated our eBill (electronic billing) program and greatly increased customer participation, with one million customers now on eBill, resulting in a faster, more streamlined and cost-effective process for all. • Improved the safety record among Avangrid Networks employees compared to the previous year, while continuing to provide excellent customer service, often in conditions made difficult by factors such as adverse weather and COVID-19. • Helped advance the electric vehicle (EV) market by expanding access to charging stations, contributing to research on the benefits of vehicle electrification and providing incentives to support EV adoption among all AVANGRID employees. • Received Best in Class recognition from the American Gas Association (AGA) for our performance in addressing leak repairs in New York. • Reduced the percentage of customers, in aggregate, impacted by outages by approximately 22%, compared with 2020. • Obtained more than $100 million in government assistance to help customers struggling to pay their bills. • Achieved an average, aggregate customer contact satisfaction rate of ~91%.* Renewables • Received federal permitting approval and broke ground on Vineyard Wind 1, the first commercial-scale offshore wind project in the U.S. • Submitted the winning bid to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in its competitive procurement process for Commonwealth Wind, the largest offshore wind project in New England. The project will enable the first major offshore wind manufacturing facility in Massachusetts and includes a comprehensive Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) initiative for project suppliers and our workforce. • Proceeded with key federal permitting for offshore wind projects, with the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management issuing Notices of Intent to draft environmental impact statements for Park City Wind, Commonwealth Wind and Kitty Hawk Offshore. • Improved energetic availability to 97% across our onshore Renewables assets. • Maintained energetic availability to meet commitments to customers during Winter Storm Uri in Texas. • Achieved COD (Commercial Operation Date) for 386 MW of onshore wind facilities. * Percent of customers satisfied with recent transaction is average for all operating companies as measured by AVANGRID Customer Contact Satisfaction Survey 2021. Key Business Highlights – Avangrid Networks Making Long-Term Investments to Enable a Clean Energy Platform Networks is our largest business segment, representing over 80% of our business mix. The long-term investments we make in Avangrid Networks are critical to all aspects of our business, from better serving our customers, to driving operational excellence, to making the necessary enhancements to support the clean energy transition. This is why we invested $2.2 billion in Avangrid Networks in 2021. We’re making all of these investments to help create a clean energy platform that will provide more customers and communities with cleaner and more reliable energy. Building a Modernized, Resilient and Reliable Energy Grid We are modernizing the power grid so that we can continue to provide our customers with safe and reliable service and enable climate action goals to reduce greenhouse gas pollutants such as carbon. This is why we are investing to improve the reliability and resiliency of our networks – to help create a clean energy future while enhancing value for our customers and for the communities we serve. For example, we continued to advance our investments in foundational technologies to enable a more efficient, stable power grid. Efforts here include building an Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) across our service territories, and in 2022 we’ll begin deployment of AMI in New York State. Unlike conventional meters, AMI meters are equipped for two-way communication with utilities, allowing us to better collect and analyze information on energy consumption. AMI allows for remote meter reads and enables us to provide customers with tools to help them manage their energy usage. AMI also enables a quicker response to outages and helps improve the reliability of our networks for our customers. Our Distribution Automation Project is also bringing state-of-the-art technology to our customers across New York State. Through this $35 million annual investment, we are installing Auto Grid Restoration (AGR) systems. This cutting-edge technology provides real-time information about where and why an outage might be occurring, ensuring we dispatch our field crews to the correct location to make repairs. Because of this, we are able to restore power in a faster time frame while reducing the number of miles (and associated carbon impacts) our crews must drive to find and address any problems. In addition, we’re working to harden our company’s systems through our Resiliency Program, by investing in system improvements in Maine and New York that will increase resiliency against future storm events, which are growing more severe as a result of climate change. Through practices like enhanced vegetation management – where we reduce the risk of trees and branches coming in contact with power lines – to investing in automation technology that allows our team to quickly restore service, we’re strengthening our network to provide more reliable power for our customers. As the need to integrate large quantities of renewable resources into the grid grows, balancing supply and demand in real time becomes more complex. In 2021, we continued to innovate to understand how to integrate clean energy into our grid. We partnered with Smarter Grid Solutions to conduct a pilot project that simulated using reactive power dispatched from distributed energy resources (DERs) to manage voltage and reactive power, with the goal of delivering energy to customers in the most efficient way. We also advanced our active network management pilot with the installation, testing and commissioning of four customer-owned solar photovoltaic sites on two substations totaling 17 MW. This pilot is informing flexible approaches to our interconnection process, enabling clean energy while mitigating expensive customer upgrade costs. We are also finding more ways to provide our gas customers with safe, reliable energy that align with our clean energy goals. That’s why we’re investing in gas leak prevention with pipeline replacements to reduce methane gas leaks. We are also piloting ways to integrate renewable natural gas (RNG) into our energy mix, enabling us to displace conventional natural gas and reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with it. As part of our New England Clean Energy Connect (NECEC) project, we began work on a $1.2 billion transmission line project to bring renewable, affordable clean energy to more customers across Massachusetts and Maine. This project will create approximately 1,600 clean energy jobs and remove the emissions equivalent of 700,000 passenger vehicles from the road, while reducing fuel costs by displacing higher-priced fossil fuels. Despite challenges by fossil fuel generators in the region to delay this important clean energy project, we’re hopeful that the courts will rule in our favor, allowing the building of this project to move forward. We’ve also committed to convert 60% of our own fleet to clean energy vehicles by the end of the decade, and we became one of the first utilities in the world to incorporate an all-electric backhoe loader into its fleet. We plan to use the new zero-emission 580 EV backhoe loader primarily in our gas construction businesses with the equipment offering a variety of benefits, including lower daily operating costs, reduced noise for quieter and safer work zones and elimination of fossil fuel exhaust. In 2021, Avangrid Networks launched several electrification pilots and innovation challenges, including: • Fleet Electrification Management Pilot: This first-of-its-kind program is a partnership between our New York companies and CLEAResult to break down the barriers to fleet electrification. This program offers commercial and institutional fleet managers the opportunity to receive free planning and technical assistance from expert coaches to accelerate their adoption of electric vehicles. • Future Grid Challenge: In collaboration with the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, we’re partnering with innovative solution providers to develop technical solutions that forecast and assess system impacts of electric vehicle (EV), heat pump and solar photovoltaic adoption loads. This effort intends to inform tools and a scalable approach for forecasting and planning for these flexible, intermittent, customer-facing loads and supports New York State’s mandate for 70% renewable electricity by 2030. • EV Fleet Assessment Tool: AVANGRID, in collaboration with the Iberdrola Group, launched a global challenge to develop an online interactive tool that fleet owners can use to understand the feasibility, costs and benefits of converting to an electric fleet. The proposed solution will be used by fleet operators, allowing them to enter fleet operating characteristics to provide individualized EV fleet assessments. Key Business Highlights – Avangrid Renewables As the third largest wind operator in the U.S., Avangrid Renewables made significant In 2021, new offshore wind projects like Vineyard Wind 1, Park City Wind and investments to expand our clean energy footprint in 2021. These investments are Commonwealth Wind helped make Avangrid Renewables the leading offshore wind about more than just generating renewable energy for our customers and developer in the U.S. We also increased efficiencies in our onshore wind generation communities. Our results are driven by a commitment to a cleaner, more and continued to grow our onshore solar capacity. All of these efforts reflect our equitable energy economy built on innovative, sustainable solutions that will drive to create a more sustainable energy economy. Here are some of the milestones generate better outcomes for our communities and planet. toward this commitment that we achieved in 2021: 8.1 metric tons of CO2 emissions avoided  +386 MW of new wind and solar projects reached Commercial Operation Date (COD) in 2021  ~1 GW of new wind and solar projects under construction  8.3 GW total installed capacity of wind and solar across 22 states  Starting construction on Vineyard Wind 1in the U.S., which will be built with union labor  Expanding Offshore Wind Power By leveraging shared expertise across the entire Iberdrola Group, Avangrid Renewables has grown its leadership role in the burgeoning offshore wind industry, and today we are the third largest company for offshore wind projects in the U.S. Building out the company’s nearly 5 GW pipeline of offshore wind projects would achieve one sixth of the Biden Administration’s offshore wind target of 30 GW by 2030. Vineyard Wind 1 Vineyard Wind 1, which is part of a 50/50 joint venture between Avangrid Renewables and Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP), is an 800 MW project that will be the first operating commercial-scale offshore wind project in U.S. waters. The project, which broke ground in November 2021, was the first commercial-scale offshore wind farm to be fully permitted and to complete financing. Located 15 miles off of Martha’s Vineyard, Vineyard Wind 1 will power more than 400,000 homes, create thousands of full-time jobs, reduce carbon emissions by more than 1.6 million metric tons a year and deliver more than $1 billion in economic benefits to Massachusetts. Park City Wind Named for the “Park City” of Bridgeport, CT, this offshore wind project, expected to come online in 2026, will deliver 804 MW of power to Connecticut, providing approximately 14% of the state’s total electricity needs while supporting thousands of new jobs across the state and generating an estimated $890 million in direct economic development benefits. Located 23 miles off the coast of Massachusetts in an area with the strongest winds on the East Coast, Park City Wind will bring clean, renewable, cost-effective energy to the state’s residents and will not be visible from the Connecticut shoreline. Commonwealth Wind In 2021, Avangrid Renewables was awarded the largest offshore wind project in New England – Commonwealth Wind – which, upon completion, will deliver 1.23 GW of clean capacity to customers. Commonwealth Wind will also create 11,000 full-time equivalent jobs over the project’s lifetime, bring the first offshore wind manufacturing facility to Massachusetts and transform two coal-fired power plant sites into clean energy hubs. Vineyard Wind 1  |  800 MW Atlantic Ocean Park City Wind  |  804 MW Vineyard Wind 1 (50/50 joint venture) Commonwealth Wind  | 1232 MW OCS A 0501 Park City Wind OCS A 0534 Commonwealth Wind OCS A 0534 In total, we are committed to investing more than $10 billion in offshore wind projects like Vineyard Wind 1, Park City Wind and Commonwealth Wind, and we expect these investments to create a cascade of positive impacts. Each of these projects will infuse dollars into the economy while creating jobs. Projects like Vineyard Wind 1, Park City Wind and Commonwealth Wind will also directly contribute to our country’s national goal of achieving a 50% to 52% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (based on 2005 levels) by 2030. These projects reflect our belief that it is possible to deliver strong returns for shareholders while helping address the global climate crisis and protecting the communities that we serve. Expanding Solar Energy Development Avangrid Renewables is a leader involved in developing, building and operating the clean energy infrastructure of the future. With more than 70 renewable energy projects already generating power across the U.S., we’re helping to advance America’s transition to a cleaner, more competitive energy economy. Solar energy is a major component of this transition, and as of 2021 we have installed capacity totaling 130 MWdc across four solar facilities – one in Arizona, one in Colorado and two in Oregon. In addition to the solar power we’re generating today, we have several near-term solar projects under construction, including three new projects in Oregon and one in Washington State. Combined, these projects will add nearly 750 MW to our renewable generation portfolio. More Reliable, Resilient, Renewable Energy We’re continuing to build a clean energy infrastructure network while making it resilient and reliable. Safety and reliability are at the heart of everything AVANGRID does. In 2021, we achieved over 97% energetic availability across all of our wind farms: these efforts included: • Predictive and preventive maintenance of our equipment, such as our wind turbines, to ensure they operate as effectively – and for as long – as possible. Starting in 2022, we will begin a new program as part of our predictive maintenance work on our wind turbine generators (WTGs), including condition monitoring systems, drone inspections and monitoring of WTG foundations and foundation bolts. • Substation maintenance, including inspections and electrical and mechanical testing for all substation equipment associated with Renewables projects. Beginning in 2022, we will also incorporate drone inspections on selected overhead transmission and distribution lines. • Integration of state-of-the-art technologies to improve the efficiency and resiliency of assets across our Renewables business. • Incorporation of condition monitoring systems that can predict large-scale equipment failures in early stages, which enables us to reduce potentially larger impacts on critical system components, minimize downtime and increase reliability (we began implementing these systems in selected parts of our Renewables operations). Weathering the Texas Storm Investments in our generation assets, emergency preparedness and our focus on operations and asset management played a crucial role in successfully navigating a severe weather event in Texas in 2021. As the state experienced a deep freeze that impaired every type of power generation, we were able to produce energy in excess of our firm commitments when the state needed it most. Our wind resources performed well above the Texas wind fleet average, while our Operations teams worked safely and tirelessly to keep our facilities online. As we continue to grow our Renewables portfolio, we both continue to positively impact the environment and create new high-quality jobs across the U.S. Large-Scale Development of Our Renewables Pipeline We’re making significant investments to continue building out reliable and affordable access to clean, renewable energy, and by the end of 2021 we had a total capacity of wind and solar of more than 8.3 GW. Looking ahead, we’ve also made plans to expand our onshore solar and wind capacity, with 1.4 GW of near-term projects with existing power purchase agreements and ~1 GW of that capacity already under construction. These projects include: • Lund Hill, with 194 MWdc solar power (Washington) • Montague, with 211 MWdc solar power (Oregon) • Golden Hills, with 201 MW wind power (Oregon) • Bakeoven, with 80 MWdc solar power (Oregon) • Daybreak, with 189 MWdc solar power (Oregon) • Midland, with 106 MW wind power (Illinois) ~1 GW of large scale renewable energy under construction Key Business Highlights – AVANGRID To help progress AVANGRID’s overarching ambition to be the leading sustainable energy company in the U.S., this year we also formally created a sustainability function led by our new Chief Sustainability Officer, who reports to the CEO. This team provides oversight of our sustainability strategy with a focus on accelerating the company’s commitment to delivering sustainable value through our ESG+F strategic platform. The Sustainability team serves as a center of excellence to promote and support both sustainability and our ESG+F strategy, ensuring it is embedded with the culture at all levels of the organization. This includes making key business decisions based on our climate action policy, ensuring investments we make are consistent with our ESG+F strategy, supporting activities to create a more inclusive and equitable organization and promoting environmental justice initiatives. The Avangrid Foundation also collaborates with the Sustainability team on efforts related to employee giving and volunteering. In addition, the Sustainability team manages the ESG Committee, a cross-functional team which meets at least quarterly and collectively oversees the major elements of AVANGRID’s ESG+F goals. Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emission from Our Buildings We recognize that our day-to-day operations – from our office buildings to our vehicle fleet – contribute to our environmental footprint. A critical component of our ESG+F strategy is to identify opportunities and implement solutions to reduce the environmental impacts of our own operations. We are putting practices in place that reduce the environmental footprint of our buildings such as: • Installing solar panels at our Pavilion Operations Center in Pavilion, New York (with plans for solar installations at other AVANGRID locations). • Increasing the percentage of green energy we purchase to power our buildings. • Improving building management systems to better identify opportunities for increased efficiencies. • Reducing our building portfolio and physical footprint including projects underway (16% reduction) and proposals for an additional 18% reduction. Cleaner Vehicles in Our Fleet and for Our Employees In addition to our buildings, we continue to move toward a cleaner, greener vehicle fleet, and we’re providing opportunities for our employees to reduce the carbon footprint associated with their personal vehicles. These efforts included integrating 179 green vehicles into our fleet in 2021, installing charging stations across our operations (and making them available for our employees and for fleet use) and creating incentives for our employees to switch to EVs. Since 2020, we installed 32 EV charging stations across our operations in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine and New York, and we have plans to install additional EV chargers across our service areas in 2022. 