// GOVERNANCE: OPERATING WITH THE HIGHEST ETHICAL STANDARDSEMBEDDED IN THE BUSINESS AVANGRID’s Compliance Division is independent 
of business and management and reports 
directly to the Audit and Compliance Committee. The Compliance Division was established by the Board of Directors to oversee and monitor the company’s actions to prevent and correct illegal or fraudulent conduct. Duties include disseminating and ensuring compliance with the Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and related company policies and procedures; fostering an ethical culture against improper conduct, wrongful acts, corruption and fraud; and verifying the effectiveness of the 
company’s corporate compliance program while 
recommending improvements to achieve the 
highest ethical standards. AVANGRID promotes a culture of compliance by 
proactively embracing preventive controls and 
education, and by correcting identified compliance concerns through robust, fair and transparent policies and practices. To promote transparency, the Compliance Division publishes an annual report describing its program activities, including new 
initiatives, on the company’s public website. AVANGRID is committed to leadership and continuous 
improvement in the field of corporate ethics. As a response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to 
support employees working from home, AVANGRID enhanced its training and communications with online educational opportunities, including a series of film and speaker events to facilitate awareness of ethical issues.//ETHICS BY THE NUMBERS
100% 
	ANNUAL ETHICS TRAINING 
	COMPLETION RATE 
	(employees not on leave) 94% OF EMPLOYEES 			STRONGLY AGREE OR AGREE 
	that they have a strong awareness 			and understanding of our compliance 		program and the resources available 			to support them.SUPPLIERS’ CODE OF ETHICS 
AVANGRID extends its ethical standards under the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to all its 
vendors. Vendors are required by contract to comply with the Suppliers’ Code of Ethics, available on the company’s public website. Both the Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics and the Suppliers’ Code of Ethics were updated in 2020 to further reinforce AVANGRID’s commitment to human rights. In keeping with its goal of continuous improvement, in 2020, the Compliance Division continued to refine 
its ethics and compliance screening process for vendors. This process supplements existing due diligence – improving what are already considered industry-leading practices. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE (ESG) COMMITTEE AVANGRID established in 2020 a new ESG Committee as a permanent internal body to support AVANGRID 
sustainable development strategies, policies, 
programs, practices and initiatives. This committee is comprised of corporate and operating senior 
leaders that review and monitor AVANGRID’s 
sustainability and climate change activities, 
performance and disclosures. This committee also provides technical, informational and advisory support to the CEO as appropriate to help further the AVANGRID Group corporate purpose and strategy.CORPORATE SECURITYAnnually, AVANGRID participates in and hosts a number of internal and external cyber and physical security exercises to help the organization prepare for cyber and physical security threats and incidents. These exercises allow us to identify gaps and further strengthen or harden our security posture at a 
corporate, business and functional level.The 2020 COVID-19 pandemic allowed AVANGRID to utilize the security command system that spans across a wide variety of technical and operational departments and create a communication flow from the very top executive down through the first responders working critical positions. While no one was prepared for the pandemic to impact the nation the way it did, AVANGRID quickly formed a team to collaborate and respond to the growing threat in the early months of 2020.  Lessons learned from the previous year’s 
security exercise allowed us to identify ahead of 
time that we needed a mass communication 
system for employees and to ensure that the 
company had enough bandwidth and licensing 
to allow for employees to connect efficiently 
from remote locations, utilizing their business 
continuity plans.We conducted benchmarking across all levels of 
the business, and maintaining internal and external communications was critical to mitigate both safety and security concerns for both employees and 
company assets.  Cyber and Physical Security ExerciseIn the fall of 2020, the Corporate Security team 
conducted a live drill exercise to assess manual 
operations and restoration efforts resulting from simulated physical and cyber-attacks on the 
organization with the goal of involving more areas 
of the business. Deploying field crews to electrical substations, natural gas facilities and a wind farm, the exercise involved 125 employees in various roles including planners, first responders and incident responders.During the simulation, the control centers and 
operations centers lost connectivity, remote 
visibility and communication with these facilities, driving staff to manual operations and maintaining communication with those out in the field and the reliability coordinators within the regions.  Other scenarios included vendor impacts, critical system outages, ransomware throughout our 
Customer Care Centers, substation physical attacks and a Personal Identifiable Information (PII) 
data breach involving vendors and employees’ 
sensitive data.  As a result of the drill, we gained valuable lessons learned related to security training for field personnel and other staff members who 
can serve as alternates for their departmental incident responders during crisis response. 