// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURESUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALSAVANGRID supports achievement of the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) approved by the member states 
of the United Nations for the years 2015–2030. In particular, 
we are focused on the goals targeting affordable and clean 
energy (SDG 7) and climate action (SDG 13). AVANGRID has incorporated these goals into the company’s strategy and sustainability policy. Pursuant to these principles, AVANGRID focuses its efforts on affordable, clean energy while nurturing sustainable communities through investments in research, development and innovation and social action at the local and national levels.This is aligned with the company’s continued stewardship for action on climate. AVANGRID is committed to contributing to the social and economic development of the communities in which it operates, and to the protection of the environment through its sustainable energy business model.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSAFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGYAVANGRID’s core energy generation activity is clean, emission-free wind and solar energy. In 2020, 90% of the installed generating capacity owned by AVANGRID was emission-free. Through the company’s smart grid technology, we are providing customers with cleaner, reliable, consistent energy, with renewables and traditional generation working together in the U.S. energy mix. We will continue to invest in clean energy. We have recently updated our emissions targets:TARGET: Increase Renewables’ installed 
capacity by more than 100% by 2025 compared with 2015.CLIMATE ACTIONIncreased use of renewables reduces the average emissions of U.S. energy. In addition to AVANGRID’s continued growth in renewable energy capacity, the company also seeks to reduce operational emissions and energy losses in transmission and distribution, TARGET: 35% decrease in Scope 1* greenhouse 
emissions intensity (measured in grams of 
CO2 per kilowatt-hour of energy produced) by 2025 compared with 2015, and to be Scope 1 carbon neutral by 2035.*	Scope 1 emissions include all direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the AVANGRID Group such as power generation 
facilities, offices and fleet vehicles. Greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide (CO2), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and methane (CH4). GOVERNANCEAVANGRID’s Board of Directors considers the fight against climate change a strategic priority for the 
company. In 2021, the Board of Directors approved updates to AVANGRID’s Climate Change Policy to 
incorporate new emissions goals. The Climate 
Change Policy articulates AVANGRID’s commitment 
to contributing to the achievement of Goals 7 and 
13 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
The AVANGRID Board of Directors, through its 
Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, reviews the policy annually to ensure 
alignment with AVANGRID’s current climate-related goals and objectives. The Board of Directors oversees AVANGRID’s 
policies and procedures for managing sustainability 
and environmental, social and governance risk. 
The Chief Executive Officer of AVANGRID, who is 
a member of the AVANGRID Board, is responsible for sustainability and citizenship. The Compensation, Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) risk 
management and AVANGRID’s non-financial 
sustainability reporting.The Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who reports to the 
Chief Financial Officer, evaluates the risks of direct 
or indirect economic losses resulting from external events, including the risk related to climate change. 
The CRO is responsible for preparing the information 
and for reporting to the Audit and Compliance 
Committee and the Board of Directors. In 2020, the AVANGRID Environmental, Social and 
Governance Committee was established as a 
management committee to support AVANGRID’s 
ESG and sustainable development strategies, policies, programs, practices and initiatives. This committee is 
comprised of corporate and operating senior leaders 
and is responsible for reviewing and monitoring AVANGRID’s sustainability and climate change-related activities, performance and disclosures.STRATEGY AND RISK MANAGEMENTThe fight against climate change and the company’s leading role in the transition to a low-carbon 
economy is one of the key drivers of the company’s strategy. While the risks and uncertainties presented by climate change represent an enormous challenge, it is also an opportunity for growth through 
mitigation and adjustment activities. AVANGRID’s strategy is aligned with the objectives
of the Paris Agreement, clearly committing to the 
decarbonization of the energy system through renewable energy, storage and smart grids, together with the commitment to achieve the SDGs. We are also investing in infrastructure to protect customers from the threat of flooding and the increasing 
frequency and severity of storms. AVANGRID’s Board of Directors and senior 
management identify and evaluate the risks 
associated with climate change to the company. Every year, the risk tolerance levels are reviewed and approved through risk policies and limits that 
establish the qualitative and quantitative risk 
appetite at the level of the group and at each of the principal businesses and corporate functions. 
In addition, the Board regularly discusses major risks and threats and the different exposures of the group, as well as compliance with the risk policies, limits and approved indicators.AVANGRID monitors the risks arising from climate change, which can be grouped into:•	Physical: Potential material impacts on facilities from more frequent and more intense storms, increase in wind speed and heat waves, 
coastal flooding.•	Transitional: Associated with the process of global decarbonization, including regulatory changes, market prices, technologies, reputation.•	Other: Such as risks in the supply chain and social phenomena. We continuously monitor the threats to which our company might be exposed under several scenarios as part of our risk management process. We manage these risks by including climate projections in our planning process and evaluating different scenarios and their impacts. AVANGRID’s efforts to combat climate change are focused on the development of electric energy
from renewable sources, with development of
innovative efficient technologies with lower 
intensity of CO2 emissions. But AVANGRID’s climate action goes beyond generation of clean energy. 
We are also investing in infrastructure to protect 
customers from the threat of flooding and the 
increasing frequency and severity of storms.In 2020, AVANGRID updated its strategy and published its Outlook 2020–2025. This plan includes initiatives and projects allowing the group to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by decarbonization 
policies regarding electricity generation, the trend
toward electrification of demand, the reality of the digital transformation and the possibility of integration of the entire system thanks to the electricity grids.METRICS AND TARGETSAnnually AVANGRID reports on key indicators relating to climate and to the strategy of the fight against climate change, including the greenhouse gas 
emissions inventory; emissions intensity figures; reduction targets; energy use, intensity and mix; renewable installed capacity; use of water; and 
research, development and innovation (R&D&I).We have set new goal targets.Targets:a)	Reduce the intensity of Scope 1* greenhouse gas emissions of our generation capacity by 35% by the year 2025 compared to a year 2015 baseline and be Scope 1 carbon neutral by the year 2035. b)	Continue to focus on renewable energy, targeting an increase in renewables installed capacity of more than 100% by the year 2025 compared to a year 2015 baseline.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSIn 2020, the emissions intensity from our owned generation was 51 grams of CO2 per kWh of electricity produced (113 lbs. per MWh). This is a 30% reduction compared to 2019, a year with an unprecedented need for power from the Klamath cogeneration plant which compensated for an atypically low level of 
hydroelectric generation in the Northwest last year. As we continue to grow our renewables footprint, the intensity of the emissions from our generation fleet keeps a downward trajectory. Compared to our baseline year 2015, CO2 emissions intensity decreased 20%. Although we didn’t reach our internal goal for 2020, mainly due to external factors that limited production like local transmission events or renewable supply curtailments experienced during the year, AVANGRID is one of the cleanest energy companies in the U.S. with an intensity 
emission seven times lower than the U.S. utility 
average in 2020.* As a leader in renewable energy, we are strongly committed to reducing our carbon 
intensity rate by investing in wind and solar 
generation technologies and to keeping that level 
well below the industry average. Because our renewable energy facilities generate electricity with little or no emissions of CO2 and 
other byproduct pollutants, our customers can receive credit for the carbon emissions they have offset through the purchase of renewable energy.The 19,391 GWh of renewable electricity produced by AVANGRID in 2020 allowed customers to avoid 
14 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. That’s roughly equivalent to the emissions avoided by removing 3 million cars from the road for a year.**
SUPPORTING CLEAN RENEWABLE ENERGYIn New York State, NYSEG and RG&E provided 
customers with an opportunity to support clean, renewable wind energy. Customers can sign up to cover the cost to deliver 200 kWh or more of wind energy to the New York power grid.In 2020, NYSEG and RG&E customers supported enough clean, renewable wind energy to offset the equivalent of 33,588 metric tons of CO2. That’s equivalent to the CO2 emissions from consuming 3,779,458 gallons of gasoline or the equivalent 
CO2 emissions from meeting the energy needs of about 3,876 typical U.S. homes for an entire year.**N.Y. WIND ENERGY // 2020 PROGRAM RESULTS   Wind Power 
Generated Customers 
Participating NYSEG 35,293,036 KWh 10,368 RG&E 12,212,120 KWh 3,979 TOTAL 47,505,156 KWh 14,347   WATERWater is a basic and irreplaceable natural resource in many AVANGRID activities. The company’s awareness of this dependency and of the risks arising from water shortages has led it to set itself the objective of ensuring an increasingly rational and sustainable use of this resource.In 2020, AVANGRID facilities used approximately 
3.3 million cubic meters of water. The water is 
predominantly used for the steam cooling process at Klamath, our combined cycle cogeneration plant in Oregon. Klamath Cogen is one of the nation’s most efficient and competitive plants and produces both electricity and steam. Recycled municipal wastewater supplied by a treatment plant is used for cooling, and approximately two thirds evaporates.With 90% of AVANGRID’s installed renewable capacity being predominately wind that does not need water to generate electricity, we have one of the lowest water use intensities per MWh generated in the U.S.// WATER WITHDRAWAL FOR GENERATION      (Cubic meters/GWh) 
98% of the water used by Klamath 
Cogeneration is treated wastewater. CENTRAL MAINE POWER LAUNCHES ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGER PILOTTransportation currently accounts for half of Maine’s greenhouse gas emissions tied to fossil fuel 
combustion, so collaboration is imperative to find solutions that enable electric vehicles. To understand 
consumer preferences in funding the installation of Level 2 chargers for EVs across the state, CMP launched a pilot program as part of a state effort to determine what incentives are more valued by developers, fleet managers, municipal planners and others who decide to install chargers. CMP offered a “make-ready” solution, in partnership with ReVision Energy, where the company installs, maintains and retains ownership of the electrical 
infrastructure needed to connect to the charging pads, and offers incentives up to $4,000 toward the cost of the infrastructure when applicants agree to install a minimum of four “plugs.” Level 2 chargers, which are 240 volts and must be professionally installed, typically charge vehicles about five times faster than a Level 1, 120-volt charger, depending upon the car.The location and availability of chargers is one of 
the most important factors people consider as 
they decide whether to purchase an EV, which is 
the driver for collecting information for Maine as 
part of a plan to make EVs more accessible.The pilot was approved by the Maine Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) to promote the beneficial 
electrification of the transportation sector, part of a package passed by the Maine State Legislature in 2019, and is intended for applicants installing 
chargers in workplaces and public spaces such as municipalities, multi-unit residences, company garages and commercial spaces.BIODIVERSITYAs an energy company committed to expanding 
our fleet of renewable energy resources for our 
customers and partners, and supporting initiatives that focus on sustainable energy models, we 
value stewardship and conservation in
numerous ways across the business.We actively partner with nonprofit 
conservation and environmental 
organizations to deliver energy and 
new projects and work collaboratively and transparently with regulatory 
agencies at the local, state and federal
levels. That commitment to healthier, sustainable communities begins with strict compliance with environmental laws, regulations and applicable industry standards. But it’s important to look beyond those obligations to see how we can be a long-term partner with the
communities where we live, work 
and play, and actively protect and promote wildlife and its habitats.  Our Networks business continues to invest in a 
long-term integrated plan for protected species, while our Renewables business has a long legacy of engaging conservation leaders and local 
community input that helps guide our decisions 
for development of new project sites. We invest in extensive programs for the protection of wildlife species as part of how we operate our fleet. In 2020, our investments included funding 
of studies (e.g., Wind Wildlife Research Fund and eagle technology and physiology research), 
habitat mitigation (e.g., committed to preservation 
of Indiana bat habitat) and avoidance and 
minimization measures (e.g., siting design and 
curtailment procedures).Preserving ecosystems and biological diversity 
is essential for sustainable development and is 
an extension of our core values integrated into 
our day-to-day environmental management 
practices. Some 2020 examples include:INNOVATIVE CONSERVATION PROPOSAL BUILDS 
ON INDUSTRY-LEADING WILDLIFE PROTECTION 
INITIATIVES AT THE MANZANA WIND 
POWER PROJECTAvangrid Renewables’ holistic approach to 
conservation is illustrated by our efforts in the 
western U.S. to protect and restore the population 
of critically endangered California Condors. 
The California Condor is the largest landbird in 
North America. The Condor population declined precipitously during the 20th century due to habitat loss, poaching and lead poisoning from the consumption of hunting ammunition left in the carcasses of field-dressed 
kill. After dwindling to just 27 individuals in the 
mid-1980s, the population of Condors has recovered 
to over 500, thanks to the extraordinary efforts of 
a broad coalition of regional governments and
nonprofits across the western U.S. and other 
interested stakeholders.The Avangrid Foundation, the primary philanthropic arm of the AVANGRID family of companies, is also 
committed to the survival of the mythical 
“thunderbird” as part of their investments in 
biodiversity and climate action. Since 2019, the 
Avangrid Foundation has awarded a total of $100,000 to the Oregon Zoo to support Condor recovery efforts. Avangrid Renewables is also a corporate member of the Zoo and provides additional annual funding to 
support the Condor recovery program. In addition, since 2018, the Foundation has actively partnered with 
Liberty Wildlife, a bird rescue organization in Arizona, and in 2020 contributed $25,000 to the Ventana 
Wildlife Society in Monterey, California, after the Dolan Fire destroyed their Big Sur Condor Sanctuary. As recovery efforts continue and the wild population of Condors expands, so does the potential risk of 
interaction with human development. Avangrid 
Renewables is committed to developing and 
managing our projects responsibly and engaging 
fully and transparently with relevant regulatory agencies to secure the necessary permits for 
operation and to develop comprehensive risk 
management plans when necessary.At our Manzana Wind Power Project in Southern 
California, we’ve deployed a handful of innovative 
technologies to evaluate their effectiveness as part of the company’s Wildlife Protection Program. 
From high-precision optical technology to identify protected avian species and evaluate their flight paths to detection and deterrent systems, Manzana has also implemented a technology to specifically manage risk to California Condors. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
has outfitted most free-flying 
Condors with a VHF radio transmitter, 
GPS transmitter or both to track 
their locations. This technology 
provides the opportunity to detect and respond to a potential collision risk at Manzana, for example, 
by curtailing turbines and assessing 
the area for potential attractants. Avangrid Renewables has proactively contracted with a third party to monitor Condor movements using geofence technology. If a Condor comes too close to the project’s turbines, the company’s National Control Center can curtail wind turbines until the bird has left the area. Utilizing this type of technology helps manage risks to the species while enabling the operation of the wind farm. Our operations personnel are always on the alert for potential wildlife concerns at the site, coordinating closely with the Wildlife Compliance team. In addition to the innovative technologies and 
procedures deployed at Manzana, the company is working to further mitigate the risk, however 
small, of any possible future impact to the Condor population from our wind operations. The company has applied for an incidental take permit at Manzana from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and prepared a conservation plan, inclusive of an innovative approach to mitigation and 
committing over $500,000 to fund an additional 
full-time employee at the Oregon Zoo. The Zoo’s Jonsson Center for Wildlife Rehabilitation, in rural Clackamas County, Oregon, is home to one of the largest Condor breeding facilities in the country. The additional employee would enable the Zoo to enhance its program by increasing the potential 
for successful Condor breeding and subsequent release into the wild. If the permit is granted, this conservation plan will complement Avangrid 
Renewables’ comprehensive Wildlife Protection Program and support the long-term recovery of California Condors in the American West.SNOWBIRDS RETURN EACH YEAR TO NEW PERCH THANKS TO NYSEGThe Osprey is a predatory bird that is listed as a species of special concern by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, and every spring it returns to the Finger Lakes region of New York to mate 
and prey on the fish living in the famous waterbodies. Since the early 1990s, NYSEG employees have been relocating Osprey nesting systems from utility poles. 
In some cases, the crews would construct extenders to increase the height of the pole and allow the bird to nest away from the equipment. Additionally, the NYSEG crews erect decoy poles or separate nesting systems further away from the power equipment. This work has led to great partnerships with community organizations like the Cayuga Bird Club, and is made possible with company and volunteer resources, not only to protect wildlife, but to also safeguard our 
electricity delivery systems from interference caused by nesting birds.// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURE// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTUREREDUCE SCOPE 1 
GREENHOUSE GAS 
SCOPE 1 GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS BY 35% VS. 2015INCREASE IN RENEWABLES 
INSTALLED CAPACITY
DOUBLE RENEWABLES INSTALLED 
CAPACITY BY 2025 VS. 2015*	Scope 1 emissions include all direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the AVANGRID Group such as power generation facilities, offices and fleet vehicles. Greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide (CO2), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and methane (CH4). // ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURE14M MT 
	CO2 EMISSIONS AVOIDED3M CARS
	REMOVED FROM THE ROAD*	Source: U.S. DOE EIA Electric Power Monthly (February/March 2021), data available through November 2020.**	U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURELevel 2 chargers typically 
charge vehicles about 
five times faster.// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURE// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTUREAvangrid Renewables is 
committed to developing and 
managing our projects 
responsibly and engaging 
fully and transparently with 
relevant regulatory agencies 
to secure the necessary 
permits for operation and 
to develop comprehensive 
risk management plans 
when necessary.// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURE// ENVIRONMENT: OUR INVESTMENT IN A CLEANER ENERGY FUTURESince the early 1990s, 
NYSEG employees have been 
relocating Osprey nesting 
systems from utility poles. 
In some cases, the crews 
would construct extenders 
to increase the height of 
the pole and allow the 
bird to nest away from 
the equipment.