REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT TO CREATE A HEALTHIER ENVIRONMENT At AVANGRID, we are committed to accelerating the transformation to clean and affordable energy. And while we focus on increasing access to renewable energy for everyone, we also recognize that a clean energy future – and the road to carbon neutrality – requires that we identify and reduce environmental impacts across our own footprint while also helping our customers reduce their impacts. To achieve this, we have set aggressive goals for carbon reduction – both through how we run our operations and by providing access to clean, renewable energy for our ever-growing customer base. We’ve committed to reduce our Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (g CO2e/kWh) – which is the ratio of emissions and production from generation sources owned and controlled by AVANGRID – by 35% by 2025*and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035. Our commitment is to grow our renewable installed capacity by 100% by 2025.* Delivering on this commitment means having strong governance policies and practices in place to ensure environmental stewardship as we expand our capabilities across Avangrid Networks and Avangrid Renewables. All new major projects we take on must undergo an environmental risk assessment to determine if they contribute measurably toward AVANGRID’s focus on: • Enabling an affordable and clean energy supply. • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions. • Preventing negative climate impacts. Beyond decarbonizing our footprint, we are dedicated stewards of the natural environment and have established policies and processes to protect natural habitat and biodiversity, from how we site and build our infrastructure to how we run our operations. We also are making major investments in education and habitat and wildlife protections through partnership with organizations such as the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. In addition, we’re investing in the effective, efficient management of precious natural resources like water and in innovative waste reduction practices across our operations. * Compared to a year 2015 baseline. As we work toward a clean energy future, we’ll continue to share our commitments and progress publicly. We made great strides toward our goals last year. Our efforts in 2021 – and our plans for the future – are described below. ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS  2020 (ACTUALS)  2021 (ACTUALS)  2025 GOAL  2030 GOAL  2035 GOAL  ACTIONS TO MEET GOALS • $8 billion investment in Renewables from 2020 to 2025 (expected). • More than 20 GW in development pipeline including onshore and offshore wind, solar and storage (expected).  100% increase in Renewables installed capacity (MW)/ % increase from baseline (2015)  7,982 40%  8,309 43%  13,1893 100%  35% lower Scope 1 emissions intensity (g/kWh)/ % decrease from baseline (2015)  63.97 -20%  70.46 -12%  51.82 -35%  • Increased Renewables energy production and energetic availability (achieved in 2021). • Develop and implement storage and RNG solutions (underway) and green hydrogen (proposed). • Replace 100 miles of leak-prone gas pipeline annually (achieved in 2021). • Pilot SF6-free equipment (proposed).  60% cleaner energy fleet: % of total  5%  20%  60%  • Continued investment in fleet vehicles and charging infrastructure (underway). • Seeking regulatory approval for additional fleet vehicles (underway).  900 charging stations installed for fleet and employee vehicles1  32  300  900  Facilities CO2 footprint reduction  5%  16%  25%  • Overall reduction in facilities footprint (underway). • Renewable energy procurement (underway). • Solar panel installations across largest facilities (underway).  Scope 1 carbon neutral2  100%  • All actions contribute to overall carbon neutrality. • Developed interim net zero emissions goals.  1 Cumulative and subject to regulatory approvals and availability of vehicles and charging equipment. 2 Scope 1: GHG emissions from electricity generation, methane leaks, SF6 fugitive emissions, fuel consumption in buildings and company vehicle. 3 Based on AVANGRID’s Long-Term Outlook as of November 5, 2020. Actions to Decarbonize: Reducing Our Emissions Renewables Producing and providing clean, renewable energy is central to AVANGRID’s business and our commitment to help decarbonize the economy. Our strategy is comprehensive and includes actions that help create more clean, renewable energy while reducing the carbon we’re responsible for generating. Our commitments here include: • Addressing and reducing the carbon we generate across our operations, with the goal of achieving Scope 1 carbon neutrality by 2035 (Scope 1 carbon refers to greenhouse gas emissions generated directly from sources that we own or control). • Increasing our installed renewable energy capacity (the amount of renewable energy we can produce and distribute) by 100% by 2025 versus 2015. By 2020, our carbon emissions intensity was seven times lower than that of the average U.S. energy utility, and the commitments we describe in this section are helping us to dramatically decrease our carbon intensity even more while increasing energy efficiency and access to smarter energy solutions for our growing customer base. Scope 1 GHG Emissions Intensity Reduction Scope 1 emissions include all direct greenhouse emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by AVANGRID, including power generation facilities, offices and other facilities, and from vehicles in our fleet. And while carbon dioxide is the most common greenhouse gas, we must continue to focus on addressing all greenhouse gases where we have direct control, including the greenhouse gases sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), nitrous oxide (N2O) and methane. To help us reach our goal of carbon neutrality for all of our Scope 1 emissions by 2035, we have set an initial goal – and have taken several actions – to reduce these emissions by 35% by 2025, as compared to 2015. This includes the installation of new equipment to reduce N2O emissions by approximately 50% at our Klamath Falls, Oregon, cogeneration plant. Methane is another greenhouse gas contributing to Scope 1 emissions, as it escapes into the environment from the pipes across our natural gas operations. To significantly reduce these emissions, we are replacing nearly 100 miles of old pipe with new metal and plastic pipe annually, which will help reduce methane emissions by 50% by 2035 compared with 2015. We’re also exploring ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with natural gas by introducing renewable natural gas (RNG) into our Networks operations. Here, we take RNG generated at locations like farms (where it’s produced from methane captured from cow manure) and inject it into natural gas distribution systems, displacing non-renewable natural gas and the greenhouse gas emissions associated with it. Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) also contributes to our annual greenhouse gas emissions, as it is a commonly used source of electrical insulation, current interruption and arc suppression in our transmission and distribution systems. To address this, we are in the early stages of identifying options to reduce SF6 emissions across Avangrid Networks, including new, SF6-free equipment that we hope to pilot in early 2022 following regulatory and cost reviews. Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee has taken a leadership role in assessing ways we can reduce SF6 emissions. In addition to assessing and piloting new technologies, we’re looking at options like other forms of insulation, free of SF6, that already exist but that could require significantly more space. We’re fortunate, too, in that other companies under the umbrella of the Iberdrola Group (our controlling shareholder) are exploring ways to reduce SF6 emissions, and we are benefiting from – and contributing to – their learnings, which will help inform a long-term, SF6-free roadmap for AVANGRID. Our work to address and reduce greenhouse gas emissions also supports efforts by the various states in which we operate to reach their own climate protection goals. In New York State, for example, we are supporting the New York Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA), and, where relevant, have submitted studies to include our pilot projects to help meet one of the most ambitious greenhouse gas reduction laws of any state in the U.S. Our vehicle fleet – light, medium and heavy-duty vehicles, as well as equipment like forklifts – contributes to our Scope 1 emissions via fossil fuel usage. To reduce this source, we have developed and are implementing a strategy to convert 60% of our fleet to green vehicles by 2030, including 100% of all light-duty vehicles. By the end of 2021, we added 179 green vehicles to our fleet, and we plan to add 122 more between 2022 and 2023, for a total of 301 green vehicles added to our fleet by the end of 2023. But reducing these emissions will require more than just purchasing new fleet vehicles. Therefore, our strategy includes plans to upgrade our facilities to allow for supporting infrastructure, including EV charging stations which will also be available to employees who drive electric vehicles. SUPPLIER ESG Upholding Managing risks derived human rights from climate changeFACTORS Our buildings also contribute to our Scope 1 emissions and are included in our overall Scope 1 emissions reduction strategy and our commitment to carbon neutrality by 2035. We are committed to using 50% more green energy by 2030, and we’re working with local power providers to increase availability of renewable energy to our buildings. We are also developing a strategy to install photovoltaic solar panels at our main facilities, and we’re developing a plan to place rooftop solar panels on 15 of our largest buildings to produce electricity for our own use. In addition to increasing the use of renewable energy to help reach our goal of a 25% reduction in our carbon footprint, we are in the process of reducing our building portfolio and physical footprint, including projects underway (16% reduction) and proposals for an additional 18% reduction. Through the consolidation of buildings and the sale of some of our surplus properties, we will also reduce the Scope 1 emissions associated with our buildings. Engaging in a circular Contributing to the United economy strategy (where Nations’ 17 Sustainable environmental impacts Development Goals are minimized) Supplier Sustainability We see our suppliers as key stakeholders and business partners, and we set high expectations for our suppliers to comply with our sustainable development policies and standards. Suppliers are assessed against an evaluation model based on our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria, and this assessment includes 43 factors used to calculate each supplier’s ESG score. In addition to setting and enforcing standards, we provide resources to help our suppliers work toward our expectations. When we assess our suppliers’ sustainability levels, we provide those who have yet to meet our standards with customized improvement plans they can use to make progress toward our expectations. Our goal for 2021 was to have at least 32% of our strategic suppliers meet our sustainability expectations, and we exceeded that goal. In 2022, AVANGRID’s goal is to ensure that at least 55% of our strategic suppliers are meeting our sustainability standards. Our success here tells us that our suppliers are capable and eager to meet these standards, and we are eager to continue to provide resources to help them become more sustainable as they build their relationships with us. Enabling Customers to Reduce Their Carbon Footprint and Transition to Cleaner Energy Our vision is to be an industry leader in the decarbonization of the economy, and success will require a comprehensive approach. This includes creating ways to engage our customers, and in 2021 we launched new resources, information and technology that will empower customers to take direct action toward reducing their carbon impacts. Our work here includes mapping out our vision for electrification of the heating sector in ways that will create economic growth while decarbonizing the energy grid. In 2021, we set a goal to install 250,000 heat pumps by 2030 to help deploy electric heat as a clean choice for heating. To help our customers understand the benefits of this effort, we’ll provide incentives for purchasing these heat pumps, along with outreach to customers, including pilot projects, to showcase the advantages of electric heating. In 2021 we provided incentives toward, and support for, large commercial and industrial projects that adopted innovative heat pump technology solutions to provide heating, cooling and ventilation to their facilities. Examples here include: • Income-Eligible Home Energy Solutions: In Connecticut, we’ve provided families with support to make older homes more energy efficient. Here, home energy solutions technicians assess the efficiency of homes, perform a variety of on-the-spot services to make homes more weather tight and offer additional services like installing high-performance insulation. Through this program, we’ve also provided support to help make affordable housing for senior citizens more energy efficient through the installation of new heat pumps, water-saving measures, high-efficiency lighting and more. • New York State Heat Pump Program: In New York State, we provided $500,000 in incentives to help commercial and industrial use of innovative heat pump technology to provide heating, cooling and ventilation, including the renovation of an unused factory into a mixed-use space (using geothermal energy) and a new, low-income apartment complex that utilizes a new type of air source heat pump to provide a healthy environment for residents. Heat pumps offer an energy-efficient alternative to furnaces and air conditioners for all climates. The transportation sector accounts for 29% of GHG emissions, a larger share than any other sector in the U.S. A Roadmap for EV Charging Infrastructure In the U.S., the transportation sector accounts for 29% of GHG emissions, a larger share than any other sector. National, regional and state policies have positioned the electrification of the transportation sector as a primary focus for reaching decarbonization and climate goals. Avangrid Networks’ vision for electrification of the transportation sector is a critical part of our beneficial electrification work and our commitment to decarbonizing the economy. Our Electric Vehicle (EV) Roadmap identifies our path to becoming an industry leader in developing and integrating EV infrastructure and technology to support growth of the EV market while reducing emissions associated with transportation for the communities we serve. In 2021, we joined the Electric Highway Coalition, which began as a partnership of 14 utilities and has grown to include more than 60 utilities working together to create a seamless network of rapid electric vehicle charging stations that will connect major highway systems across the United States. We received approval to invest $117 million across New York State to support new EV chargers through the EV Infrastructure Make-Ready Program, and in 2021 we enabled 195 new charging plugs. In Maine, through our Make-Ready Pilot, in 2021 we enabled 48 new charging plugs, and in Connecticut, after receiving approval to invest $80 million, we launched the Electric Vehicle Charging Program, which will support installation of new EV chargers across the state and will allow us to offer smart solutions for managing new electricity demand from EVs. As we continue to identify new ways of creating value for customers, we have launched a fleet assessment service that provides customers who operate large vehicle fleets with analysis of the feasibility, costs and benefits of converting to electric vehicles. The EV market is very dynamic, and to take advantage of the latest research and innovative thinking, we collaborated with researchers from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to study future impacts of beneficial electrification on the grid. To support EV adoption among our own employees, we launched the AVANGRID EV Incentive Program across our companies, which provides cash incentives for our employees to buy or lease an all-electric vehicle. In 2021, our Smart Grids Innovation and Planning team concluded the OptimizEV pilot project (in New York) to assess how we can create incentives for residential EV owners to manage their charging schedules in ways that will reduce demand on the grid, while providing EV owners with lower energy costs. All participants stated the program met their EV charging needs, and 91% stated they would continue to participate if the program was extended. Lessons learned from the OptimizEV pilot informed the design of EV charging programs across New York State and beyond, including the recently proposed Mass Market Managed Charging Program. This comprehensive managed charging program for residential EV owners/ operators incorporates features designed to encourage and optimize off-peak charging of light-duty EVs. The program is voluntary, and participation levels can vary from basic to advanced, enabling participants to engage in managed charging activities at their comfort level. Reducing Emissions Through Energy Efficiency Across our Networks operations, we continue to identify opportunities to increase energy efficiency and reduce overall energy usage. In 2021, our energy efficiency measures enabled us to realize for our customers an incremental annual electric savings of nearly 176 GWh (which equals taking 27,102 cars off the road1) and annual natural gas savings of 550,871 MCF (or removing more than 6,500 cars1). One role we play is in helping our customers become more energy efficient while reducing their own emissions. More Efficiency Through Distributed Generation In 2021, we saw the expansion of renewable energy resulting, in part, from incentives passed by state legislatures. In Maine, for example, renewable energy incentives enacted in 2019 led to a surge of new solar and other distributed generation projects statewide. In 2021, we were able to bring 100 MW of new solar power onto the Maine grid (which is enough energy to power 16,400 homes). Today, we are working to process an exponential increase of solar project applications in Maine (there were fewer than 10 such applications in 2018 and more than 690 since 2019). Combined, these projects will bring online 1,840 MW of clean, renewable solar energy capacity, and we’ve dedicated over 100 additional employees and contractors to perform this work. Incentives like these help us help the states in which we operate make progress toward their climate plans and goals. In addition to the 1,840 MW of renewable distributed generation, in Maine we interconnected 145 MW of renewable generation at the transmission level in 2021 and have an additional 552 MW of renewable transmission-level generation in the ISO New England queue. 100 MW of new Enough energy to solar in Maine power 16,400 homes Land Use, Habitat Protection and Biodiversity Protecting the Environment While Building a Clean Energy Future As a leading clean energy company, we value and engage in environmental stewardship – efforts to support conservation, to protect our natural environment and to address climate change. We bring this work to life through conservation and stewardship across our operations and by supporting organizations and initiatives committed to effecting positive environmental impacts. AVANGRID’s Biodiversity Policy requires that we mitigate biodiversity impacts on our projects, and we have received our ISO 14001 certification for environmental management (which establishes a framework for minimizing environmental impact, permitting and environmental compliance). Our work here includes: • Informing project siting to minimize impacts to biodiversity. And, where appropriate, selecting alternate routes or layouts for projects to protect biodiversity. • Adjusting construction schedules to avoid impacts to endangered species. • Creating new wetlands and buffers. • Reducing our landfilled waste by reusing or recycling soils from our excavation activities. Established a land purchase agreement with a land trust to preserve 470 acres of property on the pristine shoreline of Cayuga Lake, New York. We adhere to a stringent Environmental Policy that requires, among other things, that we assess the environmental impacts of our activities, review and update the mechanisms we use to reduce environmental risks and impacts, and take actions to prevent environmental incidents. We also work to ensure our projects align with our Climate Action Policy. We contribute to the electrification of the economy and are leaders in renewable energy. We invest in smart grids and design our projects to withstand more extreme (and more frequent) weather events (such as severe winds, floods and winter storms) to create more resilient and reliable energy transmission and distribution networks. We see these policies as intertwined as each works in support of the other. For example, one way our Biodiversity Policy was put into action in 2021 includes our Greenfield Substation project in Greenfield, Maine. In the development of this substation, we took actions to mitigate wetland impacts by creating a meadow buffer around the project to protect biodiversity in the immediate area. To further protect biodiversity, we will conduct offshore wind construction during appropriate seasonal windows to avoid impacts to marine mammals and other marine life. Here, we intend to use resources like protected species observers onboard all of our vessels. These specialists will monitor for the presence of marine life during our survey and construction activities. To align with our Environmental Policy and support environmental protection, we conduct lifecycle analyses for all of our projects, where consideration is given for sustainable sourcing of materials, use of energy-efficient products and assessment of the ability to recover, recycle and reuse products at their end of life, which helps to significantly reduce waste generation. All of our projects include customized analyses to create controls that help prevent pollution. For example, depending on the nature of the project, we’ll create emergency response plans, ensure spill kits are on site, create incident response and notification methods and ensure practices are in place to reduce the potential for any environmental pollution. At the completion of construction, all projects go through environmental restoration efforts to ensure we take every practical step to bring the surrounding environment back to its pre-construction condition. Avangrid Renewables also administers a Wildlife Protection Program where we assign wildlife coordinators to each facility we operate. These coordinators conduct seasonal inspections to monitor for any wildlife incidents and impacts. To help ensure all projects are built to adapt to climate change, we take appropriate actions such as building additional flood walls and putting in place other flood mitigation efforts to protect projects against flooding. This is in addition to our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our operations, whether from our facilities and equipment, our buildings or our vehicle fleet. Examples of Environmental Protection While the clean, renewable energy we generate and deliver to our customers has inherent environmental benefits, our business requires that we build projects and networks that have the potential to negatively impact the natural world if not managed properly. The policies described above set the standard for how we help protect the natural world while providing our services and growing our businesses. Here are some examples that demonstrate how our policies and practices come to life: In Maine, across our power distribution networks, we have installed thousands of animal guards – plastic guards on transformers that prevent contact – that reduce animal-related outages, primarily from squirrels and birds. This inexpensive solution helps protect wildlife while reducing the number of animal-related outages. In addition to the 20,000 animal guards previously installed, we added 14,000 animal guards in Maine in 2020 and 10,500 in 2021. We also listen to the communities we serve when it comes to environmental protection. For example, in 2021 we entered into a land purchase agreement with the Finger Lakes Land Trust for our undeveloped property along Cayuga Lake in New York State’s Finger Lakes region. While many parties had expressed interest in the land over the years for commercial purposes, after meeting with stakeholders the company committed to helping to preserve this pristine property by engaging with the Finger Lakes Land Trust on a land purchase agreement. As part of our effort to protect biodiversity and address impacts caused by climate change, the Avangrid Foundation continues to support the work of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) and their efforts to understand and protect a diverse range of wildlife across the U.S. This includes NFWF’s efforts to help universities, wildlife departments and environmental nonprofits focused on researching and resolving threats to bat populations through their Bats for the Future program. Bats are an essential part of fragile ecosystems and are being impacted at record rates by diseases, such as White Nose Syndrome, and our grants support interventive measures to address the cause of this disease. We also, in collaboration with the Avangrid Foundation, supported the work of Climate Generation, a Minneapolis, MN-based nonprofit that supports the professional development of a national network of teachers, to help them more effectively teach about climate change. Our support made it possible for Climate Generation’s Education Program to continue virtual programming during the Coronavirus pandemic so that educators could stay engaged and could continue to provide education related to climate change. In 2021, the Avangrid Foundation supported the work of the Gulf of Maine Research Institute (GMRI). The Foundation helped fund GMRI’s efforts to research and address the impacts climate change is having throughout the Gulf of Maine and to develop services that will help coastal businesses and communities understand risks associated with climate change, develop collaborative solutions and put these solutions into action. Looking ahead, we are building on these commitments, and in early 2022 we announced an initial round of grant winners from our Foundation for $100,000 to support wildlife rehabilitation centers across the U.S. These funds will enhance efforts to protect birds and mammals impacted by extreme weather (for example, in Arizona); to study how toxins in the environment are impacting wildlife species (in Maine); to protect and provide shelter for small raptors to rehabilitate prior to release (American Kestrels and Eastern Screech Owls in Iowa); and to support educational programs and operating expenses for numerous other wildlife centers. The Gulf of Maine Research Institute (GMRI) is linked closely with several of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including goals 12, 13 and 14. The institute made significant progress despite challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and a team of female GMRI scientists served as primary drivers of progress on the project. Created a floating road that provided access to an island so that an aging transmission structure could be replaced while also ensuring protection to the surrounding Great Salt Bay in Maine. Waste and Water Management Our drive to create a healthier, more sustainable planet goes beyond our aggressive efforts to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035 and extends to our day-to-day operations, including how we manage, reduce and eliminate waste across our facilities and how we manage precious natural resources like water. To further reduce our environmental impacts, we have put in place several practices to minimize our waste generation and water usage across our companies. Our waste reduction and water conservation commitments and practices predate COVID-19; however, recent (and significant) reductions in the waste we generate and the water we use can be attributed to changes due to the pandemic as more of our people are working remotely. Reducing Impacts in Our Office Environment Looking to the future, we’ll continue to reduce various waste streams in our offices. In addition to paper, for example, we’re transitioning to reusable coffee cups to further reduce waste, installing low flow faucets and switching from paper towels to hand dryers in restrooms. We continue to work with our vendors and third-party integrated facilities management contract holders to increase our recycling and reduce waste in our facilities. In addition, we are moving to a more agile office with a smaller footprint, which will reduce our square footage requirements and will translate into additional, long-term water and waste reductions. Reducing Impacts Across Our Operations Beyond our offices, we are committed to – and have made great strides in – reducing the waste associated with our operational facilities (such as our solar and wind power generation facilities and operations across our networks). Today, we recycle or find reuse options for most of our waste streams from our facilities. This includes oils which are sold back at recycle market rate, along with historically difficult to recycle waste streams, including filters, greases and electronics including scrap metals. TAKING ACTION TO REDUCE CLIMATE IMPACTS In 2021 we continued to take significant steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) across our operations and in how we generate and provide energy to our customers. Some examples include: • Conducting environmental risk assessments for major projects. • Setting aggressive goals to reduce GHGs across our operations. • Replacing miles of old pipe to reduce emissions of methane (a powerful GHG). • Advancing vehicle electrification to reduce GHGs from transportation. • Reducing GHGs through smart energy grids and renewable energy. At RG&E’s Station 26 facility, municipal water is used for lubrication and cooling of bearings in support of generating renewable energy. Water is a precious, irreplaceable natural resource, and because 90% of our installed renewable capacity comes from wind, we do not need water for most of the power we generate, and we have one of the lowest water use intensities per MWh generated by any power company or utility in the U.S. Still, we use water in some of our operations, and we’re aware of the environmental risks that continue to arise from water shortages. Because of this, we’re committed to minimizing our water use to the greatest extent possible. In 2021, AVANGRID facilities used water predominantly for steam cooling at our combined cycle cogeneration plant in Klamath Falls, Oregon (one of the nation’s most efficient and competitive plants), and for lubrication and cooling of bearings at our Rochester Gas and Electric (RG&E) Station 26 and Station 5 hydroelectric facilities. At Klamath Falls we use recycled municipal wastewater supplied by a municipal treatment plant for cooling, and approximately two thirds evaporates during the cooling process. At RG&E’s Station 26 and Station 5 hydroelectric facilities, municipal water is used for lubrication and cooling of bearings in support of generating renewable energy. At this time, use of municipal water is necessary due to the abrasiveness of water from the Genesee River. During times when the facilities are not producing energy, municipal water is isolated to minimize water consumption. Our hydroelectric engineering team has identified a project to reassess if the existing cooling and lubricating water system at their hydroelectric facilities can be upgraded to use river water without causing damage to critical turbine and cooling water components. Some of our other hydroelectric facilities in New York already use river water for lubrication and cooling in support of generating renewable energy. PROTECTING THE NATURAL WORLD THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS AND DIRECT ACTION We are making real impacts in the communities we serve. These included several notable accomplishments in 2021: • Creating an innovative plan to protect California Condors near our Manzana Wind Power Project. • Entering a land purchase agreement with a land trust to preserve a pristine property on Lake Cayuga, New York. • Siting projects and creating new wetlands and buffers to minimize impacts on biodiversity. • Adjusting construction schedules to protect endangered species. • Reusing or recycling soils from our excavation activities. 