TAKING ACTION TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE		Policy and Action 
to Reduce Climate Risk Implementing Strategies 
to Prevent and Reduce 
Climate Impacts Actions Underway to 
Address Climate ChangeINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALTaking action to addressclimate changePolicy and Action to Reduce 
Climate Risk The fight against climate change is central to our leadership in providing clean energy solutions. Climate change presents an 
unprecedented global challenge, and it drives us to achieve a 
clean, sustainable and equitable energy future. By investing in our network’s infrastructure, expanding generation of clean energy, and protecting our 
customers from the increasingly significant impacts of extreme weather events, we are delivering a more robust, sustainable and equitable energy future designed to increase stability while 
addressing climate impacts.Our Climate Action Policy was created in alignment with the Paris Accord and is focused on reducing the risks associated with climate change through the creation and implementation of technologies with lower CO2 emissions, along with the expansion of electric energy generation from clean, 
renewable sources.In 2022, we updated our Climate Action Policy, putting in 
place new, ambitious goals to reduce climate impacts 
over previous years’ commitments as we recognize both 
the severity of the climate crisis and our ability to work 
collaboratively across our company on solutions. These efforts include:•	A new Net Zero strategy focused on achieving carbon 
neutrality for our Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 
(an acceleration of our previous goal of reaching carbon 
neutrality in only Scope 1 emissions by 2035).•	Reducing the carbon emissions intensity associated with our energy generation by 70% by 2030 compared to our 2015 baseline.•	Increasing our emissions-free installed capacity by 
190% by 2030 compared to our 2015 baseline.•	Creating 48 ktons of installed clean energy from green 
hydrogen capacity by 2030.•	Sourcing 100% renewable energy in all of AVANGRID’s owned corporate buildings by 2030.•	Installing 15,000 network EV chargers across our 
communities by 2030.•	Converting 60% of our vehicle fleet to clean-energy 
alternatives by 2030, including 100% of our light-duty vehicles.These updates, while ambitious, are based on years of 
experience as a leader in the transition to a clean energy future, and we’re working from a strong foundation. Since 2015, AVANGRID has achieved a carbon emissions intensity that is six times lower than the average U.S. utility,* and our current capacity is 91% emissions-free. Since 2017, our commitment to achieve net zero emissions has put us at the forefront of the industry. While we’re proud of our work toward achieving net zero emissions, we will continuously update our strategy to achieve these goals with greater speed while ensuring that we provide the best 
service for our customers, care for our communities and outcomes for our shareholders. At AVANGRID, we play a critical role in the fight against climate change as we work to create a more sustainable and equitable clean energy future. We are taking both mitigative and adaptive measures to 
address the threat of climate change. This means implementing strategies and systems to monitor and address the chronic and extreme risks that climate change can cause. These efforts include assessing climate risks as part of our investment 
analysis, building in resiliencies in the design of our projects and implementing solutions such as smarter grids and a more resilient infrastructure. Our efforts to assess and mitigate against climate risk help us support our customers and protect our communities from increasingly severe weather events while providing reliable and safe energy. To combat the risks associated with climate change and to raise awareness of the benefits of contributing to a carbon neutral and sustainable future, our climate strategy is aligned with the framework established by the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Alignment with the TCFD helps ensure we have properly established the 
appropriate governance, and have assessed and managed our climate risks and opportunities with the appropriate 
oversight and transparency. To further our commitments to address climate change, 
decisions to move forward with new investments must 
incorporate an analysis of risks related to climate change along with plans (and a budget) to mitigate these risks. 
To help inform how and where we invest to address climate change, we monitor for emerging risks, including those 
that may impact our supply chain and our network and 
renewables operations.Our comprehensive risk management strategy recognizes the acute and chronic impacts that may result from climate 
change. These can present physical risks to our communities and energy systems and financial risk across our operations. Because of this, we prioritize our efforts to plan for – and protect against – the increasingly severe impacts of 
climate change. We regularly analyze the risks and opportunities for AVANGRID arising from climate change and disseminate information 
regarding AVANGRID’s actions contributing to the fight against climate change. As part of the Governance oversight, AVANGRID’s Chief 
Risk Officer (CRO) oversees the risk management function. The CRO coordinates with the business to identify, assess 
and report the risks, including those due to climate change 
such as extreme weather events, flooding and other natural disasters. Recognizing the critical role that the AVANGRID Board of Directors plays in oversight of the strategies 
and risks of climate change, the Board established a new 
Governance and Sustainability Committee that receives 
regular reports on our climate action strategy.For each of these threats, we identify the principal physical impacts they can cause, such as infrastructure damage, 
reduced power or limited availability of water. We also work to identify the approach we’ll take to manage the impacts 
of these threats, such as the use of new materials that can better withstand extreme conditions, burying of power lines and the installation of detection and warning systems. 
In addition, we seek out opportunities to adapt to and 
mitigate climate change risks, including investments in 
energy storage technologies to maximize the availability 
of our renewable resources, and upgrades across our 
networks to improve the security and reliability of our 
energy supply.We are also working to accelerate decarbonization across 
our own operations and our industry. By addressing our company’s carbon emissions and the carbon footprint of our industry, we can help to reduce the chronic and extreme threats and impacts associated with climate change.In 2022, we kicked off several key initiatives to assess climate risk vulnerabilities and adaptations. We are in the process of studying the impact of climate change on our electric infrastructure across all our electric operating companies in Maine, New York and Connecticut. These studies will utilize broadly accepted climate modeling techniques and practices to develop a range of probable climate scenario outcomes into the future. As these studies progress, we will identify assets that may be vulnerable to the effects of climate change and potential mitigation of such effects, as well as continue to develop processes and practices and appropriate adaptation measures to address these risks. As an example, in 2022 
we invested $175 million to support increased network reliability and resiliency during increasingly severe weather events and have proposed $300 million in resiliency 
investments through 2025. In 2022, we also initiated a program to complete a 
corporate-wide climate risk assessment, which will be 
completed in 2023. We also developed a tool to assess key climate risks for all our renewable operating assets, assets 
under construction and assets in the development process. This tool allows the business to identify climate risks at a county level, empowering us to make strategic decisions to both avoid and adapt to risks caused by climate change. In addition to our internal climate risk management efforts, we participate in the Climate Disclosure Project (CDP), 
a nonprofit organization that operates a global disclosure system companies and governments use to disclose, 
manage and reduce their environmental impacts. Through the CDP climate survey, we share ways that climate change may impact our operations and the communities we serve. By participating in broader efforts like the CDP, we are better able to assess, understand and take meaningful action against the impacts of climate change. We are taking several actions in support of our ambitious goals to mitigate the impacts of climate change and reduce emissions, including efforts to:•	Operate 10 GW of emissions-free energy generation 
capacity by 2025.•	Replace 100 miles of leak-prone gas pipeline annually. •	Continue to replace our light-duty vehicle fleet with 
cleaner energy vehicles.•	Install solar power at 15 of our largest corporate buildings.Our actions, investments and goals to address climate 
change demonstrate our commitment to achieve our Net Zero Strategy, and we continue to see the positive impacts 
of these actions across our operations. In 2022, these 
impacts included the following:•	Decreasing our CO2 emissions intensity by 28% compared to 2015 base year.•	Maintaining our place as the third-largest renewable
energy operator in the U.S. with 8.7 GW of emissions-free installed capacity.•	Reaching the commercial operation date (COD) for nearly 395 MW of new wind and solar projects.•	Achieving a 91% emissions-free generating capacity.

Throughout 2022, our work to expand green 
electrification and lead the way toward a clean energy future created positive outcomes for our customers and communities across the 24 states where we operate. We’ll continue to build on this progress as we work to become the leading clean energy company in the U.S.*	Source: U.S. DOE EIA Electric Power Monthly (March 2022, with data for Dec’21)INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALImplementation Strategies to 
Prevent and Reduce Climate ImpactsOur efforts to assess and mitigate against climate risk help us support our customers and protect our communities from increasingly severe weather events while providing reliable and safe energy. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALOur climate risk 
assessment tool allows the business to identify climate risks at a county level, empowering us to make strategic decisions to both avoid and 
adapt to risks caused by climate change. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALActions Underway to 
Address Climate ChangeIMPACT AT A GLANCE
10 GWOF EMISSIONS-FREE 
GENERATION CAPACITY 
BY 2025100 MILESOF LEAK-PRONE GAS PIPELINE WILL BE REPLACED ANNUALLY100%OF OUR LIGHT-DUTY FLEET REPLACED WITH CLEANER 
ENERGY VEHICLES BY 2030SOLAR POWERINSTALLED AT 15 OF OUR 
LARGEST CORPORATE 
BUILDINGS