// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEWAVANGRID and the Avangrid 
Foundation committed 
$2.5 million to coronavirus 
response and recovery efforts 
at the national, state and local 
levels. Our companies also donat.ed 31,000 protective masks to 
hospitals in the areas where 
they operate.// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// A DECADES-LONG PARTNERSHIP IN MAINE 
BRINGS RELIEF TO FELLOW CITIZENSIn spring of 2020, as the pandemic intensified 
its grip on Maine, food security became a critical
issue, especially for seniors, many of whom depend 
on Meals on Wheels. To support this vulnerable population in their 
community, Central Maine Power (CMP) leveraged 
its more than 50-year relationship with the 
United Ways of Maine, donating a total of 
$200,000 earmarked to Meals on Wheels to 
address food insecurity experienced by Mainers 
because of COVID-19. VINEYARD WIND Vineyard Wind is a joint venture between Avangrid Renewables and Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP). The joint venture’s first project, Vineyard Wind 1, will have a capacity of 800 MW and be located 15 miles south of Martha’s Vineyard. In 2020, the project made significant progress toward delivering clean energy to Massachusetts. Set to become the first U.S. commercial offshore wind project when it begins operation, the project will use GE’s Haliade-X wind turbine 
generators, the most powerful offshore wind turbine to date. The project will provide enough electricity to power more than 400,000 homes and businesses in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, create 3,600 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) job years and reduce electricity rates by $1.4 billion over the 
first 20 years of operation; it is expected to reduce carbon emissions by more 
than 1.6 million metric tons per year.* Vineyard Wind is expected to receive the Record of Decision from the federal 
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the primary federal permit required to 
begin construction, in April of 2021. Construction is expected to commence in 2021, and the project is anticipated to begin delivering energy in 2023. PARK CITY WINDThe Vineyard Wind joint venture is also developing the Park City Wind project to supply clean energy to Connecticut. Selected in 2019 by the Connecticut 
Department of Energy and Environmental Protection in a competitive solicitation process for offshore wind facilities, the 804 MW project would provide 
approximately 14% of Connecticut’s electricity supply and avoid emitting 
25 million tons of carbon emissions in the state over the life of the project.**The proposed offshore wind development is named after the City of Bridgeport, Connecticut, widely referred to as the Park City, and has the potential to establish Bridgeport as an American hub for the emerging U.S. offshore wind industry.Vineyard Wind is dedicated to making Bridgeport home to Park City Wind’s 
operations and maintenance hub for the 25+-year life of the project, bringing with it long-term jobs and generating millions of dollars in direct expenditures.The Park City Wind project has committed to invest up to $12 million to redevelop an 18.3-acre waterfront industrial property in Bridgeport. A renovated Barnum 
Landing property will host hundreds of local workers hired to do steel fabrication and final outfitting. This labor-intensive work will create new, well-paying union jobs along with a trained workforce prepared for future offshore wind projects, 
all in support of building valuable Connecticut-based offshore wind capabilities.KITTY HAWK OFFSHORE WINDKitty Hawk Offshore Wind is a proposed 2,500 MW offshore wind project to be located approximately 27 miles from the shore of North Carolina’s Outer Banks and is wholly owned by Avangrid Renewables. When fully built out, the project is expected to generate enough clean electricity to power the equivalent of 700,000 homes.*In December 2020, Avangrid Renewables submitted a 
Construction and Operations Plan (COP) to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) as part of the 
federal permitting process for the project’s first phase. 
The COP sets forth the results of an economic impact study, commissioned by Avangrid Renewables and 
conducted by the Public Strategy Group, which 
anticipates that the project will drive approximately 
$2 billion in economic activity and create hundreds of jobs between 2021 and 2030 with the buildout of the project. The first phase of the project, anticipated to begin construction as soon as 2024, will have the capacity to generate approximately 800 MW of electricity. OTTER CREEK WIND FARM Located in LaSalle County, Illinois, the Otter Creek Wind Farm exemplifies the positive impact our wind farms have in their local communities. The 158 MW wind farm achieved commercial 
operation in March 2020 and has the capacity to generate more than 504,100 megawatt hours (MWh) annually, or enough to power roughly 60,000 typical Illinois homes in a year. It features 38 Vestas 3.8 MW wind turbines and four Vestas 3.45 MW turbines.More than just generating power, however, the 
Otter Creek Wind Farm is an engine of local 
economic opportunity. Spread over more than 10,000 acres of land, mostly used to grow corn and soybeans, the project’s footprint encompasses 
76 landowners. The construction effort has resulted in nearly $12 million in local spending with more than 200 workers on site. Landowner lease and 
neighbor payments are expected to total roughly $650,000 in the first year of operation and more 
than $30 million over 25 years. New tax revenue is expected to exceed $1.1 million in the first year and total roughly $17 million over the next 20 years.What’s more, T-Mobile US has agreed to a long-term contract for Otter Creek and a purchase of renewable energy credits, which will help the national wireless carrier meet its environmental goals. 
HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS MEET THEIR 
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS Washington’s Puget Sound Energy (PSE) has agreed to 
purchase the output supplied by the 201 MW Golden Hills 
Wind Farm, currently under construction in Sherman County, 
Oregon. The Golden Hills Wind Farm will be Avangrid Renewables’ 
13th in the Pacific Northwest and an important step toward realizing 
the company’s goal to have over 13 GW in operation by the end of 2025. The new renewable facility will 
help PSE meet their goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while providing additional capacity to serve customers, particularly during winter periods of high electricity demand. This agreement is part of PSE’s
commitment to the environment and deep decarbonization by investing in more clean energy.In 2020, we also announced a partnership with a major technology company to power their operations in the Pacific Northwest. Our Montague Wind and Gala Solar projects supply renewable energy to our customer’s 
data centers under long-term power purchase agreements. In addition to generating clean energy, the 
Montague Wind Farm and Gala Solar provide substantial economic benefits to surrounding communities. 
More than 400 people were employed in the construction of the two projects, and the projects support 
approximately 15 full-time positions through their operation. The projects will provide an estimated 
$86 million to local communities over their lifetimes in the form of taxes and landowner lease payments.AN “INSPIRING” RESPONSE: 
EMPLOYEES SPRING TO ACTION During a year unlike any other 
in recent memory, AVANGRID 
employees continued to display 
amazing resiliency while staring down 
tropical storms, hurricanes, the global pandemic 
and deadly wildfires. Through it all, Team AVANGRID displayed amazing commitment, dedication, 
kindness and generosity of spirit. Nowhere was the impact felt harder than in 
Portland, Oregon – the home of Avangrid 
Renewables. Nearly 350 Avangrid Renewables 
employees live in or near areas that experienced wildfire impacts. Nonetheless, the Avangrid 
Renewables team demonstrated their commitment to our business and our shared mission. Our teams continued to operate our wind, 
solar and Klamath Cogeneration facilities in the 
West to safely deliver clean electricity to our 
customers, and our construction team continued work on the Lund Hill Solar Project. Avangrid 
Renewables corporate employees also did their 
part to ensure continued successful operations,
even as the scale of the evacuations and the 
ongoing pandemic created significant hurdles 
for those arranging accommodations. In addition to providing company resources to help arrange shelter, we took the unusual step of asking 
members to consider opening their homes to their colleagues. Their response was truly inspiring.AVANGRID RENEWABLES PROTECTS IMPORTANT BAT HABITAT IN NEW YORKBats are critical to the ecosystem, and protecting bat habitats has significant conservation value. 
This is the case with the Barton Hill Mine in Essex County, New York, an abandoned mine shaft offering 
a suitable environment for bats to utilize.In summer 2020, Avangrid Renewables took 
definitive action to protect this important habitat with a population of bats known to reside in the mine. 
A team of specialists installed a metal gate across a large 
entrance to the Barton Hill Mine to protect several species 
of bats, including the federally endangered Indiana bat, 
the federally and New York State threatened Northern 
long-eared bat, and little brown, big brown and Eastern 
pipistrelle bats. The gating design is unique as it both prevents 
bat disturbance from human interference and provides adequate 
space for bat access.Avangrid Renewables planned this project to mitigate potential
impacts from the Roaring Brook Wind Farm, which is under construction, 
and the Deer River Wind Farm, currently under development. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and New York Department 
of Environmental Conservation have identified the project 
as having high conservation value, as the gate is expected to 
protect thousands of bats per year, and its completion reduces 
the nuisance qualities and potential safety risk of an open 
abandoned mine entrance.// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEWPark City Wind will redevelop Barnum Landing (shown), an 18.3-acre waterfront industrial property in Bridgeport, Connecticut, which will host hundreds of local workers to make the project a reality. In 2020, Vineyard Wind announced the project will be utilizing GE Renewable Energy’s industry- 
leading Haliade-X wind turbine generators (shown), the most powerful in operation to date.*	Based on estimated annual generation of VW1 and 2017 ISO-NE carbon intensity**	CT DEEP: https://portal.ct.gov/DEEP/News-Releases/News-Releases---2020/DEEP-Selected-Power-Purchase-Agreement-for-804-MW-Offshore-Wind-Project-Filed-with-PURA// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// KITTY HAWK OFFSHORE WIND PROJECT DEPLOYS THE LATEST DATA-COLLECTION TECHNOLOGY To inform and facilitate the development of the Kitty Hawk Offshore Wind project in a manner that 
maximizes compatibility with the ocean environment, the Floating Light Detection and Ranging 
(FLiDAR) instrumentation buoy is being deployed, using advanced technology to collect real-time 
meteorological and ocean data. The FLiDAR WindSentinel buoy is an industry-proven technology developed by AXYS Technologies, Inc., that integrates a LiDAR on a moored buoy to provide data on wind speed, wind direction and turbulence at the turbine hub height and across the blade span. Avangrid Renewables selected the WindSentinel system in part due to its minimal impacts to offshore birds and marine mammals. The FLiDAR WindSentinel buoy has limited landing areas for birds, prevents seals from hauling out onto the buoy and employs anchor chains that minimize entanglements by marine mammals. The buoy is 
powered by an advanced hydrogen fuel cell, which reduces carbon emissions while reliably powering the sophisticated instrumentation on board. The buoy will be deployed for one year with the possibility of an extended time in a second location within the wind energy area. *	Economic Impact Study of Kitty Hawk Offshore Wind// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEWCASE STUDY: DOING GOOD IN THE 
PACIFIC NORTHWESTAvangrid Renewables is doing its part to ensure a sustainable future for customers in its Pacific Northwest territory by supplying clean renewable power and economic opportunity to the area. During 2020, perhaps nowhere was that impact felt more than in Gilliam County, Oregon, where the 162 MWac Pachwáywit Fields solar generation facility – the largest in Oregon – is being built.Construction is underway and, at its peak, the project will generate approximately 300 jobs in partnership with local unions. Expected to come online in late 2021, the project will produce enough power to serve the equivalent of about 40,000 homes and will generate an estimated $1.3 million of taxes and property owner lease payments each year, benefiting the local 
economy for years to come. The new solar facility will be Avangrid Renewables’ 11th renewable 
energy facility in Oregon and will be built on 1,200 privately owned acres in Gilliam County. Portland General Electric will purchase the output from the facility and the accompanying renewable energy credits for PGE’s Green 
Future Impact customers, helping them 
source up to 100% of their energy from a 
local renewable energy resource that they’ve helped make possible. 10,000 
ACRES OF LAND200
WORKERS ON SITE$650,000 
LANDOWNER LEASE AND NEIGHBOR PAYMENTS// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW2020 REVIEW AND 
OUTLOOK: NETWORKSAs customer expectations and government energy and environmental 
policies continue to evolve, Avangrid Networks is working to support a 
cleaner energy future through the implementation of new and innovative technologies, additional Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) like 
rooftop solar and a more sustainable business model.Avangrid Networks continues to build, reinvest, protect and proactively modernize the grid through significant investments in our electric infrastructure and gas distribution businesses. During 2020, Avangrid Networks invested $1.9 billion completing several projects, including three new substations, and implementing an investment of $145 million in system automation and technology upgrades that helped improve our infrastructure and technology platforms, while maintaining system reliability and resiliency for our customers. During the last six years, Avangrid Networks has invested nearly $8.3 billion to build safe, stable and secure electric networks with greater capacity 
and improved reliability and resilience, with an eye toward cost-effectively meeting our customers’ needs and mitigating environmental impacts.Increased energy efficiency efforts, along with 
more robust DER technology and generation, are changing the way energy flows on both the bulk and distribution electric systems. Combined with the growing adoption of additional transportation 
technology, mostly in the form of electric vehicles (EVs), Avangrid Networks is expecting that shifts in customer consumption patterns will impact overall system demand, particularly during peak times. The energy industry continues to experience rapid change. The way customers interact with their 
utilities has evolved and will continue to evolve. Avangrid Networks remains committed to solving tomorrow’s challenges today – delivering safe and 
reliable electric and natural gas service to our more than 3 million customers across the Northeast. Through innovation and investment, we will 
continue our pursuit of a cleaner energy system 
that supports more sustainable communities and 
delivers on our commitments as the leading 
sustainable energy company in the U.S.BUILDING CLEAN ENERGY TRANSMISSION 
INFRASTRUCTUREWe understand that transmission and distribution investments will be critical to modernizing the grid and to support renewables growth. According to the International Energy Agency, this is going to require investment of about $44 billion per year over the next 20 years in North America alone. NECEC TRANSMISSION PROJECT 
In early 2021, Avangrid Networks broke ground on 
one of the biggest clean energy projects in the Northeast U.S. with New England Clean Energy 
Connect (NECEC), a transmission project that 
will deliver 1,200 MW of renewable hydropower
from Quebec to Maine and directly onto the 
New England grid. The NECEC transmission project will help 
Massachusetts meet its clean energy portfolio 
goals and deliver substantial benefits for Maine, including $15 million in benefits for electric 
vehicle (EV) infrastructure and $15 million to 
support the expansion of broadband service. 
The NECEC will also preserve 40,000 acres of Maine woods and contribute $6 million toward additional land conservation in the state.The project will create more than 1,600 jobs during the two-and-a-half-year construction period and provide $200 million in upgrades to Maine’s energy grid, making Maine’s electricity service more 
reliable. The NECEC transmission project will allow more producers of renewable energy in Maine to get their energy on the grid, and because the corridor project will use clean hydropower, it will reduce the use of fossil fuels, cutting 3 million metric tons of harmful emissions each year, the equivalent of removing 750,000 cars off the road.* Over its 145-mile route, the NECEC was thoughtfully sited and designed to minimize environmental 
impacts. The 53 miles of new corridor on working forest land will use a new clearing technique of tapered vegetation; the remaining two thirds of the project follows existing power lines created for the state’s hydroelectric industry almost a century ago. Once built, the NECEC will be 
New England’s largest source 
of renewable energy, representing 
a fundamental shift away from 
fossil fuels while simultaneously 
lowering energy costs in Maine 
and New England. ROCHESTER AREA RELIABILITY PROJECT (RARP)As part of our commitment to provide safe, reliable service to all customers, Rochester Gas & Electric (RG&E) and AVANGRID have made significant 
investments to upgrade the electricity transmission system in the Rochester, New York region. The Rochester Area Reliability Project (RARP) 
was energized in December 2020 and is in the 
towns of Chili, Gates and Henrietta and in the 
City of Rochester. Now complete, the project provides additional power to fill growing demand, increases reliability and accommodates growth and economic development in the Rochester region. The overall project involved the construction, 
reconstruction, operation and maintenance of 
approximately 27.6 miles of 345- and 115-kilovolt (kV) transmission lines; improvements to three existing substations in the towns of Gates and Henrietta, and the City of Rochester; the construction of one new 345 kV/115 kV substation (Station 255) in the Town of Henrietta off East River Road; and upgrades within the fenced-in areas to existing substations in the towns of Lewiston and Somerset in Niagara County. RARP also provides additional access to the 
neighboring 345 kV transmission system of the 
New York Power Authority, coupled with upgrades 
to existing infrastructure.RARP was designed with the community in mind 
by placing most transmission lines along existing 
transmission and railroad corridors to mitigate 
impacts to the environment and our neighbors. However, crossing certain ecological resources during the project was unavoidable. To maintain the integrity of the ecosystem, RG&E created a new 12.6-acre free-standing and fully functional wetland. During 2020, RG&E has continued to monitor the wetlands area and will continue for a minimum 
of five years.PNM RESOURCESIn October 2020, we announced 
our intention to merge with 
PNM Resources. The transaction 
will further our growth in both 
clean energy distribution and 
transmission, as well as help to 
expand our growing leadership 
position in renewables. Our two companies also share the same values 
as we both are passionate about our customers,
employees and the communities we serve. 
In addition, both AVANGRID and PNM Resources are leaders in environmental, social and 
governance issues that impact our stakeholders. Pending regulatory approvals, the transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2021.The merger is subject to certain conditions 
including certain regulatory approvals and entry 
into agreements providing for, and to making 
filings required to, exit from all ownership 
interests in PNM Resources’ Four Corners 
Power Plan and certain other customary closing conditions. For additional information, please see AVANGRID’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.RESILIENCY PLANSIn 2020, Avangrid Networks continued its focus on storm-hardening its electric grid to reduce damage and outages from weather events.NEW YORK RESILIENCY PLAN 
In New York, our two operating companies – New York State Electric & Gas Corporation (NYSEG) and RG&E – continued to move forward with their multibillion-dollar Resiliency Plan. This plan aims to harden the electric system so that the grid can better withstand weather events, enhance vegetation 
management practices so that we can reduce the 
risk of trees and branches coming into contact with power lines, and invest in automation technology so that operators can quickly segment and restore service during weather events.MAINE RESILIENCY UPGRADESEarly in 2020, Central Maine Power (CMP) completed a resiliency project on four miles of a southern Maine circuit, replacing all utility poles with taller, more 
durable poles and conductor wire with coated tree wire that better resists tree branch impacts to address frequent outages on the circuit. More automation was added to the circuit to manage power flow 
remotely, reducing the impacts of faults. The company then moved 200 miles north to Jackman, Maine, where in addition to installing the coated tree wire, more durable utility poles and automation features, CMP is piloting a “ground-to-sky” vegetation management approach, extending its regulated trimming zone to reduce the likelihood of trees causing outages. Maine is the most heavily forested state in the nation, and falling limbs and trees from outside the approved trim zone cause 
the majority of outages, especially in wind storm events. This work will continue throughout 2021. In 2020, CMP also began installing “animal guards” onto its utility pole top transformers to prevent local 
outages caused by squirrels on the power lines. 
Animal contact is responsible for nearly 20% of all outages annually. In 2020, CMP installed 12,000 of these protected transformers and will continue the work into 2021. A win-win for customers and wildlife. ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS FOR CUSTOMERS At AVANGRID, we are continually looking for methods to increase energy 
efficiency while serving our customers through innovative approaches. At its core, the term energy efficiency implies a method of reducing energy 
consumption by using less energy to attain the same amount of useful output. In 2020, Avangrid Networks launched a virtual commissioning pilot that uses 
energy intelligence software to analyze customer advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) data and delivers personalized energy consulting services to reduce energy consumption and save business customers money.Customers participating in the pilot receive tailored 
low-cost, no-cost system- and behavioral-based 
operational recommendations for improving the 
energy performance of their homes or businesses. For instance, we can determine if a customer’s HVAC system isn’t working 
correctly and implement code changes to the system that alter scheduling 
and overall performance. An added bonus is that this virtual service is essentially a contactless approach to energy savings, where all the consulting is done remotely. This pilot is just one of many ways we demonstrated outstanding agility by pivoting to remote and virtual methods of delivering critical energy efficiency services to residential and business customers in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. Not only does the pilot enable our customers 
to optimize the energy performance of 
their homes or businesses; it also helps 
the environment through reduction in air pollution and negative environmental impacts while also making good 
financial sense, resulting in $2.30 in electric system benefits for every 
$1 invested in energy efficiency. NEW YORK JOINT PROPOSAL AGREEMENTIn November 2020, NYSEG and RG&E announced that the companies accepted the three-year joint proposal 
agreement approved by the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC). The approved plan, among other things, provides immediate COVID-19 relief to customers, enables significant investments in the companies’ infrastructure and demonstrates the companies’ commitments to support the New York Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act. In addition to the NYPSC, the agreement earned support from stakeholders that included customer groups, industry, governmental and environmental interests, with more than 20 parties signing the agreed-upon proposal in June 2020.As a result of the three-year plan, customers, the companies and stakeholders now have a level of certainty as it relates to the companies’ investment strategy moving forward. The plan also allocates significant resources to help mitigate the impact frequently occurring storms have on customers and the companies through preventive measures such as tree trimming, system hardening and the Asset Condition Replacement Program.COVID-19 Relief
The plan provides up to $30 million for COVID-19 relief ($16.5 million for NYSEG and $13.5 million for RG&E) for the companies’ most vulnerable residential and small commercial business customers. It also creates two new electric economic development programs targeted toward both small and 
large businesses.Investments in Aging Infrastructure
The approved plan makes significant investments 
in NYSEG and RG&E’s electric infrastructure by 
investing approximately $550 million (2020–2023) 
in NYSEG’s Asset Condition Replacement Program and approximately $309 million (2020–2023) in RG&E’s Asset Condition Replacement Program. 
It also provides for resiliency program investments of $107 million at NYSEG and $35 million at RG&E over the 2020–2023 period to improve the resiliency of the companies’ electric distribution systems.Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) and 
Billing System Enhancement
The approved plan provides for the implementation of AMI technology, or smart meters, for all NYSEG and RG&E electric and gas customers. Smart meters will drive efficiencies, empower customers to better manage their energy usage, eliminate most estimated bills and promote the implementation of distributed energy resources. Meter installation will begin in 2022, with deployment occurring over three years.FIRST OF ITS KIND: NON-PIPE ALTERNATIVENYSEG is implementing Non-Pipe Alternative (NPA) solutions in the Town of Lansing, New York, that will improve reliability of the company’s natural gas 
system. The NPA solutions are substitutes for 
traditional gas capital projects, such as pipelines, 
that utilize alternative technologies to address 
natural gas system reliability needs. This project moves the company closer to its goal of supporting reliable energy supply for gas customers without the installation of new natural gas pipelines. These solutions will reduce the amount of natural gas used by existing customers, utilizing beneficial electrification and other approaches to meet energy needs, and most efficiently meet the reliability needs of customers. The result: a reduction in the demand on traditional natural gas that customers use to heat their homes, water and appliances by providing alternate energy sources to meet customer needs.The solutions are designed to enhance the reliability of service for existing customers in the Lansing area, while also supporting the energy and environmental goals contained in New York’s Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act.Currently, NYSEG serves 
270,204 natural gas customers 
statewide and more than 2,300 
in the Lansing area who 
will benefit from these 
innovative solutions. AVANGRID UTILITIES RECOGNIZED WITH 
NATIONAL STORM RECOVERY AWARDWorking around the clock to restore power safely and quickly to customers is a hallmark of the 
electric power industry during a crisis and is 
deserving of recognition. Presented by Edison 
Electric Institute (EEI) to member companies, 
Emergency Response Awards recognize recovery and assistance efforts of electric companies 
following service disruptions caused by extreme weather or other natural events. The winners 
are chosen by a panel of judges following an 
international nomination process.This year, CMP, NYSEG and UI were each recognized
by EEI with an Emergency Response Award for their 
restoration efforts following snow and wind events in April 2020 and Tropical Storm Isaias in August 2020. CMP has the added honor of being the first utility in the country to respond to a major storm event with what were then new COVID-19 safety protocols.In the midst of a global pandemic and in the 
most hazardous of conditions, CMP, NYSEG, UI 
and their frontline employees worked nonstop 
to restore service – from our line workers using 
new pandemic safety techniques in challenging 
weather, to our logistics teams who fed and housed workers in the face of closed hotels and restaurants, to our contact center representatives who fielded calls from anxious customers getting used to 
learning and working from home. CONNECTICUT UTILITIES OFFER VIRTUAL 
ASSESSMENTS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
PROJECTS WITH INCREASED INCENTIVES 
FOR COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERSTo help large and small businesses in Connecticut combat the challenges associated with COVID-19 and get back on track with their energy efficiency goals for 2020, more resources were dedicated to support cost-saving energy efficiency upgrades and projects to help streamline operations. UI, Southern Connecticut Gas (SCG) and Connecticut Natural Gas (CNG) offered virtual assessments and larger energy efficiency incentives to help customers navigate the current economic climate, including incentives that cover up to 75% of project costs. UI, SCG and CNG developed enhanced incentives 
for retrofit projects to support large Commercial 
and Industrial (C&I) businesses with rebates and incentives. Up to 75% of install measure costs for 
retrofit projects completed in 2020 were covered under the current program offerings. Eligible projects were based on whole building 
outcomes, including those that are using high- 
performance lighting (LED), sustainable office design, interior and exterior lighting and system controls to meet or exceed green building 
certification requirements.ANOTHER NOTABLE ACHIEVEMENTContinuous improvement and innovation efforts continue across our Networks business. For example, in 2020 we expanded newly launched mobile apps for customers to pay bills, to include customers in Maine and Massachusetts. The mobile apps became a reliable tool for customers during the 
response to the pandemic, allowing for a 24/7 method of tracking 
usage and service needs 
when our routines 
were impacted. INNOVATIONTo thrive in changing times, we must adapt and innovate. As a clean energy leader, AVANGRID’s vision is to build on innovation that can scale new and emerging technologies over time. That’s why we embrace innovation as a core value and are committed to investing in a smarter and cleaner energy future to meet the needs of our customers, improve reliability, reduce environmental impacts and enable climate change goals. Our efforts continue to include creating an 
innovative ecosystem that attracts and leverages outside talent with a diversity of perspectives 
and explores new ways of collaboration with the 
aim of designing solutions that create sustainable value for society and our stakeholders. Innovation is a strategic pillar of the organization that affects all business and activities. In 2020, 
AVANGRID invested more than $79 million in 
innovative projects, a 17% increase over the previous year. This diverse portfolio of projects is helping us achieve our ESG+F goals, as we target our innovations to better serve our customers, communities, 
business operations and shareholders.An example of technology improvements aimed at the customer experience is the work of the Smart Grids Innovation and Planning team in Avangrid 
Networks. They are roadmapping our ability to enable high levels of distributed, renewable generation, 
electric vehicles, heat pumps and battery storage. By strategically investing in foundational 
technologies such as smart meters (AMI), 
Substation and Circuit Automation, Advanced 
Distribution Management Systems (ADMS) and 
Distributed Energy Resources (DER) Management Systems (DERMS) across our operating companies, we enable DER visibility and control real-time 
operations and improved reliability. How we plan and operate the system will evolve, 
and we’ll meet the demand by implementing new tools, revamping our processes and training our people for future capabilities. Leveraging data, a key company asset, will also serve to improve decision making and increase value for our customers. For example, our New York energy storage pilots are informing the ability of this 
emerging technology to store energy and deliver electric distribution system and customer benefits by executing on multiple use cases. Electrification of heating and transportation has been identified as a significant emissions reduction opportunity. That is why we are embracing 
electrification of heating with industry-leading energy efficiency programs, and we are enabling transportation electrification by investing in critical electric vehicle charging infrastructure with 
make-ready programs and managed EV charging approaches that will assist with addressing customer concerns around range anxiety, as well as inform 
grid capacity management. In addition to our commitment to promoting 
EV deployment for the broader community, we are also looking for opportunities to increase and 
deploy electric pool, medium and heavy-duty bucket trucks and 100% electric mini excavators for our Networks fleets. ENABLING THE DIGITAL ENERGY FUTURE 
TODAY WITH AVANGRID’S INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY INNOVATIONThe AVANGRID Information Technology Department is helping to make the digital energy future a reality today. IT Innovation works across AVANGRID business lines and partners with technology providers to 
execute small-scale pilots and proofs of concepts that leverage the latest developments in advanced data analytics, robotic process automation, edge computing, augmented reality and more. IT’s work in digital innovation has garnered several awards and recognitions in recent years, including the SAP Utilities Excellence in Operations Award, 
the prestigious SAP SAPPHIRE Innovation Award and the enerTic Digital Growth Award, to name a few.AUTOMATED ASSET INSPECTION THROUGH 
EDGE DATA CAPTURE AND DEEP LEARNINGIn our Networks business, we implemented edge 
computing to automate visual powerline 
inspections – improving speed and accuracy and 
reducing costs. To achieve this, cameras mounted 
to AVANGRID’s maintenance trucks provide 
high-resolution images to edge computing devices that use machine learning to automatically detect visible defects on poles and wires as the trucks 
drive by, with ever-increasing accuracy.DEPLOYING TECHNOLOGY TO INCREASE 
RENEWABLE OPERATIONS EFFICIENCYAvangrid Renewables launched a major initiative 
in 2020, called the Zenith Project, to find and 
extend best practices in operations and to 
increase efficiency and productivity through 
standardization and consistency. A new operations and maintenance model is being designed by 
plant managers and will include standardized 
process and procedures, along with opportunities 
to develop improvement initiatives and 
innovation to be applied across the project fleet.2020 INNOVATION FORUM AND 
INNOVATION CHALLENGE AVANGRID hosts an annual Innovation Forum to showcase and celebrate the most innovative projects across the company. The 2020 AVANGRID Innovation Forum was the first time the event was fully virtual. The day featured more than 20 speakers, including AVANGRID and Iberdrola executives, innovators from 
across all business lines, energy-sector startups, and academic and technology partners. It also featured a
powerful keynote talk from energy futurist and clean-tech investor Ramez Naam, who is the Chair of 
Energy and Environment at Singularity University. The day’s topics ranged from deploying drones equipped with AI for infrastructure inspection to 
understanding the decarbonization potential of green hydrogen and beyond. The Forum also served as the virtual arena for 
AVANGRID’s annual Innovation Challenge. This year’s challenge featured six teams comprising AVANGRID subject matter experts and exceptional students from Cornell, Harvard, Maine, MIT and Yale 
universities. These Challenge Teams spent six months developing innovative solutions with 
practical applications to AVANGRID’s businesses, covering topics like offshore wind development, 
grid cybersecurity, hybrid renewables and more. 
The winning team included three students from Cornell University who presented their solution for enabling EVs to provide valuable services to the grid while providing a new income stream for EV owners.
Each year, the Innovation Forum provides AVANGRID an opportunity for its employees to learn about 
the most cutting-edge projects and have direct 
access to the next generation of top-tier talent. 
The Forum supports our culture of innovation while embodying our core values of agility, collaboration and sustainability.ENVIRONMENTAL INNOVATIONEnvironmental innovation remains critical to our responsibilities as project developers and owners. 
The Roaring Brook Wind project under construction in 2020 included installation of gates at the Barton Mine cave to protect Northern long-eared bats, which is a protected species under both federal and state laws. The gating work is part of a mitigation plan the 
company and the State of New York agreed to as part 
of the project site permit. This gating project may also fulfill federal mitigation requirements if the 
Deer River Wind development is built to mitigate 
potential effects on the Indiana bat, which is an 
endangered species under federal law. Gating projects are difficult to find but are highly effective and cost less than other mitigation. 
These gates work as mitigation by keeping people out of the caves so as not to disturb the bats when they are hibernating, thereby using up their food resources. The gates allow for correct air flow so the 
air temperature in the cave is maintained where 
the bats need it. During 2020, Avangrid Networks invested $1.9 billion completing several projects, including 
three new substations, and 
implementing an investment of $145 million in system automation and technology upgrades that helped improve our infrastructure and technology platforms, while maintaining system reliability and resiliency for our customers.// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW*	 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEWThis plan aims to harden the electric system.// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// TROPICAL STORM ISAIASIn 2020, all our service territories experienced the destructive impact of Tropical Storm Isaias, the costliest 
tropical cyclone to affect the Northeastern U.S. since Superstorm Sandy in 2012. In response, the AVANGRID 
companies engaged in pre-event emergency procedures to prepare for significant impacts across the four electric operating companies, with the brunt of the event centered in United Illuminating (UI) and southeast NYSEG’s service areas. Across our operating companies, we engaged our emergency plans to marshal appropriate levels of materials and resources, and communicated with customers, officials and other key stakeholders. This effort enabled us to meet estimated restoration times and provide resources to municipalities to perform necessary safety efforts to clear roads of downed wires, broken poles and fallen trees. As a result, AVANGRID’s operating companies have been cited by area officials for adopting lessons 
learned from Superstorm Sandy and Storms Irene and Lee, and creating best practices in areas such as 
communications, municipal coordination and efficient resource deployment.// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// TESTING FOR THE FUTURE WITH 
STRONG PARTNERSHIPSThe Energy Smart Community continues to
be a key partnership with the City of Ithaca, Tompkins County and Cornell University. 
We’ve built the future grid in a test bed 
environment, which allows us to understand 
how to scale innovative solutions and integrate emerging technology. Strong partnerships with stakeholder involvement are paramount to exploring new business models and approaches needed to achieve a modern grid and creating sustainable value. AVANGRID spent 
approximately $79 million 
on innovation projects in 2020, 
an increase from 2019 
despite challenges due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic.// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// NYSEG AND RG&E ADD INDUSTRY’S FIRST ELECTRIC BACKHOE LOADER TO FLEETIn 2020, NYSEG and RG&E became two of the first utilities in the world to incorporate an all-electric backhoe loader into their fleet. The zero-emission construction equipment demonstrates the companies’ efforts to reduce emissions and create more sustainable communities.The concept of an all-electric backhoe was formulated two years ago at a meeting between NYSEG and RG&E’s fleet, gas operations/engineering management teams and manufacturer Green Machine, during a 
discussion focused on future opportunities to continue electrification. The EV backhoe will be used primarily in NYSEG and RG&E’s gas 
construction business. In addition to reduced carbon emissions, the 
backhoes offer other benefits, including lower daily operating costs and reduced noise for quieter work zones, allowing for improved 
communication among workers thus, creating a safer worksite. // 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEW// 2020 BUSINESS OVERVIEWBarton Mine is the largest 
remaining New York bat 
hibernation site in the 
northeastern U.S., so its 
protection is a top priority. 
This initiative is an example 
of bats more safely coexisting 
with wind power.