PROTECTING AND ENHANCING 
THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT			Environmental Policy Focused 
on Sustainable Development	Clean Energy Infrastructure 
Improvements to Reduce Emissions	Reducing Emissions 
Across the Economy 	Leading the Way 
Toward Decarbonization	Minimizing Our Footprint 
Through the Sustainable 
Use of ResourcesINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALProtecting and enhancing thenatural environmentEnvironmental 
Policy Focused onSustainable Development Our actions are guided by our commitment to sustainable 
development, climate action 
and respect for the environment. We will continue to develop a sustainable energy model 
informed by our Climate Action Policy (which focuses on 
reducing greenhouse gas 
pollutants such as carbon) and our Sustainable Development Policy, which provides the 
framework for our ESG+F goals. We also support and work toward the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) specific to the 
protection and enhancement of the environment, including SDG 6 (clean water and sanitation), SDG 7 (affordable and clean energy), SDG 12 (responsible consumption and 
production), SDG 13 (climate action), SDG 14 (life below 
water), SDG 15 (life on land) and SDG 16 (peace, justice 
and strong institutions).  To abide by our Environmental Policy, to work toward our commitments to the natural environment, and to promote environmental sustainability, AVANGRID is working on 
three priority lines of action: climate action, protection of biodiversity and the circular economy (ensuring we reuse and regenerate materials in an environmentally sustainable 
way with a focus on minimizing waste). Our efforts regarding climate action are described in detail 
in the previous chapter of this report. At a high level, this work includes updating our policies to ensure we are taking the most effective actions to address climate change; 
ensuring that addressing climate change is a key component of our strategy and risk management work; and setting 
ambitious goals to reach carbon neutrality across our 
operations. This means reducing our emissions from our operations while also supporting emissions reductions 
across the communities we serve. 
Our efforts surrounding biodiversity are addressed later in this chapter and include protecting the biodiversity at and around our onshore and offshore facilities and across our network operations. And our efforts surrounding a circular economy include our commitment to minimize our use of resources and to reuse existing resources where possible. 
We also consider the holistic environmental impact of all 
our projects, and design and implement projects in ways 
that minimize and mitigate these environmental impacts. This means creating a systems framework where we can tackle global challenges like climate change while minimizing environmental impact including biodiversity loss, waste 
and pollution.AVANGRID’s Environmental Policy, as well as our Biodiversity Policy and Climate Action Policy, 
provides a comprehensive framework that sets forth our commitment to the environment and guides our actions across the company. We know that a purposeful and continual shift toward renewables and beneficial electrification is essential to reducing carbon emissions and the impacts of climate change. Because of this, we are investing in several solutions to 
increase both the generation of and access to clean, 
renewable energy. We also recognize that as a provider of energy from natural gas, we must invest in improvements 
to existing gas infrastructure to advance decarbonization while also helping our customers adopt more efficient 
technologies. These investments include:•	Gas Pipeline Replacement: We are accelerating the 
replacement of leak-prone pipes to reduce fugitive 
carbon emissions. •	Gas Emission Reduction: To reduce emissions across 
our network we are investing in advanced leak detection technologies, including using satellites to assist in the 
early detection of methane emissions. We’re also analyzing
new technologies and techniques to capture gas that would typically be released into the atmosphere .•	Renewable Natural Gas (RNG): We are procuring RNG 
from dairy farms in New York and analyzing opportunities to expand our footprint at additional farms, wastewater treatment facilities and landfills. These locations produce biogas as a result of decomposing organic matter. 
The biogas is captured, cleaned and introduced into our 
existing natural gas pipeline network.•	Green Hydrogen and Natural Gas: In our Bridgeport, 
Connecticut, facilities, we are studying ways to blend 
hydrogen with natural gas as a steppingstone toward 
the green hydrogen economy. •	Beneficial Electrification: We are helping our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by increasing 
access to EV charging stations and through our Electric Heat Roadmap, where we facilitate the adoption of electric heat pumps and other electric heat technologies as a 
cleaner, less emissions-intensive option for heating.We are focused on improving our customers’ 
quality of life by enabling emissions reduction technologies across every aspect of the economy that we touch. From reducing our own carbon footprint, to working with our partners and 
suppliers to further develop the market and 
workforce, to enabling our customers to adopt more efficient, renewable and lower-emitting 
technologies, we are committed to helping our communities transition to a clean energy economy. This strategy starts with replacing the use of fossil fuel
generation with wind, solar and other renewables until 
we reach an electric distribution grid that is powered by 
100% emissions-free resources. It continues by enabling 
our customers to transition away from fossil fuels and 
toward increased zero-emission technologies at their 
businesses and homes with beneficial electrification 
solutions (like electric heat pumps and EVs). INCREASING RENEWABLE CAPACITY, DECREASING 
CARBON EMISSIONSA key component of our economy-wide emissions reduction strategy includes increasing the amount of energy we 
produce and provide to our customers from renewable sources like wind, solar, geothermal and green hydrogen. Near-term, our goal is to generate 10 GW of emissions-free energy capacity by 2025 with a 70% reduction in our 
emissions intensity by 2030 compared to 2015.In addition to expanding renewable energy from solar and wind, we are exploring new ways to tap into existing renewable energy sources to replace more carbon-intensive energy in 
our communities. For example, we are studying ways to 
harness geothermal energy while also helping our customers adopt more efficient, less carbon-intensive technologies. HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS INCREASE ENERGY EFFICIENCY, REDUCE DEMANDWe have created several programs to help our customers 
increase energy efficiency and reduce their costs and 
environmental footprints. These programs are available to residential, commercial, industrial and institutional customers. Some examples include: •	Programs that provide equipment and rebates to increase energy efficiency in multifamily developments.•	Free energy assessments for eligible small businesses, 
including incentives such as 70% off the cost of 
recommended lighting upgrades.•	An appliance rebate “bounty” program that provides residential customers with a rebate for the removal and recycling of up to two functioning, inefficient appliances, such as refrigerators, freezers and air conditioners.•	Site-specific, cost-effective natural gas savings measures for commercial, institutional and industrial business 
customers, including retrofits to improve energy efficiency.These programs helped reduce our customers’ energy 
demand while providing them with cost savings. In 2022 across Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York, nearly 53,000 customers participated in these programs and reduced energy usage by 20,424,487 British Thermal Units.* In terms of Greenhouse Gas Emissions avoided, this is equivalent to avoiding 2.9 billion miles driven by gas vehicles.BENEFICIAL ELECTRIFICATION: ENABLING EMISSIONS 
REDUCTION IN TRANSPORTATION AND HEATINGTwo major components of our Beneficial Electrification 
strategy include our work to expand the use of heat pumps to reduce emissions associated with heating buildings 
and the expansion of EV charging stations. Our “Electric Heat” and “Electric Vehicle” Roadmaps center 
on our commitment to lead the industry in developing 
and integrating infrastructure and technology that 
enables market growth and supports decarbonization of 
the economy.  We are also pursuing opportunities for Utility Thermal Energy Networks, which would include shared loop ground-source heat pump systems that deliver thermal energy to groups of customers. Ground-source heat pumps utilize the Earth’s constant temperature to heat and cool commercial and 
residential buildings and are considered one of the most 
efficient and environmentally friendly sources of heat. 
We have proposed three pilot projects in our New York 
service area, which combined would deliver thermal energy 
to 100 residential and commercial buildings and produce savings of over 1,000 metric tons of CO2.  In February 2022, AVANGRID became one of the first energy companies to join the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Better Climate Challenge. In doing so, we committed to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% within 10 years and to share successful decarbonization strategies 
with the DOE. The Better Climate Challenge is a government platform that provides transparency, accountability, technical assistance and opportunities for collaboration for decarbonization across the U.S. economy. As a partner, we are one of over 
130 organizations committing to real-world action that will move us toward a low-carbon future. We see this initiative as a key representation of our overall commitment to significantly reduce our emissions. In 
addition to our efforts to be a leader in the generation of clean, renewable energy, we were also the first energy utility in the nation to pledge to achieve Scope 1 carbon neutrality by 2035 and have since committed to achieve carbon 
neutrality for both Scopes 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 2030.
To achieve these targets, we have designed and are 
implementing emissions reduction strategies across our operations. Some of these include:•	Reducing emissions across our facilities by sourcing 
renewable energy to power our operations, installing solar panels at some of our facilities to generate our own renewable power on site and reducing the overall physical footprint of our facilities as part of our transition to a 
more flexible work environment.•	Converting 60% of our vehicle fleet to clean energy 
alternatives by 2030, including 100% of our light-duty 
vehicles. In addition, we continue to install EV chargers 
at our facilities for use by AVANGRID employees 
and contractors. •	Supporting employee EV adoption by providing
employees with a $3,500 incentive toward the purchase 
of a battery EV or $1,000 toward the purchase of a 
plug-in hybrid EV. In 2022, we provided $182,000 of 
EV incentives to employees.   •	Installing new equipment at our Klamath Falls, Oregon cogeneration plant, which generates two forms of 
energy – electricity and process steam – from natural gas. While these energy sources are cleaner compared to 
many, the facility generates nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, which is an indirect greenhouse gas. To address this, we have upgraded to ultra-low NOx combustors, which have reduced NOx emissions by nearly 50% on a pound per megawatt-hour basis. •	Accelerating our gas pipeline replacement program and investing in solutions to reduce methane emissions.  Reducing our carbon footprint and helping lead the transition to a clean energy economy is a critical component of our environmental commitments. As a company with operations across 24 states, we are also focused on reducing our environmental footprint beyond our carbon emissions. Our work here includes a focus on the sustainable use of resources, protecting biodiversity and reducing our environmental footprint associated with waste generation and water usage.SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCESEfforts to minimize our environmental footprint are central in advancing environmental protection across our operations. As part of our commitment to the sustainable use of resources, we have an overarching policy with the environment in mind. This policy requires that we: •	Work to improve the economic circularity of our business activities – and that of our suppliers. •	Commit to the sustainable use of natural resources. •	Implement lifecycle analyses. •	Commit to the eco-design of our business infrastructure. •	Apply the waste hierarchy and the optimization of waste management as well as the use of recycled materials. One of the ways we engage in a circular economy is through the reuse and recycling of resources as we develop new re.newable energy infrastructure. For example, we work to 
ensure that equipment and components of this infrastructure are designed, installed and operated with a focus on durability, repairability, upgradability and reusability. One small example with a big impact is the reuse and recycling of over 700 of 
our smartphones. This effort resulted in a reduction of 
1,494 pounds of CO2 emissions and the elimination of the need to mine 27.05 pounds of copper, gold and aluminum. We bring the sustainable use of resources to life by recycling equipment and materials at end of life (including materials that would otherwise end up as solid waste like scrap metal, 
as well as hazardous liquids like mineral oil). We are also 
implementing a process to grade our vendors on their 
environmental sustainability.We apply this policy and these practices broadly across 
our operations, from our network infrastructure to the 
construction of photovoltaic installations, onshore and 
offshore wind facilities and more. TAKING ACTION TO PROTECT BIODIVERSITYOur Biodiversity Policy is designed to ensure we preserve ecosystems and biological diversity as we work to create a more sustainable energy model. Before we begin any major project, we assess its potential environmental impact. This assessment includes evaluating if sensitive species, native habitats, wetlands or other natural resources are in the project’s area or its vicinity. Once we have the project-specific understanding, our team works collaboratively to determine the best path forward to avoid or minimize potential impacts. We also consider biodiversity when we plan to decommission a site. For example, depending on the site, we would plan reclamation procedures which could include restoring 
soil, restoring the site to its original natural contours and revegetating any disturbed areas with native plant seed mixes or agricultural crops, as appropriate, based on the use of surrounding lands and the needs of the landowners. We recognize that loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystems are rapidly taking place in the world, creating significant environmental, economic and social risks. As a renewable energy leader, we have a responsibility to protect biodiversity as we create a clean energy future.Reducing Outages While Protecting Habitats: Examples of our commitment to protect biodiversity can be seen across our network, onshore and offshore operations. Quite often, a power outage is caused when an animal or 
vegetation (such as a tree) contacts network equipment. We work to prevent such outages while protecting biodiversity. For example, to protect wildlife we install animal guards, which are barriers that prevent animals from contacting the
network equipment. These guards help to significantly reduce outages and wildlife injuries and fatalities. In 2022 alone, we installed nearly 11,000 animal guards across our network.The most common cause of a power outage happens when 
a tree contacts power lines. To minimize interruptions to electrical service, we prune trees and vegetation near our power lines (using pruning standards endorsed by the Tree Care Industry Association) that could otherwise lead to an outage. Since trees are essential to biodiversity and a healthy environment, we have a tree care program designed to 
improve reliability while keeping trees healthy and preserving as much of their natural beauty as possible. We also educate the public on the kinds of trees, shrubs and other vegetation that can be planted safely near power lines (considering factors like whether a tree’s height, when it reaches maturity, may contact our equipment).In addition to protecting biodiversity while minimizing 
power outages, we also protect biodiversity that may 
otherwise be impacted by work across all our operations. 
For example, we recognize that while renewable power is
a more sustainable resource, we still need to protect
biodiversity near our renewable energy facilities, on land 
and in marine environments. Our Biodiversity Policy 
establishes a framework for minimizing environmental 
impacts. This includes adjusting construction schedules 
to avoid impacting endangered species, creating new 
wetlands and buffering construction to help protect and 
restore biodiversity near our facilities and selecting 
alternative routes or project designs to protect biodiversity.We also collaborate with nonprofit organizations and 
government agencies to further protect and enhance 
biodiversity across our operations and in our communities, 
as described here:Collaborating to Protect and Restore Kennebunk Plains: In Maine, Central Maine Power (CMP) is engaged in a project to restore Kennebunk Plains, an area adjacent to our power lines. The Kennebunk Plains cover 153 acres, and the sandy soils that make up the plains erode easily when disturbed. Over time, the rate of erosion has increased due to impacts from severe and intense weather events as well as the illegal use of ATVs in the area.This erosion leads to sediment discharges into nearby 
waterways, impacting the health of fish and wildlife, the 
municipal water supply for over 100,000 residents and rare plant species habitat. To address and reverse these impacts, CMP is sponsoring and leading a restoration project in 
partnership with local stakeholders and specialists (including the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife, The Nature Conservancy, the local water wells district and others) to develop both interim and long-term restoration plans. Together, we are installing temporary erosion and sediment control devices, conducting outreach and installing barricades to stop unauthorized ATV use, stabilizing disturbed soils and replanting disturbed areas with native plants to prevent ongoing erosion. While there is still work to be done, the 
positive impacts of this collaboration across the plains are visible and measurable. Protecting and Restoring Onshore Wildlife: To further 
protect biodiversity, we created the AVANGRID Avian 
Protection Plan. This plan uses suggested practices 
developed by the Avian Power Line Interaction Committee (an organization comprised of over 70 utilities and 
government agencies), designed to minimize risks to birds and other wildlife. In 2022, we conducted retrofits to 
protect wildlife at 10 operational onshore wind projects, 
and we installed new wildlife protection equipment at four solar projects and one wind project under construction. Our Manzana Wind facility is a prime example of this plan in action. Here, we utilized new robot technology to install 1,400 bird flight diverters on the facility’s uppermost power lines to increase their visibility and minimize risk to wildlife. Dr. Laura Nagy, AVANGRID’s senior director of permitting and environmental risk management, was named the 2022 recipient of the Andrew Linehan Award for Environmental Excellence for her leadership on this work. The award, given by American Clean Power (ACP), is a testament to Dr. Nagy’s (and AVANGRID’s) commitment to improve siting and 
environmental practices across the clean energy industry.We have also established a network of wildlife rehabilitation partners across the country to support all possible efforts to ensure the survival and rehabilitation of injured animals, 
including paying for individual animal rehabilitation. Today, our partners include 18 wildlife rehabilitators capable of responding to 48 facilities across 15 states.  To further protect wildlife, in 2022 the Avangrid Foundation provided $136,000 in grants as part of their Wildlife 
Rehabilitation Program. These funds support the work of wildlife rehabilitation centers across the nation (read more 
on this initiative in Chapter 5).In addition, we presented results of a hoary bat occupancy analysis, using data obtained from our Operational Wildlife Monitoring program, at the International Conference on 
Wind Energy and Wildlife Impacts in the Netherlands and continued our collaboration with the Southwest Golden 
Eagle Management Committee in Arizona. Both efforts protect these species and their habitats, and by sharing this information across our industry, we hope others will learn from our work.Protecting Offshore Biodiversity and Ocean Resources: 
In 2022, AVANGRID signed on to the United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Ocean Principles. In doing so, we 
affirmed our commitment to advance sustainable and 
responsible ocean energy projects that accelerate the 
transformation to a cleaner energy future while protecting the marine environment and biodiversity. As a company 
with several offshore wind facilities either in permitting or under construction and a project pipeline of approximately 
6 GW, we do our best to take meaningful action to promote the well-being of the ocean for current and future generations.The UN Global Compact outlines nine specific principles 
to safeguard ocean health and productivity, to ensure 
responsible governance and engagement, and to promote data sharing and transparency. By adhering to these 
principles, we participate in the development of clean, renewable offshore energy while protecting an increasingly fragile ocean environment. We apply strict mitigation measures to protect marine life, including:•	Vessel strike avoidance measures: During vessel transit, we designate observers to watch for protected species 
and ensure minimum separation distances are maintained. We also limit vessel speeds during sensitive periods for North Atlantic Right Whale.•	Exclusion zones around vessels: During geophysical 
surveys, we ensure the area is clear of any marine 
mammals and sea turtles before acoustic sound sources can be operated.•	Visual monitoring and reporting by trained third-party, independent Protected Species Observers: These trained professionals look for marine mammals to minimize vessel strikes and to shut down sound sources if marine life is 
detected. They also report interactions with protected species to federal authorities.•	Training: All survey staff are given detailed training 
on protected species mitigation measures and other 
environmental requirements.A specific example of our work to protect ocean habitat 
and biodiversity can be seen at our Vineyard Wind 1 
facility, currently under construction off the Massachusetts coastline. Here, for example, we are working with the 
University of New Hampshire to deploy a passive acoustic monitoring device to record ambient sound, including 
marine mammal vocalizations, in the underwater area 
surrounding the project site. This device will record underwater sound a minimum of 
30 days before the start of offshore construction and will remain active through at least three years of the project’s operations and maintenance. We will use information we gather from this effort to inform and adjust our construction schedule to avoid impacts to marine mammals and other marine life. In addition, we will employ protected species 
observers – specialists who will monitor the presence of marine life during our survey and construction activities – onboard all our vessels. AVANGRID is also proud to be a founding member of the Renewable Wildlife Research Institute (REWI). REWI is a 
collaboration of the renewable energy industry, wildlife 
management agencies, and science and conservation 
organizations whose goal is to facilitate timely and reliable development of wind and solar energy while protecting 
wildlife and wildlife habitat. REWI has developed 45 products and resources, including 12 articles published in peer-
reviewed scientific journals that are publicly accessible to help facilitate well-sited and operated renewable energy.  REDUCING WASTE AND WATER USAGE ACROSS 
OUR OPERATIONSDuring 2022, we ensured that the processes by which our waste is collected and transported reflect our environmental 
commitments. We collaborated with our two major solid waste vendors who manage our network facilities to 
divert over 965 U.S. tons of solid waste from landfill disposal through recycling. In addition, a portion of the remaining waste is incinerated at a waste-to-energy facility. Highlights 
of our efforts include:•	82,540 lbs. of clean wood recycled•	107,820 lbs. of single stream wastes recycled•	812,569 lbs. of solid waste used for fuel at a 
waste-to-energy facility•	1,765 metric ton reduction of greenhouse gas using a state-of-the-art landfill that turns gas into electricityWe also implemented a company mobile device 
recycling program at the beginning of October 2022. 
In collaboration with the vendor e-Cycle, Inc., we are
donating the proceeds to the Arbor Day Foundation to 
plant trees. In this short period, we have recycled 
715 devices with the result of 1,494 pounds of greenhouse gas emissions and 641 trees planted. We recognize that water is an irreplaceable and precious resource, and we’re fortunate as we do not use large volumes of water for most of the power we generate. Still, when we 
do need to use water, we work to minimize the associated 
environmental risks. For example, we need water to cool steam operations at our Klamath Falls, Oregon, cogeneration facility. To minimize the impact of this process, we partner with a local municipal treatment plant, using recycled 
municipal wastewater for cooling (about two-thirds of this evaporates during the cooling process).Wherever possible, we will explore solutions 
like this to minimize our environmental footprint to protect and conserve natural resources. 
We see our efforts at Klamath Falls as a standard 
to inform any similar challenges that may arise 
as we continue to grow.  INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
 METRICS YEAR GOAL ACHIEVED 2022 
ACTUALS 2025
GOAL 2030
GOAL ACTIONS UNDERWAY TO MEET GOALS Net Zero Strategy Scopes 1 and 2 carbon neutral 
by 2030 2030 Net Zero Strategy Implementation •	190% renewable capacity growth (ongoing).•	119 miles (~$125M) of gas pipeline replacement (complete).•	Launched satellite gas emission and advanced leak detection programs (2022-2023).•	Develop Klamath emissions reduction plan (planned). Emissions intensity 
associated with generation gCO2/kWh 2030 46 42 18 •	Market factors drove Klamath emission reduction (2022).•	Increased renewable production (2022-ongoing). (% reduction 
from 2015) -28% -35% -70% Emissions-free installed 
capacity GW 2030 8.7 10.1 16.9 •	393 MW incremental solar and wind installed (2022).•	~26 GW of pipeline to support future growth. % growth
from 2015 49% 74% 190% Green hydrogen Installed 
capacity (kton) 2030 0 0 48 •	Partnership for potential joint development of green 
hydrogen (2022).•	Applications for participation in DOE’s Regional Clean 
Hydrogen Hub (2022-2023). Storage capacity Installed 
storage (MWh) 2030 0 220 1,050 •	Enable energy storage development pipeline through 
inclusion in interconnect and permitting process when 
feasible (ongoing).•	Include storage options for co-located resources in renewable procurements (ongoing). Network EV charging points  Installed 
chargers (ks) 2030 0.53 3 15 •	531 incremental EV chargers (2022).•	Launched Make-Ready and Managed Charging Programs in Connecticut and New York (2022). Sustainable light-vehicle fleet % of light- 
vehicle fleet 2030 6% 30% 100% •	5 light-duty EV and hybrid vehicles (2022).•	Light-duty vehicle emissions reduction ~ 518.55 metric tons of CO2 equivalent.•	EV production constraints impacted delivery; pending orders to be delivered (2022-2023). Renewable electricity in 
corporate buildings % of electricity consumption 2030 5% 25% 100% •	Addition of 54 solar panels (PV = 18.2 KW).•	5% reduction in emissions (2022).•	Renewable electricity agreements underway.•	Solar panel installations in Connecticut, New York and Maine 
(ongoing). INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALClean Energy Infrastructure 
Improvements to Reduce EmissionsINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALReducing Emissions
Across the Economy70%     IN OUR EMISSIONS INTENSITY 
BY 2030 COMPARED TO 201510 GWOF EMISSIONS-FREE ENERGY 
CAPACITY BY 2025 INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL53,000 customers
participated in our 
energy efficiency 
programs and 
reduced energy by 
20,424,487 btu, 
equivalent to avoiding 
2.9 billion miles 
driven by gas vehicles.*	Reduction of energy usage based on lifetime energy use. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALFOCUSED ON 
LEADING BY EXAMPLEAVANGRID is proud to support the communities in which we live and work. We’re striving to help our communities achieve sustainability targets by setting our own ambitious targets. We’ve committed to deploying a 60% clean energy fleet by 2030 and this includes 100% of our light-duty vehicle fleet. 
We are also assessing 
opportunities to convert to heat pumps in AVANGRID buildings, and we have begun installing solar panels on 
15 of our largest facilities.  TRANSPORTATION ELECTRIFICATION
Today, AVANGRID’s companies are supporting customers 
with make-ready incentive rebates to expand the installation of charging stations, favorable electric rates to encourage 
the deployment of more fast charging; and managed charging programs that help reduce the impact of EV charging on the grid. In 2022, we expanded our target and 
set a goal to support customer installation of 15,000 EV charging ports by 2030.   BUILDING ELECTRIFICATIONAs the infrastructure within our communities transforms to more efficient and green buildings, we continue to support our customers with robust clean heat incentive programs. Our programs increase awareness of and support for efficient electric heating. We anticipate as many as 250,000 heat pump installations in our service areas by 2030.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALLeading the Way Toward 
DecarbonizationOur Montgomery Park office in Portland, 
Oregon (pictured right), was awarded the Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) Gold certification by the 
U.S. Green Building Council.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALMinimizing Our Footprint Through the 
Sustainable Use of Resources700+ SMARTPHONES WERE REUSED AND RECYCLED, RESULTING IN 
A REDUCTION OF 1,494 POUNDS OF CO2 EMISSIONSINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALIn Maine, Central Maine Power (CMP) is engaged in a project to restore Kennebunk Plains, 
an area adjacent to 
our power lines. 
The Kennebunk Plains cover 153 acres, and the sandy soils that make up the plains erode easily when disturbed. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALAs a leading renewable energy company, our 
role in helping build a cleaner, more sustainable future must go hand in hand with a strong 
commitment to protecting the environment. Our 
team brings this work to life through ambitious efforts to create positive 
environmental impacts 
in the communities in which we are present.”Dr. Laura Nagy
Senior Director of Permitting 
and Environmental 
Risk Management$136 K IN GRANTS PROVIDED BY THE AVANGRID FOUNDATION AS PART OF THEIR WILDLIFE
REHABILITATION PROGRAMINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALIMPACT AT A GLANCE
82,540LBS. OF CLEAN WOOD 
RECYCLED107,820LBS. OF SINGLE STREAM 
WASTES RECYCLED812,569LBS. OF SOLID WASTE USED 
FOR FUEL AT A WASTE-TO-
ENERGY FACILITY1,765 METRIC TON REDUCTION 
OF GREENHOUSE GAS 
USING A STATE-OF-THE-ART LANDFILL THAT TURNS GAS INTO ELECTRICITY