CONTRIBUTING TO 
POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE				A Commitment to Lasting, Positive Social Impact	Putting Our Employees First	Empowering Our Customers 
with Care and Respect	A Comprehensive Approach to 
Positive Community ImpactINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALContributing topositive social changeAs an anchor institution in our communities, we want to have the biggest positive social 
impact possible. To bring this commitment to life, we’ve 
created and are initiating a 
social impact strategy focused 
on addressing immediate needs 
and the long-term well-being of our employees, customers and communities – all while helping to create a healthier and more sustainable planet. In 2022, 
we established the role of 
Director of Corporate Citizenship to ensure that we coordinate 
and implement our strategy across the business. We’re bringing our corporate citizenship commitments to the communities we serve by: •	Creating opportunities for our 
employees to grow and thrive, 
to make meaningful change in their own communities and to build a workplace committed to diversity, equity and inclusion.•	Ensuring our services empower 
our customers to reduce their own environmental footprints through new energy products, offerings and capabilities while helping them 
reduce their energy costs over the long term. This includes:-	Access to rebates on more efficient appliances.-	Access to reduced costs on insulation to help our customers improve the energy efficiency of their homes.-	Free energy audits to help customers identify the best opportunities to improve energy efficiency.•	Providing customers with effective emergency response during power outages (including digital updates regarding outages across our service areas in addition to fast response by our crews to restore power). •	Providing much-needed resources 
to help our customers in need 
during difficult times (such as access to financial assistance to reduce 
energy costs).•	Helping our communities thrive by supporting initiatives through the Avangrid Foundation that increase access to education and job training, provide support for critical services like shelter and food security, provide
support for the arts, work to protect biodiversity, address climate impacts and more. •	Connecting with our communities through employee volunteerism, stakeholder engagement and 
creating more opportunities for 
suppliers from diverse backgrounds.We activate our corporate citizenship commitments through a social impact strategy designed to grow and evolve along with the needs of our employees, customers and communities. Every day, we focus on creating lasting and positive impacts for our employees, our customers and our communities. When it comes to social impact, 2022 was a landmark year for AVANGRID as 
we helped our customers continue to recover 
from the impacts of COVID-19, addressed a 
growing need for support among nonprofit and community-based organizations, and helped our employees engage directly in efforts to create 
positive change in their communities.At a high level, we exceeded our goals for employee 
volunteerism by making volunteer and giving opportunities more accessible through our Energized for Good program; we made strides toward gender parity within leadership roles; and we continued our corporate giving across our four pillars.
At AVANGRID, we strive to create a workplace where talented and committed people come 
to build meaningful, long-term careers. 
To accomplish this, we foster a culture that 
seeks out diverse perspectives, that values 
continuous improvement and that recognizes 
and rewards behaviors and ideas that prepare 
us to meet the challenges of the future. We also prioritize the overall health and well-being of our workforce – from physical safety and financial security, 
to diversity, equity and inclusion, to mental health and well-being, all within the context of a respectful work 
environment. To bring these priorities to life, we invest 
in programs that enable our employees’ personal and 
professional growth; help them build connections with 
one another; and meet their unique needs and the needs 
of their families throughout all stages of life.In 2022, we set several aspirational goals to build diversity in our workforce and launched initiatives focused on increasing opportunities for our 
employees while continuing to prioritize safety, 
address gender equity, and create a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace.Gender Equity: We continued our efforts to increase the 
gender diversity of our executive leadership team (vice 
president and above), resulting in the growth of women executives from 28% in 2021 to 35% in 2022. Looking ahead, we have new initiatives planned to 
continue advancing gender parity across leadership roles. This includes enhancing talent acquisition partnerships and 
monitoring applicant pools and pipelines to consistently 
ensure a diverse set of candidates. We are also planning to expand mentorship opportunities for employees, along with experiences that will help with professional growth (such as “Leader for a Day” activations, trainings, and secondments). We are also creating more pathways to refer internal 
candidates to relevant open roles.Business Resource Groups: We are continuing to grow 
the role of our business resource groups (BRGs) to provide community building, networking and professional 
development for an increasingly diverse workforce. BRGs provide spaces where employees from different cultures, ethnicities and identities can celebrate who they are and raise important issues in a supportive environment. Today, over 15% of our employees participate in at least one of our BRGs. BRGs are open to all employees, whether as a member or 
an ally. Our BRGs are actively involved in helping AVANGRID 
build and sustain a diverse workforce with an inclusive 
culture that reinforces every individual’s sense of being 
valued. These groups have become an integral part of 
our company and provide every employee with a voice 
while celebrating the social fabric of our workforce. 
The seven BRGs include:•	The AVANGRID African American Council for Excellence (AAACE) builds a culturally progressive workplace 
through career development for all African American/
Black employees.•	AVANGRID Coalition for Asian Pacific Americans (ACAPA) aims to empower our Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) members and allies to become leaders within 
AVANGRID and our communities. •	AVAN-Veterans promotes career development and 
enrichment for our employees who have served.•	The AVANGRID Community for All Abilities and Resource for Excellence (CARE) supports both our customers and colleagues with disabilities or additional needs and those whose lives are touched by them.•	Hispanic Organization for Leadership and Awareness (HOLA) fosters an environment where our Hispanic 
employees are empowered in their careers, lives 
and communities.•	Pride@AVANGRID builds a workplace where LGBTQ+ 
employees can bring their authentic selves to work 
every day.•	WomENergy increases the visibility of women, unleashing their potential while driving business results and raising awareness of gender parity.Creating and sustaining a diverse, inclusive and equitable workforce is an essential component of our overall ESG+F framework. In 2022 we prioritized ongoing creation of 
an inclusive culture by leveraging our BRG communities 
described above to launch the following initiatives:•	Increasing community volunteer initiatives across our 
various workplaces.•	Engaging with senior leadership to discuss diversity 
awareness and inclusive leadership practices.•	Establishing recruitment partnerships to expand delivery 
of diversity throughout our pipeline.•	Incentivizing senior leadership to demonstrate 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) engagement via diverse community outreach, involvement in diverse mentorships, leadership positions across our community of BRGs and more.Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: We strive to build, sustain and empower a diverse workforce with a rich mix of differences. 
To us, this means creating inclusive workplaces where every 
employee feels valued and where there are equitable 
opportunities for everyone to grow and develop. Diversity, equity and inclusion are critical to our future success and as such we have prioritized DE&I initiatives in three areas:•	Increasing diverse representation, especially in leadership positions.•	Promoting equitable opportunities to grow and develop.•	Establishing pathways for community and connection 
with others.In 2022, we continued to provide employees with unconscious bias training, which we began to offer as a key component of our DE&I strategy in 2021. As of December 31, 2022, 87% of AVANGRID employees completed Unconscious Bias training during the past 24 months This training includes a variety of learning pathways that help attendees: •	Recognize, acknowledge and identify their own biases.•	Recognize the negative impacts of these biases on 
our business.•	Realize the benefits that come from uncovering bias in decision-making.•	Identify and implement strategies to overcome both 
personal and organizational bias.Financial Well-Being Roadmap: To increase participation in AVANGRID’s financial wellness tools and resources among our
employees, we are integrating the BRGs into our Financial Well-Being Roadmap Strategy and providing support to their initiatives like heritage month celebrations and diversity fairs.
We have hosted financial well-being webinars for our BRG groups since 2021 and have also launched a Women Talk Money Webinar Series.We are also assessing our company’s benefits to ensure we offer inclusive benefits to all AVANGRID employees while continuing to analyze and adapt benefits to better serve our employees’ needs and to communicate all relevant offerings.Professional Development: Over the course of the year, 
we expanded training opportunities for employees with a strong focus on leadership development. Here, managers and supervisors who are new to leading employees engage in our comprehensive leadership training program known 
as Leadership Essentials. Established in 2021, Leadership 
Essentials was designed through insights we gathered from our annual employee survey, focus groups with leaders across AVANGRID and insights from conversations with our Employee Relations team. This four-track curriculum includes instructor-led courses, peer groups, e-learning and on-the-job training, providing new leaders with the skills and knowledge to empower 
their employees, to better lead their teams and to engage 
in professional growth while building their careers at 
AVANGRID. We continued this curriculum into 2022 as we received overwhelmingly positive feedback following its launch. In 2022, employees logged a total of 4,034 hours of leadership training, in addition to 3,102 online leadership course training hours. Overall, our average training per 
employee increased to 42.5 hours in 2022. JUST Capital Workforce Equity & Mobility Ranking: 
We’re proud to be included in JUST Capital’s 2022 Workforce 
Equity & Mobility Ranking. Through this inaugural ranking, JUST Capital recognized those companies that perform 
best on key disclosure and performance metrics that 
address racial equity and advance opportunity and mobility for workers and communities. These metrics include 
diversity, equity and inclusion policies, career development programs, local employment pipelines, fair pay and quality worker benefits. Health & Safety: We are committed to providing our 
employees with a safe and healthy workplace, and we 
continuously embed a safety-first culture across the 
company. Doing so builds employee confidence, motivation and productivity while encouraging an environment where innovation can flourish. To bring this commitment to life, 
we provide our employees with ongoing safety training 
and awareness programs; we use Environmental, Health 
& Safety (EH&S) Excellence Awards to highlight proactive 
and exemplary safety behavior; and all AVANGRID leaders have a portion of their variable compensation tied directly 
to health and safety goals. We further engage our employees in creating a safety-first culture across the company through our “Good Catch” 
program. Here, employees identify and mitigate any 
workplace condition that may otherwise have caused harm. In 2022, we elevated the Good Catch program by recognizing five “Good Catches of the Year” at our annual EH&S summit, and by initiating an awards program that highlights two 
winners each month for their outstanding safety behavior.Another key component of our health and safety culture is the emphasis we place on employee well-being. Healthier 
employees are at a lower risk of injury from industrial 
exposure and perform work more safely and with a lower rate of absenteeism. In 2022, we continued to place a strong emphasis on well-being programming, including support 
for employee mental health (such as access to extensive resources like mental health webinars), mental health training for people managers and digital emotional health programs that use cognitive behavior therapy and more. We also held several onsite Benefits and Well-Being Fairs
and expanded our network of mental health advocates to 
include approximately 80 employees. These are trained 
advocates who volunteer their time to listen and provide guidance to others regarding mental health resources. 
In addition to mental health resources, we expanded our onsite prevention and risk reduction programs, such as 
our early intervention program, which helps to prevent soft-tissue and musculoskeletal injuries. We have also 
hosted onsite influenza vaccination clinics.In 2022, we received the WELL Health-Safety International Well Building Institute Rating across 17 of our workplaces. More than 80% of employees now work in WELL Health-Safety rated workplaces. This evidence-based, third-party-verified rating focuses on operational policies, maintenance protocols, stakeholder engagement and emergency plans.We also implemented daily huddles for field staff with a focus on slip/trip/fall hazards, defensive driving and daily stretches,
all of which contribute to the health and well-being of our people. In 2023, we plan to expand our Early Intervention Program, launch a new program that will help reduce 
ergonomic safety hazards and launch a Safety Leadership Program to increase hazard identification and prevention.Lastly, we are on a journey to integrate our EH&S Management System across our entire operation to further ensure the well-being of our employees. AVANGRID is already certified 
by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
to the ISO 45001 Health & Safety standard across all lines of business (ISO 45001 is one of the most rigorous workplace safety standards in the world). We are also actively working 
toward enterprise-wide certification of ISO 14001 (ISO’s 
comprehensive environmental standard). By the end of 2024, we will have a fully integrated EH&S Management System that will incorporate these standards.CYBERSECURITYAVANGRID’s Corporate Security Office maintains its pursuit 
of a “best in class” security program, including cybersecurity. The issue of cybersecurity has become even more critical in an increasingly digital world. AVANGRID’s Corporate Security 
Office continued its work in 2022, positioning AVANGRID to navigate and contend with a risk landscape that has been elevated by factors like the war in Ukraine, global supply chain disruptions, and physical acts of sabotage against the grid. Cyber hygiene best practices remain a critical element to AVANGRID’s cybersecurity posture, so Corporate Security continues to prioritize fostering a culture of security 
throughout the organization. The Training and Awareness program provides the recognition and education needed 
to minimize employee practices that could expose the 
company to cyber and physical security risks. Training and awareness is provided through our annual mandatory 
trainings, in-person meetings and webinars, various internal communication channels and regular phishing simulations.   This training led to measurable results, including a reduction in monthly phishing click rates by more than 50% compared to 2021, a 62% increase in company-wide third-party supplier risk trainings (here, we provided 21 trainings for over 800 users) 
and a 91% average training completion rate among our employees. Based on our success in 2022, we have expanded our goals for 2023, with a focus on optimizing cybersecurity training for employees.Along with cybersecurity training for our employees and contractors, we expanded training to include targeted and specialized training, including cybersecurity training for our Board of Directors. This helps support our position ensuring best practices in corporate governance. Every day we strive to address our customers’ 
energy needs while providing them with the care and service they expect and deserve. We’re also committed to providing our customers with 
resources and insights they need to reduce their 
environmental footprints and energy costs. 
These commitments include: •	Empowering our customers with digital tools to better manage their energy usage.•	Expanded program support to ensure we understand 
how our customers’ needs are growing and changing.•	New energy products and services to address these 
evolving needs.•	Emergency response services to help our customers 
during critical events and situations.To better understand our customers’ needs, we conducted 
a series of focus groups, in-depth interviews and Customer 
Listening Councils (initiated in 2021) to learn how they 
interact with the AVANGRID family of companies and 
how we can improve the customer experience based 
on our findings. In 2022 we’ve put these lessons into action. While we’re proud of the progress we’ve made, we will 
continue to engage with and listen to our customers so they can be active collaborators in our efforts to create a clean energy future.DIGITAL TOOLS TO IMPROVE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCEIn 2022, we launched several new digital tools designed to help our customers better understand and manage their energy usage. This includes Energy Manager, an energy management platform designed to provide our customers across New York with greater insights into their energy usage using data from our Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI, or “smart meter”) program. These smart meters are equipped with two-way communication to better collect and analyze energy consumption information. This information is used to help customers manage their energy usage and to help us reduce response times to outages while improving network reliability for our customers. Strategic investments in technologies like AMI enable 
us to leverage data to improve decision-making so that we can increase value for our customers by helping reduce 
their energy demand and by better understanding their energy use.In 2022, the Energy Manager project successfully completed a launch for 55,000 customers across New York State Electric and Gas (NYSEG) and Rochester Gas and Electric (RG&E), 
with the remaining New York population set to launch in 
early 2023. Additionally, the project created a new feature that allows customers to find products to reduce their 
consumption and stay in control of their bills. In 2023, 
the project will roll out to our CMP and UI residential and non-residential customers.We also launched a new initiative in 2022 that automatically enrolls customers in power outage alerts, with 855,000 
customers enrolled across Maine and New York. During 
outages, customers want to know how long they will be 
without power and when the power will come back on. 
These outage alerts enable us to keep our customers 
informed as we work to restore power. To better understand how to serve our customers, we 
also launched our Net Promoter Score (NPS) digital tool, which enables customers to provide instant feedback via desktop or app regarding their experiences with us. 
This means we can make changes based on customer 
feedback. Our apps (available across all our geographies) 
also empower our customers by allowing them to pay 
their bills with ease, access and view their accounts, 
update account information and easily engage with us.Throughout 2022, our customers responded positively 
to these and other new digital tools. We saw this come to 
life through:•	Increased participation in our eBill (electronic billing 
program), which grew to 1.18 million customers, 
a 16.4% increase over 2021.•	Increased downloads of customer service apps (across 
our operating companies), which climbed to 840,000 – 
an increase of 73.3% over 2021. •	Nearly 1.4 million customers enrolled in power outage alerts, an increase of 265% over 2021. PROGRAMS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TO REDUCE 
ENERGY USAGEFrom rebates to equipment replacements to energy 
assessments, we’ve initiated several programs designed to help our customers realize energy savings while reducing their overall environmental footprint. In 2022, these offerings (which stretch across our service areas) saved our customers millions of dollars while reducing their energy usage through a spectrum of energy efficiency measures. As an example, in New York our Conservation and Load 
Management Smart Energy Solutions offerings help 
residential, multifamily developments and lower-income residents realize energy savings through the installation of high-efficiency lighting, access to Wi-Fi enabled thermostats and access to rebates on higher efficiency equipment and appliances such as heat pumps. And in Connecticut and Massachusetts, the programs, 
products and services we initiated helped us exceed our 
energy savings goals by 78%. Much of this success came 
from efforts to help our customers adopt energy-saving technologies, including higher-than-expected participation in a program to help commercial businesses install heat pumps. In 2022, we offered several other innovative energy 
efficiency programs to our commercial and residential 
customers, including:•	The Multifamily and the Affordable Multifamily Energy Efficiency Program: Provides New York residential, 
commercial and institutional customers with electrical equipment replacement and rebates, with a focus on reducing electrical usage in apartment and condominium complexes. This program includes free installation of 
LED bulbs in residential units and incentives to upgrade common area lighting.•	The Small Business Direct Install Program: Focuses on the needs of our business customers with a demand of less than 110 kilowatts. Eligible businesses receive free energy assessments and 70% off the cost of recommended 
lighting upgrades. •	The Residential Rebate and Low to Moderate Income 
 (LMI) Family Homes Program: Offers LMI residential customers incentives to install Wi-Fi enabled thermostats to help them reduce their energy costs through digital technology. Through this program, we also provide LMI customers with rebates on energy efficient equipment and appliances, including high-efficiency natural gas furnaces, indirect water heaters, water and steam boilers and more. •	The Smart Solutions Gas and Electric Programs: 
Through this online portal, residential customers can 
access point-of-sale rebates on energy efficient products 
of their choice.•	The Self-Direct Program: Provides some of our largest commercial, industrial and institutional customers with 
the ability to direct a portion of their System Benefit 
Charge (a charge designed to recover costs associated 
with clean energy activities and energy efficiency programs) to fund cost-effective energy efficiency projects of their own choosing. •	Appliance Recycling Program: Helps residential customers recycle older, less efficient appliances, making it easier for them to upgrade to higher efficiency appliances. NYSEG’s Appliance Recycling Program saw a 46% increase compared to 2021, while RG&E’s saw a 24% increase compared to 2021. HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS IN TIMES OF NEEDWhile several factors that affect our customers financially are outside of our control (for example, electricity supply rates are set by regulation or third-party energy providers who 
purchase the energy for customers), we have launched 
programs to help our customers reduce energy usage costs. Some of these programs are available to all our customers, 
including access to rebates on more energy efficient products and appliances (such as smart thermostats, insulation, kitchen appliances and heat pumps). We also offer our customers free home energy audits to help them identify the most effective ways to reduce energy costs in their homes. We know, too, that for our low to moderate income (LMI) customers, rising energy costs can be especially difficult to manage. For eligible LMI customers we provide financial 
assistance to offset the cost of energy, and for eligible 
low-income customers we provide supplemental funding, 
including access to over $100 million in government 
assistance to customers experiencing ongoing financial hardships due to COVID-19. We also provide energy efficiency programs to residents in disadvantaged communities, 
including free energy audits and energy efficiency upgrades for income-eligible customers and multifamily residences.And while we don’t control energy rates in our communities, we work to educate our customers so that they know they can shop different providers for the best possible rates (something that many of our customers have historically been unaware of).Looking ahead, we plan to grow these offerings as they help our customers realize significant savings while engaging them in our efforts to create a cleaner energy future.PRIORITIZING EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO ADDRESS 
CUSTOMERS’ CRITICAL NEEDSEmergency response is one of the most important ways 
we support our customers and communities. We have a 
fundamental responsibility to the public as they depend on us in critical situations to keep our services operating and 
to restore services promptly if there is an outage. In all our operating companies, we have an Emergency Response Plan that is activated when power outages occur due to severe weather or other risks impacting the operation of our 
electric system. In addition to restoring power promptly, our employees work to provide accurate and up-to-date information to all impacted stakeholders, as well as two-way communications so customers and other stakeholders can stay informed. Storm-related emergencies are “all-hands-on-deck” situations, and every one of our network employees has a specific storm role, which can be different from their everyday role. For example, some of our internal audit analysts become social media coordinators during storms, answering customers’ 
online questions quickly and accurately. Other employees 
may switch from their normal roles to serving as “wire guards,” which literally entails guarding downed power wires until the situation is made safe. Additionally, we will, when needed, move resources among the AVANGRID family of companies to help address critical needs in other service areas, such as power outages during severe storms. This level of flexibility across our resources helps us address our customers’ needs in the most critical circumstances.At AVANGRID we believe companies can – and should – make positive impacts in the communities they serve, including and beyond the services 
they provide. For us, this includes philanthropic giving through the Avangrid Foundation, corporate donations, employee giving and volunteerism. 
We also work to understand the needs of our 
communities through stakeholder engagement, and we seek to create equitable economic 
development in our communities, for example 
by increasing our supplier diversity while working to create a clean energy future. INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES THROUGH THE 
AVANGRID FOUNDATION
Since 2001 AVANGRID, through the Avangrid Foundation, has invested $36 million in our communities, and today it is the centerpiece of our philanthropic work. The Foundation’s mission focuses on four key pillars, including:•	Training and Research•	Biodiversity and Climate Change•	Art and Culture•	Social ActionIn 2022, the Foundation provided $4.1 million to support meaningful action across these four pillars. This includes 
more than $1.6 million to support training and research programs and initiatives, approximately $794,000 in support of efforts to protect biodiversity and address climate change, $160,000 in support of art and culture, and nearly $1.5 million directed to organizations and initiatives addressing social action and critical social issues.In addition to the Foundation giving, our companies 
provided a combined $1.2 million in corporate donations, 
and our employees gave nearly $253,000 to support our communities and causes. Throughout the year, the 
Foundation, our companies and our employees combine their giving power to support numerous organizations 
doing critical work across these four key pillars. Some 
examples of these efforts include:•	The University of Southern Maine (USM) Foundation: 
To advance education and research with a specific focus on sustainability and cultivate and prepare the next generation of sustainability leaders, the Avangrid Foundation made a gift of $1.2 million to The University of Southern Maine Foundation to establish the AVANGRID David Flanagan endowed professorship and scholarship in sustainability. This investment honors David Flanagan and his legacy as a Maine business icon and 12th president of USM. Before joining USM, David served as a long-time president and CEO at CMP. He returned to CMP as Executive Chairman until he passed away in October 2021. •	Wildlife Rehabilitation: In 2022, the Foundation provided a total of $136,000 in grants to 15 wildlife rehabilitation centers as part of its Wildlife Rehabilitation Program. These grants support operational capabilities and expand outreach to improve knowledge and awareness of wildlife resources. From combating the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza virus and studying copper toxicity, to building new shelters and purchasing nutritious food, the funds are supporting impactful and lasting changes for the good of wildlife and our environment.•	The Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC): To help families facing difficult challenges in our service areas, the Avangrid Foundation granted $30,000 to the RMHCs in Connecticut, New York and Maine. These funds will support their Pantry Pals Program, which alleviates financial burdens
by providing basic provisions free of charge during a family’s stay at RMHC. These grant builds on AVANGRID’s long-standing support of RMHC, bringing the company’s total support to more than $378,000. ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES IN THEIR COMMUNITIESSo many of the positive social impacts we help create are driven by our employees. In 2021, we launched Energized 
for Good, an initiative that elevates the opportunity for
AVANGRID employees to volunteer and give back. This 
program creates volunteer options through partnerships 
established by the Avangrid Foundation and helps our 
employees maximize the impact of their volunteer work 
by providing a $15 donation for every hour an employee 
volunteers with an eligible nonprofit organization (up to 
100 hours each year per employee).  This online platform is proving to be effective. In 2022, 
our employees volunteered for a total of 10,464 hours, well above the goal we set of 7,000 hours, during 143 company-
organized events serving 243 nonprofit organizations. 
Their efforts also generated $132,535 donated to these 
organizations through Energized for Good. Longer term, our goal is to reach 35,000 employee volunteer hours per year by 2025. To get there, we’ve taken steps to incorporate volunteerism into our organizational culture – for example, we share volunteer opportunities during regular team meetings and new employee orientations.We also recognize that we need to support our employees’ bold, creative and impactful volunteer efforts. Some examples of these efforts include:•	Helping the YMCA of Ithaca and Tompkins County 
Serve Those in Need: Through Energized for Good, 
NYSEG employees volunteered at this community 
“food hub” to help unload and organize a delivery of food and healthcare items. As they worked, NYSEG volunteers came across a challenge: the YMCA had only a few 
freezers and refrigerators, limiting their storage capacity. The team saw this as an opportunity to help. Through a donation from NYSEG, the YMCA has since purchased 
an additional freezer and refrigerator. They also hired a 
local electrician to relocate all their appliances to one 
central location.	“With a brand-new freezer and refrigerator – and a lot 
of rewiring – our food hub is now perfectly suited to 
supply our community with food equity for all who enter our doors,” said Teresa Morehouse, Interim CEO and 
Associate Executive Director of the YMCA of Ithaca and Tompkins County. “Thank you again to NYSEG for their 
support and for recognizing a great need and fulfilling it. The gift of cooling appliances has benefited our 
community much more than we can ever quantify!” •	Building Stronger Communities with Habitat for 
Humanity: While the Avangrid Foundation’s national 
partnership with Habitat for Humanity began in 2019, several of our operating companies have partnered with the organizations for much longer to help create quality, affordable housing across the country. We deepened our partnership with Habitat for Humanity this past year by supporting 31 volunteer build days with local Habitat 
chapters across our service areas where our employees volunteered 1,153 hours of their time.	One of these builds, in Auburn, New York, sparked a 
personal connection for Brittany Short, an NYSEG electrical 
engineering clerk volunteering on the project, when she 
realized the home they’d be working on was previously owned by her grandmother. “When I signed-up to 
volunteer, I had no idea it was my grandmother’s former home. I thought I’d be upset, but it made me smile and 
happy to see the house come back to life. I’m excited for the new family to make great memories there,” said Brittany.LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS TO BEST ADDRESS
THEIR NEEDSEngaging with and listening to our stakeholders – those we serve and those whose lives we affect across our entire footprint – is essential to building strong, lasting relationships with our communities. In 2022, we exemplified this 
commitment by conducting in-depth interviews, focus groups and listening tours with our customers to better understand how they interact with our family of companies and how to better meet their needs. This included candid conversations between customers, other key stakeholders and our leadership teams to obtain their feedback and enable us to continually improve our service. During our ongoing 
Customer Listening Councils across our utilities in Maine, 
New York, Connecticut and Massachusetts, customers and other key stakeholders engage directly with our leadership, providing feedback that will help us continue to improve 
our business in ways that best serve our customers’ 
changing needs.Our commitment to stakeholder engagement is also exemplified by our Public Outreach team. This team uses a variety of tools to proactively inform customers and community members about how our project work may impact them while also 
providing them with easy-to-access resources to contact us with any questions or concerns. This “Design with the 
Community in Mind” approach is based on the transformative perspective shift where our decision-making is guided through the lens of our customers. We want to ensure that every project is designed and engineered to mitigate the potential disruption or inconvenience to our communities as we work to improve the resiliency and reliability of our network.Our stakeholders, along with our investors and the 
communities we serve, expect that we will be thorough 
and transparent when we share our progress against our ESG+F commitments, goals, achievements and challenges. Therefore, in addition to this Sustainability Report, we 
disclose and share our ESG work across several different 
platforms and reporting structures, including:•	The Global Reporting Index (GRI)•	The Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB)•	The Edison Electric Institute (EEI)•	The American Gas Association (AGA)We make these reports available in the Sustainability 
section of our website – avangrid.com/sustainability. 
We view effective stakeholder engagement as an essential component of our community engagement work and will continue to identify and implement the most effective ways to move this work forward.ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TO CREATE A CLEAN 
ENERGY FUTUREAs an anchor institution in our communities, we have a 
key role in contributing to the economic development of these communities. In addition to producing social and environmental benefits, the transition to clean energy is an opportunity to help people and communities participate 
in the clean energy transition through new jobs, and it is 
our responsibility to make crucial and strategic investments to maximize the economic benefits from this transition.We are currently undertaking several significant projects 
and initiatives which together represent multibillion-
dollar renewable energy investments that will generate 
significant economic development in our communities 
while demonstrating our commitment to invest in a 
cleaner, smarter energy future. Some of these include:•	Vineyard Wind 1 will generate clean, renewable and affordable energy for over 400,000 homes and businesses across Massachusetts. We also expect this project to 
create 3,600 competitively paying jobs in the renewable energy field.•	Our partnership with Crowley Maritime and the City 
of Salem, where AVANGRID will be the anchor tenant for 
a new offshore wind marshalling port (to be built by 
Crowley at the port of Salem). This property previously 
was used for a coal-burning power plant. The new port 
will be a world-class facility that will attract many other offshore wind developers. This port is also particularly 
well positioned to serve floating wind turbine technology that will be utilized for upcoming lease areas in the 
Gulf of Maine.•	Our partnership with the Prysmian Group, an offshore wind cable company, a commitment to domestically manufacture transmission cables that link AVANGRID’s wind turbines at our Commonwealth Wind facility to the electrical grid. This agreement, finalized in 2022, will lead to the creation of a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant in Somerset, Massachusetts (at the site of a former coal-fired power plant). In total, this project is expected to create approximately 440 to 460 new jobs.INCREASING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AND SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLIER DIVERSITYAVANGRID’s Supplier Diversity program has established ambitious goals over the next three years to increase supplier diversity spend to $300 million in 2025. Efforts to increase our annual spend with diverse suppliers include (but are not limited to) businesses owned by the following groups: •	Ethnic Minorities: defined by the National Minority Supplier Development Council (nmsdc.org)•	Women: WBENC Women-Owned Business Certification Eligibility (WBENC.org)•	People with Disabilities: Supplier Diversity - Disability:IN (disabilityin.org)•	Veteran/Service Disabled Veteran: Certification Eligibility (NVBDC.org)•	LGBTQI+: LGBTBE Certification (NGLCC.org)In 2022, our annual spend with diverse suppliers totaled 
$195 million. To move forward in achieving our supplier diversity goals, we are taking the following actions:•	Building awareness within our purchasing community 
at AVANGRID.•	Growing AVANGRID’s external presence and visibility.•	Continuing to review best practices in Supplier Diversity.•	Engaging with certifying organizations to aid in building strong relationships.•	Reaching a target spend of $300 million with diverse 
suppliers by 2025.AVANGRID’S commitments to our communities, our people and the environment make us one of the most sustainable, socially responsible energy companies in the country. Studies show that working with diverse suppliers stimulates fresh ideas, brings us closer to our local communities and drives increasingly innovative and creative services to AVANGRID.SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY Our suppliers are an essential part of our business, and we 
set high expectations for them to understand and adhere 
to our sustainability policies and standards. We assess our 
suppliers against our ESG criteria (43 factors total) and use these assessments to arrive at each supplier’s ESG score. 
We also work to help our suppliers meet our sustainability expectations, providing those who need assistance with 
additional resources, including recommendations to make improvements. In 2022, we set a goal to have at least 
58.5% of our suppliers meet our sustainability standards, 
and we exceeded that goal by achieving 67% compliance. In 2023, our new sustainability goal will measure the percentage of total awards given to sustainable suppliers. To achieve this, we will continue to assist and support our suppliers.To date, our Supplier Sustainability program has helped 
several of our suppliers identify and implement changes 
that have led to improvements in their internal policies 
and across their operations. These improvements include measures to improve environmental practices, develop 
and implement a code of ethics and more. Many of our 
suppliers have shared how, by working with AVANGRID, 
they are bringing new policies and practices to become 
more sustainable. Some of the examples include:•	A turbine and maintenance repair supplier, after 
engaging in our Supplier Sustainability program, set up 
a meeting with their C-suite to discuss how to improve their company’s sustainability program, including ways 
to improve documentation and tracking of efforts they 
already have in place.•	A construction services supplier engaged a third-party 
expert to help establish new policies and a training program to address areas where their company was falling short. Here, our supplier requested feedback from AVANGRID that was shared with their third-party expert.•	A maintenance services supplier (and small business) 
expressed how their team was moving quickly to implement 
new sustainability policies that, while resource-intensive for a business of their size, they still see as essential. Here, the supplier utilized resources AVANGRID provided to help move this effort forward. To me, corporate 
citizenship is about how we, as an organization, show up in the 
communities we serve 
and how we align our 
efforts to amplify our 
impact and help those communities thrive. 
Our goal is to create the largest positive social 
impact possible.”Pablo Colón
Director of Corporate 
Citizenship and Executive 
Director, Avangrid FoundationINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALSOCIAL GOALS METRICS YEAR GOAL ACHIEVED 2022 
ACTUALS 2025
GOAL 2030
GOAL ACTIONS UNDERWAY TO MEET GOALS Women in executive positions % women in 
executive positions 2025 35% 35% Ongoing activities including:•	Recruiters to present diverse slate of 
candidates.•	Interview panels include at least one woman.•	Provide various development experiences 
to support gender equity. •	Increased mentorship opportunities.  Women in senior leader positions 
(Paradigm for Parity) % women in 
senior positions 2030 30% 40% 50% Third-party pay equity analysis 
performed and actioned annually Third-party pay 
equity analysis Maintain √ √ √ •	Annual assessment with ongoing 
implementation of recommended 
actions (ongoing). Accident rate (employees) TRIR 2030 2.64 1.85 1.61 •	Expand Early Intervention Program.•	Launch program to reduce ergonomic 
incidents.•	Safety Leadership Program to increase hazard identification and prevention (all ongoing). Employees under ISO45001 
certification % employees Maintain 98% 98% 98% •	Initiate EHS Management System Integration Project (ongoing). Employee training Hours per 
employee/year 2025 42.5 40 40 •	Increase instructor-led leadership training 
(ongoing).•	Launch multiple new leadership courses (2023). Cybersecurity training Number of 
hours (ks) 2030 29.2* 28.6 29.3 •	Optimize training for employees in 
specialized/high-risk areas and technical 
training (2023). Corporate volunteering # hours 2025 10.464 35,000 •	Identify local leaders and opportunities to expand into new regions and in field (ongoing).•	Provide more virtual opportunities (2023).•	Roll out board matching program (2023). Purchases from diverse suppliers $M in diverse 
suppliers 2025 $195 $300 •	Grow program presence and visibility including:	-	Active participation with key stakeholders	-	Supplier Diversity Summit•	Launch internal education and awareness 
campaign. *	2022 results exceeded 2022 and 2023 goal expectations.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALA Commitment to Lasting, 
Positive Social ImpactPILLARS OF GIVINGSocial 
ActionEducation and ResearchBiodiversity 
and Climate ChangeArts and 
CultureIMPACT AT A GLANCE10,464 HOURS OF EMPLOYEE 
VOLUNTEERING684,040 MEALS PROVIDED153 NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 
SUPPORTED$4.1 MIN CORPORATE GIVING 
ACROSS OUR FOUR PILLARS
$5.4 millionin total giving contributions 
across AVANGRID8 RED CROSSBLOOD DRIVES, 196 PINTS OF BLOOD, 
600 HOMELESS VETERANS KITS 
ASSEMBLED AND DONATED, NATIONAL 
DISASTER RESPONDER PROGRAM MEMBER
208EMPLOYEE HOME BUILDING 
VOLUNTEERS, 1,153 HOURS 
AND 31 BUILD DAYS 
$252,943 
in employee giving 
INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALPutting Our 
Employees FirstINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALAs of December 31, 2022, the approximate demographic breakdowns of our workforce are as follows: RACE AND ETHNICITY PERCENT OF TOTAL ALL EMPLOYEES ALL CT MA  ME NY OR % of Employees in State 23.6% 3.9% 16.5% 42.6% 5.0% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.5% 0.3% 0.3% 0.8% 0.4% 0.5% Asian 3.2% 5.0% 2.4% 1.6% 2.3% 8.4% Black or African American 6.2% 13.8% 3.4% 1.0% 5.5% 2.1% Hispanic or Latino 8.1% 15.9% 6.8% 1.5% 5.3% 6.3% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.8% Two or More Races 1.6% 1.7% 1.4% 1.4% 1.5% 2.4% White 79.4% 62.7% 84.7% 92.7% 84.5% 77.9% Did Not Provide 0.8% 0.5% 1.0% 1.0% 0.5% 1.6% RACE AND ETHNICITY PERCENT OF TOTAL SENIOR LEADERSHIP* ALL CT MA  ME NY OR % of Senior Leaders in State 29.8% 8.3% 15.3% 19.2% 17.1% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Asian 2.7% 4.0% 0.0% 1.9% 1.5% 1.7% Black or African American 2.4% 5.0% 0.0% 0.0% 3.1% 1.7% Hispanic or Latino 9.7% 18.8% 0.0% 5.8% 10.8% 3.4% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Two or More Races 2.4% 2.0% 0.0% 3.8% 1.5% 1.7% White 81.1% 69.3% 96.4% 86.5% 80.0% 89.7% Did Not Provide 1.8% 1.0% 3.6% 1.9% 3.1% 1.7% All Employees Gender Ratio0.1%Undeclared28%Women72%Men 0.1%0.0%0.1%0.1%0.3%30.1%28.9%29.8%27.6%26.6%69.9%71.1%70.1%72.3%73.2%CTMAMENYORSenior Leadership Gender Ratio0%Undeclared30%Women70%Men 0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%0.0%33.7%25.0%34.6%27.7%31.0%66.3%75.0%65.4%72.3%69.0%CTMAMENYOR*	Senior Leaders as defined as Director or equivalent and above.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALFINANCIAL WELL-BEING 
ROADMAPA holistic, step-by-step 
Financial Well-Being Roadmap to support employees on their journey to financial confidence. 
This includes comprehensive training modules on a variety of topics related to money management (i.e., budgeting and saving, envisioning 
retirement), coordinated 
financial planning events and 1:1 sessions with financial experts and guest speakers. Looking ahead, we plan
to reinforce current tools 
and resources through 
strategic communications 
that target the unique needs 
of specific employee 
groups. This will provide the 
necessary tools and resources to empower AVANGRID 
employees to optimize their financial well-being.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL97%OF EMPLOYEES COMPLETED THEIR EH&S TRAINING 
SAFETY TRAININGThe health and safety of our 
employees is a top priority across all our operations every day. The steps we take to 
protect our employees’ health and safety require engaging them in ongoing education and training opportunities. 
To accomplish this, we have established a comprehensive – and mandatory – Environmental, Health & Safety (EH&S) training. The types of EH&S training each employee takes are determined by their job description, and the 
requirements differ between office employees and field 
employees. In 2022, 97% 
of AVANGRID employees across our corporate, network and renewables businesses 
completed their EH&S training. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALEmpowering Our Customers with
Care and RespectINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL1.4 M CUSTOMERS ENROLLED IN POWER OUTAGE ALERTS,
AN INCREASE OF 265% 
OVER 2021INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALA Comprehensive Approach toPositive Community ImpactINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALIMPROVING WATER SYSTEMS IN ECUADORIn 2022 Alex Lockard, a Project Civil Engineering Manager supporting onshore wind projects, returned from an ongoing 
volunteer effort in the village of Chaupiloma in Ecuador. 
Alex is a member of the volunteer international nonprofit 
“Engineers without Borders”. He and a team of other engineer volunteers have been focused on assessing and upgrading 
the village’s existing (but aging) drinking water system. This team of six spent nearly two weeks working 12-hour days conducting household surveys, flow testing,
investigating the components of the water system and 
testing the water quality. These challenging tasks were 
made even more difficult as they involved hiking to an 
altitude of 12,500 feet to inspect the current system. 
The team was accompanied by the current system operator, Jose, who spends five to six days per week riding on 
horseback to manually manage the system (a process 
that should be mostly automatic).  To manage their assessment, the team used a GIS map 
specifically built for the project by AVANGRID GIS Analyst 
Laura Senyo. Alex was inspired to ask our GIS team for 
support after using similar maps during his work designing and building wind and solar projects. Laura also created an app to keep a digital database of their household surveys that is easily exportable versus cataloging by hand.   With Laura’s support, as well as support from other 
colleagues, Alex was able to move this project forward. 
“To have their support really means the world to me,” 
said Alex. “Marynes Cabrera, a development engineer and native of Bolivia, also volunteered a lot of time as a translator. We couldn’t have done this without their support.” His more than 100 hours of volunteer work in Ecuador 
translates to a $1,500 donation for the Portland EWB 
chapter, thanks to the Avangrid Foundation’s Energized 
for Good program. 