THE BUSINESS CASE FOR A 
CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE	AVANGRID Operations 
and Selected Data	Business Highlights	Supporting Our Customers 
Through the Clean Energy Transition Serving Our Communities Innovating to Address the 
Risks of Climate ChangeThe business case fora clean energy futureAVANGRID’s overall success 
is dependent on our ability to help create a clean energy future for all. We’re accomplishing this by investing in our network 
infrastructure, by increasing 
our generation of renewable 
energy and by innovating across all our operations to create 
positive outcomes for our 
customers, our communities, the natural environment and our shareholders. This approach is central to our ESG+F framework.In 2022, we invested $1.9 billion to build smarter, more resilient networks that will enable us to deliver clean energy to more customers. We continued to expand access to EV charging across 
our networks by building distribution infrastructure, providing charger 
installation rebates and offering 
managed charging programs so 
customers can easily adopt emission-
reducing technology. We also expanded our use of smart meters, which is 
providing valuable insights into our customers’ energy needs. Across our networks operations, we worked to improve service and reliability for our customers while assisting the states in delivering their clean energy goals. We accomplished this while also responding to power outages caused by extreme weather events that impacted hundreds of thousands of people.Across our renewable energy operations, we continued to lead the transition to 
a clean energy future in the face of 
economic challenges brought on by 
inflation and ongoing supply chain 
issues. This includes major milestones 
in the construction of Vineyard Wind. 
In particular, we have largely completed the onshore work needed to connect the project to the grid, and we commenced the installation of the offshore cable. We also continued to expand our onshore 
renewable energy projects, surpassing our previous record of energy generation 
as we added nearly 395 MW of new onshore wind and solar (including our largest solar project to date). This brings our total emissions-free installed 
capacity to 8.7 GW, producing 20,283 GWh of clean electricity nationwide. Our commitments to a clean energy 
future are proving successful from a financial perspective as well. In 2022, 
our net income of $881 million reflected 
a 25% increase compared to 2021 
and a 52% increase compared to 2020. We’re proud of our strong financial performance, and we recognize that it is essential to our ability to help create a clean energy future. In 2022, we made significant achievements 
across our operations – from advances in customer service, to our overall business and financial 
performance – all with a focus on creating a clean energy future. Some of the ways this work came 
to life include:2022 NETWORKS •	$1.9 billion invested to support smarter and more 
resilient networks; this includes investments in system improvements to increase resiliency through practices like vegetation management, investments in automation 
technology to quickly restore service, and strengthening our network to increase reliability for our customers.•	Seven rate cases were filed in Maine, New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts supporting continued investments that will result in service improvements for our customers.•	Completed more than 29,000 interconnections on our networks representing more than 3.8 GW of Distributed 
Energy Resources (DER) (such as solar and storage) 
installed since 2018.•	Started deployment of our AMI – or smart meters – across our New York service areas. In 2022, we held 20 education and outreach events to increase awareness of the program and customer benefits, and nearly half of the AMI network has been deployed. •	Commenced installation of Auto Grid Restoration (AGR) 
systems to better serve customers across New York. This cutting-edge technology provides real-time information about where and why an outage might be occurring so 
that we can dispatch crews with the right tools to the 
right location. Advances like this enabled us to improve reliability across our network operations, resulting in a 
10% reduction in customers affected by power outages compared to 2021.•	Recognized by the American Gas Association as a 2022 award recipient for their Leading Indicator Safety Program, demonstrating our focus on proactively addressing safety hazards and implementing effective safety programs. •	Received the Edison Electric Institute Emergency 
Assistance Awards for our storm response efforts to 
the New York April 2022 snowstorm and for our mutual 
aid efforts to support power restoration in Nova Scotia 
following Hurricane Fiona.INVESTING IN A SMARTER AND CLEANER POWER GRIDTo help us build the smart, clean grid of the future, we 
are developing innovative projects to deliver customer 
benefits while enabling our clean energy goals. To shine 
a light on some of our most innovative approaches, 
we hosted our sixth annual Innovation Forum. There we showcased innovations like our onshore wind “digital twins,” a new development for onshore wind gearboxes to predict 
wear-and-tear on critical mechanical components and 
then automatically trigger precautionary maintenance to minimize downtime for renewable power generators. We also demonstrated how we now tap into images from 
low-earth satellites to provide high-resolution images of 
our electrical distribution network. These images enable 
us to gain better insights for storm response and vegetation management at a lower cost. We are also working with 
regulatory agencies across several of our service areas to 
establish some of the lowest-priced delivery rates in the region while continuing to invest in improved reliability 
and resiliency across our network.2022 RENEWABLES •	Made significant progress on our 806 MW Park City Wind and 1,232 MW Commonwealth Wind offshore wind projects, moving both projects forward in their permitting processes. This included securing a favorable Draft Environmental Impact Statement from the federal Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and a Host Community Agreements with 
the Town of Barnstable, Massachusetts, for the Park City Wind project.•	Completed restructuring of the Vineyard Wind joint venture with Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP) which will enable both AVANGRID and CIP to leverage their strengths and expertise to continue to grow the U.S. 
offshore wind industry. •	Installed nearly 395 MW of onshore renewable energy capacity, including our Golden Hills Wind facility in Oregon and our Lund Hill Solar facility in Washington State 
(AVANGRID’s largest solar installation to date).•	Partnered with Sempra Infrastructure to explore the development of U.S.-based green hydrogen and ammonia projects powered by renewable sources. AVANGRID and Sempra Infrastructure will collaborate to identify, evaluate and potentially develop large-scale green hydrogen 
projects to address the energy and decarbonization needs of both U.S. and international customers.•	Participated in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Regional Clean Hydrogen Hubs program. Here, we are involved in seven different hubs that have been encouraged by the DOE to submit main applications: Northeast, Gulf Coast, Pacific Northwest, Southwest, California, Mid-Continent and Midwest. The objective is to build economic projects in a collaborative environment in which collocation and regional clustering can create common infrastructure 
for clean hydrogen.In 2022, we continued to build renewable energy facilities across our onshore and offshore operations while addressing unprecedented economic challenges brought on by supply 
chain challenges, commodity issues and inflation. For example, we took significant steps to advance Vineyard Wind 1 toward commercial operation, including the installation of subsea cables that will deliver power from Vineyard Wind 1 to 
our customers.For Commonwealth Wind and Park City Wind we are moving permitting forward while ensuring these projects are 
economically viable so we can move toward construction. 
We are also working diligently to find a path to bring our 
Kitty Hawk offshore wind project to market as well. When complete, this 3.5 GW project will provide enough renewable energy to power more than 700,000 homes in Virginia 
and North Carolina.When it comes to our onshore renewable projects, our 
generation fleet set a new record for being available to 
generate power over 97% of the time across the entire year. 
We managed to do all of this while finishing the year with 
zero severe workplace accidents, as we continued to 
prioritize the health and safety of our employees and 
contractors so that each of them could make it back 
home safely every day.FINANCE HIGHLIGHTS•	Became the third largest Green, Social & Sustainability bonds issuer in the U.S. and 10th overall* with $2.9 billion issued (green bonds are bonds issued to fund projects with positive environmental and/or climate benefits and demonstrate the role that debt capital markets can play in financing environmental and social sustainability). •	Continued strong year-over-year earnings growth with 
a 52% increase in net income compared to 2020, and a 
25% increase compared to 2021.  As we decarbonize the energy economy, we are also focused on improving our customers’ 
experience while making them a part of the 
transition to a clean energy future. We’re doing this work in the face of new and evolving challenges that impact our customers – from severe weather events, to inflation, to supply chain interruptions. Despite these challenges, in 2022 we launched and expanded several initiatives focused on improving service for our 
customers. Many of these utilize digital technologies to help our customers better manage their energy usage while 
improving how they interact with us; more information on these efforts can be found in Chapter 5 of this report. In 2022, our customers also faced challenges from 
extreme weather events, inflation and the lingering effects 
of the COVID-19 pandemic. The cost of energy is rising, 
and third-party companies that sell power to our customers are contending with higher costs that affect the rates they charge. While these challenges are not within our control 
(for example, we don’t set the rates customers pay to these supply companies), we work to help customers manage 
their total costs. CUSTOMER ADOPTION OF BENEFICIAL ELECTRIFICATION In 2022, we continued to support customer adoption of 
beneficial electrification through a range of programs. 
We provided customers with EV make-ready incentives that supported the installation of more than 500 new publicly available EV chargers. We launched EV-managed charging programs that incentivize customers for charging in a way that minimizes grid impacts. And we launched an energy storage program that incentivizes customers to install 
batteries at their homes and businesses. We also continued 
to implement rebate programs that support customer adoption of over 6,000 new heat pumps as an efficient and environmentally friendly heating source. At AVANGRID we recognize our significant role in the communities we serve. Whether we are providing access to energy through our 
networks business or building renewable energy facilities (or, in some cases, both), we strive to develop and nurture relationships with impacted stakeholders; these relationships will lead to positive community support and create advocates for our projects and technology. We also seek opportunities to serve our communities through volunteerism and giving, by sponsoring projects that enhance their quality of life 
and by creating opportunities to expand diversity among 
our suppliers. BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS THROUGH PUBLIC OUTREACH The goal of our outreach efforts for capital projects is to 
establish, nurture and maintain relationships with 
stakeholders in our communities by providing them with 
ongoing, timely and transparent information throughout every phase of a project.Prior to launching new capital projects, we use a variety of tools to proactively inform customers and community 
members about how our work may impact them while 
also creating easy-to-access resources for them to contact 
us with any questions or concerns.Our commitment to inform and engage affected stakeholders is exemplified through our Design with the Community in Mind approach – a public outreach mantra that refers to a transformative perspective shift where our decision-making is guided through the lens of our customers. In other words, our Public Outreach team works to ensure that every project is designed and engineered to mitigate the potential 
disruption or inconvenience to our communities as we work to improve the resiliency and reliability of our network.EXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES FOR DIVERSE SUPPLIERS We see our suppliers as both essential business partners and community members. As we work to create more significant equity across our communities, we are engaging in efforts to support greater diversity among our suppliers. By 2025, our goal is to spend at least $300 million with diverse suppliers. To set our suppliers up for success, we invited certain 
small and medium-sized businesses to attend the Training Program: Sustainable Suppliers. This program, developed by the United Nations Global Compact (the largest 
international business sustainability initiative), trains small and medium-sized businesses that supply larger companies about the specifics of business sustainability. This is critical for any supplier who wants to do business with AVANGRID as our Supplier Code of Ethics requires our suppliers to engage in comprehensive sustainable and ethical practices. Through this training, diverse and smaller businesses can learn how they can implement practices that will make 
them more sustainable while growing their partnership 
with AVANGRID.We are taking steps to reach our Supplier Diversity Goals by raising awareness internally about the importance of supplier diversity through training sessions and other outreach. 
We are also implementing changes to our purchasing 
processes with a focus on increasing participation from diverse suppliers.We are facing an unprecedented moment in 
history as we look to address the risks posed by climate change. At AVANGRID, we see this as 
an opportunity to push for a clean energy 
transformation that will benefit our customers,
our communities, our shareholders and the 
planet. Innovation is an essential component in 
the collective effort to transition to a clean, 
sustainable and equitable energy future.In 2022, we invested more than $97 million into energy 
innovation projects (an increase of 7.5% over the previous year). These investments included $50 million in our 
networks business and $32 million in our renewables 
business, as well as $15 million in a range of innovative 
technologies. These investments drive us to improve 
reliability across our operations, to explore the development of new renewable energy sources like green hydrogen 
and to increase access to cost-efficient clean-energy 
technologies for our customers such as heat pumps, 
EV charging and smart meters. We also shared these 
innovations with other businesses, colleges and universities, and other organizations to maximize positive impacts.SHOWCASING THE LATEST DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGIESAt the 2022 AVANGRID Digital Summit, we brought together a diverse array of technology leaders to share new innovations that will advance smart grids and improve the customer experience. Here, technology leaders from organizations like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft, Deloitte, IBM and others shared their newest digital products and services while 
collaborating on use cases with a focus on areas like smart grids and operations.Featured technologies included advanced analytics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, robotics and many others. 
As the host of this summit, we looked for ways that these innovations can help us create a path to a decarbonized, 
electrified economy and a cleaner energy future.THE PATH TO A CLEAN POWER ENERGY GRID At AVANGRID’s sixth annual Innovation Forum, we 
highlighted some of the most innovative ways we are 
delivering clean energy solutions more reliably. We presented technologies such as our “digital twins” onshore wind 
gearboxes. These devices predict wear and tear on 
mechanical components and automatically trigger 
precautionary maintenance to minimize downtime for 
renewable power generators.We also demonstrated how we can now use high-resolution satellite images of our electrical distribution network to inform storm response and vegetation management at a lower cost. And we highlighted our growing portfolio of state-of-the-art green hydrogen projects designed to help decarbonize heavy transportation and other energy-intensive industries like fertilizer manufacturing for the agricultural sector. During the forum, students from Cornell University, 
University of Connecticut, Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Rochester Institute of Technology and Yale University participated in both the AVANGRID 
Innovation Challenge and our inaugural Clean Energy 
Hackathon. Students in both events were paired with 
AVANGRID subject matter experts to develop solutions to some of the energy sector’s biggest challenges. The winning Innovation Challenge team developed a case study that explored the use of quantum computing to positively impact both the utility and renewable energy sectors. Meanwhile, the Hackathon winning team created a data-driven solution to strategically deploy EV charging stations (in just 32 hours of number crunching).Beyond these events, throughout the year we built strategic partnerships and research and development collaborations with several top universities, technology providers, public organizations and startups to advance innovation. Some examples of these innovations include:•	Initiatives to advance adoption of EVs through rate case proposals for an EV charging hub, curbside charging, and medium and heavy-duty vehicle make-ready programs across New York.•	Support for the Ithaca Electrification Initiative to inform the potential for 100% decarbonization as part of the city’s Green New Deal resolution, a government-led commitment to community-wide carbon neutrality by 2030 that focuses on addressing historical inequities, economic inequality and social justice.•	Collaboration with the University of Connecticut on various 
Department of Energy proposals including Sweet: Solar,
Wind and Energy Storage Ingestion – an innovative 
approach for existing renewable generation to provide 
essential grid services such as voltage, frequency control and power recovery during system-wide outages. •	Collaboration with the University of Maine to initiate a study and inform advanced grid support functions to improve voltage issues caused by integration of distributed energy research (DER) projects such as solar within the electric grid. •	Collaboration with the New York State Energy Research and 
Development Agency (NYSERDA) to increase access to clean 
electric transportation options in prioritized communities, which include low-income and transportation-disadvantaged
households in the Ithaca and Tompkins County area.•	Cornell’s ARPA-E dynamic capacitive wireless charging 
project: The primary objective of this project is to develop 
a 50-kW MHz-scale dynamic capacitive wireless charging system, which is expected to be substantially less expensive than the inductive charging counterpart. AVANGRID will use key findings from this project to develop a breakthrough wireless charging system for stationary and dynamic EVs. •	Cornell’s Customer Behavior Analysis and Subscription Tier Pricing Automation Study: The study aims to pilot a new payment plan and an app that would provide consumers with more information about their energy use and incentives to reduce use, while also allowing utility companies to 
respond more nimbly in times of crisis. AVANGRID is an 
initial partner in this study, and the study’s researchers interviewed more than 250 AVANGRID customers and industry employees to better understand their needs.•	NYSERDA PON 4393 Electric Power Transmission and 
Distribution (EPTD): This funding supports the development of New York’s climate policies to promote and accelerate high-performing smart grids and more diverse clean energy resources while engaging customers in efforts to reduce energy costs, environmental impacts and emissions. The program strives to coordinate its activities with the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act.•	Advanced information sharing with our customers to support the safe and reliable interconnection of renewable energy and other distributed energy resources (DER) into the electric grid. We accomplished this via enhancements in hosting capacity maps. These maps provide an indication of the amount of DER that may be accommodated into the existing electric grid without requiring infrastructure upgrades.Decarbonizing the economy and creating a clean energy future cannot be done in isolation, and we’re grateful for the opportunity to partner 
with other companies, colleges and universities, government agencies, national labs and other stakeholders to develop the innovations that will drive this work forward. 8.7 GW of emissions-free installed capacity, enough 
to power more than 
2.8 million homes.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL8.7 GWEmissions-Free
Installed 
Capacity91%Emissions-Free Capacity3rdLargest Onshore Renewables 
Generator in 
the U.S.$41 Bin AssetsSelected 2022 Operational Data3.3 M CUSTOMERS36,870 ELECTRICITY 
DELIVERED (GWh)199,725,000NATURAL GAS 
DELIVERED (DTh)Electricity 	2.31MNatural Gas	1.03M26 GWRenewablesPipeline9,541 INSTALLED CAPACITY* (MW)7,500+EMPLOYEES22,807NET ELECTRIC 
GENERATION (GWh)*  Total installed capacity for Avangrid Networks and Avangrid Renewables. INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALBusiness 
HighlightsINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL2022 HIGHLIGHTS
6THANNUAL INNOVATION FORUM806 MWOF RENEWABLE ENERGY 
CAPACITY BY VINEYARD 
WIND 1 OFFSHORE UNDER CONSTRUCTION ~395 MWINSTALLED WIND AND
SOLAR POWERINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL*	Source: Bloomberg 2/21/2023.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALSupporting Our Customers Throughthe Clean Energy Transition500+ EV CHARGERSWERE INSTALLED AND MADE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE THROUGH EV MAKE-READY INCENTIVESINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL Serving OurCommunitiesVIRTUAL FLYOVERS SAVE TIME WHILE IMPROVING THE APPROVAL PROCESS We embrace new technologies to perform our work with greater ease and accuracy. In 2022, 
this included creating the Virtual Flyover Video for our Railroad Transmission Line Rebuild Project, which is rebuilding 25 miles of United Illuminating (UI) transmission lines. Typically, a project 
like this requires time-consuming field visits to substations and transmission towers to receive siting approvals. To create a more efficient process and accommodate COVID restrictions, our Public Outreach team proposed a virtual tour of the project route. The simulation was built using the project’s visual renderings and Google Earth technology. It can be zoomed in on for a closer look at terrain, adjacent properties and even pole heights. This time-saving process was a success and has since been duplicated with similar AVANGRID projects.INTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIAL$300 MBY 2025, OUR GOAL IS 
TO SPEND AT LEAST 
$300 MILLION WITH OUR 
DIVERSE SUPPLIERSINTRODUCTION     |     BUSINESS OVERVIEW     |     CLIMATE CHANGE     |     ENVIRONMENT     |     SOCIAL     |     GOVERNANCE     |     FINANCIALInnovating to Address the
Risks of Climate ChangeAs AVANGRID helps lead the country’s clean energy transition, it is critical 
we continue to invest in innovation, talent and 
cutting-edge technology.
The path to a cleaner future depends on our ability to modernize and keep evolving. The Digital Summit was just the first step to implementing 
new technologies that 
will make AVANGRID the utility of the future.”Carl Young
Chief Information Officer