UNDERSTANDING – AND ADDRESSING – THE “WHY” OF SOCIAL IMPACT At AVANGRID, we recognize our responsibility to create better outcomes for society – today and into the future. Our goal is to help people thrive in a green economy and in healthier, vibrant and more sustainable communities. Because of this, our social impact strategy is a focused effort that informs everything we do and is built on a five-year roadmap to create positive change for our employees, our communities, our customers and the planet. We’re doing this by: • Helping our customers navigate through difficult times, adapt to new technologies and engage with us more effectively. An effective social impact• Making AVANGRID an employer of choice, where talented and committed people want to build long-term careers. • Helping the communities we serve by promoting and supporting positive social change and education. strategy is a journey of • Strengthening our communities through support for the arts and culture. continuous improvement, • Addressing critical environmental issues like climate change and biodiversity. and because of this, our An effective social impact strategy is a journey of continuous improvement, and because of this, our strategy is strategy is constantly evolving.constantly evolving. While the issues we seek to address and impacts we seek to create will continue to grow, we remain focused on making meaningful, lasting progress, as described in the following pages. Empowering Our Customers We work to make every day better for our customers, delivering the service they expect and deserve. From supporting customers through difficult periods (such as extreme weather events or, most recently, impacts from COVID-19), to providing ways to make it easier to do business with us, to helping them reduce their carbon footprint by transitioning to cleaner energy, we are focused on addressing our customers’ needs. In 2021 we focused on driving customer satisfaction by designing journeys through the lens of our customers. We are taking steps to improve the customer experience by developing automated and digital tools like eBill enrollments, mobile app downloads, smart meters and more. Based on customer feedback gathered to date, we are strategically focused on three key gap areas to drive customer satisfaction: ease of doing business with us, price and value, and power quality and reliability. We have also begun to conduct in-depth interviews and focus groups with our customers to understand how they interact with the AVANGRID family of companies so we can better serve their needs. In addition, we launched ongoing Customer Listening Councils across our utilities in Maine, New York, Connecticut and Massachusetts. Here, customers and other key stakeholders can engage in candid conversations directly with our leadership, providing feedback that will help us continue to improve our business in ways that best serve our customers’ changing needs. Supporting Customers During Difficult Times In 2021 we continued our efforts to support customers in need through our Vulnerable Customer Support Programs. In total, more than 500,000 of our customers were served through these programs, which include energy audit and energy efficiency assessments designed to help vulnerable and low-income customers across New York and much of New England reduce their energy bills each year. We also have more than 160,000 customers enrolled in our low-income programs, where they receive discounted rates based on income guidelines. And we worked closely with state agencies to ensure that our vulnerable customers took advantage of the state and federally funded programs designed to help them. Our efforts in 2021 included: • Project Share (in New York), our program that provides heating grants to over 400 individuals and families. • Operation Fuel (in Connecticut), a program funded by statewide contributions, assists low-income households with their heating bills. In 2021, the program provided grants to more than 1,674 customers totaling more than $962,000 in support. • The Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP) provides grants to help our low-income population with the cost of heating their homes. In 2021, more than $69.6 million of support was provided to our customers via HEAP grants. • In New York, the Regular Arrears Supplement provides a one-time benefit to eligible customers to cover the cost of overdue utility bills (up to $10,000 per eligible household). In 2021, more than 15,000 individuals and families that we serve were supported by this program, totaling more than $20 million. • The federal Emergency Rental Assistance Program (ERAP) provided nearly 15,000 of our customers with rental and utility assistance. The program launched in 2021, and it is just the start, with plans to continue to work with state and federal agencies to secure funds and support families in need in the months ahead. Making It Easier to Do Business with Us In 2021, we put in place more ways to engage with our customers and to address their needs. Key customer experience achievements in 2021 include the following: • eBill enrollments climbed to 1 million, a 20% increase from 2020. • App downloads grew to 17.1% for a total of 485k downloads. • Outage alert enrollments increased to 373k or 16.3%. Showing Up When Customers Need Us Most We assist customers who use life support equipment during longer power outages, ensuring they’re well taken care of while power is being restored. Our employees show great dedication to the communities we serve, showcased by our Field Customer Service team in our Binghamton, New York division. In the summer of 2021, Binghamton was hit with several severe weather events that caused power outages and kept the Field Customer Service team busy. During one of these events, one team member, Sheila Wright, encountered a customer who reported he had no backup oxygen and felt very alone. Wright jumped into action, elevating the situation to engage a customer advocate while providing the customer with her personal cell phone number and offering to go to the store to buy the customer ice. The advocate, Jacqueline Sykas, had more oxygen delivered to the customer and had a New York State trooper check in on him, who in turn connected the customer with a neighbor to run some errands. Additionally, Sykas worked with the local Office of the Aging to have Meals on Wheels deliver a hot meal. The customer was so grateful for all the support that he called Wright to express his appreciation. “I’ve learned over the years that even the most frustrated customers, especially those currently experiencing an outage, really just want to be heard and treated with kindness,” said Wright. “Even if it takes a few extra minutes of time, it’s worth it to know that maybe, just maybe, I made an undesirable situation just a little more bearable.” • We launched enhanced digital products – setting the foundation and alignment of processes for 2022 transformation work: – Proactive customer alerts for payments and financial assistance. – App: ETR alerts, Budget Billing, eBill and Preferences enhancements. – Web: completion of Preference Portals across all operating companies and eBill enhancements to drive eBill adoption. • Customer complaints – below regulatory targets for all operating companies. • Overall self-service transactions increased by 2.5%. Sheila Wright NYSEG Field Customer Service Making AVANGRID an Employer of Choice Every day, our employees provide the energy and innovation that help make AVANGRID the leading sustainable energy company, enabling us to grow in a competitive market in ways that create a cleaner energy economy while putting our customers first. Our vision is to make AVANGRID a place where talented and committed people want to build long-term careers. To do this, we are investing in our employees by providing opportunities for personal and professional learning and development; strengthening avenues for building diverse community connections and an inclusive culture; and implementing a comprehensive approach to rewards and well-being that includes physical, financial and mental health. In 2021, we expanded several programs designed to support our employees and their families, from our new Paid Parental Leave Policy, to additional Leadership and Development courses, to expanding our Business Resource Groups (which provide “safe-zones” where our employees can celebrate and discuss different cultures, ethnicities and identities), to empowering individuals with financial planning resources. Many of these efforts are described below. Health & Safety Focus During the COVID-19 Pandemic In the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic, we continued our steadfast commitment to protect our employees, contractors, customers and communities. Throughout the year we kept current with the latest health and safety guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) while maintaining uninterrupted business operations. In 2021, we conducted extensive vaccination education efforts for our employees, supported via frequent communications, including home mailings and online town halls with medical experts. To make vaccine access as easy as possible for employees and their families, we conducted on-site vaccination clinics and actively encouraged vaccination for those who remained unvaccinated and timely booster shots for those who were fully vaccinated, when they became available. To help ensure the health and safety of all employees and contractors, we established a vaccination record tracking system for individuals to self-report their vaccination status. We increased submissions by hosting on-site vaccine card upload clinics, and we implemented safety protocols to properly manage a workforce comprised of both fully vaccinated and unvaccinated employees and contractors. We continued to provide a dedicated COVID-19 hotline staffed by a team to record positive cases and provide critical health guidance (such as guidance on isolation and contact tracing), travel protocols and screening for isolated workers returning to the workplace. The data collected helped us ensure proper mitigation controls were in place, and we continued to offer supplemental paid leave for quarantined employees and paid testing benefits through the company medical plan. Due to the pandemic’s unpredictable nature, we changed our re-entry and building access plans accordingly throughout the year, enabling us to manage building access and strengthen health and safety protocols to protect employees reporting during COVID-19 surges. Combined, these approaches helped us protect the safety of our employees, contractors, communities and customers. Listening to Our Employees Being an employer of choice means that we listen and respond to employees. One of our primary feedback channels is “The Loop” – our annual Employee Engagement Survey. The Loop provides specific and actionable insights about how our employees experience their workplace – from resources and leadership to culture and belonging. The Loop gives every one of our employees the opportunity to share their thoughts about what things are working and where we can make positive changes, and we use Loop results to inform the continuous improvement initiatives we undertake every year. In 2021, employees were both engaged and enabled as measured through the Loop survey with a 74% employee participation rate. We’re proud to share that safety – which is an absolute priority – continues to be rated by respondents as our greatest strength (with 87% of respondents giving safety a favorable rating). Respondents also gave us high marks on being a company with a “clear and promising direction,” and a majority of respondents (83%) say they understand how their job contributes to AVANGRID’s strategic priorities and goals. Respondents also gave us high scores for development opportunities, with 80% stating they believe their line manager supports them in learning and development, and 67% expressing that they have the opportunity to achieve their work goals. While we’re glad to receive positive responses, we continually work on areas of opportunity through annual Loop Action Plans for each business area. Our team of dedicated Engagement Leads supports our leaders in creating and communicating Loop goals and tracking progress against areas of opportunity. WE ASKED OUR EMPLOYEES ABOUT THEIR WORKPLACE EXPERIENCE 83% 80% 67% understand how their job state they believe their express that they have contributes to AVANGRID’s manager supports their learning the opportunity to achieve strategic priorities and goals and development their work goals Through The Loop and our Action Plans, our goal is to ensure that employees feel heard, that we respond to areas of both strength and opportunity and that we create a workplace culture that demonstrates a commitment to acting on employee feedback and communicating progress. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, or DE&I, is a business imperative for AVANGRID, as we believe that it is key to our future success. We strive to build and sustain a diverse workforce with a rich mix of differences, inclusive workplaces where each of us feels valued and connected, with equitable opportunities to grow and develop – no matter where we work. We have focused our DE&I initiatives on increasing diverse representation, especially in positions of authority, removing barriers, promoting equitable opportunities to grow and develop and building community by establishing tangible pathways for connection with others inside and outside AVANGRID. In 2021, AVANGRID became a member of Disability:IN, a leading nonprofit resource for business disability inclusion, and continued active involvement with Paradigm for Parity and CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion. These public memberships demonstrate our commitment to elevate the DE&I conversation with our peers, while creating effective change for individuals with varying abilities, increasing gender parity in senior operating roles and supporting challenging, yet necessary workplace conversations. Unconscious Bias Training A key component of our DE&I strategy in 2021 included the implementation of unconscious bias training throughout the organization, including curated learning paths, synchronous training opportunities and e-learning. Over 90% of our lead-level employees completed two hours of self-guided training, including a multi-day university-style training attended by over 200 people leaders. We also incorporated unconscious bias training as part of our new Hiring Manager Our BRGs continue to provide “safe-zones” where our employees can raise important issues and celebrate the variety of different cultures, ethnicities and identities. Certification, which is required for any AVANGRID leader participating in the recruitment process. These trainings helped attendees recognize, acknowledge and identify their own biases; recognize the negative impacts of bias on our business; realize the benefits that come from uncovering bias in decision-making; and identify and implement strategies to overcome both personal and organizational bias. In addition to our unconscious bias training, we worked to accelerate progress on our DE&I commitments by ensuring we had diverse interview panels whenever possible for open senior-level positions, deploying inclusive workplace training, onboarding the most diverse intern cohort in AVANGRID history, completing a detailed pay equity and rating analysis and increasing representation of individuals identifying as women, as well as people of color, across senior and executive-level positions. As of December 31, 2021, the approximate demographic breakdowns of our workforce are as follows: ETHNICITY  PERCENT OF TOTAL  ALL EMPLOYEES  ALL  CT  MA  ME  NY  OR  % of Employees in State 24.5% 2.6% 16.8% 42.7% 5.2% American Indian or Alaska Native  0.4%  0.1%  0.5%  0.8%  0.3%  0.3%  Asian  2.7%  4.6%  2.1%  1.4%  1.9%  6.8%  Black or African American  5.8%  13.3%  1.6%  0.9%  5.1%  1.0%  Hispanic or Latino  6.9%  14.0%  4.2%  1.9%  4.2%  6.5%  Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific  0.1%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.5%  Two or More Races  1.3%  1.5%  0.5%  1.4%  1.1%  1.8%  White  76.8%  63.3%  82.7%  90.1%  83.2%  65.7%  Not Reported  6.0%  3.3%  8.4%  3.6%  4.1%  17.3%  SENIOR LEADERSHIP*  ALL  CT  MA  ME  NY  OR  % of Senior Leaders in State 31.8% 5.5% 15.3% 17.4% 17.7% American Indian or Alaska Native  0.3%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  Asian  2.4%  2.9%  0.0%  0.0%  1.8%  3.4%  Black or African American  2.8%  5.8%  0.0%  0.0%  3.5%  1.7%  Hispanic or Latino  8.0%  15.4%  5.6%  6.0%  7.0%  0.0%  Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  Two or More Races  2.1%  2.9%  0.0%  4.0%  0.0%  1.7%  White  71.6%  64.4%  66.7%  76.0%  73.7%  74.1%  Not Reported  12.8%  8.7%  27.8%  14.0%  14.0%  19.0%  All Employees Gender Ratio CT  29.8%  MA  29.8%  ME  30.2%  NY  27.4%  OR  29.1%  CT 70.2% MA 70.2%72.6% ME 69.8% Male NY 72.6% OR 70.9% Senior Leadership Gender Ratio CT 30.8% MA 27.8% 29.4% ME 30.0% Female NY 33.3% OR  29.3%  CT  69.2%  MA  72.2%  ME  70.0%  NY  66.7%  OR  70.7%  * Senior leadership roles include director-level and above. Business Resource Groups Our thriving group of Business Resource Groups, or BRGs, continue to provide “safe-zones” where our employees can raise important issues and celebrate the variety of different cultures, ethnicities and identities. During the year, we expanded our BRGs to include the AVANGRID Coalition for Asian Pacific Americans (ACAPA) and the Community for All Abilities and Resources for Excellence (CARE). Our seven BRGs were able to host over 25 events on inclusive conversations and diverse thinking, which helped increase the marketing of our BRGs where over 10% of our employees are a part of one or more of these groups. Leadership Essentials To help develop new leaders across AVANGRID, we built and implemented a comprehensive leadership training program in 2021. Leadership Essentials was created from insights gathered from our annual employee survey and focus groups with leaders across our company, as well as conversations with our Employee Relations team. Leadership Essentials is a four-track curriculum that includes instructor-led courses, e-learning, peer groups and on-the-job experiences to provide new leaders with the knowledge and skills needed to prioritize their employees while enabling them to better lead their teams. Feedback from participants has been overwhelmingly positive and reflects our commitment to building leadership skills and helping our employees grow professionally while building their careers with AVANGRID. Expanding Employee Benefits and Family Support to Address Whole Health In addition to helping our employees grow professionally, we are committed to supporting their personal, family and financial well-being through a comprehensive suite of available resources. In 2021, we implemented our Paid Parental Leave Policy, providing support to parents who are welcoming a new child into their family whether through birth, surrogacy, adoption or foster care placement. We also launched several other new benefits in 2021, including: • Tools for financial well-being, from planning toolkits to a retirement webinar series. • Access to subsidized back-up care for children, adult and elder family members. • Legal assistance and identity theft protection. • Free access to platforms for finding babysitters, pet care providers and more. • Preferred enrollment for employees’ children at Bright Horizons daycare centers. • Guidance to help parents identify learning and development needs early and to access support avenues such as learning pods, academic resources, tutoring, college coaching and test prep services. • Fertility and family-forming care and coverage, including surrogacy and adoption. • Healthcare navigation, clinical guidance and advocacy services. Creating Authentic Communities Our network of Business Resource Groups (BRGs) provides networking, career development and community building opportunities for AVANGRID’s increasingly diverse workforce. These include: • The AVANGRID African American Council for Excellence (AAACE) builds a culturally progressive workplace through career development for all African American/Black employees. • The AVANGRID Coalition for Asian Pacific Americans (ACAPA) optimizes opportunities for Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) employees. • AVAN-Veterans promotes career development and enrichment for our employees who have served. • The AVANGRID Community for All Abilities and Resources for Excellence (CARE) supports our customers and colleagues with disabilities or additional needs and those whose lives are touched by them. • Hispanic Organization for Leadership and Awareness (HOLA) fosters an environment where our Hispanic employees are empowered in their careers, lives and communities. • Pride@AVANGRID builds a workplace where LGBTQ+ employees can bring their authentic selves to work every day. • WomENergy increases the visibility of women, unleashing their potential while driving business results and raising awareness of gender parity. At AVANGRID, promoting employee well-being is a top priority. Supporting employee mental health was a key initiative for AVANGRID throughout 2021, especially in light of the pandemic’s devastating impact. To help employees manage stress and address a wide range of other mental health issues, we launched the free myStrength tool. This program focuses on improving emotional health and well-being by providing programs to help with stress, depression, anxiety, PTSD, chronic pain and other conditions using resources like guided meditations and access to scientifically proven clinical approaches, like cognitive behavioral therapy. Throughout the year, we offered a series of well-attended mental health webinars, which were led by professionals and covered timely topics like fear and anxiety, emotional eating, building resilience, isolation related to working remotely and more. In 2021, we also formed a partnership with the National Council for Behavioral Health to help us reduce (and work toward eliminating) the stigma associated with mental health issues. Here, interested employees worked toward Mental Health First Aid at Work certification training, which helped us build a growing network of Mental Health Advocates. These advocates volunteer their time to listen and provide guidance to others regarding available mental health resources. In its first year, nearly 50 employees became certified Mental Health Advocates, resulting in over 300 referrals to available employee health resources. The company also launched a new training program for managers, called Identifying and Addressing Mental Health Issues in the Workplace. The course educated managers on how to identify behavioral warning signs, how to guide a constructive conversation and how to direct employees to available support. This training also reinforced the need to eliminate the stigma related to mental health issues in the workplace. We continued to offer free access to the Engage well-being app, which provides employees with a one-stop destination for medical plan information and health and well-being programs designed to help people adopt positive health practices. In 2021, Engage achieved the highest level of participation to date with its biannual activity challenged. At a time when many employees are working remotely, the popular spring and fall activity challenges motivated employees to walk over 384 million steps, while having fun and regaining important connections with colleagues. Protecting employees against catching the flu was also more important than ever in 2021 as the COVID-19 pandemic endured. We conducted our annual flu vaccination program and provided all employees, as well as family members covered by the company’s health plan, access to free flu vaccines through a combination of on-site clinics and off-site options. In support of employee occupational health, we expanded our Early Intervention Program to New York in 2021. Staffed by highly trained occupational health professionals, this program addresses employee injuries and discomfort at the earliest stage possible and provides a range of services, including assessments for musculoskeletal sprains and strains and education on proper work postures, body mechanics and overall health and well-being. Combined with our existing health benefits, life and disability insurance, flexible work policy and retirement programs, these offerings continue to reflect our commitment to help our employees – and their families – in every stage of their lives. During 2021, we launched a number of initiatives focused on promoting employee mental health. Supplier Diversity Just as we’re committed to creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce at AVANGRID, we’re also focused on providing all suppliers with equal access to purchasing opportunities, including opportunities for suppliers from diverse backgrounds. Our actions are designed to encourage inclusive supplier participation that promotes economic development and reflects the increasingly diverse business communities that can support our work and growth. We also set strong expectations for our suppliers to engage in sustainable business practices to help create a more socially conscious and equitable supply chain. Here, we expect our suppliers to understand and adhere to our environmental policies, to take steps to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, to invest in protecting biodiversity and to manage and protect precious resources like water. In 2021, with the engagement of our strategic suppliers, AVANGRID performed well in regard to the total number of suppliers certified as sustainable, and the goal is to SUPPLIER DIVERSITY DEFINED We define supplier diversity as the proactive procurement of goods and services from businesses headquartered in the U.S. that are at least 51% owned and controlled by a U.S. citizen who is: have more than half of our strategic suppliers certified as sustainable by the end of 2022. AVANGRID has also set a goal to increase our spending with diverse suppliers to $300 million by 2025. Conscious Action on Social Investment As we work toward our supplier diversity and sustainability goals, we recognize that these commitments create long-term value – both for our suppliers and for our company – including the creation of better business solutions, increased customer loyalty and satisfaction, and positive community impacts. We also set strong expectations for our suppliers to engage in sustainable business practices to help create a more socially conscious and equitable supply chain. And just as we drive our suppliers to be more sustainable, we provide them with the support they sometimes need to fulfill our expectations. This includes creating improvement plans for those suppliers that may have struggled to meet our criteria so that they can strengthen their social impact and sustainability practices while building long-term relationships with us. Creating a More Sustainable and Diverse Supply Chain To meet our goals around supplier diversity and sustainability, we have created a supplier evaluation model based on criteria used globally to measure a company’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. To help us achieve these goals as effectively as possible, we have set up a new group in our Procurement Department to prioritize these initiatives. As part of our Vineyard Wind 1 project, we’ve committed $15 million in local and diverse supplier development to fund our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion efforts. These efforts will increase diversity in the industry and provide underrepresented populations with opportunities to join the offshore, renewable energy workforce. Our Vineyard Wind 1 project is also funding partnerships with workforce development, training and educational programs in vocational-technical schools, colleges and universities, trade unions and other workforce development organizations. Our goal is to help diverse communities develop the skills to help us create projects like Park City Wind and other offshore wind projects. These funds will also provide a range of resources to traditionally underserved and distressed communities (in this case, in Bridgeport and other parts of Connecticut), including: • Labor and Pre-Apprenticeship Programs with funds provided to trades to enable technical training for offshore wind readiness. • Global Wind Organization (GWO) Basic Safety Training to invest in the facilities, staff and training resources to offer safety courses needed for workers constructing and operating offshore wind projects. This work is part of our ongoing effort to promote diversity, equity and inclusion in offshore wind in meaningful ways. As part of this effort, we plan to hire a Chief Diversity Officer for Vineyard Wind 1 who will lead our efforts to recruit a more diverse pool of candidates, oversee funding initiatives and partnerships to increase opportunities for underrepresented communities, build diversity, equity and inclusion commitments into our labor agreements, create opportunities for diverse suppliers to provide us with their products and services and more. In total, we expect to create 3,100 new, full-time positions associated with Vineyard Wind 1. As a leader in clean, renewable energy, the investments we’re making will help build a more diverse, sustainable supply chain that will create long-term benefits for our customers, our communities and the planet. From volunteering to giving to creating greater equity across our operations, we’ve made significant investments (and have set meaningful goals) to address a range of critical social issues, as described below. SOCIAL IMPACT GOALS  2021 (ACTUALS)  2025 GOALS  2030 GOALS  ACTIONS UNDERWAY TO MEET GOALS • Hired dedicated resources to support Supplier Diversity program. • Launch education and awareness program on Supplier Diversity for all employees.  Increase annual Supplier Diversity spend to $300M by 2025  $174M  $300M  35,000 annual employee volunteer hours achieved in 2025  3,140  35,000  • Launch Energize for Good for employee volunteering and giving. • Leverage the Avangrid Foundation to support strong volunteer partner opportunities.  Full gender parity: 50% of women in senior leadership roles* by 2030  29%  30%  50%  • Unconscious bias training. • Diverse interview panels for open senior level positions. • Increasing diversity of succession pools.  * Senior leadership roles include director-level and above. Pillars of Giving More than 275,000 meals provided 3,140 hours of employee volunteering More than 400 nonprofit organizations supported $4.4 million in total giving contributions across AVANGRID $363,024 in employee giving More than $1M focused on climate change education and preservation of biodiversity and the environment 9 homes built – nearly 500 hours in constructing homes We believe that business can help build a better society, and that’s why, at AVANGRID, we are committed to investing in positive social impact – from corporate giving to employee volunteerism. In 2021 we took a more holistic focus on our social impact work, and we’ll continue to build on this approach in 2022 through our Corporate Citizen program. Our new approach supports a broader view of how AVANGRID serves our communities, customers and stakeholders. The Avangrid Foundation is at the core of our corporate citizenship commitments, having invested more than $28 million in philanthropic giving and partnerships since 2002. The Foundation’s mission is focused on four key pillars: 1. Social Action 2. Education and Research 3. Biodiversity and Climate Change 4. Arts and Culture These pillars are embedded in our targeted giving across a range of organizations, from local nonprofits in the communities we serve, to national organizations like Habitat for Humanity, the American Red Cross and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. Energized for Good Corporate citizenship includes supporting and amplifying the great work our employees are doing in our communities. In 2021 we launched Energized for Good, an initiative that expands on opportunities for our employees to engage more deeply in our social impact work through volunteerism and giving, and our goal is to reach 35,000 hours of employee volunteer time in the year 2025. Energized for Good leverages the Avangrid Foundation partnerships with many local and national nonprofit organizations to create ongoing opportunities for volunteering and giving for AVANGRID employees. Here, we empower our employees with resources to engage in our communities, including an online platform where they can sign up for or create and lead volunteer opportunities, enter community service hours and learn more about Energized for Good. In 2021 our employees volunteered for over 3,000 hours, and are working to more than double that number to 7,000 hours in 2022 as we continue to increase our volunteering to meet our goal in 2025. “I donate to the ACLU Fund and NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund. I selected these organizations because they fight to preserve the rights and liberties granted to all Americans under the Constitution.” In addition to volunteerism, employee giving has been an essential part of how our people make positive impacts in our communities. In 2021, we tripled the amount of match funding by the Avangrid Foundation for employee giving – from $500 to $1,500 per employee per year – resulting in a total impact of over $350,000 for our communities. In 2021 our companies made significant investments in our communities through corporate investment and economic development funds. These efforts combined supported a broad range of nonprofit programs focused on creating positive social impacts throughout 2021, as described below. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion • $398,000* donated in 2021 to support a range of local nonprofits providing essential services to help underserved communities. Food Security • $309,000 donated in 2021 to local food banks and statewide nonprofits addressing food scarcity in the communities we serve. • Our donations helped these organizations provide more than 270,000 meals to individuals and families and 4,800 take-home backpacks with essential meals for children in need. Habitat for Humanity • $142,250* donated to support Habitat for Humanity’s work in 2021. • 72 of our employees also volunteered 468 hours across nine Habitat for Humanity build locations in local communities. American Red Cross Disaster Responders • $329,000* donated to support the critical disaster response work of the American Red Cross, including $14,000 through Energized for Good employee giving. • 61 pints of blood donated by employees to help address the worst blood shortage in 10 years. Education • $313,200* to support the work of colleges and universities, school districts, high schools and arts programs in public schools. • $106,000 to support organizations helping to advance literacy and create greater access to education and opportunity as a result. Biodiversity • $341,000 to support organizations engaged in critical land preservation work tied to biodiversity. • $487,500 to organizations focused on wildlife preservation. • $122,000* to organizations protecting water-related ecosystems. United Way • $154,400* to local United Way chapters. • $53,500 through Energized for Good employee donations. * Combined resources of the Avangrid Foundation and the AVANGRID family of companies. 