GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITYArray’s success begins with our people, who we expect to act with integrity in all their interactions. Acting with integrity is our competitive advantage, and we can all take pride in our commitment to accomplishing results the right way, in compliance with our Code of Conduct, our company policies, and all applicable laws and regulations. BOARD DIVERSITY AND INDEPENDENCE Diversity and inclusion are a priority at Array. Recognizing the value of diverse perspectives, we committed to increasing board female representation to 22% from baseline year 2021 by year-end 2025. In 2022, we accomplished this goal and advanced board gender diversity by welcoming Tracy Jokinen to our board. We will continue to prioritize advancing our board nomination practices and ensuring diversity of background, thought, and experiences to strengthen good governance and promote inclusion at Array. Total Number of DirectorsPART I: GENDER IDENTITYDirectors FEMALE2MALE7PART II: DEMOGRAPHIC BACKGROUNDMALEFEMALEAfrican American or BlackAlaskan Native or Native AmericanAsianHispanic or LatinxNative Hawaiian or Pacific IslanderWhiteTwo or More Races or EthnicitiesLGBTQ+Did Not Disclose——1—————11—1——5———PART III: INDEPENDENCEIndependent Directors FEMALE2MALE6No one listed “Non-Binary” or “Did Not Disclose Gender.”59GOVERNANCE AND BOARDAt the Board level, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee reviews and monitors the development and implementation of the company’s evolving ESG goals and provides guidance to the Board on such matters. Array (ARRY) is listed on NASDAQ-GM and fulfills the exchange’s board diversity rule, which is designed to encourage a minimum board diversity objective for companies and provide stakeholders with consistent, comparable disclosures regarding a company’s current board composition. To learn more about our governance structure, please see our 2023 Proxy Statement and our Governance Site.  ESG GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT  In 2022, we strengthened ESG oversight at Array by establishing a new governance structure, which includes an ESG Executive Steering Committee and an ESG Working Group.Our ESG Executive Steering Committee meets quarterly and is responsible for: Defining ESG priorities, objectives, and strategy with the goal of further integrating sustainability into the Company’s strategy and operations Assisting the Nominating and Governance Committee of Board of Directors in fulfilling oversight responsibilities with respect to the Company’s ESG effortsDelegating responsibilities to implement ESG strategy to appropriate members 
of their team Regularly reviewing the company’s ESG performance and providing recommendations 
for improvement ESG EXECUTIVE STEERING COMMITTEE Our ESG Working Group meets regularly and is responsible for: ESG WORKING GROUPNicole Stewart, 
Senior Director of Government Relations & ESG Overseeing key programs or initiatives as directed by the ESG Executive Steering Committee and the appropriate executive sponsor Developing action plans to achieve our 2025 ESG goals  Maintaining metrics, systems, and procedures, as deemed necessary and appropriate, 
to monitor and track ESG matters60GOVERNANCE AND BOARDThis ESG Governance and Oversight structure allows us to consistently refine our internal operating standards, ensuring that they align with Array’s overall ESG strategy and reflect our corporate values. In 2022, the ESG Working Group and Executive Steering Committee strengthened the ESG components of policy documents that have a significant impact on our overall business operations.  Environmental Policy  Array’s ESG Steering Committee oversees our Environmental Policy and ensures that we are demonstrating continuous improvement in meeting our environmental objectives, adhering to all applicable governmental and industry regulations, and protecting the environment through the prevention of pollution in air, waste, and water. Supplier Code of Conduct  Our Supplier Code of Conduct ensures that all vendors comply with Array’s social and environmental standards and reserves the right to monitor and audit our suppliers’ compliance activities and performance. This document was strengthened in 2022 to include specific human rights and environmental requirements as part of our overall risk management strategy. Code of Business Conduct Our updated Code of Business Conduct describes specific programs and initiatives that allow for greater transparency and accountability around our ESG standards. This includes:       The trainings we have in place to ensure that all Array employees embody the high ethical standards of the company      Our approach to auditing our ethical standards      Our formal whistle-blower system, which reinforces our no-retaliation policy and is designed to allow employees to safely escalate questions or concerns. Human Rights PolicyWe updated our Human Rights Policy to strengthen our commitment to protecting human rights in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and promoting employee health, safety, and security in the workplace and throughout our supply chain. This policy underscores our commitment to ensuring that our employees, workers within our supply chain, and individuals in communities affected by our activities are treated with dignity and respect and extend that respect to each other.To read more about our Corporate Governance Policies, please visit our website. 61INDUSTRIAL CYBERSECURITY Array commits to the protection of corporate assets and personally sensitive information with which it is entrusted. This is a foundational enterprise principle that governs our actions and digital activities in how we innovate and build world-class solar solutions and how we protect our customers, our company, our people, and our business partners. In 2022, we strengthened our overall cybersecurity posture with a focus on protecting our most critical assets and preventing material breaches to our systems. These updates:Formalized the responsibility of the IT Infrastructure Team to ensure key cybersecurity practices outlined in Array’s Cybersecurity Policy are enforced and followedEstablished policy oversight by the Chief Information Officer at Array Formalized a quarterly briefing schedule to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors  Formalized cybersecurity trainings for all employees to ensure that everyone at Array is managing confidential information appropriately, and to mitigate the risk of cybersecurity attacks, including via mock phishing attacks to assess employee readinessEngaged external firms to perform penetration testing to identify security vulnerabilities and remediated identified vulnerabilitiesPerformed external assessments to measure progress and build an achievable roadmap to continue to strive for improvements in Array’s cybersecurity maturity Performed cybersecurity tabletop exercises to test readiness and identified opportunities to improve upon existing incident response policies and proceduresObtained an information security risk insurance policy to provide Array and its customers with protection in the event of a cybersecurity breachWe believe that cybersecurity is a posture and a journey – not a destination – requiring continuous and consistent planning, strategic problem-solving, operational efficiency, and education. Our Cybersecurity Program continues to mature through calculated investments in people, process, technology, and strategic partnerships with business partners who understand our commitment to our customers, shareholders, and stakeholders. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve and increasing digitalization of supply chains and business inter-connectivity continues to broaden the operational threat landscape for all companies, Array is committed to continuing to evolve and adapt our security architecture, resiliency, response, and recovery processes to effectively meet persistent and growing threats. From a privacy standpoint, Array is committed to meeting the regulatory requirements in the environments Array operates. This includes the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Brazil’s General Personal Data Protection Act (LGPD), and California’s Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), among others. To that end, Array continues to build out its data privacy framework and intends to roll out an updated privacy policy and personal data protection framework in 2023. Array’s Data Protection Officer (DPO) has overall responsibility on the privacy policies and practices.62INDUSTRIAL CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACYAND DATA PRIVACY  ETHICAL AND TRANSPARENT 
 BUSINESS PRACTICESIt is the policy of Array to conduct business in an open, honest, and ethical manner. We consistently identify opportunities to embed ethical and transparent business practices into our operations and corporate strategy to increase our impact within our business, allow for positive externalities, and create a sustainable supply chain. In 2022, we went beyond what is required from a compliance perspective and embedded our high ESG standards and values throughout our business by: Strengthening Policy Documents and Disclosures: The policy documents that we updated in 2022 reflect our commitment to transparency. We will continue to strengthen our programs in alignment with our ESG strategy and codify them through our corporate documents and disclosures. Commitment to Disclosing ESG Goals and Progress: Through our annual ESG reports, we will provide an update on our progress toward the ESG goals we established. If these goals have not been met, we will continue to share the programs and initiatives in place to ensure that we are making progress. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3): In 2022, we quantified our overall GHG emissions footprint, looking beyond our own Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG impacts to also measure the significant contributions of our supply chain. Our GHG inventory now includes Scope 3 supply-chain-related emissions, allowing us to better quantify our emissions and manage climate risks.   Additionally, we apply a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption at every level of our business. Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy provides guidance in accordance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other anti-corruption laws, applies to all individuals working at all levels of Array and its subsidiaries, and governs all their interactions on behalf of Array. Employees must ensure they have read, understood, and are in compliance with the policies. Array provides employees various ways to report policy violations, including a 24-hour, third-party-managed Integrity Hotline (telephone, email, web). A no-retaliation policy protects employees who raise such concerns.63LOBBYING AND ADVOCACYLOBBYING AND ADVOCACY At Array, we understand the importance of leveraging our platform as a global leader in solar tracking technology to advance the transition toward clean energy. In addition to identifying opportunities to meet with federal and state-level representatives about strengthening the U.S. solar industry, we are on the Board of the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) and actively support their initiatives and advocacy efforts through our membership.THE INFLATION REDUCTION ACT The historic passage of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in 2022 supports our efforts to accelerate the clean energy transition and allows for the equitable distribution of clean and reliable power. While the IRA includes large subsidies across the entire solar supply chain, solar projects that use U.S. products are especially well positioned to receive the full subsidy and support this transition. We look forward to leveraging our U.S. supply base and our asset-light operating model to support our customers as they look to meet the IRA’s domestic content requirements. 