SOCIALOUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIESArray recognizes that our people are our most critical resource, and we value them not only as employees but also as human beings with vital roles in their families and communities. To support them in their work and personal lives, we offer competitive pay, benefits for eligible employees, and a variety of training and professional development opportunities, all in a safe, healthy, and respectful 
work environment. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES – FOSTERING A GREAT WORK ENVIRONMENT Since we believe the time we spend in the office can and should be just as satisfying and enjoyable as life off the clock, we plan events and panel discussions to create meaningful engagement opportunities for our employees.INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAYFor International Women’s Day, we 
moderated a panel discussion focused on women in the workforce and the experiences and contributions they bring to the world 
every day.FAMILY DAY IN PAMPLONA When we opened the doors of our office in Pamplona, we hosted a Family Day to welcome our new team members and their loved ones to our office! This event included a cookie customization workshop, and we served chocolate in our personalized cups.AWARENESS OF EQUALITY In recognition of the International Day of the Mujer, we partnered with Fundación Koine-Aequalitas to host a workshop on awareness of equality at our office in Pamplona.  Throughout the workshop, we discussed the origins of International Day of the Mujer, the gender inequalities that still exist, and the sexual division of labor.We also enjoyed bringing the Array and STI Norland teams together for team-building events to further integrate our organizations. A priority for us this year was enhancing intercultural understanding and ensuring good communications across languages and time zones. We worked to ensure translation services for all major internal communications, and to create opportunities for employees to understand the customs, cultures, and traditions of our growing organization. 44EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We believe that Array has potential to make a tremendous impact in the community. To increase our engagement with local, mission-consistent organizations in Pamplona, we began working with The Osasuna Foundation. This nonprofit organization was created to promote the “integral education of children and youth and the social inclusion of the most vulnerable” and shares many of our values.  Part of the Osasuna Foundation’s mission is to promote companionship, respect, equality, and cooperation. At Array, these values align with our culture and inform our daily interactions and projects. We share values like passion when it comes to developing our projects, allowing us to create a productive and supportive work environment. One of the latest and most interesting initiatives of the Osasuna Foundation is the promotion of women’s sport with the creation of the Women’s Football School this season. The Foundation also has an educational project for children in collaboration with schools in the Navarre region, with the aim of sharing the Foundation’s knowledge through drawing, language, and sport. The Osasuna Foundation also focuses on people with disabilities. It organizes sports and health safety days, with training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of semi-automatic defibrillators. In addition, the Foundation’s work goes beyond the local level, with a social project in Nicaragua that offers sports and social care to almost 300 children, where they can have a space to practice sports activities, with a soccer school and a social dining room.We are proud to sponsor this Foundation and direct our shared values, passion, and bravery into bringing innovations to the market that make our world a more sustainable place.45DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSIONOur people are the key to our long-term success, from exceeding customer expectations to advancing the boundaries of what is possible in solar technology. By embracing diversity and inclusion, we are expanding the definition of success, creating a space where each of us can bring our true selves to the game and work together to fuel opportunities across the board: for our people, company, customers, suppliers, and communities.We recognize the value of diverse perspectives and believe that amplifying underrepresented voices is critical to strengthening our organization. To ensure that we are developing programs and initiatives that effectively support a diverse workforce and recruit from diverse talent, we hired a Director of Human Resources. Our investment in creating managerial responsibility for launching and advancing these initiatives will allow us to make meaningful progress toward our goal to increase non-executive management racial and ethnic minority representation 10% from baseline year 2021 by year-end 2025.OUR DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES WILL ALSO OVERSEE OUR MULTI-YEAR PLAN THAT IS DESIGNED TO CREATE MEANINGFUL AND MEASURABLE PROGRESS TO ADVANCE DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION ACROSS ARRAY AND BEYOND. WE ARE COMMITTED TO: Identifying and instituting deeper talent inclusion initiativesExpanding learning resources to achieve diverse workforce metricsAddressing economic equality in our supply chain by evaluating and analyzing our supplier relationshipsListening to employee feedback, amplifying underrepresented voices, and taking action to meet our teams’ needsOur Employee Handbook lays out our commitment to being an equal opportunity employer in recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, transfers, training, compensation, benefits, employee activities and general treatment during employment. The handbook also contains statements and guidance on our anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policies, which covers employees, management, clients, customers, vendors and other third parties, both in the workplace and in work-related settings. Procedures for reporting infractions are detailed, including phone/online reporting to our anonymous, third party-managed ethics hotline. All new hires must complete anti-harassment, discrimination, and code of conduct training, with yearly refresher training mandated for all employees.Looking ahead, we plan to establish a formal Employee Resource Group (ERG) program to provide our team with networking opportunities and support. In 2022, we made progress toward establishing an ERG program by sending a survey to all employees, including our STI Norland colleagues, that requested information about which identities would be meaningful to have a forum for engagement, support and allyship at Array. More than half of the people who took the survey said they would be interested in leading one of these ERGs or would like to join an Array ERG.  The results of this survey provided us with meaningful information about which groups our employees are most interested in and revealed key trends that will inform the development of this program.46DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSIONWORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICSThe 2022 data below includes STI Norland. The 2021 data below exclusively reflects Legacy Array and excludes STI Norland.Workforce Demographics2022 1,04053%24%23%202147196%4%—Total Number of EmployeesREGIONAL BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES (%)United StatesEuropeSouth AmericaGender RepresentationAll data below includes STI NorlandOVERALL WORKFORCEMaleFemaleNon-BinaryChose Not to State2022 80%20%——2021 72%28%——LEADERSHIP (ALL PEOPLE LEADERS)MaleFemaleNon-BinaryChose Not to State2022 72%28%——2021 71%29%——NON-EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIPMaleFemaleNon-BinaryChose Not to State2022 73%27%——2021 75%25%——47U.S. Race/Ethnic DiversityThe data below does not include STI NorlandU.S. WORKFORCE  WhiteAsianHispanic/LatinoBlack or African AmericanNative American or Alaska NativeNative Hawaiian or Pacific IslanderTwo or More RacesNot Specified2022 39%8%31%7%10%8%4%1%2021 40%8%31%6%10%0%4%1%U.S. LEADERSHIP WhiteAsianHispanic/LatinoBlack or African AmericanNative American or Alaska NativeNative Hawaiian or Pacific IslanderTwo or More Races2022 67%8%16%4%0%0%5%2021 69%8%14%5%0%0%4%NON-EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP WhiteAsianHispanic/LatinoBlack or African AmericanNative American or Alaska NativeNative Hawaiian or Pacific IslanderTwo or More Races2022 66%7%20%2%0%0%4%2021 69%7%15%5%0%0%5%In 2022, 56% of Array’s U.S. workforce identified as Hispanic/Latino, Indigenous, Black, Asian, or other People of Color.US RACE/ETHNIC DIVERSITYAge DiversityThe global workforce data below includes STI NorlandGLOBAL WORKFORCE < 30 Years30 - 50 Years> 50 Years2022 33%55%12%2021 18%57%25%LEADERSHIP (ALL PEOPLE LEADERS) < 30 Years30 - 50 Years> 50 Years2022 1%67%32%2021 1%69%30%NON-EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP< 30 Years30 - 50 Years> 50 Years2022 18%57%25%2021 5%58%37%The leadership and non-executive leadership data below does not include STI Norland.HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENTTALENT DEVELOPMENTAttracting and developing employees with the right skills and aptitudes remains a constant priority for our organization. We believe that to meet our business goals, we must continue to attract and retain the most talented people through continuous learning and performance reward programs.Our talent development strategy is based on building leadership capabilities, creating a responsible management culture, and recognizing and rewarding performance.Our performance and talent management program focuses on three performance development pillars:1.Results-Based Goals: We establish and manage aggressive goals that align with 
business objectives.2.Array Behaviors: We apply the six Array behaviors in everything we do. They focus not only on achieving results, but how those goals are achieved.3.Individual Development Plans: We work with our employees to align their aspirations with business needs. Through these plans, we support employee career growth initiatives consistent with organizational objectives. We also provide a generous education reimbursement policy, third-party training and certification programs, and on-the-job training. We offer progressive compensation packages, comprised of a balance between fixed and variable remuneration programs, and competitive savings and benefits programs.50HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENTMetric20212022Total Annual Employee Turnover43%*26%Bureau of Labor Statistics Industry Annual 
Employee Turnover Benchmark 40% 39%—14%Voluntary Turnover*The total annual turnover rate for 2022 is not reflective of our management and salaried workforce and can be attributed to STI Norland’s reduction in direct labor workforce, following the completion of several large projectsEMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETYArray recognizes that our people drive our business, and we are committed to safeguarding our employees, protecting their health, and creating a safe work environment. By integrating health, safety, and environmental considerations into all aspects of our business, we are protecting our employees and the environment, driving compliance with all applicable regulations, accelerating productivity, and achieving sustainable growth. In 2022, we carefully evaluated our existing employee health and safety programs and proactively identified opportunities to strengthen them. To create an environment that protects the health, safety, and well-being of our employees, we: 1 Hired a Health, Safety, and Environmental (HSE) Manager: Our HSE manager is responsible for identifying and implementing safety enhancements throughout our manufacturing facilities.2 Continued Monthly Injury Analyses: In accordance with our Safety Management Manual, we conduct a monthly analysis of all recordable employee injuries to identify and implement prevention mechanisms. We carefully evaluate the types of recurring injuries, the nature of those injuries, and where they occurred. This approach allows us to create targeted trainings to prevent future incidents. 3 Created Specific Safety Training Programs: Our safety trainings focus 
on high-occurrence issues, which we identify through our monthly analysis of 
all recordable injuries. Our safety trainings are also informed by operator leads 
and supervisors who investigate the incidents that occur and report them 
to management.EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETYMaintained Strong Employee Engagement Practices: Our Safety Committees meet monthly to provide a platform for employee engagement 
and gather input directly from those working in our manufacturing facility. 
These committee members serve as safety captains on the production floor 
and are offered additional emergency response training, which includes first 
aid, CPR, risk assessment, and safety procedures.4 5 Added a Nurse Advice Line: We added a 24-hour Nurse Advice Line to 
our overall Safety Management Program, allowing us to ensure that employees who experience an incident immediately receive the appropriate level of medical attention. The Nurse Advice Line helps our team determine the severity of incidents that occur and allows them to virtually meet with a doctor if needed.ARRAY’S OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
AND SAFETY POLICYEmployees shall report any unsafe work practices or safety hazards encountered on the job. Array follows strict compliance to all applicable federal, state, local, and company policies and procedures. We make every reasonable effort to provide a safe and healthful workplace free from any recognized or known potential hazards.Additionally, employee engagement and continuous training are the foundation of creating a positive, safe, and secure workplace. Our employees receive safety training appropriate to their duties, and we provide robust training programs for each of Array’s critical processes. This includes risk assessment, reviews of Safety Data Sheets (SDS), machine operation, and part specification and quality. We also seek employee feedback to improve the workplace for everyone.	Array’s safety program also includes regular monthly safety audits of our facilities and follows a thorough corrective action process to address issues, incidents, and accidents.AT ARRAY, WE SUBSCRIBE TO 
THE FOLLOWING PRINCIPLES:All accidents are preventable through the implementation of effective safety and health control policies and programs, supported by employees reporting any unsafe work practices or safety hazards encountered on the job. All accidents/incidents are to be immediately reported to the supervisor on duty.Safety and health controls are a major part of our work every day.Accident prevention is good business. It minimizes human suffering, promotes better working conditions for everyone, deepens customers’ regard for our company, and increases productivity. Therefore, Array complies with all safety and health regulations that apply to the course and scope of our operations, and why we require our employees to comply with all applicable federal, state, local, and company policies and procedures. Compliance failures may result in disciplinary action.54OUR COMMITMENT TO SAFETYManagement is committed to providing the safest possible workplace for our employees, and to allocating and providing all resources needed to promote and effectively implement our safety policies.Employees are responsible for following safe work practices and company rules for preventing accidents and injuries. Management maintains lines of communication to solicit and receive comments, information, suggestions, and assistance from employees regarding safety and health matters.Management and supervisors of Array are required to model exemplary attitudes and a strong commitment to safety and health in the workplace. Toward this end, management monitors company safety and health performance, working environment and working conditions to ensure the achievement of program objectives.Our safety program applies to all employees and persons affected by or associated in any way with the scope of our business, and all work conducted by Array employees will consider the intent of our safety and health policies.55SOLAR JUSTICE AND 
						 ENERGY AFFORDABILITYAs a leading American company and global provider of utility-scale solar tracker technology, we believe it is our responsibility to increase access to clean sources of energy for all communities. This includes identifying and addressing energy challenges for historically marginalized and low-income communities. THE BLACK BEAR SOLAR PROJECT Lightsource BP and the Alabama Municipal Electric Authority (AMEA) share our commitment to expanding the reach of renewable energy. In 2022, we contributed to the success of Black Bear Solar – one of Alabama’s largest solar farms – by manufacturing the solar trackers used for the project. Lightsource BP and AMEA recognized that the price volatility associated with natural gas often hinders the equitable distribution of energy, and low-income communities are especially impacted by extreme price changes. To support AMEA’s efforts to diversify their fuel resources, increase access to clean energy, and protect low-income communities from the negative effects of price volatility, we welcomed the opportunity to manufacture the solar trackers for this project. Black Bear Solar was built using more than 280,000 ultra-low-carbon solar panels from First Solar and will deliver solar energy to AMEA under a 20-year power sales agreement from Lightsource BP. Our contribution helps diversify Alabama’s energy resources, allowing AMEA to provide dependable clean energy to 11 member municipal utilities. This project offsets more than 173,252 metric tons of carbon emissions each year and powers 20,000 homes in Alabama. The economic benefits of this project include generating $7 million in property tax revenue for county schools over the 
project’s lifecycle. As communities struggle to consistently access affordable energy, we will continue to identify opportunities to effectively address these disparities.