MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIPLETTER FROM THE CEO2022 has been a year of tremendous growth for Array and the clean energy industry. With climate action at the center of our entire business strategy, our company has grown in step with the global shift toward renewable energy.  As changing customer preferences and increased economic and environmental volatility continue to threaten traditional energy sources, the use of our durable and high-quality solar trackers has never been greater. Our trackers are designed to withstand the harshest conditions on the planet, and they are increasingly important to providing consumers with consistent and secure access to power. We are well positioned to be a key player in the global march toward a clean energy future and to join the global business community in addressing some of the greatest challenges of our time. Our goal is to provide current generations with energy sources they can depend on and reduce climate-related risks for future generations. In 2022, we addressed the current and future demand for renewable energy by focusing on international expansion and global community engagement. In addition to becoming a signatory of the UN Global Compact and endorsing the UN Global Compact CEO water mandate, we acquired Soluciones Técnicas Integrales Norland (STI Norland), making us a global leader in solar tracking technology. We invested in integrating our two strong organizations, and we used this transformational time as an opportunity to further embed sustainability into our business, advance our operational excellence, and strengthen our commitment to environmental and social responsibility. Our goal is to provide current generations with energy sources they can depend on and reduce climate-related risks for future generations. In 2022, we addressed the current and future demand for renewable energy by focusing on international expansion and global community engagement.““As we continue to expand globally, our commitment to our improved mission and values will differentiate us from our competition and guide our company culture. Our investment in aligning the organizational values of STI Norland and Array will allow us to leverage our strong global presence to advance the clean energy future that our world deserves. It has been a true pleasure to watch the company grow and evolve over the past year, and I look forward to the new opportunities for our company and this industry ahead. We have a major part to play in the energy transition and will continue to find ways to expand both our handprint and footprint to achieve a greater impact.MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIPLETTER FROM ESG LEADERSHIPThis last year was pivotal for Array in so many ways. In addition to acquiring STI Norland, we worked tirelessly to operationalize our ESG strategy to further define our corporate culture and make sustainability the way we work. Following our first materiality assessment, we heard our stakeholder priorities clearly and the need to excel at ESG strategy as a key member of the renewable energy value chain. We identified several key priorities for our organization to meet stakeholder needs and formalized these as our 2025 midterm ESG goals and priorities for our internal working groups. During the materiality process, we listened to our customers, industry partners, investors, and our board to ensure alignment with a net zero future was table stakes for a company whose products are a key enabler of decarbonization. While it can take several years to mature corporate climate strategy, we set the audacious internal goal of setting a Science-Based Target (SBTi) by the end of 2023. Having just completed a large acquisition, this was a tall order for our team. Nevertheless, our ESG working group launched into action with the help of a third-party climate specialist to engage suppliers to construct our first Scope 3 inventory and to model our corporate growth into the future to set credible Science-Based Targets. The team worked tirelessly to engage our supplier network in record time to drive momentum and to meet the pace and scale needed for decarbonization. We are in the process of finalizing our formal goals and are on track to submit later this year. We heard from our employees and investors that we needed to make progress on board diversity. After setting a goal to improve board gender representation by 2025, we were able to deliver on this promise within our first year of goal-setting with the addition of Tracy Jokinen to our board of directors. While we view this as progress, we will continue to strive for diversity in all aspects of our operations. As we develop competency in goal-setting and meeting our commitments, we plan to continually set new goals and drive strong governance around these areas to hold ourselves accountable to action. We heard from our investors that our third-party ratings were not reflective of our sustainability performance. We worked diligently to engage each of these priority ratings groups and made significant progress across key areas, including receiving a 3-letter grade increase in our MSCI ESG score, a “Low Risk” rating from Sustainalytics, and “Prime Status” rating from ISS ESG. In just our third year as a publicly listed company on NASDAQ, we continue to expand our scope of sustainability reporting to ensure stakeholders have consistent and accurate data in the formats that are most useful to them. This builds on our working premise that as a company we can perform well financially while also positively contributing to the communities we serve.As we move forward with our relentless bias for action, we still have much to accomplish. Our goals to improve safety, enterprise diversity, and meet our climate targets are keen priorities for our management team. We welcome continued partnership and engagement from our stakeholders to help meet our vision of sustainability. Our passion for our work is not met just with words, but also our collective actions....we listened to our customers, industry partners, investors, and our board to ensure alignment with a net zero future was table stakes for a company whose 
products are a key enabler 
of decarbonization.““5OUR COMPANYCOMPANY OVERVIEWArray is a leading American company and global provider of utility-scale solar tracker technology. Founded and headquartered in the United States, we develop high-quality solar trackers that withstand the harshest conditions on the planet and maximize energy, accelerating the adoption of cost-effective and sustainable power. In 2020, Array became a public company. And, in 2022, we acquired Soluciones Técnicas Integrales Norland (STI Norland), making us a global leader in solar tracking technology with an established presence in the rapidly growing Brazilian solar market. Through this acquisition and our international expansion into Europe, LATAM, and South Africa, we are meeting the rising global demand for utility-scale solar power. Our shared commitment to creating reliable and durable products that can withstand extreme weather events, coupled with Array STI H250’s ability to design solar trackers that can adapt to virtually any type of layout and terrain, allows us to effectively serve our customers, contribute to the growth and innovation of the solar industry, and light the way to a brighter, smarter future for clean energy. OUR COMPANYOur values represent what is important to us. They show how we should behave in order for Array to be successful. As we grow ever more global, they ensure our culture is consistent wherever we operate in the world.Putting Passion into Action: We are passionate about the planet and proud to devote our talents each day toward forwarding sustainable energy and curbing climate change.Respecting What’s Right: We treat our partners, our people, and our planet with respect, and we act with integrity in all that we do.Problem-Solving through Technology and Teamwork:  
We apply the power of technology and teamwork to pioneer solutions and turn obstacles into opportunities.ARRAY’S CORE VALUESWe apply the six Array behaviors below to everything we do.Growth and Customer Focus: Delivering world-class quality, value, and service every day to our customers
and valuable stakeholdersGetting Results: Acting with dependability and accountability by taking educated risks that drive breakthrough performanceLeadership: Modeling passion, skill, courage, and respect to achieve and inspire greatnessEffective Communication: Meeting objectives by bringing order, clarity, precision, and active listening to 
all communicationsTeamwork and Diversity: Mobilizing diverse capabilities and perspectives to capture new ideas 
and opportunitiesFunctional Excellence: Challenging ourselves and others to pursue continuous growth in our roles and understand our function’s impact on financial performance7ARRAY’S OPERATIONSGlobal headquartersand manufacturing siteAlbuquerque,
New MexicoNumber of Employees (FY 22)
1,040Offices in
Albuquerque, New MexicoGreater Phoenix, ArizonaDerby, United KingdomSão Paulo, BrazilSydney, AustraliaPamplona, Spain Port Elizabeth, South Africa Revenue (FY 22)$1.638MARRAY’S OPERATIONSInstallations in26 Countries
U.S., Spain, Australia, Brazil, South Africa, UK, Turkey, El Salvador, Dominican Republic, Argentina, Chile, Romania, Italy, Sri Lanka, Canada, Jordan, Botswana, Egypt, France, Israel, Mexico, Peru, Japan, Portugal, Morocco, and Senegal.2022 ESG HIGHLIGHTSOPERATIONSGLOBAL PRESENCE: NEW OPERATIONS WITH STI NORLANDLEADERSHIP: BRAZILIAN SOLAR MARKETESG STRATEGY AND OVERSIGHTMATERIALITY ASSESSMENTENHANCED ESG GOVERNANCEESG GOALS, TARGETS, AND COMMITMENTSESG GOALSUNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORYSBTI AND CLIMATE ENHANCEMENTSESG RATINGS AND RECOGNITIONSMSCI RATING IMPROVEMENTISS PRIME STATUSSUSTAINALYTICSECOVADIS2022 CLEANIE AWARDS2022 ESG HIGHLIGHTSExpanded our international footprint through the acquisition of STI Norland and strengthened our position as the global leader in solar tracking.We became a leader in the rapidly growing Brazilian solar market with seven of the ten best-performing solar parks in Brazil using the STI H250 dual-row tracker. We conducted a formal materiality assessment and identified priority topics, which have the greatest impact on our business and on society. Our ESG goals and strategy align with these priority topics.Our governance structure ensures that each of our priority areas are well managed. Our ESG governance and oversight includes our: • Nominating and Governance Committee ESG Review Quarterly• ESG Executive Steering Committee • ESG Working GroupWe accomplished our governance goal by increasing board female representation to 22% and progressed toward meeting the remaining 2025 goals.We became a signatory of the UN Global Compact and endorsed the UN Global Compact CEO water mandate. We improved our accounting of Scope 3 emissions to better quantify our supply chain emissions and manage climate risks. We are finalizing our modeling for a Science-Based Target (SBTi) and are on track to submit our targets by the end of 2023. Array Technologies’ ESG strategy and initiatives were recognized by award programs and ratings agencies.MSCI recognized Array Technologies with an A rating, which is a three-position improvement from our previous score (B).ISS awarded Array Technologies with Prime Status in recognition of our ambitious ESG performance requirements.We received an ESG Risk Rating of 15.7 from Morningstar Sustainalytics and were assessed to be at Low Risk of experiencing material financial impacts from ESG factors. We participated in EcoVadis’ sustainability assessment and were recognized with a Bronze Medal and certificate, which is awarded to the top 50% of the companies evaluated.We were recognized as a silver winner of the 2022 Corporate Sustainability Initiative by The Cleanie Awards® for our 
strong ESG governance structure and strategy. MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONSACERA – La Asociación Chilena de Energías Renovables y AlmacenamientoAEE – Advanced Energy EconomyAIN – Asociación de la Industria NavarraArizona Forward – Member, sustainability committee memberArizona Technology Council Asolmex – Asociación Mexicana de Energía SolarATEG – Asociación Técnica Española de GalvanizaciónCEC – Clean Energy CouncilEnerclusterFundación Industrial NavarraGPEC – Greater Phoenix Economic CouncilOut and Equal SAPVIA – South African Photovoltaic Industry AssociationSEIA – Solar Energy Industries Association SEPA – Smart Electric Power AllianceSolartysUNEF – Unión Española FotovoltaicaUNGC – United Nations Global Compact Signatory122022 ESG HIGHLIGHTS13OUR STRATEGYOUR STRATEGYESG STRATEGY OVERVIEWAt Array, our business strategy is designed to take climate action by helping to facilitate the global energy transition. As a company dedicated to responsibility and long-term sustainability, we recognize the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics that pose opportunities and risks to our business. Our strategy is focused on understanding our stakeholder needs through regular engagement, managing the priority areas of ESG that pose the greatest risks and opportunities to our business, and communicating transparently on how we drive good governance into every function. In 2022, we took several steps to enhance our approach to ESG strategy and reporting. In addition to aligning our ESG reporting with leading frameworks – including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) – we conducted our inaugural ESG materiality assessment by engaging key stakeholders to understand areas of ESG risk and opportunity for our business and for society. We met with employees across the organization, including our new STI Norland colleagues, along with members of the board, investors, and suppliers to determine the priority areas of ESG strategy. We gathered helpful feedback from our stakeholders to understand our current performance and how we can improve in ways that are most impactful. The results of this assessment allowed us to focus our approach on topics that can have a significant impact for our business and our stakeholders. Aligned with our priority topics, we established our first set of ESG goals with a time horizon of 2025. These topics include climate strategy, energy efficiency, safety, enterprise diversity, and board diversity. We commit to report on our progress annually and continue advancing other priority areas resulting from our materiality assessment. 15MATERIALITY ASSESSMENTDEFINING MATERIAL ESG TOPICS In 2022, we conducted a formal materiality assessment to identify material ESG topics and build internal alignment across functions and business leaders on ESG priorities. We define material topics as those that have the greatest impact for our business and our stakeholders. We began this process by developing a list of relevant ESG topics from leading reporting frameworks and standards (GRI, SASB, and TCFD) and comparing them against peer disclosures. Then, we engaged key internal and external stakeholders to identify the topics that have the greatest impact. Our stakeholder groups are our employees (including our new STI Norland colleagues), board members, customers, suppliers, and investors. We incorporated their perspectives into the assessment and identified 18 material topics.   1Topics to Prioritize: These topics are important to Array’s business and to society. We are prioritizing these topics, and our ESG goals and company strategy align with them.  TIER2Topics to Manage: These topics are important to Array’s business and to society respectively, and we are committed to regularly reporting on our management of these key areas. TIER3Topics to Monitor: We are committed to ensuring compliance and overall good practice around our tier-three topics as they are relevant to our business and our stakeholders. TIER16MATERIALITY ASSESSMENTTIER 1TIER 2TIER 3Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Risks and Opportunities Product Safety and Quality Water ManagementEnergy Management Protection of Natural Resources, Biodiversity, and Land UseWaste ManagementENVIRONMENTALProduct MarketingEmployee Engagement and Well-beingSolar Justice/Energy AffordabilityCommunity EngagementHuman Capital Management Diversity, Equity, and InclusionSupply Chain Management and Responsible Sourcing Employee Health and SafetySOCIALN/ABoard Diversity and Independence Ethical and Transparent Business PracticesIndustrial Cybersecurity and Data PrivacyLobbying and AdvocacyGOVERNANCE17ESG GOALS AND PROGRESSOur ESG goals and company strategy align with the priority topics that we identified in our materiality assessment, and they represent a step forward in our ESG journey. While we are on track to accomplish these goals by year-end 2025, we intend to continue to add and enhance our ESG goals in alignment with our ambition for sustainability. The table below reflects our progress on each of these goals, and we welcome engagement and partnerships to help us achieve our ambition. PERFORMANCE
METRIC2021 BASELINE
METRICESG TOPIC2025 GOALESG THEMEENVIRONMENTALSOCIALGOVERNANCEESG GOALS AND PROGRESS2022 PERFORMANCESTATUSIn Progress: In the past two years, Array has deployed over 24GW of clean energy producing single axis solar trackers, including nearly 15 GW in 2022. We measure sales and shipments of solar power on a quarterly basis and will continue to track our progress through the end of 2025.2022 Deployment: 15 GW Ahead: We are ahead of our goal of reducing our emissions intensity from our baseline year. In 2022, we realized an intensity of 0.63, which is significantly lower than our baseline intensity of 3.2. This was achieved through a combination of greater detail to emissions accounting and significantly growing our revenue from baseline year. We will work to maintain this performance, continually improve our intensity, and set longer-term targets aligned with science-based methods for decarbonization.0.63 MT CO2e/ $MM Revenue 
(80% reduction from baseline)In Progress: In 2022, we prioritized enhancements to reduce energy consumption. These included converting to LED lights in our Albuquerque facility, upgrading evaporating coolers, and utilizing more efficient saw equipment. We currently produce 2.5 – 4.0% of our electricity from our rooftop solar and, combined with our renewable energy mix from our utility Power New Mexico (PNM), our overall renewable energy consumption ranges between 22-26% on average. A key priority moving forward is to improve accuracy for renewable energy data reporting. Additionally, we plan to conduct an energy study in 2023 to identify opportunities for future enhancements.  22-26% (no change)In Progress: In 2022, our final TRIR was 3.95. This is an increase from our 2021 TRIR of 2.18, which we attribute to improved measurement and data collection and increased visibility into reportable incidents. While this metric has gone up, we are committed to process improvement and have implemented several safety measures to meet our goal and create a safe work environment. Specifically, we hired a Health, Safety, and Environmental (HSE) Manager to drive safety improvements, and we identified several opportunities for safety enhancements. To further create a safe and productive work environment for our employees, we focused our trainings on high-occurrence issues and maintained an open line of communication with those working in our facilities. Further details can be found in the Safety section of this report.3.95 (+1.77)In Progress: In 2022, we observed a decrease in our female workforce representation and are committed to enhance our programs to meet our stated goal. In 2022, we were successful in increasing female representation within our leadership team, increasing from 25% in 2021 to 27% in 2022. We believe this progress will have an impact on our long-term ability to attract and retain women and support our progress toward our 2025 goal. Please note that we attribute the reduction in female representation to the addition of the STI Norland workforce. We will be identifying opportunities to establish new combined total workforce female representation goals based on our new combined Array and STI Norland 2022 Baseline.20% (-8%)In Progress: At Array, we recognize the value of diverse perspectives and believe that amplifying underrepresented voices is critical to strengthening our organization. We hired a Director of Human Resources who is responsible for developing programs and initiatives to create a diverse workforce and recruit from diverse talent. Our investment in creating managerial responsibility for launching and advancing these initiatives will allow us to make meaningful progress toward our goal, and we look forward to reporting on our progress. 34% (+3%) Complete: We advanced board gender diversity, having welcomed Tracy Jokinen to our board in November of 2022. We will continue to prioritize advancing our board nomination practices and ensuring diversity of background and thought to strengthen good governance.