OUR PRODUCTSFrom our early days patenting the industry’s first commercial solar tracker, to our recent acquisition of STI Norland, our focus on engineered simplicity has reduced customer risk and increased reliability. As solar demand grows and installations reach every corner of the world, we are building products that can endure the most challenging conditions, from desert heat to arctic cold, and adapt to virtually any type of layout, terrain, and budgetary needs. With an eye toward the future, we’re researching new ways for our products to enable next-generation energy production and storage—lighting the way to a brighter, smarter future. PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITYSustainability is embedded into each phase of our product lifecycle, from our partnerships with suppliers to our manufacturing practices. Array’s product lifecycle includes four distinct phases: 1 Sourcing: We source our materials from suppliers that share our commitment to sustainability. 
We prefer to use recycled aluminum or recycled steel whenever possible to reduce our overall impact, and we identify opportunities to source components that are highly recyclable at the end of their useful life. 2 Manufacturing: In our manufacturing, we seek to minimize waste, enhance the sustainability of our operations, and ensure that our products are made responsibly. For example, we collect the aluminum shavings from our manufacturing operations to form condensed pucks of aluminum for more efficient recycling. Please see the environmental section for more information about how we incorporate sustainable practices into our manufacturing process.  3 Installation: During the installation phase, we offer training to customers on product installation to help ensure the quality and durability of our systems.  4 End of Life: In our installation manual, we provide our customers with guidance on proper disposal of the tracker system at the end of its 30-year lifecycle. Our customers have not retired any sites to date, but we will have more robust data about the rates of recyclability of our products when they reach the end of their useful life.ENGINEERED SIMPLICITY TO HELP POWER THE WORLDDuraTrack®Efficient, adaptable, and durable design makes it easier to go big on solar.LEADING POWERDENSITYMore groundcoverage =more powerLEADING TERRAIN ADAPTABILITYReduced need for site grading = easier installationFEWER COMPONENTSEasier and faster installation, greater reliabilityLINKED-ROW,
MOTOR-DRIVEN DESIGNOne motor drives 32+ linked rows with over 100 modules vs. multiple motors/battery packsMODULE 
AGNOSTICFlexible design adaptable 
to different modulesHIGHLY RELIABLE WIND MITIGATIONFully mechanical, passivesystem = fewer failure pointsZERO SCHEDULEDMAINTENANCEMaintenance-free motors and gears = less downtime, less costArray STI H250Dual-Row Solar TrackerSITE ADAPTABILITY  Ideally suited for sites with irregular boundaries, highly angled blocks, or fragmented project areasARRAY STI H250 IS DESIGNED FOR A FAVORABLE 
LEVELIZED COST OF ENERGY (LCOE). ENGINEERED SIMPLICITY TO HELP POWER THE WORLDOPTIMIZED CONFIGURATIONDual-row structure with approximately 60 photovoltaic modules per row in a vertical position (1V)SINGLE MOTOR Single motor moves up 
to 120 modulesHIGH STANDARDS Reliable and durableSUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ANDRESPONSIBLE SOURCING We follow a thorough supplier vetting process that helps ensure compliance with all applicable laws. This process leads suppliers through several stages to evaluate their approach to capacity, strategic sourcing, supplier selection, procurement, inventory, engineering, and capability. Each step provides an opportunity for incremental reviews. Our sourcing team is dedicated to ensuring that our products are sourced responsibly, and that our suppliers meet our environmental and social standards. As part of our ESG due diligence and supplier vetting process, our team requires suppliers to provide representations and warranties in the applicable supply agreements that they will adhere to the environmental, social, and regulatory standards outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct and related policies, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations around anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, business with sanctioned parties, conflict minerals, forced labor, human rights, equal opportunity, and financial ethics.This process is designed to address critical issues in supply chain management and reflects our risk-based approach to ensuring that our suppliers comply with our quality, environmental, and social standards. Our environmental standards include evaluating environmental performances of their activities, ensuring efficient use of water and energy, and working to reduce hazardous waste and emissions. Our social standards include respecting human rights and providing a safe, secure, and healthy workspace for all employees.To increase supplier transparency, our supplier quality engineers conduct regular supplier audits to ensure that suppliers are adhering to the Supplier Quality Manual, which includes ISO 9001, 14001, and 45001 standards.Furthermore, we are continually working to expand the recycled content of our products to ensure that we are sourcing responsibly and improving the environmental profile of our systems. Through strategic partnerships with suppliers like Nucor, we are working to increase the supply of green steel used in our trackers, which not only lowers the embedded energy, carbon, and water impacts of our sourcing, but also improves the recyclability of our products at the end of life.24SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSUPPLIER FEATURE: At Array, we are committed to driving environmental sustainability and circularity into the design and composition of our trackers. We are proud to partner with Nucor, the largest recycler of steel in the United States, to produce key components of our solar trackers with environmental sustainability as a key value. Nucor’s long-standing commitment to recycling, coupled with their investment in solar and other renewable energy sources to sustainably power the production process, directly aligns with our mission and values. This partnership was established in 2020 and has played an increasingly important role in supporting the transition toward renewable energy given the recent passage of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). While the IRA includes large subsidies across the entire solar supply chain, solar projects that use U.S. products are especially well positioned to receive the full subsidy and support this transition. As a U.S. company and a leading supplier for our products, Nucor allows us to effectively support our customers’ efforts to receive the full benefits of the IRA subsidies. Our partnership with Nucor exemplifies our commitment to working with mission-consistent suppliers, ensuring that our products are made with sustainably sourced materials, and facilitating the clean energy transition in an environmentally responsible manner. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Nucor as we continue to grow.“Array Technologies values Nucor’s commitment to sustainability and how it complements our overall mission of ‘generating energy with integrity for a sustainable world.’ Nucor has world-leading processes for generating ‘green steel’ that aligns with our environmental goals and the expectations of our customers.– Gary Bennett, Chief Procurement Officer at Array Technologies“25PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITYIn 2022, Array established new programs for Manufacturing Engineering and Packaging Engineering to drive product quality outcome improvements. We are underway with a layout transformation of our Albuquerque facility that includes the purchase of new, more energy-efficient saws for production and major refurbishment of existing equipment to improve process control of our production processes. We planned a Lean transformation of our manufacturing operations to reduce waste and streamline our work processes. We have engaged all our employees in training programs with expert consultants to drive cultural transformation. Lean projects will drive improvements in safety by reducing strain and improvement in ergonomics of the production processes. Quality Array maintained its status as an ISO 9001:2015 certified organization, passing its external audit without any non-conformities. Our Quality Management System includes design, supply, manufacture, and commission of Array solar tracker systems. Key processes with our Quality Management System include:1.Vendor Approval Process: Utilize robust auditing practices to qualify potential 
suppliers and ensure existing suppliers maintain our quality standards. 2.Production Part Approval Process: Verify each supplier has effective and sustainable manufacturing practices for each part they produce for Array.3.Corrective Action Process: Capture issues to investigate root causes to prevent 
occurrence and recurrence in similar situations. Our quality objectives focus on risk reduction, opportunity enhancement, and ensuring effective process control to prevent defects. Array’s Field Service team has expanded in 2022. The team added a Director of Training and Development to provide product and installation training to customers for more efficient, accurate, and safe installation of the Array trackers. Our service team conducts daily safety assessments for each day they are on a customer site to ensure awareness of site hazards and conditions.26PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITYIn addition to maintaining our status as an ISO 9001:2015 certified organization, we invested in product safety and quality by establishing the Array Tech Research Center and hiring a Manufacturing Engineer and a Packaging Engineer. We are also members of the Asociación Técnica Española de Galvanización (ATEG).The Array Tech Research Center: We established the Array Tech Research Center in Phoenix, Arizona, to accelerate tracker innovation, strengthen customer collaboration, and create a space dedicated to researching, developing, and field testing advanced solar tracker technology. This allows us to constantly improve our products and create solar trackers that are highly durable with a fully passive, failure-free wind-load mitigation system that do not rely on sensors or electricity. ATEG Membership: To further ensure that our trackers can endure extreme weather events, and to prevent the metal components of our solar trackers from functionally deteriorating over time through corrosion, we are members of Asociación Técnica Española de Galvanización (ATEG). This organization promotes technical research and the improvement of the environmental management of the anti-corrosion treatment process, which allows us to provide the highest confidence of quality.The high quality and adaptability of Array’s products contributes to the success of many projects, including a hybrid power plant that we helped develop in Brazil. The Serra do Mato solar project is a hybrid power plant that features both solar modules 
and wind turbines. 27SERRA DO MATO SOLAR PROJECT CASE STUDYLocated in northwestern Brazil on the coast of the state of Ceará, this hybrid site was engineered within a fully operating wind site. Given the challenging landscape, this site required a solar layout that could operate around the shadow effects caused by the wind tower blades with solar trackers that could adapt to the highly specific soil and underground conditions. Due to the high quality and adaptability of Array’s solar trackers, coupled with our guaranteed technical support, Array was well positioned to contribute to the success 
of this project. As the Array project manager notes, 
Array won the contract because its dual-row model tracker is one of the most adaptable trackers in the Brazilian market.Array provided 1,980 Array STI H250 dual-row trackers for the site’s 230,000 solar modules, along with engineering and logistics support, and on-site assembly instructions. Power from the utility-scale project will supply Brazil’s National Interconnected System of electrical transmission. In addition to optimizing the project space, this site reduces negative environmental impacts and concentrates two projects providing renewable energy in the same space. 28CASE STUDY — THE SERRA DO MATO SOLAR PROJECTPRODUCT MARKETINGAt Array, we understand the importance of educating consumers about our products and their impacts. Transparency is a key component of our marketing practices, and we are committed to providing consumers with accurate and reliable information about our products and their impacts. We believe that our approach to transparency and engagement will allow consumers to make the most informed decisions and accelerate the transition toward renewable energy. Additionally, we proactively identify opportunities to verify our business practices and product quality through third-party certifications. Specifically, our products and manufacturing process are certified through UL Solutions, which qualifies that the design of Array’s DuraTrack Solar Tracker and STI H250 comply with IEC62817 necessary regulations and standards. Our products are also certified by RINA to verify their quality and compliance with all necessary regulations and standards.  