ESG STRATEGY Product Environmental Our People Governance, Ethics Appendix Leadership Sustainability Initiatives and Integrity ESG STRATEGY Sustainability is the essence of our business, motivating us to create products that improve the efficiency of solarphotovoltaic (PV) arrays and enable the transition to a low-carbon renewable energy future. In our second year of ESG reporting, we continue to enhance our transparency by aligning our ESG reporting with leading frameworks, including GRI, SASB, TCFD, and the UN SDGs. Our main objective this year was to report progress on the topicswe have identified as material and show year-on-year trends for key metrics. We also wanted to take our nextstep in setting a forward-looking ESG strategy by developing our first set of ESG goals.Later this year, we will be embarking on several projects to enhance our ESG strategy, including our inauguralmateriality assessment, additional goal-setting work, and enhancing our ESG data to align with these assessments. We look forward to reporting our progress on these steps in future ESG reports. DEFINING MATERIAL ESG TOPICS In our second year of ESG from sustainability experts, and the ones detailed in this reporting, we are continuing referenced globally recognized report, to identify the topics to define materiality in athird-party frameworks including that have the greatest impact manner consistent with our the Sustainable Accounting for our business and for society. last report. Reviewing leading Standards Board (SASB) and the We look forward to publishing ESG reporting frameworks Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). these results in our next report and standards, we assessed and welcome stakeholder relevant topics and compared Looking ahead to 2022, we are participation in our assessment. these against peer disclosures. undertaking a formal materiality For more information or to We also collected input from assessment to engage our ask to be included in our our employees, customers, stakeholders on numerous assessment, please contact gathered third-party feedback sustainability topics, including investors@arraytechinc.com. ESG GOALS In our second year of formal ESG strategy, we are excited to take our next step by setting a forward-looking ESG strategy. Working with our team, we assessed our current performance on relevant ESG topics and identified a set of inaugural goals, looking ahead to year-end 2025. These goals represent a step forward inour ESG journey and we intend to continue to add and enhance our ESG goals in alignment with our ambition for sustainability. We look forward to sharing ourprogress on each of these goals and welcome engagement and partnership to help us achieve our ambition. Environmental Solar Energy Deployment Megawatts Solar Energy Sold (MW) Sell an additional 90,000 MW of solar power by year-end 2025. Climate Action Direct (Scope 1 +2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduce direct emissions intensity 30% from baseline year 2021 by Intensity (MT CO2e/$MM Revenue) year-end 2025. Energy Management Percent Renewable Energy in Operations (%) Source 50% of our direct energy consumption from renewable energy sources by year-end 2025. Social Employee Health & Safety Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Achieve TRIR of <1.5 by year-end 2025 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Total Workforce Female Representation {%) Increase total workforce female representation by 10% from baseline year 2021 by year-end 2025. DIiversity, Equity, and Inclusion Non-Executive Management Racial and Ethnic Increase non-executive management racial and ethnic minority Minority Representation (%) representation 10% from baseline year 2021 by year-end 2025. Governance Board Composition Board Female Representation (%) Increase board female representation 22% from baseline year 2021 by year-end 2025. 2021 Message from Our Company ESG Strategy ESG REPORT Leadership 