PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITIY PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is Array’s product mission, delivering innovation, value and optimized performance that speeds our customers’ transition from fossil fuels to renewables. From our early days patenting the industry’s first commercial solar tracker, our focus on engineered simplicity has reduced customer risk and increased reliability. As solardemand grows and installations reach every corner of the world, we’re building products that are ready for the most challenging conditions, from desert heat to arctic cold. And with an eye toward the future, we’re researching new ways for our products to enable next-generation energy production and storage—lighting the way to a brighter, smarter Engineered Simplicity to Help Power the WorldDuraTrack HZ v3’s efficient, adaptable and durable design makes it easier to go big on solar.HIGHEST POWERDENSITY  LEADING TERRAIN ADAPTABILITY  FEWER COMPONENTS  LINKED-ROW, MOTOR-DRIVEN DESIGN  HIGHLY RELIABLE WINDMITIGATION  MODULE AGNOSTIC  ZERO SCHEDULED MAINTENANCE  More ground  Reduced need for site  Easier and faster installation,  One motor drives 32+ linked  Fully mechanical, passive  Flexible design adaptable to  Maintenance-free motors  coverage =  grading = easier installation  greater reliability  rows with over 100 modules  system =  different modules and gears = less downtime,  more power  vs. multiple motors/battery  fewer failure points  less cost  Note: Statements are relative to largest competitor’s products.  packs  (1) Per customer estimate, Array Lamesa Solar Facility Case Study, Renewable Energy Systems Sr. Project Manager. (2) Based on 3P grading analysis performed for Hollyfield II Solar and Buckingham Solar, assuming Midwest-based cost analysis of grading. (3) Based on Array analysis of largest competitor’s system.  (4) Based on DNV-GL’s independent review of field testing conducted by Array Technologies, May 21, 2020. (5) Based on TÜV Rheinland study published September 8, 2017.  OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CASE STUDY In an industry that’s literally changing the world, we’re always changing for the better, driving continuous improvement to give our customers optimal power production, maximum durability, and the ultimate in efficient, trouble-free use.Designed for simplicity, our trackers use 167 times fewer components than their competition—meaning 167 fewer potential problems, quicker installation and zero scheduled maintenance over the typical 30-year product lifecycle. Array’s trackers are also driven by durable motors instead of lithium batteries, with one motor controlling 32+ linked rows comprised of 100 or more solar panels, an arrangement that saves cost, maintenance and reduces waste. In the system’s brain, ourSmarTrack™softwareadjusts module angles inresponse to weather and site conditions, achieving optimum energy production without the need for additional equipment, sensors and technical staff.Our innovation helps DuraTrack HZ v3 deliver the most durable, reliable tracking system under the sun. Featuring our single-bolt module clamp and forgiving tolerances which streamline installation, our flexibly linkedarchitecture maximizes power density. However, it’s our innovative use of fewer components and a highly reliable wind management system that makes Array Technologies the best choice for solar trackers. We are motivated by efficiency because it drives our positive environmentalimpact by generating clean power faster, more simply and more effectively than anyone else. To mitigate materialimpacts, we manufacture our systems using recycled steel where possible, and have integrated sustainable design by ensuring that a portion of their components can be recycled at the end of their usable life. To mitigate the physical impacts of our products, we’ve taken steps to use recycled steel where possible in their manufacture (see Nucor feature). And since some of the materials in our products can be recycled at the end of their usable life, we’re also addressing the full lifecycle of the product. ANHEUSER-BUSCH In the heat of Pecos County Texas, Array’s DuraTrack® HZ v3 solar trackers are making a difference in the beverage industry. One of the largest corporate solar projects in the US, the Pecos County Texas plant generates 100% renewable electricity to brew Anheuser-Busch products. It was recently featured in a Budweiser commercial and helped the company meet its renewable energy goals four years ahead of schedule. Anheuser-Busch chose engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) contractor Blattner Energy to lead the way in constructing its new solar site. This was a major step in meeting these ambitious goals. Thededicated site would provide 100% renewable solar energy to power Anheuser-Busch manufacturing operations. When selecting a tracker partner, Blattner chose Array because of its high priority on collaboration and stand-alone technology. Array and Blattner played a key role in Anheuser-Busch reaching its ESG goals four years early. Ease of installation was a major factor in selecting Array’s DuraTrack. With 167 times fewer parts than competing trackers, Array’s elegantly simple design makes for fast, secure installation. Getting equipment assembled and running quickly was essential to meeting the project timeline and moving Anheuser-Bush ahead on their renewable energy goals. 2021 Message from Our Company ESG Strategy ESG REPORT Leadership CASE STUDY DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Arrays trackers are building out a reliable clean power grid in unpredictable weather. The Dominican Republic is in the process of overhauling its power grid. Add to this that the government intends to generate 25% of all power from renewable sources by 2025 and be completely carbon neutral by 2050. The goal is to provide more reliable electricity in all areas of the island and to start this grid modernization off on the right foot by includingrenewableclean power. In general, the Caribbean islands have wide fluctuations in weather. Many of the coastalregions, including Yaguate in the province of San Cristal have the climate of a tropical rainforest. The Dominican Republic is mostly humid, warm, and sunny and can be subject to drastic changes in weatherincluding high winds and other extreme weather events such as tropical storms, cyclones, or hurricanes. Yaguate is in the southern coastal region of the country and is particularly vulnerable to severe storms that develop in the Caribbean Sea and make landfall on their way north. The need for extreme weather management called for a PV tracker with proven dependability in real-world settings. High winds and extreme weather conditions will be an expected cyclical part of life for operations and maintenance crews at the Yaguate site. Array’s DuraTrack® HZ v3 is the only solar tracker on the market with a fully passive, highly reliable wind-load mitigation system that does not rely on active stow, sensors, or electricity. In the event of severe weather, the passive wind feature automatically rotates modules to the safest position for high winds, securing the tracker row at the full-tilt angle. Additionally, authorized site operators can manually control the entire solar plant with software if a rapid response is warranted. The establishment of the site marked the first-time tracker technology has been installed in the country.It will provide electricity to more than 100,000 houses. It will also make a significant difference inmitigating climate change by preventing 150,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions from entering the atmosphere per year and eliminating the importation of 400,000 barrels of oil. CASE STUDY TURKEY Array is pushing the boundaries of utility-scale solar. Situated in Southeastern Europe, Turkey’s population has steadily increased, and their standard of living has continued to improve. These factors have been major contributors in also seeing increases in their demand for energy. With its geographic location, Turkey has favorable attributes for renewable sources of energy, particularly solar. With these ideal conditions, utility-scale solar is part of the emerging infrastructure being built to reduce carbon emissions and dependence on foreign power sources. Usable land for solar can be hard to find in Turkey and terrain can be extreme. With slopes that have angles ashigh as 15 degrees all sides of the Kıvanç site, terrain flexibility and resiliency were top of mind for STC Solarand Kıvanç Enerji.At the top of the mountain, Kıvanç-2 GES is located at an altitude of 1,100 meters. The north side of the sitefeatures a sharp cliff with a 600-meter altitude difference. This causes a strong wind effect during the winter andsummer months. With these harsh conditions, solar trackers capable of withstanding the high wind conditions were essential. Because of the slopes on every side of the site, material handling was difficult and potentially unsafe forworkers on-site. There was a constant risk of overturning the loaders that were used to move parts and equipment to the site. To take safety precautions, STC designed and built special equipment for material handling to decrease risks, but even with these measures, every trip up the mountain was a challenge. STC Solar, Array Technologies and the Kıvanç team coordinated to meet the demanding deadlines. With thechallenging terrain making access to the site difficult, moving trackers to the sites was a bottleneck we had toaddress. The on-site project team caught a break once the trackers arrived in-country, thanks to DuraTrack’sengineering simplicity, making the installation process much easier. Environmental Our People Governance, Ethics Appendix Initiatives and Integrity Much of the simplicity in installation is derived from the DuraTrack design, which requires fewer parts when compared to single-row designed trackers. This simplicity also helped the project team to minimize the numberof trips to and from the summit. To further streamline installation, Array created pre-installed kits that shortened installation time dramatically. No special tools were needed for installation and having fewer components to work with improved efficiency.When installing large solar power plants in this region, wind events are a major concern. Unpredictable gusts ofwind could pose a serious risk of structural damage to solar trackers installed in these conditions. DuraTrack’s passive wind mitigation does not require electricity during wind events, making it ideal for this remote location, where extreme weather is commonplace. DuraTrack’s flexible patented design includes articulating drivelines and arotating gear drive that allow for ease of installation to address the engineering complexities of terrain undulations. DuraTrack also uses the fewest motors per megawatt of any tracking system on the market, which improves maintainability and lowers the cost of long-term ownership. 