Message from Our Company ESG Strategy Product Environmental Our People Governance, Ethics Appendix Leadership Sustainability Initiatives and Integrity TABLE OF CONTENTS 2021 ESG REPORT Our Company ESG Strategy Product Environmental Our People Governance, Ethics Appendix Sustainability Initiatives and Integrity MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP BUILDING MOMENTUM TO MEET THE MOMENT Like many years in recent memory, the events of 2021 punctuate the need for companies to step up and take action to solve the greatest challenges facing our society. As a leading solar technology manufacturer, climate action and the energy transition is naturally a key priority for our team, but there are so many other areas that pose challenges and opportunities for our company. Whether it is supply chain management, the great resignation, political polarization, cyber threats, or inflation, there are many pitfalls to navigate in the corporate ESG landscape. Now, more than ever, these topics are highly interrelated and require focus and collaboration across our business and value chain to tackle. This is one of the many reasons why we are committed to advancing our ESG strategy. In our second year of ESG reporting, our focus has been to continue managing our priority ESG topics and to build upon the foundation we set last year. 2021 was another year of tremendous growth for our team and we continue to invest in areas to scale our ESG competencies. One of these investments is the development of our environmental management system in alignment with ISO 14001:2015 to track our operational environmental footprint. With a greater ability to monitor and manage the environmental impact of our operations, we will not only enhance our transparency and reporting on environmental metrics but also manage costs, improve efficiency and mitigate risk. This is just one way we areworking to build an ESG strategy that also drives financial outcomes. Looking ahead to the future, we are committed to enhancing our transparency and improving our ESG performance. This year, we established our first set of ESG goals to drive progress on priorityESG metrics. We will be communicating our progress towards achieving these goals each year and raising our ambition as we strive to meet our aspirations. We are also working on a number of key strategic projects to enhance our ESG efforts. In 2022 we willbe conducting our inaugural materiality assessment and engaging with our stakeholders to identify our priority ESG topics. We will also be working to enhance our oversight of these priority topics through our ESG steering committee to ensure that each of our priority areas are well managed. Lastly, we will continue to expand our horizons to set strategy for all of the areas of ESG we seek to manage, including climate, energy, waste, DEI, talent management, safety and ethics. We invite you to learn about our progress and 2021 data in the body of this report. Over the next year and beyond, we look forward to continuing our growth in ESG and hope to hear from our stakeholders on how we can continue to improve and partner to meet our ambitions. 2021 Message from ESG REPORT Leadership OUR COMPANY ARRAY’S CORE VALUES Array Technologies is a leading American company and global provider of utility-scale solar tracker technology. Engineered to withstand the harshest conditions on the planet, Array’s high-quality solar trackers and sophisticated software maximize energy production, accelerating the adoption of cost-effective and sustainable energy. Founded and headquartered in the United States, Array relies on its diversified global supply chain and customer-centric approach to deliver, commission and support solar energy developments around the world, lighting the way to a brighter, smarter future for clean energy. Array became a public company in fall 2020. Growth and Customer Focus:1 Delivering world-class quality, value and service every day to our customers and valuable stakeholders Leadership:3 Modeling passion, skill, courage and respect to achieve and inspire greatness Teamwork and Diversity:5 Mobilizing diverse capabilities and perspectives to capture new ideas and opportunities Getting Results:2 Acting with dependability and accountability by taking educated risks that drive breakthrough performance Effective Communication:4 Meeting objectives by bringing order,clarity, precision and active listening to all communications Functional Excellence:6 Challenging ourselves and others to pursue continuous growth in our roles and understand our function’s impact on financial performanceARRAY’S OPERATIONS Global headquarters and manufacturing siteAlbuquerque New Mexico Offices inAlbuquerque New Mexico Greater Phoenix Arizona Derby United Kingdom Brazil South America Sydney Australia Number of Full Time Revenue (FY 21) Operations in Employees (FY 21) 471 $853 million 7 countries 2021 ESG HIGHLIGHTS • Partnered with leading companies to deploy over 30 GWs of solar energy, with detailed case studies included in our report •Established our first ESG goals for 2025, includingcommitments for: -Solar Deployment; -Direct Emissions Intensity Reduction; -Renewable Energy Sourcing; -Employee Safety; -Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; -and Board Gender Representation; • Reduced our water consumption 13%1 • Increased our aluminum waste recycled about 12%1 • Disclosed our alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Disclosed our alignment with the Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Achieved an excellent employee Net Promoter Score2 of 47 1Compared to 2020 performance 2An average net promoter score is anywhere between -30 and 30. Above 30 is categorized as excellent. MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS • Arizona Forward – Member, sustainability committee member • Arizona Technology Council– Member • UNEF – Uni Espala Fotovoltaica • Asolmex – Asociaci Mexicana de Energía Solar • ACERA – La Asociaci Chilena de Energías Renovables y Almacenamiento • CEC – Clean Energy Council • SEPA – Smart Electric Power Alliance • GPEC – Greater Phoenix Economic Council • SEIA – Solar Energy Industries Association Board Member, Erica Brinker • Kindred – Member • AEE – American Energy Economy 