STRENGTHENING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability is measured not just in a company’s own practices, but in the standards to which it holds its suppliers and other partners. Array’s publicly available Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our values and expectations. Furthermore, in seeking to quantify our overall GHG emissions footprint, we have begun looking beyond our own Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG impacts to also measure the significant contributions of our upstream supply chain.We are committed to expanding our GHG inventory over the coming year to incorporate those Scope 3 supply-chain-related emissions, and we are working to expand strategic partnerships with suppliers that share our sustainability vision. For example, on August 31, 2021, Array Technologies announced that we have entered into a multi-year supply arrangement with POSCO, one of the world’s largest steelmakers, to diversify and strengthen its global supply chain. POSCO is POSCO, the first Asian steelmaker to commit to carbon neutrality to build towards a clean energy economy. Beyond the steel and aluminum that go into our products, we also employ certain minerals that have been known to finance armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. To assure that Array is not indirectly funding the humanitarian and environmental abuses of these groups, our recently updated Conflict Minerals Policy outlines Array’s expectations to ensure our suppliers adhere to our high ethical standards and keep our supply chain Conflict Minerals free.CASE STUDY POSCO: SUSTAINABLE STEEL Array entered a multi-year supply arrangement with POSCO, one of the world’s largest steelmakers, to diversify and strengthen its global supply chain. Array will now have access to POSCO’s proprietary PosMAC® material, an alloy coated corrosion resistant steel. POSCO will cooperate with a Korean local fabricator to convert the products into components for use at Array’s global solar project sites. POSCO’s South Korean headquarters will position Array to serve customers in the U.S., Australia, and other emerging solar markets more efficiently with a stable supply.The arrangement with POSCO is indicative of our ability to reliably supply our global customer base with the highest quality materials. This strategic partnership will enable us to reduce trucking mileage to West Coast of the U.S. project sites and ultimately bring greater flexibility and resilience to our supply chain. Further, we are thrilled to offer our customers a superior product in the PosMAC® corrosion resistant technology and partner with a company that shares our commitment to ESG values.” 2021 Message from Our Company ESG Strategy Product Environmental Our People Governance, Ethics ESG REPORT Leadership Sustainability Initiatives and Integrity