OUR PEOPLE Array Technologies recognizes that our people are our most critical resource, and we value them not only as employees but also as human beings with vital roles in their families and communities. To support them in their work and personal lives, we offer competitive pay, benefits for eligible employees, and a variety of training and professional development opportunities, all in a safe, healthy and respectful work environment. ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES - FOSTERING A GREAT WORK ENVIRONMENT At Array, we believe the hours we spend in the office can and should be justas meaningful, satisfying and enjoyable as life off the clock. In support of thatideal, we’re working to create a culture of gratitude, encouraging our people to use the “Array Café” reward, recognition and engagement platform to show appreciation for their peers. The tool makes saying “thank you’’ the best (and easiest) part of the day, with employees able to recognize peers and managers for demonstrating Array’s Six Behaviors. Recognitions translate to “Gigabux” the recipient can spend in the real world or on Array swag. Array Café also helps us recognize good work beyond our corporate walls. Last year, as part of our “Share the Sunshine” contest, we asked our employees to nominate nonprofit organizations that are making a differencein our communities, with the winners receiving donations from Array. EMPLOYEE NET PROMOTER SCORE (ENPS) As part of our commitment to talent development and retention, we send employee surveys to all Array employees every 90 days to measure employee sentiment to make sure we can take steps to meaningfully improve the experience of all Array employees. Our eNPS score aims to measure the likelihood that an employee would recommend Array as an employer to a friend. An average range typically spans 30 to – 30. We are proud to share that our last score in 2021 was a 49, which far exceeds our industry benchmark. We will continue to report on this metric as a key performance indicator of employee sentiment and wellbeing. The first Array Cares Event was the recent Share the Sunshinecontest. Collectively, our team has the ability to make a tremendous impact on the world and our ‘Share the Sunshine’ Contest is a testament to that. Employees were given an opportunity to nominate non-profit organizations that are making a difference in our communities.Girls on the Run (GOTR) Rio Grande won first place, a $5,000 award. GOTR is an after-school youth development program for girls designed to emphasize the important connection between physical and emotional health. Adelante Development Center won second place, $3,000. Adelante is a diverse nonprofit organization based in New Mexico that supports people with disabilities, seniors, and disadvantaged populations in the local community. Array has also partnered with Adelante to source future Array team members. Metric  2021  Employee Net Promoter Score (-100 to 100)  49  The third-place winner ($2,000), Glass City Community Solar (GCCS),is a nonprofit organization created by University of Toledo students and staff in partnership with community members. GCCS serves to plan, design, finance, install, and operate solar power systems to provide solar electricity and subsequent financial benefits to local lower- and middle-income communities. In 2021, 64% of Array’s workforce identified as Hispanic/Latino, Indigenous, Black, Asian, or other People of Color1 Values are rounded to the closest percentage. For items that note 0% the value is anywhere from less than 1%-0%. GENDER REPRESENTATION  Total Workforce  Non-Executive Management  Senior Leadership Teams  2021  2020  2021  2020  2021  2020  Female  28%  28%  25%  21%  25%  29%  Male  72%  72%  75%  79%  75%  71%  % Change  0%  +4%  - 4%  Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 2.18 Metric Total Annual Employee Turn Over Bureau of Labor Statistics Industry Annual Employee Turn Over Benchmark  2021 25.7% 29%  2020 21.2% 29%  % Change +4.5%  Metric  2021 Message from Our Company ESG Strategy Product Environmental Our People ESG REPORT Leadership Sustainability Initiatives —— — —— ——— — —— ——— — ——— — — —— ——— — ——— — ——— — —— ETHICS AND INTEGRITY It is the policy of Array Technologies to conduct business in an open, honest and ethical manner, applying a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption at every level of our business. Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy provides guidance in accordance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act 2010, applies to all individuals working at all levels of Array Technologies and its subsidiaries, and governs all their interactions on behalf of Array. Employees must ensure they have read, understood and are in compliance with the policy. Array provides employees various ways to report policy violations ,including a 24-hour, third-party-managed Integrity Hotline (telephone, email, web). A no-retaliation policy protects employees who raise such concerns. Internally, Array’s employees are also required to comply with policies on protecting personal data, avoiding conflicts of interest, adhering to anti–money laundering regulations, and respecting human rights, among others. Our Human Rights Policy expresses our commitment to ensuring that our employees, workers within our supply chain, and individuals in communities affected by our activities are treated with dignity and respect, and extend that respect to each other. The policy communicates to our suppliers and business partners our expectations around legal compliance, fair treatment, and equal opportunity and diversity, and prohibits all forms of child labor and forced labor, including prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, military labor, slave labor and any form of human trafficking. For a full list of our most up-to-date policies, please visit our website. DATA SECURITY AND CYBERSECURITY AND PRIVACY Array Technologies commits to the protection of corporate assets and personally sensitive information with which it is entrusted. This is a foundational enterprise principle that governs our actions and digital activities in how we innovate and build world-class solar solutions and how we protect our customers, our company, our people and our business partners. Cybersecurity threats have evolved to the level of a national security issue, much less a corporate issue. The increasing digitalization of supply chains and business inter-connectivity continues to broaden the operational threat landscape for all companies. Innovative bad actors adopt artificial intelligence (AI) and automation as part of theirmalicious arsenal raise the stakes for every enterprise including Array, prompting the need to innovate and adapt accordingly. To that end, Array adopts a best-in-class Cybersecurity Framework and is continually evolving and adapting its security architecture, resiliency, response and recovery processes in order to meet persistent and growing threats. Effective cybersecurity is a postureand ajourney–notadestination– that requires continuous andconsistent planning, innovation, operation and education. Our Cybersecurity Program continues to mature through calculated investments in people, process, technology and strategic partnerships with business partners who understand our commitment to our customers, shareholders and stakeholders. 