ENVIRONMENTALOUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS At Array, we are building products that advance the future of clean energy. Our utility-scale solar tracker technology can endure the most challenging conditions, from desert heat to arctic cold, and adapt to virtually any type of layout, terrain, and budgetary needs. By delivering the most durable, reliable, and flexible tracking systems under the sun, we are expanding the reach of clean energy. Historically, Array has deployed nearly 60 GW of clean energy-producing single-axis solar trackers, including nearly 15 GW in 2022. With climate action at the center of our business strategy, sustainability is at the forefront of our business decisions. We prioritize efficiency because it drives our positive environmental impact by generating clean power faster. Additionally, we manufacture our systems using recycled steel where possible, and have integrated sustainable product sourcing by ensuring that a portion of their components can be recycled at the end of their usable life.Today, we are a global leader in advancing the proliferation and productivity of solar technology, but we are also conscious of our own operational impact on the planet. Our focus on operational excellence includes a relentless dedication to environmental management, and we remain committed to tracking our key environmental metrics to manage our impact.ENVIRONMENTALArray’s Environmental Policy Array’s Environmental Policy reflects our commitment to demonstrating continuous improvement in meeting our environmental objectives. Additionally, Array commits to adhering to all applicable governmental and industry regulations and to protecting the environment through the prevention of pollution in air, waste, and water.CLIMATE ACTION As a global leader in solar tracking technology, we believe it is vital to be a leader in climate action for the solar industry and to ensure we continually drive our business toward a net-zero future. While Array has only had a formal approach to climate strategy for a couple of years now, our determination to be a leader has catalyzed deep commitment, engagement, and action from across our entire team. From just starting our ESG reporting in 2020 with a partial Scope 1 and 2 inventory, we have been hard at work the last three years implementing internal systems and goals to be among the growing number of businesses firmly declaring the need to achieve net zero and laying out a credible path to do so. As part of our Environmental Policy and ESG reporting, we commit to calculate and publish our corporate greenhouse gas inventory annually in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting Standards. In 2022, we enhanced our climate strategy by constructing our first Scope 3 or value chain inventory, allowing us to more accurately assess the emissions across relevant segments of our supply chain. Our full GHG inventory also enables us to set credible Science-Based Targets, manage climate-related risks to our business, and strengthen our approach to managing water use and waste generation. We are in the process of developing Science-Based Targets, and we are on track to submit our formal SBTi by the end of 2023. GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORY ANALYSIS  The results of our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory analysis revealed that our upstream and downstream activities (Scope 3) are responsible for an overwhelming majority (over 99%) of our total emissions. Comparably, activities from our own operations (Scope 1) and from purchased or acquired energy to facilitate our operations (Scope 2) account for 0.1% of our total emissions. Specifically, we identified Purchased Goods and Services (Scope 3, Category 1) and Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Scope 3, Category 4) as significant contributors to our overall footprint and our most material categories. With this information, we developed a targeted strategy to reduce our footprint effectively and efficiently.32CLIMATE ACTIONGreenhouse Gas Inventory Parameters and Methodology Parameters: Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory captures Array’s footprint for the full year 2022 (January 1 – December 31, 2022) and is consolidated using the operational control approach. This inventory reflects all Scope 1 and 2 emissions and all relevant Scope 3 emission sources. The Scope 2 emissions include both location-based and market-based data, and exclusively reflect sites that are owned and operated by Array. The carbon footprint is calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Methodology: Our ESG working group and leadership team worked directly with a third-party climate specialist to engage our network of suppliers and develop a complete GHG inventory. We worked together to identify the material Scope 3 categories and provide the primary data required to accurately calculate our emissions. When primary data was not available, emissions metrics were calculated with estimates from expense data. Scope 1 and 2: Emissions Breakdown While Scope 1 and 2 are only responsible for 0.1% of Array’s total emissions, we recognize the importance of managing our direct operations. Through our analysis, we identified electricity usage as the leading source of emissions, contributing approximately 72% of emissions within Scope 1 and 2. Our analysis also revealed that the United States is primarily responsible for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, which provides Array with an opportunity to reduce emissions by increasing our use of renewable energy in our U.S. operations. The second leading contributor to Scope 1 and 2 emissions is gasoline consumed in entity operated vehicles, followed by natural gas.   Scope 3: Emissions Breakdown Scope 3 is responsible for 99.9% of Array’s overall emissions. Specifically, Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1) and Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 4) represent over 90% of Greenhouse Gas Emissions within Scope 3. Category 1: Purchased Goods and ServicesPurchased Goods and Services are responsible for most of Array’s footprint, as this category contributes approximately 83% to Array’s total emissions. Within this category, supplier raw materials account for 72% of emissions and prove to be a highly material topic. The emissions associated with extracting, producing, and transporting raw materials from suppliers has a significant environmental footprint, accounting for 60% of total Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. We plan to strengthen our engagement with our suppliers as part of our enhanced climate strategy. Category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution Upstream Transportation and Distribution is the second-most material category as it represents approximately 14% of Array’s total emissions. Since Array has a large network of international suppliers, this finding aligns with our expectation. Within this category, 41% of emissions are associated with road transportation. SCOPE 3CATEGORY 1:PURCHASED GOODS AND SERVICES83%OF TOTAL EMISSIONSSUPPLIER RAW MATERIALS72%OF TOTAL EMISSIONS33NEXT STEPSOur strategy is built around opportunities to reduce emissions throughout our supply chain. Our analysis of Scope 1 and 2 underscored the importance of leveraging renewable energy sources to reduce emissions from electricity consumption. As part of our 2025 ESG goals and our work to set a Science-Based Target, we are actively working to identify additional renewable energy sources for our direct operations to drive decarbonization. Our analysis also underscored the importance of engaging our suppliers in our enhanced climate strategy. Recognizing the emissions associated with supplier raw materials and the transportation and distribution of those materials, we plan to strengthen our relationships with our suppliers and work with them in tandem to identify climate solutions. Our complete GHG Inventory provides us with the data needed to develop credible and achievable Science-Based Targets through the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). With a stronger understanding of our supply chain emissions, we are prepared to establish separate targets for Scope 1, 2, and 3, and leverage our resources and capabilities to reduce our total emissions.Greenhouse Gas InventoryEmissions (tCO2e)Scope Category% Total Market-Based287<0.1%Scope 1 —920Scope 2 (location-based)0.1%737Scope 2 (market-based)99.9%1,067,934Scope 3 883,49582.7%Category 1: Purchased goods and services0.5%5,043Category 2: Capital goods<0.1%301Category 3: Fuel-and energy-related activities14.1%150,473Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution 600.0%Category 5: Waste generated in operations5,7340.5%Category 6: Business travel0.1%1,307Category 7: Employee commuting9,5840.9%Category 8: Upstream leased assets0.7%7,628Category 9: Downstream transportation and distribution4,3090.4%Category 12: End-of-life treatment of sold products1,024—Total Direct Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Market Based—0.63Total Direct Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/$MM Revenue) 1,068,958—Total Emissions (Scope 1, 2, and 3) Market Based34CLIMATE ACTIONPERCENT OF TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2, & 3 
MARKET BASED .9%.1%.4%.5%S3 C1 PG&SS3 C2 Capital GoodsS3 C4 Upstream T&DS3 C6 TravelS3 C8 Upstream LeasedS3 C9 Downstream T&DS3 C12 Product End-of-Life14.1%.5%82.7%ARRAY’S OPERATIONAL BOUNDARY FOR DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL DATAThe scope of direct operational control for environmental data disclosures (ex. Scope 1 and 2 emissions) represents facilities that Array owns and over which we have operational control. Specifically, the Scope 1 and 2 calculations include our owned locations in New Mexico and Spain. Excluded from this operational boundary are several leased office facilities where we do not have operational control. These represent a relatively small percentage of total facilities. In the future we will work to continue enhancing environmental data collection to increase the scope of our reporting.35ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ENERGY, WATER, AND WASTE MANAGEMENT  Our focus on operational excellence includes a relentless dedication to environmental management. For the past two years, we have monitored our use of energy and water in manufacturing and minimized waste through the use of recyclable materials in product sourcing and manufacturing. We believe this is not only our responsibility for environmental stewardship but also a way to drive down costs wherever possible. As we continue to drive alignment with leading environmental standards, we commit to report our progress on key environmental metrics and show progress managing these important areas of operational efficiency. ENERGY MANAGEMENT  In 2022, we took several steps to improve our renewable energy use and reduce consumption. We converted to LED lights in our Albuquerque facility, upgraded our evaporating coolers, and leveraged more efficient saw equipment. We also continued purchasing renewable power from Power New Mexico (PNM). We currently get between 2.5 – 4.0% of our electricity from our rooftop solar and, combined with our renewable energy mix from our utility (PNM), our overall renewable energy consumption ranges between 22-26% on average.  A key priority moving forward is to improve accuracy for renewable energy data reporting. We are also planning to conduct an energy study in 2023 to identify opportunities for future enhancements and improve these metrics over time in alignment with our ESG Goals. Metric202220212020Electricity Consumption (kWh)2,513,000 2,090,0001,712,000Percent Energy Consumption from
Renewable SourcesData Not Available22-26%22-26%36ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTWATER MANAGEMENT While water consumption from our operations is relatively low, we recognize that our geographical area of operations is prone to high water stress and risk. Using tools like the World Resources Water Risk Atlas, we monitor our sites for water-related risks, including physical quantity risks, physical quality risks, and regulatory risks. Currently, our Albuquerque site is designated a Medium-High (2-3) overall water risk from the Water Risk Atlas. With the U.S. government declaring a water shortage for the Colorado River and other water scarcity challenges in the American Southwest, we have implemented programs around water circularity, water use, and water disposal to manage extreme water risk. We also identify opportunities to partner with utilities and other organizations to ensure that we are using this finite resource in a responsible and sustainable manner. We will continue to monitor these risks and develop strategies to manage our water risk exposure in a responsible and transparent way. The data below exclusively reflects water consumption from the Albuquerque facility. We are planning to provide information around water consumption from facilities in Spain in the next report.   Metric202220212020Water Consumption (gallons)1,168,0001,174,0001,352,000WASTE MANAGEMENT We are continually expanding our network of strategic partnerships with suppliers and customers to ensure that we are sourcing responsibly and reducing the environmental impacts of our systems throughout the production process and at the end of their useful life. To manage waste during production, we collect the aluminum shavings from our manufacturing operations to form condensed pucks of aluminum for more efficient recycling. To reduce the waste from our products at the end of their useful life, Array provides customers with end-of-life recycling guidance in the installation manual.  Recorded Waste Weight (kg) Waste TypeTreatment Type133,000RecycledWood RecycledAluminum1,760,000CardboardRecycled67,000SteelRecycled307,000PlasticRecycled1,060HazardousRecycled175We will have more robust data about the rates of recyclability of our products when they reach the end of their useful life.37NATURAL RESOURCES, BIODIVERSITY,
AND LAND USE At Array, the protection of our natural resources and the preservation of biodiversity and land is at the forefront of our business decisions, and we actively look for opportunities to work with organizations that share this mission. As we continue to enhance our strategy to protect biodiversity, we are considering ways to align with the Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) framework to better understand and preserve the natural resources upon which we rely in our business.THE OLMEDILLA PROJECTCASE STUDY — THE OLMEDILLA PROJECTCASE STUDYWe recognize the environmental impacts associated with the development of solar power plants. The construction process 
has potential to damage the land, disrupt 
the existing ecosystem, and negatively impact wildlife.  To mitigate these risks, we support projects that take a mindful approach to developing solar power plants. The Olmedilla Project is a solar power plant that was developed by Iberdrola, a renewable energy company,
and utilizes our STI H250 trackers. This project has obtained the Seal of Excellence for UNEF Unión Española Fotovoltaica sustainability, which recognizes the social and environmental integration of solar power plants. These initiatives encourage local economic activity and are complemented by primary sector activities such as the installation of beehives and access to land for grazing. In addition to mitigating the risk of land and ecosystem disruption, this project’s approach included planting 13,500 native plants to reduce the landscape impact and building ecological communities to protect insects and other fauna species in the area.THE GEMINI SOLAR PROJECTCASE STUDYIn 2022, we partnered with Primergy Solar on the Gemini Solar Project to expand the reach of solar power while protecting biodiversity. The Gemini Solar Project is informed by the Gemini Model, which was created by Primergy to provide a balanced approach to protecting our ecosystem as solar panels are installed. They approach this by:  	Leveraging the “latest research and design 		considerations to minimize the footprint of Gemini”	Ensuring that “local flora and fauna will continue 
	to thrive” throughout the construction phase 	Partnering with the Moapa Band of Paiutes, 		landowners and experts who advise on 
	“construction and infrastructure improvements” CASE STUDY — THE GEMINI SOLAR PROJECT PROTECTING OUR NATURAL RESOURCES In Nevada, demand for energy is especially high during peak afternoon and evening hours
in the summer, but the supply of energy available to communities in this region is low. To provide all communities in Nevada with consistent and reliable access to energy, we partnered with Primergy on the Gemini Project. The project will be located on Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land in Overton, NV, 30 miles northeast of Las Vegas, and will supply power to Nevada Energy, a public utility which generates, transmits, and distributes electric service in northern and southern Nevada. We are providing nearly 1 GW of DuraTrack® single-axis solar trackers for this project. The Gemini Project, which will be the largest operational solar and storage site in the U.S. upon completion in 2023, is designed to produce 690 MWac solar and 380 MW battery energy storage. This project will also expand the reach of clean energy as it has potential 
to provide 400,000 homes with power during peak hours when supply is low.  