People and Society ConocoPhillips is committed to respecting human rights and it is our intent to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Respecting Human Rights Embedding Human Rights into Business Processes The ConocoPhillips position statement on human rights includes our intent to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The position also states our commitment to participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Management Systems This table provides a concise view of the business practices, processes and tools we use to implement our human rights position. For additional detail on the processes and tools noted in the table see the section on Integration of Sustainability into Business Processes. Human Rights Due Diligence  Focus Area  Management Systems  Impact Assessment  • The company has performed a high-level human rights risk assessment (by country) of its global operations using externally provided human rights risk assessment tools to identify countries of focus for deeper level evaluation of potential human rights issues. Key areas include: security and human rights; land use/relocation; indigenous issues and rights; company and supplier labor standards; access to water; and vulnerable groups. • Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) assess human rights issues where appropriate. • Sustainable Development Scorecards are completed for capital projects including an analysis of human rights issues, and are updated through project phases. • The New Country Entry process evaluates human rights issues and risks. • Human rights risks are identified as part of corporate authorization guidelines for new ventures. • Business unit Stakeholder Engagement and Social Performance plans incorporate assessment of human rights issues, as appropriate.  Integration  • Human rights issues are incorporated into Capital Projects and HSE management systems (using a “Plan, Do, Assess, Adjust” approach). • Human rights issues are incorporated into the HSE Due Diligence Standard guidance. • Business units and functions collaborate on human rights due diligence processes and share best practices through working groups and Networks of Excellence. • Business unit, asset or project Stakeholder Engagement plans incorporate an assessment of human rights issues as appropriate, and project Social Performance plans also address such issues as appropriate. Where business units maintain separate social performance plans, human rights issues are also addressed.  Tracking (Issues, Actions)  • Human rights issues are tracked at business unit, asset or project level and communicated internally as appropriate based on human rights risks identified at a country level. • Potential human rights risks or issues are identified and evaluated periodically through business unit, asset or project level risk assessments. • Community concerns or grievances related to company activities or human rights are tracked at business unit, asset or project level as appropriate, including responses and resolutions. Mechanisms include community or stakeholder relations contact points at the business unit level, and ConocoPhillips Ethics hotline and email address.  Communication & Training  • Our Human Rights position and its implementation are communicated internally and externally. • Training and guidance on human rights concepts, company approach to due diligence and implementation resources are provided to identified leaders and practitioners and made available to all employees through the company’s intranet and “Networks of Excellence.”  Grievance Mechanisms  • Where appropriate, business units, assets or projects have communicated with and engaged communities and their representatives on how to contact the company, and how to address any concerns or grievances. In addition, all interested stakeholders may access the ConocoPhillips Ethics Helpline to report a potential violation of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which is publicly available on our website. • Stakeholder relations staff is in close contact with communities and engage in regular two-way dialogue. • Stakeholder relations staff has a process in place to respond to concerns or grievances in a timely manner. • Mitigation measures are informed by issues or concerns identified through engagement with communities or other stakeholders. • Incident management and tracking systems incorporate elements to capture incidents or “near misses” related to the safety and security of company personnel and directly impacted communities.  Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is integral to how we go about implementing or “operationalizing” our commitment to human rights. From business unit engagement strategies, and peer.to.peer best practice sharing, to participation in investor and industry forums, our approach to engaging stakeholders reinforces and advances our human rights work. Please see the Indigenous Communities We recognize and respect the choice of indigenous communities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships with the land. Wherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring. Training and Awareness Our approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools. We’ve adapted and applied a human rights tool kit developed by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), and rolled out training to new employees, key functions and leaders. We’ve also focused our Stakeholder Engagement Network of practitioners on further integration of sustainable development commitments into business planning and processes. Human Rights Training and Awareness ConocoPhillips adapted the training tool kit developed by IPIECA and incorporated a human rights module into our sustainable development training materials. Functional areas that have participated in these education sessions include business development, major projects, project risk and review, and leadership development, as well as the sustainable development coordinators for our Exploration and Production business units. Our human rights position also is incorporated into a sustainable development training module for new hires. We continue to support the IPIECA social responsibility working group and human rights project. As an example, the social responsibility working group held a pilot workshop to encourage companies to use IPIECA's suite of social responsibility guidance tools, including the Human Rights Training Toolkit. ConocoPhillips led the task force that developed the workshop and then hosted the event. The company will continue to participate in IPIECA’s broader work on human rights due diligence and grievance mechanisms, including learning programs, and the development of guidance materials that can be applied within ConocoPhillips Labor Issues As outlined in our human rights position, ConocoPhillips has committed to conduct its business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, which includes the core labor standards related to non.discrimination, freedom of association, and avoiding the use of forced or child labor. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights ConocoPhillips has been a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights initiative since its inception in 2000. As a participating company, ConocoPhillips is committed to supporting and promoting the Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights in its operations. This commitment is aligned with our company’s human rights position and our related implementation activities. Our annual report to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights details our current practices as well as provides updates for the year 2012. Security and Human Rights Management Systems This table provides a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to security and human rights. Security & Human Rights  Key Area   Implementation Indicators   Risk Assessments  . The company has performed a high-level security & human rights risk assessment of its global operations using externally provided human rights risk assessment tools to identify countries of focus for our security and human rights efforts.  . New Country Entry process evaluates security & human rights issues, and risks. . Security & human rights risks are identified as part of authorization guidelines for new ventures.  Contracts with Security Providers   . The company has conducted research related to security providers with proven good track records on human rights.  . Contracts with security providers contain language pertaining to the contractors’ responsibilities regarding security & human rights.  Training for Security Providers   . Contractors are provided with training on security & human rights and related responsibilities and expectations.  Stakeholder Outreach   . The company participates in outreach with key stakeholders on security & human rights as appropriate; may include national, regional or local governmental organizations, public security forces, non-governmental organizations or local civil society, communities and/or other companies in the region.  California Transparency in Supply Chains ConocoPhillips recognizes that slavery and human trafficking are crimes under state, federal, and international laws. We also recognize slavery and human trafficking likely exist in every country, including the United States, and the State of California. ConocoPhillips knows a safe and secure supply chain is critically important to the success of our business. A secure supply chain helps prevent slavery and human trafficking, while ensuring the safety of employees, our customers, and the communities in which we operate. ConocoPhillips is committed to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010. The objectives of the Act are reflected in many Company programs, policies and standards, several of which are quoted below. As the operator of critical infrastructure and manufacturer in the State of California, ConocoPhillips will continuously seek out and implement security best practices that reduce vulnerabilities in our supply chain and advance our SPIRIT Values. ConocoPhillips Programs & Standards Applicable to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010: 1. U.S. Customs & Border Protection (USCBP) Customs – Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C.TPAT) –C.TPAT is a voluntary U.S. government program designed to increase security and prevent slavery and human trafficking throughout the global supply chain. The C.TPAT program includes both internal and independent external announced and unannounced audits of suppliers. It also requires our suppliers comply with laws regarding slavery and human trafficking. USCBP has evaluated the security programs of over 10,000 companies that import into the United States and participate in the C.TPAT program. ConocoPhillips is one of only 329 top tiered certified participants in C.TPAT. We have actively participated in the C.TPAT program and maintained a top tier status since 2007. 2. Corporate Code of Conduct – This Code of Business Ethics and Conduct covers a wide range of business practices and procedures. It sets out basic principles to guide all employees and directors of the Company. All must conduct themselves accordingly and seek to avoid even the appearance of improper behavior. The Code is provided to and must be followed by the Company’s agents and representatives, including consultants. Those who violate the standards in this Code are subject to disciplinary action. 3. Commercial Commitment Statement – Commercial leadership is committed to creating and maintaining a culture where Commercial employees worldwide share a common responsibility to adhere to the highest standards of integrity and fair dealing and to comply with the spirit as well as the letter of the law, regulations and policies that govern our business and activities, which includes those laws prohibiting slavery and human trafficking. 4. Commercial Code of Conduct – The Commercial Code of Conduct sets out the accepted standards, behaviors and duties by which all Commercial employees and contractors must abide. The purpose of this policy is to communicate an expectation of ethical conduct to all Commercial employees, and should be understood and followed in conjunction with the Corporate Code of Conduct. 5. Commercial Trading Policy – The Commercial Trading Policy sets out high.level trading standards by which all Commercial employees with the authority to perform commercial transactions must abide. The purpose of this policy is to communicate the rules of engagement to all transacting Commercial employees. 6. Commercial Authority Limitations – This document helps ensure we are dealing with reputable business partners by defining the authorities delegated by the Board of Directors (Board) of ConocoPhillips (the Company) to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and from the CEO to others in the Company. Items requiring Board or CEO approval and authority levels of the Group Heads and Staff Heads are identified as they pertain to capital expenditures, expense authorization, contract approvals and other commitments of Company resources. 7. Global Marine Vetting Standard – This document establishes a corporate.wide Standard for Vessel Vetting and Marine Terminal Clearance for Vessels used in ConocoPhillips business to assure prudent management of marine risks. Global Commercial Marine Risk Management Group and Global Production Marine Operations Group have authorized and implemented global processes necessary for Vetting of marine Vessel service providers and their equipment. This Standard applies to all Vessels: . Contracted for ConocoPhillips use. . Contracted on behalf of ConocoPhillips by an external party. . Contracted by any ConocoPhillips Entity. . Ship.To.Ship Transfer Operation of a ConocoPhillips Commercial Cargo, including both the discharging Vessel, receiving Vessel, and lightering service company. . Vessels loading, discharging, tank cleaning, conducting repairs, or along side at a marine terminal/facility that is owned, or operated by a ConocoPhillips Entity. . Vessels carrying ConocoPhillips titled/owned Commercial Cargo. The Marine Vetting program includes both internal and independent external announced and unannounced audits. It also requires our suppliers comply with laws regarding slavery and human trafficking. 8. Pre.Placement Screening Policy – All offers of employment with ConocoPhillips in the U.S. are contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a pre.placement screening of the candidate's application, resume and other biographical data provided by the applicant. Routinely, this check will include: a Social Security Number trace; a criminal record check for felony convictions, misdemeanor convictions negotiated from a felony charge or any misdemeanor conviction for theft, violence, fraud or moral turpitude (including slavery or human trafficking); verification of education; verification of prior employment for the past seven years; and a check against various restricted parties lists administered by both the U.S. and non.U.S. countries. 9. Export Compliance Policy – This policy helps ensure we are dealing with reputable business partners by requiring that all transactions must be screened to ensure ConocoPhillips is not conducting business with applicable Restricted Party and Embargoed/Sanctioned Countries, and to address end use and red flag concerns. Transactions may include export or re.export, import, financial or other business activity (including non.exports), and could include transactions involving nationals of embargoed or sanctioned countries. 10. Training – Management, employees and contractors, who have direct responsibility for supply chain management, receive periodic awareness training concerning supply chain security, slavery and human trafficking, our C.TPAT program, Ethics Hotline Reporting System, and other security threats within the supply chain. Economic Transparency and Reporting Refer to “Transparency and Reporting” in the “Our Approach” section of this report. Benefiting People Community and Social Investment As one of the world’s largest independent exploration and production companies, ConocoPhillips is proud to be involved in the communities where we operate. We contribute to the well.being of these communities through charitable giving, volunteerism, and civic leadership. In 2012, our charitable cash contributions totaled approximately $50 million. Management Systems The indicators below provide a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to community and social investment. Community & Social Investment  Alignment with Company Focus  The company has a strategic focus for charitable giving and community investment including key focus areas.  Project Sustainability  The company’s approach to selecting projects or programs and managing giving and social investment promotes project/program sustainability and “self.sustaining models.”  Needs Assessments  Business units, assets or projects seek to understand needs and assets of local communities to inform social investment plans.  Community Benefit  The company strives to understand or measure results of charitable giving and social investment.  Company Volunteerism  The company has a comprehensive employee volunteer program in place.  Company Cash and In.Kind Giving  The company has programs for in.kind and cash contributions.  The company’s global charitable investments focus is on five key areas: . Education . Health and Safety . Natural Resources . Arts, Civic and Social Services . Disaster Relief At the business unit level, our social investment initiatives reinforce our community engagement efforts in locations where we are active. We seek to understand community needs, as well as community assets. Our business units seek to support projects or initiatives that can help to fill needs where appropriate, or help communities to build on their own assets where those opportunities exist. We also believe that programs and projects that can be sustained over the longer term and that have multiple avenues for funding have the best chance for success. For this reason, our approach to community and social investment promotes project and program sustainability and “self.sustaining” models. For more information on the projects and programs we support, see the Community Investment section of this report. Positive Economic Impacts Our global operations contribute substantially to social and economic development in the communities in which we operate. For example, our direct economic contributions during 2012 included: . Jobs – ConocoPhillips employed approximately 16,900 employees around the world. . Taxes – Our operations generated $11.5 billion in income and other tax revenue to governments. . Shareholder dividends – ConocoPhillips common stock yielded $3.3 billion in cash dividends. . Capital investments – ConocoPhillips reinvested $14.2 billion in capital expenditures and investments to find new energy supplies. . Payments to various vendors and suppliers for products and services: o $7.4 billion for production, operating and exploration expenses o $1.1 billion for selling, general and administrative expenses Note: Taxes, capital investments and payments represent amounts for continuing operations only. Engaging Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Principles Due to the size and scale of our company, as well as the nature of our business, ConocoPhillips stakeholders have unique and evolving expectations. We proactively engage with them to learn their expectations of us, and then incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions. This process fosters an environment of trust and mutual respect. Through work with industry associations, participation in multi.sector forums, and dialogue with socially responsible investors, we’re gaining diverse and valuable perspectives as we continuously improve our sustainable development programs and initiatives. ConocoPhillips' stakeholder engagement activities are an integral part of our sustainable development commitments. Our major businesses have engagement strategies which vary according to the nature of the local community. In dispersed communities, we identify key stakeholders and engage with them face.to.face to ensure that our activities are understood and that we consider their feedback. In regions where there are opportunities to bring local stakeholders together, we work with multi.stakeholder groups in a similar way. This approach is embedded in our SPIRIT Value of Integrity, which states that we are ethical and trustworthy in our relationships with stakeholders. Expanding on the value of Integrity, our Principles for Stakeholder Engagement: . Proactively identify and seek out key stakeholders early in the business endeavor. . Include these key stakeholders in the design and implementation of the engagement process. . Listen in order to understand stakeholders’ interests, concerns and culture. . Communicate openly. . Seek solutions that create mutually beneficial business and engagement approaches that also build long.term value for both the company and our stakeholders. . Follow through on our commitments and stand accountable for the results, both internally and externally. Key Stakeholders Employees – We initiate dialogue with our employees and seek their input in our day.to.day activities. In addition, we offer numerous opportunities for employees to provide their thoughts on the company, including opinion surveys, town hall meetings and one.on.one employee development discussions. We routinely conduct an employee opinion survey, which typically yields a high employee participation rate. The information gathered through such surveys helps management address issues that are important to employees, including safety, environmental preservation, and employee compensation and retention. Shareholders – We communicate financial and operating performance with our shareholders through company reports and Securities and Exchange Commission filings, annual shareholders meetings, quarterly earnings releases and conference calls, and presentations to securities analysts. Further, we make Internet links to these events and other information available on our website. Our annual proxy statement provides a full listing of formal requests filed by shareholders, and we maintain a process for shareholders and interested parties to communicate with the board of directors. We also engage with investors on a range of sustainable development topics through ongoing dialogue, meetings, conferences and discussion forums. Governments – We engage with local, state or provincial, and federal governments in the key areas of public policy and regulatory oversight that affect existing and future company operations and business. In certain circumstances, we work with governing bodies and regulatory agencies and engage in proactive exchanges of information. Major areas of interest for government stakeholders are taxation, environmental and economic issues. ConocoPhillips endorses the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, which seeks to ensure that revenues paid to governments by companies working in resource.rich countries contribute to sustainable development and poverty reduction. Read further information on our economic transparency statement. Communities – Wherever we operate, our major projects and business units engage with local communities in a variety of ways, including consultations on specific projects, public forums and community investments. The company has various organized groups and programs that engage the community to discuss issues and concerns. Although specific areas of interest for communities can vary widely, recurring themes include the availability of employment and other economic opportunities, local environmental issues such as air and water impacts, emergency response procedures, and the company’s contribution to local social investment. Customers, suppliers and contractors – The most common avenue for communicating with these stakeholders is our secure extranet site where business partners can access financial information, interactive processes and fuel.purchasing procedures. In addition, they also can contact us through the ConocoPhillips website by submitting email questions and feedback. To maintain and strengthen relationships with long.term customers and suppliers, the company initiates frequent conversations, correspondence and meetings. As an example, our regular and informative interactions with suppliers cover topics such as our long.term needs, on.site performance expectations and our position and requirements concerning diversity, ethics and other sustainability issues. As with our employees, we believe safety is the most important issue in our work with contract workers. We address this in our operations by working with contractors on various comprehensive safety training and educational programs. Other organizations .We connect with various stakeholders and industry peers through active involvement in several sustainability.related partnerships. Visit the Reporting and Transparency section to learn more. We continuously review our approach to engaging corporate.level stakeholders and identify additional activities that may provide better opportunities to communicate with key stakeholders. Engaging with Communities Our strategies to fulfill our stakeholder engagement principles vary according to the nature of the local communities. In dispersed communities, we typically identify key stakeholders and work with them one.on.one. When our assets are near concentrated populations, we join or create collaborative forums to connect with multiple stakeholders. We also work with stakeholders on the local and state or provincial levels. Management Systems The table below provides a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to community engagement and our Stakeholder Engagement Principles. For additional detail on the processes and tools noted in the table see the section on Integration of Sustainability into Business Process in the “Our Approach” section. Community Engagement  Focus Area  Management Systems  Engagement Planning  . Community engagement and consultation is incorporated into business unit, asset or project stakeholder engagement plans. Plans include an assessment of key issues and community needs or assets where appropriate.  Social Mapping  . Business units, assets or projects may perform social or stakeholder mapping as part of Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) or as stand.alone assessments as appropriate. This is evaluated on a case.by.case basis.  Impact Assessments  . ESIAs assess community impacts, and include mitigation measures for community impacts. . As part of ESIAs, communities are engaged regarding potential issues and concerns, as well as preferred mitigation measures.  Addressing Community Concerns  . Business units, assets or projects communicate with and engage communities and their representatives on how to contact the company and best ways for them to raise any concerns. . Community relations staff are in close contact with communities and engage in regular two.way dialogue. . Community relations staff has process in place to surface, track and respond to concerns or grievances in a timely manner and to develop appropriate mitigation measures.  Alaska As Alaska’s largest producer, we have been working with Alaskans for more than 50 years to develop a sustainable economy and maximize investment for the future. Employees in Alaska contribute more than 5,000 hours each year serving non.profit organizations and represent the industry on many multi.stakeholder boards including the North Pacific Research Board and the Alaska Arctic Policy Commission. We participate in two multi.stakeholder groups developed as part of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, including the Prince William Sound Regional CAC and the Cook Inlet Keeper. We also actively consult with North Slope communities to help protect their subsistence resources and to share information about current and planned operations. Input received while directly engaging with subsistence hunters through the Kuukpikmuit Subsistence Advisory Board, the NPR.A BLM Subsistence Advisory Board and marine mammal co.management groups such as the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission is incorporated where possible in project operations. Such discussions led to support of Alpine field satellites in the National Petroleum Reserve .Alaska by the Kuukpik Corporation, the village corporation created pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act for the Village of Nuiqsut. In addition, ConocoPhillips Alaska’s Chukchi Exploration team has successfully completed five years of environmental studies and the collection of shallow hazard data without interfering with native whaling and other subsistence hunting activities. U.S. Lower 48 "Stakeholder Engagement early and often" has been the mantra for the Eagle Ford Stakeholder Relations team, resulting in productive working relationships with local communities. In 2012, Stakeholder Relations met with over 1,000 landowners by hosting open houses and information sessions. This team also developed close relationships with county judges, local officials and emergency response coordinators, and supported and participated in local festivals, fairs and events in key counties where we operate. Eagle Ford stakeholder engagement is managed through customized meetings and individual attention to stakeholders. We believe a more personal approach creates an environment of transparency and courtesy when working with stakeholders. We hired a local resident and community leader to provide real.time feedback on community issues and to assist with understanding local community needs. We work with the Department of Public Safety to address increased volume of trucks and traffic in the rural communities near our operations. We also formed an Operators Task Force with other operators in the area to manage priority issues in the communities. This joint task force has been extremely successful in its first year of existence and is being duplicated in other areas of the Eagle Ford. Canada We are actively involved with multi.stakeholder groups across Western Canada to share information about oil and gas development with community members, regulators, aboriginal groups, other industry representatives and education initiatives. We have collaborated with landowners and other industry members to develop tools to inform the industry about potential impacts of oil and natural gas activities on key agricultural sectors, and have sponsored initiatives to support safety in the agricultural industry. We also work as part of multi.stakeholder groups aimed at improving indigenous people's employment and business opportunities. Indonesia Regular stakeholder engagement with local communities has contributed to improving relationships and building community support in the areas in which we operate. We have developed partnerships with regional universities and local business associations where, together with the community, we have developed environmental strategies incorporating local practices. In 2009.2012 we conducted major safety campaigns involving various aspects of our operations. These campaigns were designed to increase public safety awareness around our river barging, pipeline right.of.ways and offshore platforms. We also conducted public safety campaigns in local communities and schools on pedestrian, driving and motorcycle safety. Peru In 2012, ConocoPhillips announced a decision not to pursue further exploration activities in Peru Blocks 123 and 129. This decision to withdraw as operator and opt out of the next exploration period was part of the newly repositioned company’s plan to optimize our asset portfolio. The company is proud of the relationships that were been built over several years with about 60 communities near these two blocks in the Maraon Basin, and our work in Peru represents a strong example of our approach to engaging with communities. As part of the seismic program the company conducted from 2010 through 2012, ConocoPhillips Peru sought to ensure that stakeholders had a chance to be heard and informed about our planned activities. We first asked permission to meet with the communities and then entered into a respectful dialogue. We understood the importance of establishing appropriate frequency and level of contact with each community, and found the communities to be very receptive to our engagement. Between 2010 and 2012, we visited all 60.plus communities in the region. In total, more than 780 community meetings were held, with attendance by community representatives and virtually all community members. Our Peru.based community relations staff spent most of their time visiting with local communities, and hosted informative and interactive workshops on different subjects, including: . Description of seismic and other potential development activities and their impacts. . Regulations for the hydrocarbon sector and International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169 regarding indigenous and tribal peoples. . Roles and rights of communities in environmental monitoring as required by our permits and regulatory commitments. ConocoPhillips Peru, in compliance with Peruvian government expectations and regulations, entered into a written agreement called a “convenio” with communities in the project area. The convenio documented community consent and detailed compensation terms for disruptions in land use or activities caused by seismic operations. Stakeholder Engagement Network In 2004, ConocoPhillips established an internal Stakeholder Engagement Network to enable employees, who have a wealth of different experiences, to learn from each other and share their insights into working with our stakeholders and implementing our sustainable development commitments. The network offers an online discussion forum. Participants can seek advice from their peers and access a library of member.posted examples of stakeholder engagement in action. The library also offers tools Taking from external resources. In 2011, the company updated the Stakeholder Engagement Network charter and articulated a business case with specific goals. The Stakeholder Engagement Network provides an opportunity for the company and stakeholder engagement and social issues practitioners to: . Continuously improve integration of stakeholder engagement principles, sustainable development commitments, and our human rights position into business planning and processes. . Collaborate on the development of strategies and approaches to stakeholder engagement, social issues and human rights. . Share best practices and tools to enhance quality and consistency of stakeholder engagement and raise awareness of links between local and global issues and stakeholders. . Evaluate and update stakeholder engagement, social issues and human rights tools and procedures. . Enhance the professional development of practitioners. . Enable non–stakeholder engagement professionals in their engagements with communities and other external stakeholders. Indigenous Peoples Management Systems Indigenous Peoples  Key Area   Implementation Indicators   Consultation & Agreement   . Business units, assets or projects identify indigenous groups for consultation on company activities that may impact them. Participatory methods of engagement are sought wherever possible including capacity building of indigenous communities to engage in a participatory manner.  . Business units, assets or projects have plans in place to meet governmental requirements regarding consultation or formal agreement with indigenous communities, including recognized community leaders.  . Business units, assets or projects conduct pre-engagement analyses to understand indigenous communities in areas of our activities, including their culture, decision-making structures, and methods of communication.  . Business units, assets or projects develop plans that support culturally respectful consultation and engagement. Indigenous communities are involved in the design of engagement and consultation.  . Where governmental frameworks or requirements do not exist or are not clear as to requirements of companies to engage, consult or enter into formal agreements with indigenous communities, the company has put in place mechanisms for understanding indigenous group dynamics, traditional land  Indigenous Peoples  Key Area   Implementation Indicators   use and preferences for engagement and consultation.   Land Use Issues   . Business units, assets or projects have identified indigenous groups that may have a traditional claim to land where the company operates. . Engagement and consultation plans address land claims or issues where appropriate. . Business units, assets or projects are prepared to address indigenous community concerns where appropriate, including making adjustments to plans in order to avoid interference with local livelihoods and traditional land use. Where appropriate, consultation with indigenous communities is conducted to determine what mitigation efforts will be most effective.  Relocation  . If there is relocation related to company activities, roles and responsibilities of the government and the company are understood. . Should the company decide to move forward with a project or activity for which the government requires relocation, business units, assets or projects would meet related legal and regulatory requirements including consultation, agreement and/or compensation. Where applicable, these plans would consider non-financial impacts (e.g., cultural heritage of indigenous communities).  Economic Development  . Business units, assets or projects identify opportunities to support economic development opportunities consistent with indigenous communities’ culture and community development plans.  Environmental Conservation  . Business units, assets or projects carry out staff awareness raising efforts related to the value of natural resources to indigenous communities.  . Business unit, asset or project plans include assessment of environmental impacts, and mitigation plans to offset or address environmental impacts affecting indigenous communities.  . The company provides support for conservation initiatives.  Cultural Heritage  . Business units, assets or projects understand the impacts of activities on cultural heritage. Mitigation measures are identified and implemented as appropriate.  . Company personnel involved in indigenous relations receive cultural heritage awareness training. . Business units, assets or projects provide support for cultural heritage programs or projects as appropriate consistent with social investment plans.   Engagement and Consultation When engaging with indigenous peoples, we seek first to understand their social hierarchy, culture and traditions, as well as their priorities, expectations and preferences for dialogue. We engage with indigenous communities at the regional, local and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional governments, community associations, and local leaders. These meetings provide an opportunity to share information on our plans, seek local input and learn the views of our neighbors before we undertake activities that could impact their community. For example, during the previous seismic program in Peru (2010.2012), communication prior to, during and after preparation of environmental impact assessments was crucial to the success we experienced with local groups there. We held required government.sponsored workshops in previously agreed.upon venues and used audiovisual aids to enhance our communications. We also filmed these early meetings so that we could assess our communication efforts and verify compliance. Additionally in Peru, we employed several people with ancestry and communication methods similar to these local groups. Thus, we were able to ascertain when members of communities were sufficiently prepared to assess and make informed decisions prior to signing the social license required to start our operations. And, based on analysis of social baseline cognitive maps developed from information gathered at these meetings, we identified and were able to avoid areas of the Tigre River used by the native people for traditional practices. In support of ConocoPhillips’ long.term interest in assets in the western Canadian Arctic, we continue working to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships with the communities near our assets in the Mackenzie Delta/Beaufort Sea region of Canada’s Northwest Territories. Our approach has been strongly influenced by aspects of the local culture, which is consensus.based and values established relationships among people. Examples of how we adapt our actions to better meet local expectations include: . Joint meetings held with local officials and the general public that allowed for open and inclusive dialogue. . Participation of Calgary.based employees in Beaufort Delta’s community events. . Community investment that is based on community priorities. . Using multi.disciplinary consultation teams to answer various technical questions from concerned citizens during meetings. . Further, we believe that we share a responsibility to support a skilled local work force, and indeed will benefit from doing so. This responsibility includes providing business opportunities to local individuals and companies and taking actions to preserve local culture. These actions reflect our corporate commitment to positively impact communities, and will contribute to a sustainable approach in developing Arctic resources. Minimizing Impact of Resource Development The health, safety, environmental and social assessments that we conduct in association with new development projects, coupled with the input we gain from dialogue with indigenous groups themselves, help us identify any potential impacts our project may have on an indigenous community. As part of our impact assessment and dialogue process, we partner with representatives chosen by the potentially impacted indigenous communities in order to identify strategies that we should avoid or actions we can take to mitigate negative impacts. We seek to document the agreements we reach with indigenous communities regarding the impact of our activities and mitigation strategies. This documentation takes the form that best fits the local process and the indigenous community’s desire for engagement. For example, the documentation may be part of a permit proceeding or a separate Memorandum of Understanding with representatives chosen by the indigenous community. It also may summarize discussions held during our consultations with the indigenous community. The documentation can then be shared with the community’s chosen representatives to ensure mutual understanding about the agreement. Socioeconomic Development Opportunities In all indigenous communities in which we operate, we seek opportunities for our presence to inspire socioeconomic development. Therefore, we partner with representatives chosen by the community to help identify programs that best fit local needs. We seek opportunities for members of the community to develop skills and become part of the project’s work force or supply chain. We also strive to help address social needs that can facilitate the community’s own development. It is important to ConocoPhillips that any efforts we work on together be owned by the community, and to help build capacity for the community members to take charge of their own future. With these goals in mind, we team with our business partners to evaluate ahead of time the challenges of implementing socioeconomic development programs and how we can improve the likelihood of their success. In these discussions, we seek to respect the community’s interest as to the balance they wish to achieve between maintaining their traditions and culture and participating in a cash.based economy. During our interactions, we learn lessons that help us improve our methodologies and communications. For instance, in Peru, communities in the direct area of influence of our blocks generally received compensation based on the respective total impact to the community as determined by the regulatory environmental impact assessment process. In the past, such financial resources have not been as successful as desired in encouraging sustainable development in these communities, as a majority of communities tend to distribute the compensation funds among its individual families. However, a unique experience transpired in the native community of Nuevo Canaan, the only community to invest in an optimal manner. The community chose to collectively purchase an outboard engine to help with transportation during medical emergencies, a photovoltaic.powered satellite television to help them learn about the world outside their society, and a satellite telephone system that is expected to generate other business opportunities. This is a great example of our how compensation based on community customs generated positive returns the broader community. Turning to Indonesia, we have successfully supported economic development opportunities for individuals in South Sumatera, Jambi and Riau Islands provinces. These include rubber plantation programs for local farmers and development programs in the fisheries industry. The development of small businesses and cooperatives has had a long.term positive impact on the local community. In the Riau province, we initiated the existence of mobile libraries that make rounds to public places such as schools, markets, and health centers, and have become for many, “the local library.” We also have participated in community programs that provide basic necessities for citizens such as electricity, clean water and sanitation. In Alaska, the 14.mile Nuiqsut Natural Gas Pipeline provides Nuiqsut residents with clean.burning natural gas to heat their homes. ConocoPhillips and its co.venturer in the Alpine field supply the pipeline with up to one million cubic feet of natural gas per day from the Alpine field as part of its land.use agreement with Kuukpik, the Nuiqsut Native Village Corporation. ConocoPhillips provides the gas to the community at no charge. The move to natural gas from heating oil dramatically lowers heating costs for the approximately 125 home owners in Nuiqsut while reducing the community’s ongoing GHG emissions and improving the overall health conditions related to air quality. The North Slope Borough financed the $10 million pipeline project. Indigenous Communities and Environment We recognize the special relationship indigenous people have with the land and natural environment. Further, we respect their unique knowledge in managing their local environment and conserving biodiversity. While assessing the impact of our operations, we actively seek to learn from the traditional knowledge of indigenous communities as we work with them to develop mitigation strategies to any potential environmental impacts. In support of our Alaska Chukchi Sea environmental ecological study program, local indigenous subsistence hunters work side by side with western scientists as protected species observers providing traditional knowledge on the behaviors of marine mammals as well as ice and weather conditions. They also serve as Inupiat communicators working closely with the crews to avoid conflicts with subsistence activities. Also in Alaska, we provide financial support for community based traditional knowledge projects that seek to gather traditional knowledge to assist communities and industry with decision making and planning. Additionally, we collaborate with the University of St. Andrews on the annual St. Andrews Prize for the Environment, which recognizes significant contributions to environmental conservation. Since its launch in 1998, it has attracted entries from more than 50 countries each year on diverse topics, including sustainable development in the Amazon rainforest, urban regeneration, recycling, health and water issues, and renewable energy Indigenous Communities and Culture The unique and long.standing culture of each indigenous group is a vital part of their community. We seek to honor those cultures by taking steps to learn about indigenous societies so that we know how to properly demonstrate respect in our relationships. Some of our larger businesses have cultural awareness training that is required at all levels of the organization. In many cases, our stakeholder engagement leaders and business leaders will educate themselves through mentors in the indigenous community or through the help of local experts. One example is ConocoPhillips’ participation in the Aseniwuche Winewak Nation (AWN) Cultural Camp in Canada. This camp is hosted by AWN leaders, elders and community members and is designed to increase understanding between industry and aboriginal peoples in whose traditional territories we work. Typically the camp is held for three days, during which participants listen to community leaders and elders speak about their relationship with the land and the cultural values by which they are guided. In Peru, our dialogue with the people of the indigenous communities was facilitated by the respect we showed their culture, world view and spirituality, property, possessions and customs. As a result, we were able to carry out both phases of exploration in our previous blocks as a welcomed guest in these communities based on frequent engagement and a solid relationship. Working With Our Suppliers Labor Standards We insist that contractors, suppliers and others who work with us follow the appropriate laws and regulations. We expect suppliers, contractors and others who work on our behalf to be guided by the standards set forth in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, including our commitment to conduct our business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Management Systems The indicators below provide a concise view of the business practices that promote adherence to international labor standards. Supplier Labor Standards  Focus Area  Management Systems  Labor Practices  We conduct our business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and expect suppliers and contractors working on our behalf to be guided by these principles.  Contract Language  Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is included in supplier contracts.  Supplier Engagement  The company engages with suppliers and contractors on sustainable development issues.  Local Content and Employment ConocoPhillips places a high priority on purchasing goods and services locally and is committed to giving local contractors and suppliers the opportunity to participate in projects through a competitive bid process. Throughout the United States, we track the amounts we spend with local suppliers. We also look for opportunities to develop local suppliers and promote local hiring as appropriate to meet business needs. Management Systems The indicators below provide a concise view of the business practices in support of local content. Key Area   Implementation Indicators   Local Employment   . Business unit, asset or project plans include support for local employment as appropriate.  . Where appropriate, social investment initiatives support the strengthening of local capacity to respond to employment needs.   Local Procurement   . Business unit, asset or project plans include support for local procurement and providing opportunities for local contractors and suppliers as appropriate.  Local Business Development  . Certain business units support local business development initiatives or “incubators.”  . Where appropriate, social investment initiatives support strengthening of local business development.  Supplier Diversity In all our operations, we seek to do business with diverse companies and are committed to giving them equal and impartial opportunity. This approach stimulates local economic development and enhances our long.term business performance by improving supplier responsiveness, competition and sustainability. Our supplier diversity program extends to active participation in organizations that support the development of smaller local businesses in the United States. We are corporate members of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). If your company is categorized as a small, minority or woman.owned supplier and you are interested in doing business with ConocoPhillips, feel free to register by submitting a supplier profile form. Internally, we recognize supplier diversity through our Supplier Diversity Leadership Awards program, which recognizes individuals, teams and business units who demonstrate superior leadership in promoting global supplier diversity. The company is committed to developing supplier diversity worldwide. To leverage corporate synergies and provide program consistency, we are reviewing our current program in light of becoming an independent exploration and production company in 2012.  Sustainable Procurement Our global supply chain group is contributing to our sustainable development commitments through strategic sourcing, inventory management, our Procure.to.Pay process, our contract system, and improved energy and material efficiency programs. We are developing a sustainable development position that will drive sustainable purchasing; this position will be communicated with internal stakeholders and suppliers. Finally, we are looking at tools to help these groups more easily consider and integrate sustainable development metrics in conducting their purchases and in evaluating our supply chains. Reporting Key performance metrics are updated every year. All reported HSE data are based on operated assets only. Environmental data are represented as 100 percent ownership interest regardless of actual share owned by ConocoPhillips. Performance Data Air Emissions Sulfur Oxides (SOx) Overall, the SOx emissions in 2012 were about 9,400 metric tons, an increase of 51% or about 3,200 metric tons from 2011. SOx emissions on a per.unit basis also increased significantly. The increase was primarily due to improved measurement and emission calculations, as well as increased production, increased flaring requirements due to third party gas plant outages, and inclusion of additional sources in the Lower 48 Permian asset. These increases were partly offset by reductions due to equipment replacement at a Lower 48 plant, improved gas injection rates at a Canada facility, decreased fuel usage in Indonesia and the curtailment of flaring in Asia Pacific due to operation of a new gas pipeline. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) NOx emissions in 2012 were about 107,161 metric tons, a decrease of 2% or about 1,680 metric tons from 2011 primarily due to decreased production, fuel consumption and drilling in some operations, partly offset by increases from development activity in the Lower 48 Eagle Ford area and from our Marine operations. This modest decrease in NOx emissions against reduced production volumes resulted in more than a 2% increase in per unit emissions. Particulate Matter (PM) PM emissions in 2012 were about 3,100 metric tons, an increase of 16% or about 430 metric tons from 2011. The increase was primarily due to increased need for flaring at several units, development activity in the Lower 48 Eagle Ford area and from our Marine operations. Partly offsetting the increases was a slight reduction in Asia Pacific primarily due to decreased diesel fuel consumption at gas plants and curtailed flaring in Asia Pacific with operation of a new gas pipeline. The rate of PM emissions per unit increased 21%. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) VOC emissions in 2012 were approximately 98,000 metric tons, a decrease of 11% or about 12,200 metric tons from 2011. The reductions are primarily attributable to improved utilization of a VOC recovery unit, lower production volumes, and improvements in calculation methodologies, partly offset by increases from development activity in the Lower 48 Eagle Ford area, new production facilities and improved inventory procedures. The decrease in emissions resulted in a 7% decrease in VOC emissions per unit from 2011 to 2012. Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Consistent with our Climate Change Position we track data for greenhouse gas emissions, flaring, and energy. See our most recent Carbon Disclosure Project submission. For additional information on our approach to addressing climate change issues and concerns, please see Climate Change. In 2012, total CO2 equivalent GHG emissions (CO2e) were approximately 26 million metric tons, representing a decrease of 3% or 0.8 million metric tons below 2011. The decrease in 2012 emissions was primarily due to curtailed flaring with operation of a new gas pipeline, a flaring reduction initiative and outage of several units for part of the year. While total GHG emissions decreased, so did production volume, resulting in GHG emissions per unit increasing by 1%. Flaring In 2012, the total flaring volume was 20.7 BCF, a decrease of 33% from 2011. Flaring volume per unit decreased 30%. These decreases are primarily related to significantly lower flaring volumes in Asia Pacific as a new pipeline came on line to transport previously flared gas production, flaring reduction programs in several regions, along with temporary shutdown of some facilities and lower field production, partly offset by development activities in Lower 48. Energy Consumption Total energy consumption in 2012 was approximately 267 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs), a reduction of about 16.8 trillion BTUs. Of the 2012 consumption, about 97.5% was from combustion and about 2.5% was from purchased electricity. The decrease in energy consumption in 2012 resulted in reduction of about 2% of energy use per unit. We continually strive to make our operations more energy efficient. This provides an economic benefit through lower production costs, as well as an environmental benefit from reduced GHG emissions. Material Efficiency Waste Management In 2012, the amount of hazardous waste reported increased by 43,914 metric tons, or 127%, to a total of 78,606 metric tons. The increase was primarily due to improved reporting by one business of well fluids/sludge disposal, increased onshore disposal of spill waste from an Asia Pacific platform, as well as shutdown and maintenance activities in other businesses. Safety Since 2008 the employees and contractors that make up the company’s global work force improved our safety performance by about 50% ..decreasing injuries per 100 workers (Total Recordable Rate or TRR) from 0.59 in 2008 to 0.29 in 2012. About one in four injuries were serious enough that the worker had to lose time from work (Lost Workday Case or LWC). In 2012 we also experienced the tragic loss of an employee and a contract worker in separate fatal incidents. Spills We respond to spills as soon as they are discovered. While all spills are considered serious, those greater than 100 barrels are defined as significant incidents and trigger immediate reporting to management, as well as extensive investigation and corrective action. In 2012, there were five such significant spills. We have made progress eliminating the number of spills greater than one barrel of liquid hydrocarbons, with 30% fewer in 2012 than in 2008. The trend has also been improving in the number of significant spills, with the 2012 total 50% lower than in 2008. The volume of liquid hydrocarbon spills in both categories has also declined significantly over the five.year period. Water In 2012, ConocoPhillips.operated assets withdrew 9.7 million cubic meters of fresh water, a decrease of approximately 1.4 million cubic meters, or 13%. The decrease was primarily due to less ice road building, a plant shutdown and lower crude production. At our operated assets, we discharged approximately 34 million cubic meters of water, which is a 1% decrease from 2011 related to lower production volumes. The 2012 water discharge volume is also 57% lower than 2008 levels. In compliance with regulations and local permits, we released 410 metric tons of hydrocarbons in produced water discharged in 2012, an increase of 65 tonnes or 19% over 2011. This was primarily due to one business unit detecting oil at lower levels, and another business unit increasing maintenance activities. Between 2008 and 2012, the company has achieved significant reduction of the volume discharged due to water treatment improvements in Norway, the UK and Indonesia, as well as from the transfer of field ownership of former ConocoPhillips property. Political Contributions All political contributions are reported twice a year to the compliance and ethics committee. Further details including lists of these contributions can be found in Political Contributions and Political Support Policy & Procedures. Community and Social Investments Positive Economic Impacts Our global operations contribute substantially to social and economic development in the communities in which we operate. For example, our direct economic contributions during 2012 included: . Jobs – ConocoPhillips employs approximately 16,900 employees around the world. . Taxes – Our operations generated $11.5 billion in income and other tax revenue to governments. . Shareholder dividends – ConocoPhillips common stock yielded $3.3 billion in cash dividends. . Capital investments – ConocoPhillips reinvested $14.2 billion in capital expenditures and investments to find new energy supplies. Payments to various vendors and suppliers for products and services: . $7.4 billion for production, operating and exploration expenses . $1.1 billion for selling, general and administrative expenses. Note: Taxes, capital investments and payments represent amounts for continuing operations only. Philanthropic Contributions ConocoPhillips believes that the company’s success depends not only on business successes, but also on our commitment to corporate citizenship. In 2012, our charitable cash contributions totaled approximately $50 million. For more information about our philanthropic programs, see In Communities. Employees As an independent oil and gas exploration and production company, at the end of 2012, we employed 16,900 people worldwide, compared to 17,400 employees in this business in 2011. Social and Operating Metrics SOCIAL AND OPERATING METRICS  Year  2012  2011  Employees at year end  16,900  17,400*  Estimated philanthropic investment (millions of dollars  50  50*  E&P worldwide production (MBOED)  1,578  1,619  Production from natural gas  45%  46%  *Represents upstream portion of larger total from the former integrated company. 