A Message from our Chairman and CEOThroughout 2021, a year of challenge and transformation, our sustainable development (SD) priorities remained a foundational element of our long-term value proposition. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance, including climate risk management, remained a strong focus of our ongoing engagements with a wide range of external stakeholders including the financial sector, policymakers and residents in the areas in which we operate.ConocoPhillips concluded 2021 with an enhanced portfolio after completing two transformative acquisitions. We successfully integrated Concho Resources and Shell’s Permian assets into the business, while navigating one of the most challenging eras in industry history, one marked by a global pandemic and accompanying economic and energy demand downturns. As the world economy recovered, we continued operating safely, addressed our SD priorities and advanced our climate risk plans and actions. This performance demonstrated that our business model – focused on peer-leading distributions, balance sheet strength, disciplined investment and ESG leadership – positions us to adapt and compete across business cycles, geopolitical events and the evolving energy transition.Meeting the central aim of the Paris Agreement to respond to the climate challenge is a worldwide imperative for which governments and companies alike have adopted net-zero ambitions. We intend to play a meaningful role in this vital effort by fulfilling our Triple Mandate to responsibly meet energy transition pathway demand, deliver competitive returns on and of capital and achieve our net-zero operational emissions ambition. This mandate represents our commitment to create long-term value while enhancing climate protection and accelerating our contribution to the energy transition. We’ve developed and published a detailed Plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition that describes how we will manage the transition’s associated risks and emerging opportunities. Under this plan, we intensified our efforts to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, with an ambition to become net-zero by 2050. Steps taken include:.	Increasing our previously announced operational GHG emissions intensity reduction target from 35-45% to 40-50% by 2030 on a gross operated basis..	Broadening this goal to include non-operated net equity investments. .	Setting a further 10% reduction target for methane emissions intensity by 2025 from our 2019 baseline, building on the 65% reduction achieved since 2015. .	Aiming for zero routine flaring by 2025, five years earlier than the World Bank’s goal..	Advocating for a U.S. carbon price that would directly reduce consumer energy demand and thus end-use (Scope 3) emissions..	Expanding our scenario planning to include multiple alternative energy transition pathways that test our strategy’s resilience to climate-related risk. .	Incorporating into our capital allocation process a fully burdened cost of supply, including cost of carbon..	Refocusing our portfolio on assets with the low cost of supply and low emissions intensity that will be essential in meeting energy transition pathway demand.Our vital role in the energy transition will also include capturing potential business value through a recently formed Low Carbon Technologies organization. This team is tasked with developing a companywide Net-Zero Roadmap for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, understanding the new energies landscape and prioritizing possible future investments in low carbon energy solutions. Initially identified opportunities include carbon capture and storage and hydrogen production and use. This year’s report also highlights environmental stewardship efforts of our business units. Our water management achievements included using more than 54% recycled produced water as source water in the Permian Basin and reducing freshwater withdrawals by 25% at APLNG in Australia. Our biodiversity management efforts in our Lower 48 business unit included maintaining voluntary conservation agreements on more than 500,000 acres in New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, and the creation of a biodiversity mapping tool to inform stakeholders of our development strategies. We strengthened community relationships, and enhanced community sustainability by utilizing local service and supply providers.Our ESG leadership efforts include constructive, meaningful dialogue that enhances our understanding of stakeholder priorities and concerns and enables us to collaboratively address them. ConocoPhillips remains committed to engaging with our stakeholders as expectations rise and challenges continue. We intend to meet our SD priorities and respond effectively to evolving risks and opportunities that arise throughout the energy transition.Chairman and CEO MessageRyan Lance
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerJune 2022Board MessageA Message from our Board of DirectorsThrough our diverse range of roles, skills and experiences, the members of the ConocoPhillips Board of Directors have ongoing exposure to current sustainability matters that are most important to the company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. These environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics continually evolve, and there is increasing shareholder interest in how the company performs in these areas as related to its expected long-term value. This includes growing scrutiny of how the company is addressing transition risk and opportunity and supporting solutions that contribute to the world’s desire to achieve net-zero by 2050.As part of our oversight responsibilities, the Board engages extensively with management on all sustainable development (SD) issues, including management of climate-related risks. Sustainability targets, plans and performance are reviewed during regularly scheduled Board and Committee meetings throughout the year and at our annual Board strategy session. This robust and ongoing engagement by the full Board and its committees ensures strong oversight of the company’s sustainability commitments, actions and results.Executives and other key leaders provide regular, in-depth briefings to the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) covering key sustainability issues as we work to identify, evaluate and monitor ESG trends and risks that could affect business activities and performance. We also engage with stakeholders, including shareholders, to understand their expectations of performance and accountability. Areas of discussion during 2021 included climate-risk strategy implementation, nature-based carbon offsets, the company’s energy transition plan, low-carbon technologies, new opportunities in carbon capture and storage and hydrogen, biodiversity, just transition, ESG trends in the financial sector, external engagement, government policy, and review of SD strategic priorities.Additionally, the Board Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) receives annual updates on enterprise risk management (ERM) and cybersecurity risks. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee oversees the company’s Human Capital Management strategy, executive compensation and performance-based components of company incentive programs. These committees discuss and monitor market, reputational, operational and political risks and opportunities with potential to impact company operations.We believe that the company’s foundational principles of disciplined investment, peer-leading distributions, balance sheet strength and ESG excellence support shareholder interests. The company’s Triple Mandate of achieving its net-zero operational emissions ambition, meeting energy transition pathway demand and delivering competitive returns on and of capital is a credible and responsible way to meet shareholder expectations for both short- and long-term value creation and ESG performance.The Board recognizes that sustainability concerns and shareholder expectations will continue to evolve in the future. We understand the growing urgency to be part of the solution in a world aiming for net-zero emissions by mid-century. We believe the company has the right governance, strategy and risk-management processes in place to successfully navigate and compete throughout the energy transition. This Sustainability Report provides data and examples that effectively discloses to shareholders the company’s ESG-related performance.As Board members, we look forward to another year of active engagement with ConocoPhillips on ESG performance to ensure the company’s actions and plans continue meeting its shareholders’ interests.Board MessageRobert A. Niblock Lead DirectorJody FreemanPublic Policy and Sustainability Committee ChairIntegrating SustainabilityIntegrating SustainabilityWe have long played a meaningful role in a vital industry, and believe that we have an important role to play in the energy transition by executing on three objectives: reliably and responsibly deliver oil and gas production to meet transition pathway demand; deliver competitive returns on and of capital for our stockholders; and achieve our net-zero operational emissions ambition. We call this the Triple Mandate. Sustainability is core to ConocoPhillips and ESG excellence is an integrated part of our foundational principles.We have been on a journey to integrate sustainability into planning and decision making for decades. Before our first sustainable development (SD) report was published in 2005, we had implemented a process to identify and manage environmental and social issues and assess performance. That process has evolved over the years as the risk and opportunity trends in science, demographics, technology and policy have changed. We published our first sustainable development and climate change positions in 2003. Since that time, we have updated those positions and developed positions on water, biodiversity, human rights and diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I). We also continue to refine our governance structure to manage sustainability risks and opportunities throughout the organization. Our systems-based approach, by design, includes continuous improvement and internal assurance.Caribou on Alaska’s North Slope.2021 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS›	Successfully completed the acquisition and integration of Concho Resources and Shell Permian assets to deliver differential performance on the company’s Triple Mandate. ›	Advanced the company’s net-zero ambition with an increase in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction targets to 40-50% from a 2016 baseline on a net equity and gross operated basis by 2030, from the previous target of 35-45% on only a gross operated basis. ›	Established a multi-disciplinary Low Carbon Technologies organization to identify and evaluate business opportunities that address end-use emissions and early-stage low-carbon technology opportunities that leverage our expertise and adjacencies. Sustainable Development
GovernanceConocoPhillips uses a strategic planning process and risk management tools to integrate evolving trends, including those related to climate change, into the company’s framework for decision making. Environmental and social performance is a key component of our long-range planning process, and we have a comprehensive governance framework for sustainable development (SD) risks and opportunities that extends from the Board of Directors’ Public Policy and Sustainability Committee, through the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), to leaders and internal subject matter experts. The overarching corporate governance element is addressed in the Investors section of our website. Board OversightThe ConocoPhillips Board of Directors oversees our sustainable development (SD) positions and related strategic planning and risk management policies and procedures. The Board delegates certain elements of its oversight functions to one or more of its five standing committees: Executive, Audit and Finance, Human Resources and Compensation, Directors’ Affairs, and Public Policy and Sustainability. Each committee, other than the Executive Committee, convenes at least quarterly. The Committee on Directors’ Affairs regularly evaluates the size and composition of the Board and continually assesses whether the composition appropriately relates to ConocoPhillips’ strategic needs, which change as the business environment evolves. We seek director candidates who possess the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity, and values and who are committed to representing the long-term interests of all ConocoPhillips’ stakeholders. The Committee on Directors’ Affairs considers background and diversity (including gender, ethnicity, race, national origin, and geographic background) and also seeks to ensure that the Board reflects a range of talents, ages, skills, personal attributes, and expertise – particularly in the areas of leadership and management, financial reporting, issues specific to oil- and gas-related industries, both domestic and international markets, public policy and government regulation, technology, public company board service, human capital management and environmental and sustainability matters.Read more about our directors on our website. The Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) is responsible for identifying, evaluating and monitoring sustainable development and climate-related trends and risks that could affect business activities and performance. The PPSC makes recommendations to the Board and monitors compliance with the company’s policies, programs and practices regarding: .	Health, safety, security (excluding cybersecurity) .	Environmental protection .	Climate change .	Water and biodiversity .	Human rights and social issues .	Business operations in sensitive countries .	Government relations .	Political/regulatory risk management and political contributions .	Corporate philanthropy and corporate reputationSustainable development is a standing agenda item at PPSC meetings to discuss the SD risk management process, the implementation of our net-zero ambition and Paris-aligned emissions reduction targets, and the use of reporting and disclosure frameworks. In 2021, this included: .	SD strategic priorities .	Climate-related risk strategy, management, metrics and disclosure .	Lower 48 flaring and methane emissions .	Water risk management .	Updated Biodiversity and Water Positions .	Social risk management .	ESG trends in the financial sector .	ESG engagement strategy .	SD reporting and ratings Issues considered by the PPSC are reported to the full Board as appropriate. Other Board committees also address sustainability issues. The Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) oversees Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and cybersecurity. The AFC facilitates appropriate coordination among the Board committees to ensure that our risk management processes are in place with necessary steps taken to foster a culture of prudent decision-making throughout the company. The AFC receives annual updates on how enterprise risk is being addressed, mitigated and managed across the company, including sustainable development considerations that influence market, reputational, operational and political risks within the ERM system. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee oversees executive compensation and the performance-based components of the company’s incentive programs, including ESG metrics, targets and performance, as well as human capital management and diversity, equity and inclusion. Annual incentive programs promote achievement of strategic milestones and objectives that address stakeholder issues essential to sustaining excellence in environmental and social performance. Executive ManagementThe Executive Leadership Team (ELT) has final responsibility for developing corporate strategy, implementing sustainability efforts, and reporting company performance. The Executive Vice President (EVP), Strategy, Sustainability and Technology, who reports to the chief executive officer has overall accountability for corporate planning and development, including corporate strategy and long-range planning. The EVP, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology, also serves as the ELT’s climate change champion. In addition, the Sustainability and Public Policy Executive Council (SPEC), a sub-committee of the ELT, has global oversight of existing and emerging sustainable development (SD) and public policy risks and trends including SD and climate-related governance, strategic planning, risk management and public reporting. The SPEC consists of the following executives: .	EVP, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology .	EVP, Global Operations .	EVP, Lower 48 .	SVP, Legal and General Counsel .	SVP, Government Affairs Members of SPEC were briefed six times during the year on priority topics such as climate change, biodiversity, water, human rights and stakeholder engagement. The council’s scope includes: .	Reviewing risk trends and setting priorities. .	Reviewing and approving public policy and sustainability policies, positions, strategies, goals and actions on priority matters. .	Prioritizing resource allocation to external engagement and initiatives. .	Recommending which issues warrant additional executive leadership, full ELT review or additional Board engagement. .	Reviewing and endorsing agenda and meeting content for the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) of the Board. The SPEC is also the governance link to the PPSC whose oversight covers SD matters including climate-related risks. Linking Compensation to 
Sustainability PerformanceExecutive and employee compensation includes the annual Variable Cash Incentive Program (VCIP). This annual cash bonus is based upon company and individual performance on metrics that include health, safety and environmental performance as well as the achievement of milestones aligned with strategic sustainable development priorities including managing climate-related risk. In 2021, employees were rewarded for successfully integrating Concho and demonstrating an annual run rate of $1 billion of sustainable cost and capital reductions that address aspects of our Triple Mandate. We demonstrated progress toward the Paris-aligned climate risk framework by improving GHG emissions reduction targets, executing 48 operational emissions reduction projects and evaluating low-carbon investments. We achieved top quartile ESG performance on company-prioritized rating frameworks, including MSCI, ISS ESG, Bloomberg ESG and DJSI rating frameworks relative to our performance peers. We increased internal and external transparency of DE&I metrics by disclosing the EEO-1 reports for the last three years, expanding the DE&I metrics on our corporate website and publishing our inaugural Human Capital Management report. Employees exhibited strong collaboration integrating acquired assets into our business’ HSE systems and processes, completed multiple turnarounds without serious incidents, and remain a leader among our peers on personnel safety performance with zero fatalities in 2021.We engage with our stockholders regularly on sustainable development priorities, and this feedback is reviewed with the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board when considering executive compensation programs.Organizational ManagementSustainable Development Leadership TeamThe Sustainable Development Leadership Team (SDLT) is comprised of global business unit presidents and functional department heads and supported by the sustainable development (SD) team. Chaired by the vice president, Sustainable Development, the SDLT provides consultation for SD focus areas, goals, priorities, action plans and results. Strategic planning, goal setting, implementation, performance and reporting for climate-related risk are reviewed by the SDLT. Sustainable Development TeamWithin the Strategy, Sustainability and Technology organization, the sustainable development team supports the business in developing and tracking metrics for annual reporting and forecasting for the long-range plan. Support includes addressing the company’s SD risks, opportunities, commitments, performance, external engagement and reporting. Team members are responsible for key topics, including: .	Climate Change .	Water .	Biodiversity .	Stakeholder Engagement and Social Responsibility.	Risk Management .	Supply Chain Sustainability Team members lead Issues Working Groups (IWGs) for climate change, water, stakeholder engagement and biodiversity. These are internal global cross-functional groups who meet quarterly to discuss risks, risk mitigation, challenges and opportunities in each subject area. The objective is to share key SD learnings across the company, leverage expertise and align on consistent risk management practices. The team is responsible for informing the ELT and Board of risks and opportunities for our business and ensuring that these issues are integrated appropriately into strategic decisions. The SD team reports to the executive vice president, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology, who reports to the chief executive officer. The vice president, Sustainable Develop..ment, leads the standing SD agenda item for the PPSC. The SD team works closely with the Environmental Assurance group within HSE to ensure that environmental risks and opportunities are identified and monitored by our business units and metrics are provided for public disclosure. The groups collaborate to ensure that the requisite environmental risk tools, processes and procedures are developed and integrated into the company’s HSE Management System. Read more about our HSE Management System on our website. The SD team routinely collaborates with the Low Carbon Technologies organization on emissions reduction projects, the pathway for achieving net-zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions, pilots for newly emerging competitive opportunities, and implementation of the Climate Risk Strategy. OperationsEach ConocoPhillips business unit is responsible for integrating sustainability issues into day-to-day operations, project development and decision-making. They are held accountable through assessing SD risks, mitigating those risks and developing action plans. Progress is reported to management and results are shared with the ELT. HSE leadership is responsible for environmental assurance at the business level. Subject matter experts in climate change, biodiversity, water, and stakeholder engagement from the business units are members of the IWGs.TrainingIn 2021, the sustainable development (SD) and environmental assurance teams partnered to provide virtual training programs featuring discussions from top leaders on key sustainability topics. The mission of the Sustainability Learning Program is to support environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance through functional excellence and assured management of SD risks. In fall 2021, over 90 environment and SD practitioners participated in a virtual three-day workshop to collaborate and discuss the company’s sustainability priorities, emerging topics and goals.We have adapted and applied training materials developed by IPIECA and other best practice groups and training is made available to all global employees. Additionally, we are active in IPIECA best practice groups to develop training and guidance material. To support employee awareness of sustainability topics, we execute communications activities including executive videos, interviews, internal web broadcasts and social media that reinforce company positions, goals, actions and reporting. Stakeholder engagement and human rights training is available for all employees and key contractors. Policies and PositionsIn 2021, the Sustainable Development Position was updated and developed as a policy to define and ensure SD risk management, strategic planning, governance and disclosure processes. We also updated our company’s Biodiversity and Water Positions. These updates were approved by the PPSC. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORKDIRECTOR SKILLS MATRIX  Key Skills CEO or senior officer  Financial reporting  Industry Global Regulatory/government  Technology Public company 
board service Environmental/sustainability Human capital management     Dir. Since   Age * Ind.               Caroline Maury DevineFormer President and Managing Director of a Norwegian affiliate of ExxonMobil     2017   71 .            Jody FreemanArchibald Cox Professor of Law, Harvard Law School 2012 58 .              Gay Huey Evans CBEChairman, London 
Metal Exchange 2013 67 .             Jeffrey A. JoerresFormer Executive Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, ManpowerGroup Inc.   2018 62 .             Ryan M. LanceChairman and Chief Executive Officer, ConocoPhillips 2012 59           Timothy A. LeachAdvisor to the Chief Executive Officer, ConocoPhillips 2021 62             William H. McRavenRetired U.S. Navy Four-Star
Admiral (SEAL) 2018 66 .           Sharmila MulliganFormer Chief Strategy Officer, Alteryx 2017 56 .           Eric D. MullinsChairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lime Rock Resources 2020 59 .           Arjun N. MurtiSenior Advisor, 
Warburg Pincus 2015 52 .           Robert A. NiblockFormer Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Lowe’s Companies, Inc. 2010 59 .            David T. SeatonFormer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Fluor Corporation 2020 60 .           R.A. WalkerFormer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 2020 65 .          * As of March 28, 2022Checking H.S concentration and the set points for chemical injection while H.S is treated prior to sale.2021 SUSTAINABILITY ENGAGEMENT SERIESIn 2021, employees engaged with the Sustainability and Low Carbon Technology teams through our internal Sustainability Engagement Series.POLICIES AND POSITIONSPOLICIES  Code of Business Ethics and ConductHealth, Safety and Environment Policy Political Support Policies & ProceduresPrinciples of Environmental JusticeSupply Chain PolicyPolitical Contributions Substance Abuse Policy Supplier ExpectationsSustainable Development PolicyGlobal Tax PolicyEqual Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy POSITIONS Climate ChangeWater SustainabilityHuman RightsBiodiversity Diversity & InclusionRenewable EnergyHIV/AIDS Integrating SustainabilityManaging Sustainable Development RisksManaging Sustainable 
Development RisksOur governance structure provides Board and management oversight of our risk processes and mitigation plans. Our integrated management system approach to identifying, assessing and managing sustainable development (SD) risks is aligned with how we make business decisions to ensure the consistent global identification and assessment of risks. This system links directly to the ERM process, which includes an annual risk review by executive leadership and the Board. These elements help us manage and mitigate risk, as well as track our SD performance.Assessing and Managing RisksOur SD Risk Management Standard mandates a process for operated assets and projects to assess and manage risks to ensure corporate oversight, assurance and consistent implementation. Risks are identified and assessed against the physical, social and political settings of our operations by subject matter experts in each business unit (BU) and project. Local concerns may influence the potential importance of these environmental and social matters, including cumulative effects. Each risk is then assessed using a matrix that evaluates both its likelihood and consequence. In evaluating the consequence severity, we consider potential impacts on employee and public safety, sociocultural and economic impacts to stakeholders, environmental impacts, and reputational and financial implications. Risks identified as significant or high at the corporate or BU level are included in the corporate SD Risk Register. The company undertakes a review of SD risks annually and updates the SD Risk Register and associated action plans. An audit protocol for the standard was developed in 2020 and we implemented a regular audit schedule in 2021. The standard further mandates developing action plans for mitigated risks ranked significant or high and are tracked in the corporate SD Risk Register. Risks that are no longer ranked significant or high due to the effectiveness of mitigation actions, as well as risks that are identified as medium or low, continue to be tracked at the Business Unit level. Read more about our management process for climate change, water, biodiversity and social risks on our website.Action PlansThe SD Risk Management Standard ensures that an action plan is developed to track mitigation activities for each risk included in the corporate SD Risk Register. These plans include details about our commitments, related responsibilities and milestones. As part of annual updates to the register, the action plans and their effectiveness are evaluated, and decisions are made to continue mitigation measures, add new measures or simply monitor the risk for further developments. Significant and high risks are removed from the corporate risk register when mitigation actions have reduced the level of risk, and they are tracked to ensure ongoing mitigation effectiveness. The SD Risk Register and action plans are also used to track performance and guide goal setting. Read more about Performance and Compensation on our website. Action plans for prioritized risks are typically managed at the BU level, along with the ongoing management of SD performance and engagement designed to minimize or avoid other social and environmental aspects of our business. Overarching risk management actions, such as greenhouse gas (GHG) target setting, prioritization of global emissions-abatement projects and disclosure and reporting, are managed at the corporate level. Line-of-sight goals for business units and key functions are shown as specific action items within the action plans. Mitigation actions can range from single or multiyear specific projects to routine and long-term programs.Enterprise Risk ManagementSustainability risks are integrated into the corporate ERM system. Risks from the corporate SD Risk Register are mapped to relevant enterprise risks including market, reputational, operational and political. Owners of these enterprise risks, who are ELT members or senior managers, are briefed on the risks and our mitigation activities. Enterprise risks are then presented to the Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) of the Board. The AFC receives annual updates on how enterprise risk is being addressed, mitigated and managed across the company.Long-Range Plan and Corporate StrategyOur long-range and strategic planning activities consider sustainable development risks and mitigation. Our Long-Range Plan (LRP) forecasts key data for our corporate strategy covering our proposed portfolio development and performance, production, costs and cash flows. We also use the LRP to forecast GHG emissions and water use to understand our future environmental footprint. Environmental and social risk mitigations, such as emissions reduction projects, are reflected in the LRP and our annual budget.Our corporate strategy defines the company’s direction for exploration and development, including portfolio, capital allocation and cost structure. Our cost of supply, portfolio diversification (both geological and geographical) and technology investments are aspects of the corporate strategy that also address sustainability risk. For example, a low cost of supply mitigates climate transition risk in lower-energy demand scenarios. Having a geographically diverse portfolio helps mitigate the risk of community or stakeholder concerns delaying a significant portion of our production. Investing in water treatment technology allows us to recycle produced water and decrease our reliance on local water sources. We work with company leadership through our governance structure, ERM system and energy transition models to ensure our strategy effectively manages SD risks.Key SD Management ProcessesOur integrated management system is based on mandatory and auditable corporate standards, which are supported by principles and guidelines aligned with how we make business decisions to ensure the consistent global identification and assessment of SD risks. This includes integration into key business-planning processes for the company, from business development activities and exploration to developing major capital projects and managing our day-to-day operations.We perform due diligence on acquisitions, divestitures, trades, exchanges and farm-in/farm-out agreements. This process is designed to ensure that past, present and potential HSE and sustainable development risks and liabilities are clearly identified, understood and documented. This due diligence standard applies to ConocoPhillips and global subsidiaries, and we strive to influence all affiliated companies and joint ventures to conduct due diligence before undertaking binding business transactions...While the majority of ConocoPhillips’ oil and natural gas reserves and production.are within Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) nations, some of the world’s most resource-rich areas are in countries that pose risks associated with political instability, inadequate rule of law or corruption. Before entering a new country – or for other new developments, when warranted by the geopolitical environment – we have adopted comprehensive risk management tools to evaluate and manage these types of risks..A preliminary due diligence assessment is conducted to identify significant risks, including social, environmental and political concerns, and define how they will be managed..As operated and non-operated projects are developed and put forward for internal approval, consideration is given to environmental and social risks and their mitigation. For qualifying projects, our management system also requires the following for investment approval:.	Climate-Related Risk Assessment.	Environmental, Water and Biodiversity Risk Assessments.	Social and Stakeholder Engagement PlansIn managing our day-to-day operations, the.HSE management system addresses operational risk and helps ensure that business activities are conducted in a safe, healthy and environmentally and socially responsible manner, aimed at preventing incidents, injuries, occupational illnesses, pollution and damage to assets. We believe incidents are preventable and that HSE considerations must be embedded into every task and business decision. We also provide guidance to address specific activities in our operations including waste management. This standard ensures all our assets have detailed plans to manage waste streams, minimize where possible, and ensure waste is directed to facilities that have been evaluated and approved by the company.Managing Sustainable Development RisksIntegrating SustainabilityManaging Sustainable Development RisksSTANDARDS AND GUIDELINESSD Risk Management Standard.	Identify social and environmental risks, conduct risk ranking and develop mitigation action plans..	Applies to all operated assets and projects.HSE Social and Due Diligence Standard.	Identify risks and liabilities related to health, safety, environment, regulatory and social issues for transactions requiring due diligence including acquisitions, divestitures, trades, exchanges and farm-in/farm-out agreements..	Applies to all operated assets and projects.HSE Management System Standard.	Identify and manage operational risks to the business, employees, contractors, stakeholders and environment..	Applies to all operated assets and projects. Capital Projects Management Standard.	Assess risks, including SD risks during the project engineering stage..	Applies to all operated capital projects costing more than $50 million net.HSE Waste Management Standard.	Prepare management plans for waste and produced water, evaluate the suitability of industrial disposal facilities and contract only with approved facilities. .	Applies to all operated assets and projects.Environmental Performance Metrics Reporting Practice.	Outlines the requirements and company expectations for reporting the company’s environmental performance metrics..	Applies to all operated assets and its subsidiaries globally, including all affiliated companies and joint ventures.Groundwater Assessment and Monitoring Guideline.	Provides guidance on when and how voluntary baseline sampling could be conducted through a risk-based approach..	Available for use by operated assets and projects in areas not already covered by state-regulated groundwater baseline assessments.Global Induced Seismicity Guideline.	Provides a method to characterize seismicity risks by assessing historical seismicity, identifying geological faults of concern, assessing existing or proposed injection operating conditions and considering proximity to people and population centers. .	Available for use by business units for the planning and operation of injection wells for operated assets and for screening third-party injection operations.Zero Routine Flaring Guideline.	Provides guidance on application of World Bank Zero Routine by 2030 Initiative for ConocoPhillips operations..	Applies to all operated assets and its subsidiaries globally, including all affiliated companies and joint ventures.Business EthicsBusiness EthicsOur reputation and integrity depend on each employee, officer, director and those working on our behalf assuming a personal responsibility for our business conduct. Led by our chief compliance officer, our Global Compliance and Ethics team ensures adherence with applicable laws and the highest ethical standards, promotes a positive corporate reputation, reduces criminal and civil liability, and sets the tone for an ethical work environment. The team includes local ambassadors embedded in business units and functions who help support and administer our Global Compliance and Ethics program.As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we updated our investigation model in 2021 to include enhancements to our investigative processes and expanded engagement with our business units and functions. We aimed to improve efficiency of the management process and to increase the agility of our investigative services. Aspects of our compliance and ethics program relevant to financial reporting are annually reviewed by the company’s external auditor, and global compliance and ethics processes are periodically audited by our internal audit function and external compliance experts.Code of Business Ethics and ConductOur Code of Business Ethics and Conduct is the foundation of our compliance and ethics program, explaining our responsibilities and providing guidance for behaviors. It covers a range of topics including business ethics, competition law, anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment, conflicts of interest and political involvement. In 2021, we reviewed our current code. Using data from risk assessments and cultural gap analysis, we updated and added topics to our code.All new employees receive training on the Code as part of their new hire training curriculum. Current employees have access to web-based training on the Code at any time and are periodically required to repeat this training. Employees who are most exposed to legal risks, such as corruption, take part in web-based training and other targeted training. Employees may also receive training on competition law, anti-boycott, economic sanctions, export controls, insider trading and political activities. We annually require employees to certify they have read the Code, made all required disclosures and reported all potential concerns. With exceptions for certain types of leave, 100% of employees completed this certification in 2021.Systems and Practices for 
Reporting ViolationsWe encourage employees and contractors to ask questions and seek guidance about compliance and ethics matters and we give them tools to guide ethical decision-making. Employees also understand they have a responsibility to report actual or suspected misconduct. We have several confidential reporting mechanisms. They may speak to a trusted manager, supervisor, human resources representative or Global Compliance and Ethics representative. Additionally, there is an anonymous option. Any stakeholder, whether employee, contractor, shareholder or the general public may report an actual or suspected violation of the Code anonymously through our 24-hour Ethics Helpline. The helpline is hosted by a third party to ensure anonymity and is available worldwide via the web or phone in multiple languages. ConocoPhillips prohibits retaliation of any kind against employees for raising an ethical or legal concern.In 2021, Global Compliance and Ethics received questions, concerns and requests for advice from employees and stakeholders across our businesses. As part of our updated investigation model, we investigated workplace conduct, conflicts of interest, financial and business integrity matters, misuse of company assets and other allegations. Remedial and disciplinary actions were taken whenever appropriate. Depending on the scale and type of concern, issues were elevated to provide appropriate management oversight. Senior management and the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board were also provided regular updates on our program, so they could ensure that the program promotes ConocoPhillips’ SPIRIT Values, addresses the compliance and ethics risks in our business and works effectively.Integrating SustainabilitySupply Chain SustainabilitySupply Chain SustainabilitySustainability is integral to our procurement process. Through supplier engagement, supplier recognition and sustainable procurement, we continue to improve our business practices and operations to manage risk while increasing productivity and efficiency within the supply chain. We are committed to upholding our business ethics by supporting business opportunities and capacity building for local and diverse suppliers in our own operations through our supply chain.Supplier Engagement As we integrate sustainable development into our key business activities, suppliers play a significant role. From constructing our facilities to managing our work camps, providing well services and supplying equipment, how they manage their impact on the environment and community is important to us and affects our performance. We regularly engage our suppliers through business reviews and supplier audits to: .	Identify sustainable development opportunities and risks in the supply chains of critical categories. .	Standardize Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to ensure alignment with our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance objectives. .	Track metrics, review performance, and identify continuous improvement opportunities. .	Share best practices for building supplier capacity throughout the supply chain. Another important element of our ongoing engagement with key suppliers is our annual Supplier Sustainability Forum. In 2021, we hosted a virtual forum with 120 participants including suppliers from more than 50 companies and ConocoPhillips representatives from across the globe. The agenda was designed to communicate our strategic sustainability objectives and collaborate with suppliers to manage and mitigate the environmental and social impacts from activities and operations throughout the supply chain. Topics discussed included our net-zero ambition and Triple Mandate, an introduction to our Low Carbon Technologies organization, and an overview of technologies deployed to help reduce environmental impacts and improve sustainability.Mitigating supplier risk is critical to support our operations through sustainable procurement. Driven by supplier stability concerns, we began monitoring the financial health of suppliers in 2016 through quarterly assessments. Additionally, supply chain leaders meet quarterly to proactively assess risk for over 150 business-critical suppliers. This supports continuity of global operations through the development of risk mitigation plans to cover supply or service interruptions. In 2021, we interacted with suppliers regularly to avert bottlenecks, strengthen ties, seek out emissions reduction opportunities, and address risk mitigations due to global supply chain disruptions and the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. As the oil services sector went through further consolidation and more suppliers showed ongoing signs of financial distress, we further utilized products and services from local suppliers to support our operations. This approach continues to help maintain continuity of our operations and improve our local community engagement. In Canada, as the markets tightened and vaccine mandates were implemented, we broadened our supplier base for both materials and services but consistently started with local and First Nation companies. During sourcing events, we also conducted comprehensive contract risk classification assessments to quantify inherent risks and establish mitigation strategies prior to contract award. This process has been used across our Supply Chain organization globally for over 15 years. Engaging our suppliers to identify and manage risks allows us to mutually improve our sustainability performance. Supplier Recognition Suppliers who positively impact our business are honored by our annual Supplier Recognition Awards. Sustainability is an integral consideration for these supplier awards. In 2021, awards ranged from gas capture solutions to environmental planning. The 2021 Supplier Recognition Award Winners are: .	Alamo Pressure Pumping, LLC .	ASRC Energy Services – Houston Contracting Company, Inc. .	Baker Hughes Services Australia Pty Ltd..	Berkat OSH Services Sdn Bhd .	Beyond Energy Services & Technology USA Inc. .	Contract Resources Pty Ltd. .	Couvillion Group .	Delta Constructors, LLC .	ESS Support Services AS .	H&S Constructors Inc. .	Halliburton AS .	Homeground Gladstone Pty Limited .	N&R Construction, LLC .	ND Energy Services .	Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd. (COOEC) .	Precision Drilling Corporation .	RK Supply .	Valence Natural Gas Solutions Inc. .	Visco AS .	Xodus Group Pty Ltd. Sustainable Procurement and Business Ethics The supply chain function contributes to the company’s sustainable development commitments by integrating sustainability into our source-to-settle processes and procedures, which include: Supplier Expectations .	Integrity, Labor and Human Rights.	Safety.	Environmental Sustainability .	Supplier Inclusion Supplier Qualifications .	Prequalification Questionnaires Sourcing and Category Management .	Requests for Information or Quotes .	Bid Events .	Category Risk Assessments Contract Delivery .	Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) .	Supplier Audits Integrating engagement on labor and human rights into our procurement processes and procedures includes recommended questions and contract language for supplier prequalifications, bids, and audits. The questions and contracts directly address these issues and are based on our commitment to conduct our business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and our Supplier Expectations. We are committed to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015. We endeavor to conduct all contracting and procurement activities in an ethical manner in accordance with our Supply Chain Standard and applicable laws. We require suppliers to comply with certain requirements as a condition of business and to be guided by the principles and standards set forth in the ConocoPhillips Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and their own ethics and conduct policies. Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct: Expectations of Suppliers provides additional clarity to our suppliers regarding our expectations in these areas: Additionally, our contract templates incorporate requirements for export compliance and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) among other requirements. ConocoPhillips prohibits any form of money laundering and follows all domestic and international laws governing money laundering. ConocoPhillips strives to prevent money laundering through procurement policies, vetting, due diligence and payment processes. Local Content and Employment We emphasize promoting supplier capacity building in our procurement and we expect our suppliers to do the same. We also place a high priority on purchasing goods and services locally and are committed to giving local contractors and suppliers the opportunity to participate in projects and operating requirements, generally through a competitive bidding process. We also seek opportunities to develop local suppliers and promote local hiring as appropriate to meet business needs. Read more about how we are creating shared value in communities on our website. Supplier Diversity We expect to do business with qualified suppliers that share our values, whether minority, woman, disabled, LGBTQ+, or veteran-owned, small business enterprises, or global, local and Indigenous suppliers around the world. In the U.S., we do business with diverse companies and continue to provide access to business opportunities through our Supplier Diversity Program. This approach attracts qualified suppliers, stimulates local economic development, and creates long-lasting social and economic benefits in our stakeholder communities. In the U.S., our 2021 Supplier Diversity Program totaled $533 million spent with businesses owned by veterans, minorities, women, members of the LGBTQ+ community, service-disabled people and historically underutilized businesses (HUBs). Additionally, ConocoPhillips recorded $905 million in expenditures with small businesses. Through our Supplier Diversity program, we actively participate in certifying and developing diverse, small and local businesses in the United States. In 2021, we conducted one in-person and 16 virtual supplier diversity events aimed at local supplier capacity-building efforts. This helped to increase our spending with local suppliers in 2021. Supply Chain Sustainability$7.9billionTotal spend with 7,812 contractors and suppliers in 2021Supply Chain SustainabilityIntegrating SustainabilityHEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENT (HSE)Suppliers must comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and conduct business with respect and care for the environment, including utilizing energy and natural resources efficiently and managing waste, emissions and discharges responsibly.LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTSWe conduct our business consistently with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and expect suppliers and contractors working on our behalf to be guided by these principles.INTEGRITYContracts require that suppliers be guided in their performance for ConocoPhillips by the principles and standards set forth in the ConocoPhillips Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and their own ethics and conduct policies.SOCIAL PERFORMANCEWe engage with suppliers and contractors on sustainable development issues through our Quarterly Business Reviews, Supplier Relationship Management, Supplier Sustainability Forum and supplier audits.Supply Chain SustainabilityLOCAL EMPLOYMENT .	Business unit, asset or project plans include support for local employment as appropriate..	Where appropriate, social investment initiatives support the strengthening of local capacity to respond to employment needs. LOCAL PROCUREMENT .	Business unit, asset or project plans include support for local procurement and provide opportunities for local contractors and suppliers, and investment in supplier capacity building as appropriate.LOCAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT .	Certain business units support local business development initiatives or “incubators.”.	Where appropriate, social investment initiatives support strengthening of local business development.Integrating SustainabilityKey StakeholdersKey StakeholdersActive stakeholder engagement and dialogue is an integral part of our sustainability commitment. It is a key component of our action plans, and our business units develop fit-for-purpose solutions to assess and address stakeholder priorities at all stages of operations. Our stakeholders are as diverse as the communities they live in or the organizations they represent. The breadth of the perspectives they provide gives us a greater understanding of not only concerns and expectations, but also options and opportunities to create lasting value. We engage with our stakeholders in a range of ways as we work to improve our performance.SUPPORTING INDUSTRY DIALOGUEFINANCIAL SECTOR COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS GOVERNMENTS PRIORITIES •	Climate change•	Transition risk•	Biodiversity•	Water•	Human capital •	Local employment and economic development•	Indigenous rights•	Clean air, water and natural environment•	Noise, traffic and local infrastructure•	Safety•	Training and education•	Emergency response•	Induced seismicity •	Compensation and benefits•	Career development•	Safety•	Environmental responsibility•	Company strategy•	Health and well-being•	Ethics and compliance•	Diversity, equity and inclusion •	Performance expectations•	Cost efficiencies•	Alignment with climate risk, safety, innovation and sustainable development expectations •	Climate change•	Energy supply•	Economic development and job creation•	Environmental protection•	Regulatory enforcement•	Taxes and royalties ENGAGEMENT •	Investor presentations and conferences•	Analyst calls•	Annual shareholder meetings•	SEC filings•	Financial sector outreach •	Websites, media and social media•	Community investment programs•	Owner relations•	Community consultations and meetings•	Local business and employment opportunities•	Volunteering •	Performance management•	Training and development•	 Internal communications•	Employee surveys•	Safety meetings•	DE&I Council•	Code of Conduct and Ethics Helpline•	Volunteering•	Town halls and field visits•	Employee network groups•	Global wellness programs •	Bid process•	Contract negotiations•	Project management•	Supplier forums and meetings•	Annual performance reviews •	Advocacy•	Policy development•	Industry and trade association representation•	Regulatory compliance•	Permit reviews•	Regulatory audits•	Regional developments•	Collaboration on community investment About Our ReportingAbout Our ReportingWe take a digital approach to our sustainability reporting. To provide stakeholders with timely information we provide performance examples and updates as they occur. These updates and our performance metrics are integrated into the foundational information on our website and consolidated into our sustainability hub. Performance metrics are updated annually.We recognize that a yearly report is important for many stakeholders and we consolidate annual performance information and metrics into a report that can be found in our Reports and Resources section on the company’s website. Stakeholders can also create customized reports, based on topics of interest, by using our report builder. Issue Prioritization We evolve and refresh our perspective on sustainability reporting by considering the most pressing issues affecting our stakeholders, the global community and our industry. We determine the most relevant issues for our reporting by engaging with internal and external stakeholders throughout the year to better understand concerns about our business, particularly relating to the environment, society and our governance. Identification Through our annual risk assessment process, each business unit identifies potential sustainability risks while considering the physical, social and political settings of our operations. Local concerns may influence the potential importance of these environmental and social matters, including cumulative effects. Each risk is assessed using a matrix that evaluates both its likelihood and consequence. In evaluating the consequence level, we consider potential impacts to stakeholders and the company. Our Issues Working Groups (IWG), comprised of internal subject matter experts for climate change, water, stakeholder engagement/human rights and biodiversity, meet quarterly to discuss issues in each subject area. Annual discussions with other key internal functions provide further input and prioritization of the topic list. Through meetings, correspondence and a review of publicly available materials, we gather opinions and input from key external stakeholders to further identify issues and potential impacts. These include mainstream investors, ESG-focused investors, banks, rating agencies and ESG-focused nonprofit organizations, as well as community members, leaders, policy makers and regulators in the areas where we operate. This is supplemented with analysis of the topics being considered by rating agencies and other survey questions as well as recommended reporting for the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the World Economic Forum: Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism. We also review the priority issues as publicly reported by industry peers to ensure alignment with identified industry issues. Prioritization We develop a list of potentially important issues across a range of topics from governance to safety to impacts on the environment and society. In 2021, we conducted a priority issues assessment to help identify and prioritize the reporting topics about our business as it relates to ESG. Participants included subject matter experts from over 20 of our key functions within the company who provided further insight and prioritized topics based on level of interest or concern to key stakeholders and strategic importance to the company. This process helped determine the significance of 18 sustainability topics. The ESG issues covered in this report reflect discussions with subject matter experts from across our company, findings from primary and secondary research, the feedback we received, and insights we gained through our ongoing engagement with stakeholders. In this year’s report we focused our disclosure on topics most important to stakeholders, including GHG emissions, water use, biodiversity and human capital management. Reporting Frameworks and Scope We report our sustainability performance using internationally recognized reporting standards and frameworks. This includes reporting guidelines, indicators and terminology developed by TCFD, SASB, IPIECA, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2021, API Template 2.0 for GHG Reporting, and the AXPC ESG Metrics Framework and Template. We provide regular information to the CDP for climate change, Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and other organizations that assess the ESG performance of companies. We engage with MSCI, Sustainalytics and ISS E&S QualityScore, all of whom rate us based on publicly available information. We have mapped relevant TCFD, SASB, IPIECA, GRI and UN Global Compact Principles disclosures for stakeholder convenience, and we continue to assess alignment with other emerging frameworks. The 2021 Sustainability Report covers data from January 1 to December 31, 2021. Notes to our metrics outline the scope and methodologies of our data reporting. The minimum boundary for reporting on social and environmental priorities is assets we operate. Concho Resources and Shell Permian assets performance data are integrated in this report as applicable to align with production reporting for 2021.Read about our Data Quality and Assurance on our website. Integrating SustainabilityAbout Our Reporting2021 PRIORITY ISSUE ISSUE DESCRIPTION ENVIRONMENT Carbon Asset Risk Identifying the financial risk of stranded reserves and infrastructure. Carbon Policy Considering legislation and regulation related to climate change and an energy transition to a lower carbon economy. Energy Efficiency Reducing the amount of energy required to find and produce natural gas and oil. GHG Emissions Reducing greenhouse gas emissions emitted during natural gas and oil production. Low Carbon Technologies Defining the Net-Zero Roadmap to understand the new energies landscape and prioritize investment opportunities. Methane Reducing methane emitted during natural gas and oil production. Biodiversity Mitigating impact to threatened or at-risk species impacting activities or operations, or activities and operations impacting species or habitats. Produced Water Managing discharge (offshore), disposal and/or recycling of produced water. Water Sourcing Securing sustainable and economic water sources for exploration, drilling, completions or production. SOCIAL Stakeholder Engagement Respectfully engaging with local stakeholders and Indigenous Peoples to understand their interests, concerns and culture, seeking solutions that create mutually beneficial relationships and then integrating them into planning and decision-making. Community Investment Investing in communities to support giving categories including education, natural resources, health and safety, arts, civic and social services, and disaster relief. Human Rights Implementing human rights policies and practices that promote respect for civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights, consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Local Content Creating economic stimulus in the communities where we operate through job creation and socioeconomic development initiatives. Safety and Health Creating and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace that is free of injuries, fatalities and illness. Supporting our People Attracting and retaining talent, offering training and development for workers to build capability and career opportunities while promoting diversity, equity and inclusion. GOVERNANCE* Business Ethics Adhering to applicable laws and the highest ethical standards. Transparency and Corruption Promoting transparency to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and foster economic stability. SD Governance Process Having a comprehensive governance framework, including oversight from the Board of Directors, in place to manage ESG risks and opportunities. * Other aspects of governance are fully addressed in our Annual Report and Proxy Statement.