Managing Climate-Related RisksOur climate change strategy is preparing the company to succeed in a world challenged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKSManaging Climate-Related RisksPriority issuesGHG emissionsCarbon policy Carbon asset riskMethaneEnergy efficiencyWe are committed to providing the natural gas and oil necessary to support global economic development while addressing concerns related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Creating secure and affordable energy, while achieving the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement, will require collaboration between the natural gas and oil industry and governments, citizens and businesses.Our focusClimate-related risks are under increasing scrutiny from stakeholders. We use a well-established management system approach to assess and address our risks. We start by identifying and mapping climate-related risks through our Sustainable Development (SD) Risk Management Practice, which helps us evaluate and categorize risks before documenting them in a risk register. We then address the issues by formulating action plans to inte.grate climate-related risk mitigation into business prac.tices and decision-making.Our risk mitigation performance is measured and monitored by identifying key indicators and assessing the results of our actions. Internally, we communicate results to senior levels of management and to the board of directors. We communicate with external stake.holders through frequent engagement, as well as our Sustainability Report, to gain valuable feedback and learn from our actions. Our management system allows us to adjust and continuously improve our climate-.related risk management processes and tools. In 2017, we revised and improved our Climate Change Assessment for major projects, and our Sustainable Development Risk Assessment Tool to help practitioners identify and char.acterize climate- and SD-related risks. We also set priori.ties to strengthen our sustainability approach and further improve our performance on climate-related issues. Our priorities include:•	Mandatory SD Risk Management Practice implementation.•	GHG emissions intensity target planning.•	Reporting and disclosure strategy.•	Investor engagement on sustainability and climate-related priorities and performance.GHG emissionsAsset dispositions had a large impact on our emissions in 2017. Our total gross operated GHG emissions, in CO. equivalent (CO.e) terms, were approximately 20.6 million tonnes, a decrease of about 22 percent, or 5.9 million tonnes, from 2016. A change of calculation methodol.ogy used by one asset also contributed to the decrease, offset by minor increases elsewhere. Emissions intensity decreased by 12.2 percent in 2017.Working to reduce our emissionsWe aspire to be a leader in climate-related risk manage.ment. In 2017, we introduced a target to reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our operations between 5 and 15 percent by 2030, against a 2017 baseline. We believe that this target will foster increased efficiency and innovation. Additionally, the target will support building GHG regula.tory risk mitigation into the planning process and ensure we address climate-related risk management throughout the life cycle of our assets. We are developing an implementation plan that strengthens processes, tools and data required to support achievement of the target. Performance will be regularly reviewed by management and the board. Ongoing engagement will reinforce the target with employees and key stakeholders. We have carried out discretionary projects that have reduced GHG emissions by almost 7 million tonnes CO.e per year since 2009, compared to business as usual. We continued our voluntary emissions reduction program in 2017, with energy efficiency projects reducing GHG emis.sions in the U.S., Canada, Norway and the U.K. We also continued to collect prospective emission reduction projects during the formulation of the Long-Range Plan through our Marginal Abatement Cost Curve (MACC) process. We added seven new projects to our inventory and updated information for six. We moved one heat integration project in Canada from our inventory into our Long-Range Plan. Our Darwin LNG plant has supported a carbon offset program known as the West Arnhem Land Fire Abatement (WALFA) project since 2006. It centers around an innovative mix of customary indigenous fire man.agement techniques and contemporary technology to manage late dry season fires to protect important places and encourage new growth. Good fire management also helps minimize larger, uncontrolled fires, thus preventing GHG emissions. In 2017, the program abated more than 281,000 tonnes CO.e, the highest on record. Additionally, higher oil prices prompted increased enhanced oil recovery and the resumption of carbon dioxide sales from our Lost Cabin Gas Processing Plant in the U.S.MethaneWe continue to reduce methane emissions across our operations. The investor-focused report, “Disclosing the Facts 2017: Transparency and Risk in Methane Emissions” ranks ConocoPhillips in second place for our progress in reducing methane emissions, with 11 out of 13 possible points. The annual survey, which assesses how well U.S. and Canadian upstream oil and gas companies manage and disclose risks from operations associated with hydraulic fracturing, also recognized us as one of six “especially strong performers in implementing and disclosing best methane reduction practices.” Those efforts include leak detection and repair procedures and initiatives to reduce fugitive emissions. Our Lower 48 business unit is one of 25 companies partic.ipating in The Environmental Partnership, a new coalition of natural gas and oil companies focused on accelerating environmental performance improvements from opera.tions across the U.S. The partnership focuses on managing methane emissions and aligns with our focus on emission reductions and high environmental standards.The sale of older assets in the U.S. and Canada reduced our methane emissions by 64 percent or 3.4 million tonnes CO.e. As a result, the percentage of our total GHG emissions that methane now represents has been reduced from 20 percent in 2016 to 9 percent at the end of 2017.Flaring In 2017, our total volume of flared gas was 17.5 Billion Cubic Feet (BCF), a decrease of 25 percent from 2016. This is primarily due to use of green completions in the Lower 48, the disposition of onshore assets in Canada and offshore assets in Indonesia, and the reduction of flaring at the second phase of our Australian APLNG plant, as the facility transitioned from commissioning and startup through to normal operations. Although flaring emissions represent less than 6 percent of our GHG emissions, flare reduction continues to be a priority. Our rate of flaring per unit of production decreased by 14 percent to 29.5 MMCF/MMBOE continuing a downward trend in both volume and intensity.Energy efficiency  Total energy consumption in 2017 was 224.5 Trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs), a decrease of about 4.3 percent due to the disposition of our Canadian gas assets, partly offset by greater energy use at the second phase of our Surmont oil sands facility. Of the 2017 con.sumption, about 98 percent was from combustion of fuel for our own energy use and about 2 percent was from purchased electricity. Combustion energy decreased about 3.9 percent. Purchased electricity decreased about 21 percent. Intensity, expressed as Trillion BTU/MMBOE, increased by 8.6 percent due to the divestment of lower energy intensive assets offset by higher energy intensive operations at Surmont 2.Carbon asset riskWe continued our extensive program of engagement on carbon-related risks with stakeholders in 2017. This included an investor outreach program to address questions related to carbon asset risk and other topics of interest. We contacted our top 50 stockholders and other key stakeholders, representing over 50 percent of our shares. We held meetings with stockholders representing more than 42 percent of our shares, and members of our board held in-person meetings with stockholders holding approximately 37 percent of our shares. Increased stakeholder interest in carbon-related risks was reflected in the development of new reporting frame.works by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Risk Disclosure (TCFD). We participated in consultations with both SASB and TCFD during 2017. We support the aims of the TCFD recommendations, as we already report on the major elements recommended by the task force. We look forward to working with the TCFD and industry to implement, build on and refine the framework over time to ensure it is fit for purpose. Our board of directors advanced their understanding of potential portfolio risks related to the changing global energy mix in a session with two well-known external experts offering different narratives about the future based on their data and analysis of modeling scenarios. We have demonstrated leadership with technological advances and innovation in an effort to address carbon asset risk. We continue to lead the joint industry project sponsorship of the $20 million Carbon XPRIZE, which challenges innovators across the world to find novel technologies that transform CO. emissions from fossil fuel combustion into valuable products. This is an important contribution to the global innovation focus on carbon capture and utilization.Carbon and climate policyWe have a long history of constructive engagement on climate-related policy and of voluntary action on GHG emission reductions. Our global corporate Climate Change Position outlines our climate-related public policy principles. We believe over the months and years ahead, governments, whether federal, state, provincial or local, will continue to act on climate-.related risks. Our membership in The Environmental Partnership demonstrates our commitment to continue to take pragmatic action on emission reductions, regardless of federal policy in the U.S. MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKSGHG Intensity Target5–15%reduction in GHG emissions intensity by 2030.Read more about our GHG emissions
intensity target.View more about our GHG emissions intensity target.View “Fire with Fire” about the WALFA program.MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS“Announcing a long-term GHG emissions intensity target is part of our plan to competitively address climate-related business risk. It says that ‘business-as-usual’ is not good enough. To thrive in a low-carbon future, we need to be efficient, technologically innovative and have an enduring low cost of supply.”.Climate Change Director Malcolm FawcettSenior Environmental Specialist Marvin Soriwei analyzes footage from a camera that detects methane leaks. View more about leak detection
and repair (LDAR).MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKSSPOTLIGHTCatching ‘thieves’ in the oil sandsOil sands reservoirs may experi.ence “thief zones” — areas above or below the oil zones that “steal” energy and pressure. During production, if steam goes into those areas, it can reduce reservoir pressure and temperature and inhibit production. Since increased steam injection is then required to maintain pressure, temperature and oil production, thief zones result in increased GHG emissions and decreased production.A 2017 pilot project in Canada tested the effectiveness of co-.injecting a non-condensable gas (NCG), such as methane, with steam to create a insulating blanket that reduces potential thermal and pressure losses in the steam chamber. Initial results have demon.strated a 20–25 percent reduction in GHG emissions intensity, improved cost competitiveness, and prom.ising economic returns. With a short development lead time, NCG is less expensive than other com.peting technology options, with similar GHG reduction benefits. We are now extending this NCG co-.injection technology to thief zone management. We plan to collaborate with Emissions Reduction Alberta, a government organization that helps accelerate commercial development by co-funding innovative technol.ogy projects, to continue work on 12 additional well pairs at Surmont 2 in 2018. Advanced monitoring equip.ment (such as 4-D seismic surveys and surveillance wells in the thief zone) will observe and differentiate the complex multi-phase interaction. Additional data will be collected at the wellhead and downhole to monitor temperature, pressure and flow rates. Nearby observation wells will also monitor methane concen.tration, detect chemical tracers and water quality. Data will be combined to develop a better understanding of the subsurface processes and benefits of the co-injection of NCG.MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKSConocoPhillips Norway received the 2017 Gullkronen Operator of the Year Award for operations at our offshore Ekofisk field. Accomplishments include “an impressive carbon footprint reduction, above 60 percent, from 1995 to 2017. Extremely impressive for the oldest field on the Norway Continental Shelf.”Read our TCFD table.Other resourcesClimate Change Action PlanClimate Change PositionClimate Change StrategyFocus on Hydraulic FracturingTCFD TableGlobal Progress MapManaging Local Environmental RiskOur management practices and technology selection are designed to minimize and mitigate potential impacts on biodiversity and water resources.WATERWaterAccess to water is essential to the communities and ecosystems near our operations and for our ability to produce natural gas and oil. We identify and mitigate water-related risks at every stage of development and continue to work to improve our environmental performance.Assessing risk around how we source, use and dispose or discharge water is the first step to understanding and improving performance. Each business unit and major project is responsible for determining the water risks associated with its business plan, focusing on sustained access to source water and produced water disposal for onshore assets and produced water discharge or disposal for offshore assets. Every basin has unique social, economic and environmental conditions, and the type and level of water risk varies across our operations. Assessment of water sourcing risk begins with a consider.ation of whether the operations are within a water-scarce area. It also includes an analysis of local water sources and cumulative water demand, including residential, municipalities, industrial and agricultural. Produced water risk assessments start with quantifying produced water volumes. Some wells can produce more water than natural gas or oil; for other wells, produced water may only be a fraction of the volume of oil and gas produced. The volume of produced water recovered and its quality, particularly its salt content, impacts recycle or reuse opportunities. As we manage different levels of water risk in different basins, the metrics we use to track perfor.mance are also different.Our Sustainable Development Risk Management Practice provides guidance and integrates a risk register into the operating plans of each project. Integrated planning and decision-making allows us to identify and prioritize risks, develop appropriate mitigation plans and track water management progress. Water sourcing and produced water disposal for our unconventional assets continue to be priority issues for our business and stakeholders.Water sourcingThe type of water we use for our operations depends on each development area’s unique social, economic and environmental conditions. Over 90 percent of the water we use is non-fresh groundwater, seawater and reused/recycled produced water. The remainder is fresh surface and groundwater. The majority of our water use is for our operations in Norway, Alaska, U.S. Lower 48 and Canada.In Norway, our offshore operations use seawater for drilling and enhanced oil recovery (EOR). In Alaska, we use fresh surface water for conventional drilling and completions and seawater and produced water for EOR. Water sourcing for the Lower 48 and Canada is outlined in the charts to the right.Drilling longer lateral well bores, combined with addi.tional hydraulic fracturing stages and tighter cluster spacing to reach more of the reservoir, has led to sig.nificant increases in natural gas and oil production per well in some of our development areas. This has also increased our water use in these areas. In the Delaware Basin of the Permian area, where produced water is abundant, we had very little drilling activity in 2017. As drilling activity ramps up in 2018, we will be installing infrastructure to reuse produced water for some of our hydraulic fracturing. In the Eagle Ford area, less water is produced with the natural gas and oil so we source the majority of our water from deep aquifers in order to leave shallow aquifers for other local users. At our Surmont oil sands facility, we use fresh and non-fresh groundwater for makeup water, which is then reused and recycled continuously through production. We have also improved our steam quality from the original design of 75–78 percent to 85 percent, which results in more steam to the reservoir for the same volume of water and less greenhouse gases.    Water useIn 2017, ConocoPhillips-operated assets withdrew 14.5 million cubic meters of fresh water, an increase of approximately 4.3 million cubic meters, or 43 percent. The increase was primarily due to the first full year of steam production at Surmont 2 and increased drilling and completions in our Lower 48 unconventional operations. Our 2017 non-freshwater withdrawal volume was 51.5 million cubic meters, an increase of 8.7 million cubic meters, or 20 percent. This increase was due to increased sea water injection for enhanced oil recovery in Alaska and Norway and increased use of non.fresh groundwater for steam generation at Surmont 2. We recycled or reused over 81.1 million cubic meters of produced water in 2017, an increase of 7.7 million cubic meters or 10 percent. This was due to increased produced water use for steam generation at Surmont 2 and increased produced water injection for enhanced oil recovery in Alaska. The total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water used is 55 percent.Produced water disposalThe produced water recovered with natural gas and oil from underground formations is either reused or recycled, discharged or disposed. The majority of the produced water we manage for discharge or disposal is from our operations in Norway and Lower 48. In our Norway offshore operations, where produced water is treated for overboard discharge, we continue our work to reduce residual oil in water concentration, treating produced water prior to overboard discharge. We met our internal goal of less than 10mg/l in 2017, which is less than a third of the amount allowed by regu.lation (30mg/l).Onshore, produced water is reused for EOR, steam generation or hydraulic fracturing. When not reused, it is disposed by deep well injection into saltwater disposal (SWD) wells. In our Lower 48 operations, the amount of water produced varies significantly, from high volumes in the Permian, to medium volumes in the Bakken and Niobrara, to low volumes in the Eagle Ford. This requires different strategies for recycling and disposal. More than two-thirds of the water produced in our Lower 48 oper.ations during natural gas and oil production is reused or recycled, primarily for EOR. SeismicitySome studies have linked increased seismicity rates to the disposal of produced water in SWD wells and oil and natural gas extraction activities. In 2017, we updated our risk-based Global Induced Seismicity Guideline, linking it to established standards, to better manage risks related to the planning and operation of our new injection wells and for screening third-party injection operations, if circumstances warrant. The guideline helps charac.terize seismicity risks by assessing historical seismicity, identifying geological faults of concern, assessing actual or proposed injection operating conditions, and con.sidering proximity to people and population centers. It also provides monitoring, management and response planning options if the assessed risk is elevated. In Texas, we are working with the state to deploy and monitor seismic monitoring equipment. TexNet, a publicly available dynamic mapping tool that provides information on the location of monitoring stations and recorded earthquakes across the state, began accu.mulating data January 1, 2017. The seismic monitor.ing system is managed by Texas Bureau of Economic Geology (BEG) and sensors from other nearby states are included in the network. We utilized the database in 2017 as we conducted an induced seismicity potential risk assessment on the SWD wells associated with our Mockingbird central gathering and processing facility in the Permian Basin.Integrating technologyOur Global Water Sustainability Center (GWSC) in Qatar evaluates advanced water treatment technologies for produced water reuse, disposal and seawater desalina.tion. It has also developed a Water Solutions Technology Toolbox, a knowledge-sharing website offering the latest water treatment information with specific emphasis on ConocoPhillips’ experience from full-scale operation, field trials and bench tests. One key area of GWSC research is the application of osmotic concentration, an emerging membrane separation technology. Key benefits include reduced disposal volumes, lower energy consumption and GHG emissions, lower salinity of the water dis.charged, and lower treatment costs. For results related to this technology, the GWSC was awarded first place in the “Green Research — Professional” category by the Qatar Green Building Council during Qatar Foundation’s 2017 Sustainability Week. The awards recognize the efforts, commitment and achievements of individuals, institutions and organizations to further sustainable development and environmen.tal protection in Qatar and internationally. Our water lab in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, also provides scientific, analytical and technical water treatment support for our operations, including lab experiments, pilot tests and demonstration plants that evaluate methods to treat produced water for reuse in fracturing fluids. Business units also solicit innovative solutions related to topics such as boiler feedwater treatment and frack fluid efficacy.Priority issuesWater sourcingProduced water disposalMANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK WATERMANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK WATER“The knowledge we acquire from each produced water recycling project and lessons learned from piloting innovative technologies from our global production labs have accelerated development of fit-for-purpose solutions for reducing business risks and addressing local community concerns around water usage, treatment and disposal.”.Global Production Assurance Water Processing and Staff Engineer Ramesh SharmaTubb McKnight water facility in the PermianMANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK WATERThe water requirements for our planned well program in the Montney play of the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin required a sustainable long-term solution for sourcing water. Options are limited due to local water availability, seasonal changes, transportation logistics, cost, and stakeholder concerns. Produced water disposal options are also limited. During exploration, the amount of water that returned to the surface with production was substantial, which presented an opportunity to recycle the produced water for new well completions. Based on learnings from water man.agement projects in the U.S. Permian, Bakken and Eagle Ford development areas and a 2016 water treatment pilot at Montney, we decided that a closed loop water hub would be the most effective water management system. The water hub will maximize water recycling by treating and storing produced water for reuse in completions and significantly reduce the amount of fresh water required for the development. This will also improve cost and safety by elimi.nating water trucks and the need for large amounts of disposal. Our engagement with key stakeholders, including government regulators and First Nations reinforced that maximiz.ing water recycling for reuse in com.pletions was the best solution for the environment and sustainability.Pipeline infrastructure and a central processing facility are key compo.nents of the closed loop system. Water is piped from a year-round sustainable river source into the hub where it is combined with recycled produced water and piped to the well pad for completion activities.  Once water is being produced from the well, it is then piped to the processing facility for de-oiling, iron and solids removal, and clarification. The treated water is then stored in ponds with engineered liners and environmen.tal monitoring to ensure ongoing containment and potential future re-use. As more wells are brought into production and produced water for recycling increases, the amount of fresh make-up water required for ongoing operations is reduced.Water reuse in a remote areaJustin Minault inspects media filter vessels.MANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK WATERSPOTLIGHTPipelineWater hubFresh water sourcePipelines to padCentral processing facilityProduced water treatmentTreated water storage pondsPad completionMinor disposalPipelines from padOther resourcesWater Action PlanWater Sustainability PositionFocus on Hydraulic FracturingGlobal Progress MapBartlesville water lab completions fluids specialist Kevin Bjornen demonstrates viscosity development for fluids used in hydraulic fracturing.BIODIVERSITYBiodiversityPriority issuesSensitive environmentsBiodiversity — the variety of terrestrial and marine plant and animal species — is important to maintaining ecosystem health and an aspect of human well-being. Across our global operations, we work to understand and mitigate our potential impact to biodiversity.Every basin or marine area has a unique combination of habitats, plant and animal species. Each business unit and major project is responsible for understanding and managing local biodiversity risks and potential cumu.lative effects through the life cycle of our assets. Risk assessment begins with baseline studies of local sensitive habitats including conservation or protected areas, key biodiversity areas, and sensitive species characterized as at-risk, endangered, rare, significant, threatened or of cultural significance. This includes early engagement with local stakeholders to gain an understanding of the areas and species important to communities. Our Sustainable Development (SD) Risk Management Practice is used to evaluate and categorize our bio.diversity risks. We then develop action plans to inte.grate biodiversity risk mitigation into the planning and decision-.making for each project. Infrastructure we need for our onshore and offshore exploration and production operations, which includes access roads, seismic lines, well pads or platforms, process and storage facilities, and pipelines, can create impacts on biodiversity. We manage risks and impacts to areas with biological or cultural significance through the use of a mitigation hierarchy, which is emerging as an industry best practice. The hierarchy includes four prioritized steps to mitigate adverse biodiversity impacts: AvoidSome biodiversity impacts can be avoided through careful spatial or temporal placement of infrastructure. We use measures including establishing protective buffers around nesting sites or dens and scheduling field activities outside peak migration or breeding seasons. We have enrolled over 286,000 acres in voluntary conserva.tion agreements that protect the Lesser Prairie Chicken in Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas and the Dune Sagebrush Lizard in New Mexico and Texas. These formal agreements with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and/or other federal or state agencies typically require that new well locations and surface infrastructure avoid species habitats or sensitive areas within habitats. MinimizeWe minimize biodiversity impacts through measures taken to reduce the duration, intensity and/or extent of the footprint of our operations. New drilling technology, data analytics techniques, and integrated planning have helped to reduce our infrastructure footprint and improve reservoir development efficiency through multi-well pads, longer lateral wells, and central facilities.For our Canadian oil sands operations, we led the develop.ment of a footprint intensity reduction goal in collaboration with the Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). The land performance goal to “reduce the operating footprint intensity of in situ operations by 10 percent by 2022” applies to all COSIA member companies collectively.Reclaim and restoreWhen impacts and disturbance cannot be completely avoided or minimized, we employ measures to restore the area to a stable, productive and self-sustaining ecosystem, taking into account beneficial uses of the impacted land and surrounding areas. In the U.K., we are currently working to decommission the infrastructure associated with our Viking and LOGGS offshore gas production and export facilities, installed in the Southern North Sea more than 30 years ago. Since that time, the areas of the North Sea where Viking and LOGGS are situated have been designated as marine protected areas. Through engage.ment with the regula.tor and stakeholders, it was determined that the platforms included within the first approved decom.missioning programs would be fully removed and recycled. Pipelines would be decommissioned and left in place, minimizing disturbance to the marine ecosystems that have developed on and around them and reducing the potential impact of the decommissioning activities on the overall integrity of the protected areas. The approved pipeline decommissioning strategy includes the flushing of any hydrocarbon residue, the burial or placement of rock over cut pipeline ends to reduce potential hazards to other users of the sea, and a regulator-approved, risk-based monitoring program to inspect the pipelines at specific yearly intervals after com.pletion of the decommissioning programs.OffsetsBiodiversity offsets may be used for impacts or distur.bance that remain after avoidance, mitigation and reclamation/restoration measures have been implemented. We have created biodiversity offsets as part of regulatory requirements and as voluntary strategies. In Canada, we contributed to funding the Junction Lake Conservation Site in Northern Alberta as a voluntary offset. The 289-acre con.servation area is open to the public for hiking, birdwatching, hunting or berry picking, and provides a unique opportunity to view an endan.gered species in the wild. This area represents 10 percent of the known habitat in Alberta for the Piping Plover, an endangered bird species with a local population of only about 100. Through this conservation collaboration, we received the first “early action recognition” from the Government of Alberta for a voluntary offset.View more about migratory connectivity.MANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK BIODIVERSITY“Prior to selecting sites for our operations, we conduct extensive baseline studies to ensure we don’t interfere with important habitats, such as breeding grounds. This is especially crucial in sensitive environments like Alaska’s North Slope.”.Alaska Environmental Studies Coordinator Robyn McGheeTechnology and design to reduce footprintMANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK BIODIVERSITYOther resourcesBiodiversity Action PlanConservation PartnershipsGlobal Progress MapViking decommissioningSurveying
the sea In Norway, technology is playing a significant role in identifying, managing, and mitigating the potential risks of our operations on the ecosystem. A state-of-the-art modeling framework has been designed to assess the risk of human activity, including fisheries and petroleum operations, on the marine ecosystem of the Norwegian Continental Shelf.The SYMBIOSIS system, a collab.orative initiative between several oil companies partially funded by the Norwegian Research Council, connects individual models into a framework to simulate marine ecosystem components in 3-D space and time. The system uses a super computer to assess the effects of hypothetical oil spills on the Northeast Arctic cod stock, combining several individual models, including an oil fate and transport model, an ocean.ographic model, a model of the development of cod early life stages (eggs and larvae), and a multi-species population model. Current risk assess.ment methods regulating petroleum industry activities are based on pre.cautionary principles and worst-case assumptions. This ecosystem-based management approach enables sustainable use of marine goods and services while protecting the environment. Data gleaned from three small, unmanned, autonomous vessels, known as gliders, will verify the models and provide baseline data. Gliders spent the summer traveling about 2,800 miles collecting environ.mental data in the Norwegian Sea. Sensors acquire chemical, physical and biological ocean and atmo.spheric data and provide continuous measurements of weather, waves, currents, temperature, salinity, O., CO., pH, ocean acidification, marine algae, animal plankton, and marine mammals. The data is sent via satellite to the base station onshore where it is monitored by the project manager. Similar information has traditionally been obtained on costly expeditions using large research vessels. Three types of gliders have been used, each with somewhat different characteristics. Two of them travel on the surface, one using wind propulsion and the other using waves. The third utilizes balance and buoyancy in the sea, which makes it possible to collect data as far down as 1,000 meters. The gliders, which are about the size of a surfboard, use GPS to follow pre-programmed routes and depths. The effort is a collaborative project with research communities, the maritime industry and the Research Council of Norway. It is managed by the Akvaplan-niva research institute and is funded by ConocoPhillips and the Research Council of Norway.A second system of innovative, small and lightweight instruments, known as light loggers or global location sensors (GLS), allow scientists to monitor seabird movements through.out the year on a much greater scale than previously possible. The instruments record light levels that, in relation to time of year and day, can be used to calculate bird locations twice daily, within a radius of approx.imately 110 miles. The SEATRACK project is using light logger technol.ogy for a large-scale coordinated and targeted effort. Mapping important seabird wintering areas and migration routes on a much larger scale and in greater detail than ever before will yield new and important informa.tion needed to understand seabirds in North Atlantic waters. SEATRACK funding is provided by the Norwegian government, the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association, and seven oil compa.nies, including ConocoPhillips. Project results are publicly available.Autonomous remote systems like the marine wave glider are less expen.sive than the planes and boats they replace. They also remove people from potentially hazardous situations by independently gathering and communicating ocean data in harsh environments and areas that are not easily accessible by personnel.MANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK BIODIVERSITYRead more about decommissioning in the Canadian Arctic.Alaska’s North SlopeSPOTLIGHTMANAGING LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL RISK BIODIVERSITYSPOTLIGHTWorking to
protect biodiversity in Alaska’s Willow regionA key component of the early permitting process for our Willow Development, located in the northeast portion of the National Petroleum Reserve – Alaska (NPR–A), was extensive environmental baseline studies conducted in 2017.  Avian surveys found nine yellow-
billed loon nests, and spectacled eider surveys documented the distribution and abundance of eiders in the project area prior to nesting. Survey information is valuable as yellow-billed loon nests may require a buffer from development-related infrastructure.   Over 100,000 acres of the study area were also mapped using an Ecological Land Survey method that examines geomorphology, surface form, vegetation, ecotype, and wildlife habitat. 213 vegetation plots were established, and approximately 200 vascular plants and 80 non-.vascular plants were encountered, including three rare plants. Fish abundance and distribution surveys in the study area captured, identi.fied, measured, and released over 6,500 fish representing 10 species. Fish over seven inches were tagged during 35 days of fish sampling and spawning was identified in four Judy Creek tributaries. Hydrology surveys established 21 water level moni.toring stations and two telemetry stations for remote monitoring of water levels, which reduces heli.copter traffic. Many of these studies are ongoing to support long-term environmental monitoring.These baseline studies help inform engineering design and facility location in order to avoid or minimize environmental impact.View more about Willow loon nesting.View more about Willow fish research.