CASE STUDY APLNGAPLNG: Integrating Sustainability in AustraliaProduction of the first liquefied natural gas (LNG) at our Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) facility in late 2015 was truly a milestone — not just for our company, but for our industry partners, the Gladstone Region and wider economies in Queensland, Australia. The multi-train LNG facility is part of a joint venture project between ConocoPhillips, Origin Energy and Sinopec that also includes the development of coal seam gas (CSG) resources in central southwest Queensland and a 323-mile transmission pipeline. It is one of the world’s first projects to convert CSG to LNG. We are responsible for construction and operation of the Curtis Island LNG facility. By incorporating sustainability considerations into project planning efforts, we worked to reduce impact to the environment while maximizing opportunities for stakeholder communities. As with all capital projects, sustainability guidelines and program approvals were aligned with specific functional and man.agement processes to assess and mitigate risks related to climate change, water, biodiversity and social performance. The LNG facility was designed in accordance with leading environmental and sustainable practices, and stakeholder engagement was an integral part of project planning.“Australia Pacific LNG aspires to be at the forefront of sustain.able practices, driving continual improvement in the areas of safety, business conduct, environment, community and social engagement and economic activities. We will ensure that sustainable practices are an integral element of the way we conduct business, and will develop and maintain systems to drive continuous improvement. The success of Australia Pacific LNG is contingent on the success of carry.ing out this commitment to our employees, our contractors, and the communities in which we operate,” said APLNG Chief Executive Officer Page Maxson. APLNG is already the largest producer of natural gas in Eastern Australia, supplying gas to power stations for production of lower emissions electricity, major industrial customers, homes and businesses. The project will continue producing gas for domestic use and will be a source of major investment, creating thousands of jobs throughout the life of the business, increasing local skills and boosting regional economies.Ground Flaring      Flaring — the safety practice of burning off excess gases — is normal and required for the safe operation of an LNG facility. The flare is a critical safety feature in any facility 
handling hydrocarbons as it collects and disposes hydro.carbons that may be released during startup and shutdown, ship loading and abnormal process conditions. 
At the APLNG facility, ground flares (shielded by an enclo.sure) were installed for several reasons. Designed to be smokeless under all specified operating conditions, the ground flare system is a leading design for emissions man.agement, and for reducing aesthetic impact and light dis.turbance to local communities. During the design stage, a significant effort was made to also integrate equipment and processes that reduce the need to flare as well as reduce flaring volumes. This type of flare burns more cleanly than the conventional elevated stack flare and results in fewer GHG emissions overall. Additionally, the reduced light lessens the potential effect the plant operations may have on marine mammals and turtles and subsequent nesting and breeding behaviors.Gladstone Water PipelineAs part of the environmental approval process, project planners investigated the feasibility of common use infra.structure for water and wastewater services and decided to do things a little differently. Instead of building a desali.nation plant for seawater, the typical response to operating in this type of situation, we opted to fund and support the construction of pipelines to connect infrastructure on Curtis Island with mainland utilities. This effort signifi.cantly reduced harbor traffic associated with water supply to the LNG projects and eliminated the release of an average of 5 million barrels per year of brine and treated effluent to Gladstone Harbor. Additionally, the company reduced 
carbon emissions and minimized the operational footprint by eliminating the need for a desalination plant and wastewater treatment facility. The pipeline solution is saving millions across the life cycle of the project and reducing the capital expenditure by an estimated $72 million.“The pipeline was a win for industry and for the community,” said Kent Anderson, ConocoPhillips’ project man.ager, Australia Pacific LNG. “Gladstone Harbor is within the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area and is a popular recreation area for local residents. People use it for boating and other activities, so a solution that preserved its natural characteristics was good for all of us.” The water pipeline is also influencing broader business practices as other operators on Curtis Island are using 
the water pipeline and one operator has been able to idle its desalination 
plant, reducing effluent brine and 
GHG emissions. Conserving Land A landmark conservation initiative undertaken by APLNG saw nearly two-thirds of Curtis Island protected for environmental conservation, safe.guarding the island’s unique ecology and heritage for future generations. This combined effort by three natural gas companies includes:•	Purchase of the Monte Christo prop.erty on Curtis Island in order to trans.fer the titles to the State Government. •	Protection of land, either as newly declared conservation park or national park, or existing protected areas upgraded to national park under the Nature Conservation Act. •	Removal of cattle grazing from acquired areas in the Curtis Island Conservation Park and Curtis Island State Forest. Combined with the existing National Park on the island, more than 
59 percent of Curtis Island will be actively managed under a conserva.tion management plan, compared to the 2 percent used by the LNG projects on the southern tip of 
Curtis Island.Additionally, our APLNG operation supports the Quoin Island Turtle Rehabilitation Centre. The facility is 
licensed by the Queensland Government and is supported by both the specialists at Australia Zoo and Sea World. APLNG has been the primary funder of the center since 2013, providing funding assistance for food, medical and veterinary expenses, rescue boat and volunteer transport.  Benefitting Local PeopleWe place a high value on relationships with local communities, landowners, contractors and local government and strive to be a great neighbor and a responsible corporate citizen. During the construction phase of APLNG, we maximized local workforce partici.pation so that local residents would  benefit from the project. Developing local suppliers was a key element for APLNG. We conducted 46 supplier information sessions through.out Australia with more than 5,700 people in attendance. We worked to purchase goods and services locally, giving local contractors and suppli.ers the opportunity to participate in projects through a competitive bid process. More than $200 million (AUD) of investment was also committed for community funding, roads and transport infrastructure, upgrades to regional airports and local training opportunities.Approximately 78 percent of the project expenditure to date occurred in Australia, and 57 percent within the State of Queensland, bringing substan.tial benefits to the national and local economies. This expenditure resulted in the purchase of goods and services from local and interstate suppliers and included payment of wages and con.tract service agreements, generating flow-on benefits at local, regional and national levels. Engaging with Indigenous Peoples Wherever our operations involve indig.enous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to minimize impacts from resource development and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring. We applied our sustainable development principles to deliver a successful local indigenous content strategy in the Gladstone region as part of our commitment to sustainable operations. “Our APLNG Indigenous Engagement Strategy centers around improving opportunities for indigenous-owned companies, increased employment, retention and career development of local indigenous people, positively contributing to indigenous economic and social development, and respect.ing cultural heritage,” said Warwick King, president, Australia-East.SafetyWe started 2015 facing a challenge to our safety performance at APLNG, with nine recordable injuries in the first two months. The diversity and changing makeup of the workforce made it difficult to establish a safety culture. To address this, we worked with our partners and planned a year-long safety strategy.  As a result, the downstream construc.tion project achieved a greater than 60 percent reduction in the total recordable rate (TRR) from 1.06 TRR in February 2015 to 0.38 TRR in December 2015 and included four consecutive months without a recordable injury. This step-change in performance reflected a renewed level of collabora.tion between all on-site teams.One of the strategies included a “Boots on the Ground” campaign, with the project team engaging with the work.force to recognize safe behaviors and challenge unsafe behaviors. A struc.tured approach to proactively identify root causes of safety incidents was 
also implemented.     One of the most successful elements to this effort was the work to enhance the existing Project Safety Roundtable process. This resulted in increasing accountability for the roundtable members to distribute safety informa.tion to their teams and taking respon.sibility for incident investigations in their work area. It also included the development of safety plans based on upcoming 30- and  90-day work plans, trade mentoring and behavior based programs, and a “Blue Hat” program to support the transition from the construction phase to commissioning and startup by providing knowledge.able and easily recognizable safety specialists.“Australia Pacific LNG aspires to be at the forefront of sustain-able practices, driving continual improvement in the areas of safety, business conduct, environment, community and social engagement and economic activities.” CASE STUDY APLNGView “Sustainability at APLNG.”CASE STUDY APLNGCASE STUDY APLNG59%of Curtis Island covered by a 
conservation management plan2%of Curtis Island used by LNG projectsCASE STUDY APLNG141910new contracts
new indigenousnew jobsfor indigenous workers in Gladstoneto indigenous businesses in Gladstone trainee roles, including an indig.enous warehouse traineeship program under development 
in Gladstone60%Total reduction in recordable injury rateAustralia Pacific LNG External Affairs Manager Fiona McLeod and ConocoPhillips Communities and Sustainable Development Manager Robert Gibb with Roxy, a juvenile Hawksbill turtle, before her release from the Quoin Turtle Rehabilitation Centre.Social ResponsibilityIn the Eagle Ford region of Texas, Landman Chris Dunbar visits with a landowner. We value our relationships and strive to be a safe and responsible employer, neighbor, partner and operator. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTStakeholder EngagementDue to low prices of oil and natural gas, 2015 was a difficult year for our industry and many of the communities where we operate. Despite this, we maintained a focus and priority on stakeholder engagement and human rights as we addressed other business priorities. Our FocusGuided by our Human Rights Position and our Stakeholder Engagement Principles, our efforts this year focused on continued improvement, consistency and alignment. We are committed to respecting human rights and engaging with those who impact or may be impacted by our business. Our activities are guided by our multi-year Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan, which includes 74 specific actions, indicators or projects. Of those, we have completed 14, 48 are in progress, includ.ing social performance indicator implementation, and 12 have not yet started or have been deferred.In 2015, our priority efforts included:  •	Working with indigenous communities to reduce negative impacts of our operations while maximizing benefits.•	Sustaining community engagement with local 
communities near our operations. •	Implementing and updating stakeholder engagement plans at the business unit level.•	Developing and implementing social performance indicators to manage issues more systematically.Sustaining Community Engagement We believe that success in our business relies on estab.lishing and maintaining relationships with stakeholders. We engage with stakeholders to understand issues and develop long-term management strategies throughout the life of a project. The communities where we operate across the globe are each unique, which is why our busi.ness units work with each community on appropriate engagement strategies. Our relationships are especially important during a downturn when both community and business interests can change.In the U.S., where local communities have been hard hit by falling oil and gas prices, active engagement continues to be a priority. In South Texas, we are continuing to collab.orate with the Eagle Ford Leadership Roundtable groups and Citizens Advisory Committee. In the Bakken Shale area of North Dakota we are continuing with our Relationships Matter program that offers training to employees and contractors on how to best interact with local community members. Since our development activity has slowed, we are taking the opportunity to invest in training.For each project, we engage with our stakeholders to understand their values and interests, learn their expec.tations, and then incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions. We seek early and frequent engagement with our stakeholders to build trust, garner respect, and develop mutually beneficial relationships. Two-way conversations allow us to best understand the needs and concerns of communities and collaborate for mutual benefit. By integrating community input into our business decision-making processes, we are able to create better outcomes. This is reflected in our approach to exiting an onshore exploration project in central Borneo. Our local stakeholder engagement team developed a phased plan to match the preparation, drilling and exit phases of the project. It included working with the local university to facilitate events with leaders of the villages, partner representatives, community members and contractors to explain the proj.ect, answer questions and discuss community priorities. To respect the local culture, a Manyanggar Ceremony was held to request permission from spirits who guard the area where we planned to drill. Our social mapping indicated that our donations of 20 solar street lights and a Moving Library program with 1,000 books and system training for teachers were most useful.  Addressing Road Safety ChallengesThe challenges in communities near our operations are sometimes compounded by other activity in the area. Traffic and road safety concerns often increase with higher activity levels. Oil and gas operations require the movement of goods and services and local infrastruc.ture is often not designed to accommodate increased levels of traffic associated with industry operations. In addition to internal campaigns to ensure a commitment to safety, we also often work with the community and other operators to proactively address these issues. In 2015, we worked in several areas of our operations in the U.S. to promote road safety. This included public service announcements reminding drivers to obey speed limits in school zones in the Bakken area of North Dakota, creating a “Stop for School Buses” campaign in the Eagle Ford area of Texas and encouraging text-free driving at local events in the San Juan basin area of New Mexico. In Canada, we are a founding member of the Coalition for a Safer 63/881, whose mission it is to reduce vehicle-related injuries and fatalities along the two dangerous highways leading to oil sands work sites. In 2015, the Coalition launched a new fatigue-related driving campaign, created an interactive Fatality Map and fostered key partnerships with community organizations. To engage ConocoPhillips staff, the Coalition hosted a Drive Safe Day at our Surmont operation that included the Royal Canadian Mounted Police roll-over simulator, a driving simulator, guest speakers and the premiere of an impact.ful new video titled ”Stop the Dreaded Door Knock.” Addressing Human RightsWe believe businesses have a constructive role in advancing respect for human rights and believe that all people should live their lives free from social, political, or economic discrimination or abuse. We intend to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principals and Rights at Work. Business practices, processes and tools guide how our operations implement our Human Rights Position and management systems for human rights due diligence, security and human rights.TrainingWe recently implemented human rights training for employees and contractors to actively manage human rights risks appropriately. The internal, computer-based training was built from the human rights toolkit devel.oped by IPIECA and is available to all employees.New Country EntryThe decision to begin operating in a new country is not one we make lightly. It involves looking at all facets of the opportunity, from the subsurface to future facilities, as well as financial, political, environmental, safety, security and social aspects. This forms the basis for activities as we begin our interactions with local communities. Our New Country Entry Toolkit provides guidance during this process. In Colombia, we began this process in 2012 and signed the first contract for unconventional explora.tion there in December 2015. The regulatory process for exploration activities involves a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and formal phases of commu.nity outreach. After spending time with people from the 13 neighboring communities, we’ve become familiar with native plants and animals that are important to them, and used that information to inform field data collection for the EIA. The next stage of socialization will be to communicate the results of the impact analysis and seek comments from the communities on those results. Our contractors and employees have been trained on our HSE Policy, sustainable development commitments, code of conduct, and ethics. This also includes training on safety, security and human rights as described in the Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security.Indigenous Peoples Wherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we engage with them to reduce negative impacts of our operations and maxi.mize the social and economic benefits. We recognize and respect the choice of indigenous communities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships to the land. When engaging with indigenous peoples, we seek first to understand their social hierarchy, culture and traditions, as well as their priorities, expectations and preferences for dialogue. We engage with indigenous communities at the regional, local and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional governments, community associations, and local leaders. More than 2,000 Aboriginal people live within a 35-mile radius of the Surmont projects in northeastern Alberta, Canada. In recognition of their unique and long-stand.ing cultures, we jointly held ceremonial ground bless.ings with two local communities in the forest near the Surmont 2 facility when the project was commissioned in 2015. ConocoPhillips staff and leadership joined elders and dignitaries from Fort McMurray First Nation (FMFN) and Chipewyan Prairie Dene First Nation (CPDFN) in ceremonies that blessed the earth and the commitment to return the Surmont site to its original use at the end of the project’s life. Our Indigenous Content & Engagement Strategy, devel.oped with local residents of our APLNG project, focuses on long-term, sustainable outcomes for local residents through training, employment, and support for indige.nous businesses in Australia. Nineteen new jobs were created for indigenous work.ers, with more pending, and 10 new training roles were established through the program. More than a dozen new contracts to indigenous businesses have already been awarded. Implementing Social Performance 
IndicatorsThrough our work with stakeholders, including socially responsible investors (SRIs), we also developed and began implementing social performance indicators in 2015 to track our progress in key business units. Some of these metrics are more locally focused and others are managed globally at the corporate level. These indicators will gradually enhance our action planning process and performance results with trackable met.rics. All of our business units have stakeholder engage.ment plans and all of our new ventures or projects have developed impact assessments. A few business units have matured their tracking of community con.cerns and associated responses and several are using stakeholder mapping to track issues and areas of inter.est. Others are documenting the numbers and type of community engagements. Some of these metrics are reflected in the examples from our business units.Learn more about our stakeholder engagement principles.Read our Human Rights Position.SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTSPOTLIGHTFighting Fire with FireIndigenous peoples have been using fire to manage the landscape for thousands of years. Their management of otherwise uncontrolled late dry season fires encourages new growth and protects important places and resources. The West Arnhem Land Fire Abatement (WALFA) project uses an innovative mix of customary indigenous fire management techniques and contemporary technology to manage uncon.trolled fires in Northern Australia while reducing carbon emissions. Supported by ConocoPhillips, the project offers economic, environmental, social and cultural outcomes for local indigenous community members across 17,574 square miles, an area about the size of Belgium. WALFA sup.ports over 200 indigenous jobs per year, conserves rainforest vegetation, protects local wildlife and rock art sites and allows cultural aspects of land management to be passed down to younger generations. In 2015, 33 Savanna burning projects across Australia were successful in selling offset contracts — all using methodology pioneered by WALFA. The project reduces CO2e emissions released through wildfires and helps to protect local wildlife. It also supports indigenous peo.ples’ return to the land by providing sustainable employment opportunities on traditional land. Participation in WALFA continues to provide the catalyst for socially beneficial programs that enhance the local community’s ability to manage the natural environment and maintain cultural ties.View “Fire with Fire.”SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTView “Collaborating on the North Slope of Alaska.”  Participants in Baung Muba Kreatif, a community development and training program we sponsor in South Sumatra, Indonesia, design and produce items such as plates, mugs and T-shirts.SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTLearn more about our approach to people and society.Some of the employees of Marion’s Cleaning Service, an indigenous business we supported and mentored. The company employs 14 indigenous staff who serve several local clients, including ConocoPhillips Australia.SPOTLIGHTSustainable Communities InitiativeConocoPhillips Canada is involved in a unique, award-winning partnership that focuses on the social dimensions of sustainable development. The Sustainable Communities Initiative (SCI) is a collaborative effort among five oil sands companies, two communities in northern Alberta, regional government, a local school division and community police to create and support opportunities for youth to gain skills and knowledge to move forward in life with confidence.Several programs exist under the umbrella of SCI, each tailoring outreach to the specific needs of each community.  The planning and design of programs are done through two community associations that are primarily run by youth workers and volunteers, along with support from other community leaders and industry members.In 2015, SCI won the Alberta School Boards Association Friends of Education Award for a program focused on building community capacity to bring about positive change through experiential education in the Northland School Division.Known as the Experiential Learning Initiative (ELI), this program develops activities that give youth the ability to “walk in two worlds,” with one shoe firmly planted in western culture and one moccasin in Aboriginal culture and values. Activities expose students to learning curricula via cultural experiences, such as camps and elder teachings. ELI recog.nizes the importance of integrating Aboriginal culture, language, values and traditions into the educational experience. The program develops strategies that improve com.munity engagement, youth participation and engagement in learning performance and overall well-being. For more information about SCI, please visit: www.sciconnect.caECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONSEconomic ContributionsWe take pride in being a great neighbor and a responsible corporate citizen. We contribute to the economies of local communities and broader society where we work through jobs, taxes, invest.ments, charitable giving and employee volunteerism.2015 Charitable InvestmentsPositive Economic ImpactsOur global operations contribute to the social and economic development in the communities where we operate. Our direct economic contribution during 2015 included:•	Jobs: We employed approximately 15,900 people at year-end 2015.•	Taxes: Our operations generated approximately $900 million in taxes, excluding income taxes.•	Shareholder dividends: ConocoPhillips common stock yielded $3.7 billion in cash dividends. •	Capital investments: We reinvested $10.1 billion in cap.ital expenditures and investments to find new energy supplies.           Read our 2015 Annual Report.Strategic Community InvestmentsOur charitable investments are aligned with our busi.ness plans and objectives. In 2015, we contributed $44.1 million to communities around the world for a range of programs and projects. Our charitable investments are built around three pillars: signature programs, local con.tributions and employee giving. We made significant steps in implementing the strategic signature programs we introduced in 2014: Water and Biodiversity Stewardship, and Math Education. In collabo.ration with Rice University in Houston, we are supporting the Applied Math Program (AMP!) to improve science and math teaching in Houston-area middle schools. Through our global Water and Biodiversity Stewardship program, we are working on a number of projects aimed at advanc.ing conservation, skills building and improved access to technology.  One example is the work we are doing with the Smithsonian Institution to collect connectivity infor.mation for several species of migratory birds. In 2015, this included tracking 3,830 birds representing 93 species.  In addition to our corporate-led initiatives, we also have
community specific programs. In 2015, we provided assis.tance ranging from environmental education programs provided by the Jane Goodall Institute in China to support of the new Blood Bank of Alaska facility construction proj.ect. The company also participated in eight United Way campaigns, raising more than $6.6 million in employee, retiree and company contributions.           Learn more about our charitable investments.$11.5 millionto support signature water, biodiversity and math programsSUPPLY CHAIN Supply ChainWith operations around the world, we work with thousands of contractors, suppliers and local businesses, making supply chain sustainability integral to our operations. From processes that guide our procurement to supplier engagement initiatives, we work to identify risks and opportunities in our supply chain. Our FocusBy integrating sustainability criteria into our processes and procedures, we incorporate sustainability thinking into our interactions with suppliers. It is essential that our suppliers remain fully aligned with our values to ensure the highest standards of operating excellence. Our expectations regarding integrity, labor and human rights, supplier inclusion, and health, safety, and the environ.ment are clearly defined for contractors and suppliers.In 2015, our priorities were:•	Developing and utilizing local suppliers.•	Working with suppliers and contractors to man.age and mitigate risks from our operations.•	Integrating sustainable development com.ponents into our Supplier Quality Audits.Engaging with Suppliers Building strong relationships with our contractors and suppliers is essential for delivering our projects and operating our business. We engage with our suppliers regularly. We ask sustainability questions in our bids and monitor outcomes through performance indicators over the course of the contract. We are enhancing our processes and engaging our suppliers to identify and manage risks, foster supplier inclusion, and increase productivity and efficiency within the supply chain. All of our suppliers and contractors are expected to perform in accordance with our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. We provide greater clarity about our Code through our Expectations of Suppliers and Commitment to Supplier Inclusion documents, which provide clear insight into our operating philosophies and expectations. Our suppliers play a significant role in our business activ.ities at all stages of development, so how they manage their impacts on the environment and community is important to us and can impact our performance.   In 2015, we collaborated with suppliers to audit their policies and practices to determine if their environ.mental and social management systems needed improvement. By including sustainable development components in our Supplier Quality Audits, we are able to assess management of issues such as GHG emis.sions, waste, water usage, human rights and forced labor. We also look for oversight systems to be in place for their suppliers. Suppliers have taken actions based on the recommendations from these audits. We have also designed, and are in the process of implementing, a program to better under.stand the sustainability practices of our key sup.pliers — those who are identified as our largest global partners in our most critical categories. Local ContentContributing to the sustainable economic development of the countries and communities where we work is a key commitment for us. We promote local economic growth in communities where we operate by purchasing goods and services locally and we give local contractors and suppliers the opportunity to participate in projects through a competitive bid process. In Timor Leste, we undertook a Local Industry Capability Mapping study in 2015 to identify local industry suppliers and capabil.ity, the main challenges to local participation, and local businesses that could benefit from better knowledge of ConocoPhillips’ requirements in order to overcome existing barriers. One of the many practical outcomes of the study is a registry of suppliers that we have shared with our sub-contractors who provide goods and services to Bayu Undan, increasing the use of local suppliers.Our commitment also includes promoting supplier diver.sity. In the U.S., we do business with diverse companies and continue to provide them access to business oppor.tunities through our Supplier Diversity Program. In 2015, our U.S. Supplier Diversity Program yielded expenditures of $799 million with minority and women owned businesses and $269 million in expenditures with small businesses.Economic ImpactIn 2015 our total spend with vendors and suppliers for products and services was $11.2 billion for production, operating and exploration expenses and $0.95 billion for selling, general and administrative expenses.SPOTLIGHTRecycling Waste in the Eagle FordCollaboration with Eagle Ford Reclama.tion Center (EFRC), a supplier in Texas’ Eagle Ford region, allowed us to pilot a program to recycle 100 percent of our oil-based cutting waste while lowering costs and reducing traffic on area roads. Cuttings are now taken from the rig to a nearby reclamation company instead of a disposal site, reducing the distance traveled by trucks by up to 60 percent.A thermal desorption process removes oil and water, creating reclaimed base oil and dry ash. The reclaimed oil is reused by the rig as fuel and the dry ash is sold for other uses. Simply put, the drilling waste is turned into useable products. The process is now used on all our rigs in the Eagle Ford. Estimates suggest it allowed for reuse of more than 1 million gallons of reclaimed base oil in 2015. Reusing the reclaimed oil saves $6,000 to $10,000 per well, so this project helps the com.munity by reducing traffic, the environment by reducing waste, and the economics of our devel.opment. EFRC was recognized by ConocoPhillips as part of our 2015 Supplier Recognition Awards program. Awards were given to six suppliers in the areas of safety, focus on execution and doing business better, with EFRC receiving one of two “Doing Business Better” awards.SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLY CHAINLearn more about our approach to supply chain sustainability.SPOTLIGHTSupporting Aboriginal Businesses at Surmont In the Canadian Oil Sands, we strive to work with local Aboriginal businesses. The region near our Surmont project is home to five First Nations communities and six Metis Locals. In Canada, Aboriginal Peoples (who consist of First Nations, Metis and Inuit) have constitutionally protected rights to their traditional territories and ways of life. The construction of the Surmont 2 oil sands facility provided ConocoPhillips Canada with the opportunity to contribute to mutually beneficial local relation.ships through local contracting opportunities. Over the Surmont 2 construction phase (2010–2015), we supported Aboriginal com.munities with over 300 contracts and sub-contracts with Aboriginal businesses, which totaled $500 million in value. In total, 97 Aboriginal businesses contributed to the Surmont project through services ranging from construction to drilling, completions, seismic, and operations. Over 80 percent of those businesses continue to operate today, including approxi.mately 30 that are still active at the Surmont site in some capacity.In 2015, we were recognized by Northeastern Alberta Aboriginal Business Association (NAABA) with the “Best Practices in Aboriginal Businesses” Award in the “Intermediate Producers in the Oil Sands” category. NAABA is comprised of 128 Aboriginally owned businesses, 143 non-
Aboriginally owned contrac.tors and 15 industry members, including ConocoPhillips. Prior to the construction of Surmont 2, we sponsored NAABA to cre.ate an online work opportunities board that is still in use today.In addition to contracting oppor.tunities, we support the local economy through sponsoring local apprentices to work in oper.ations at our Surmont 1 facility.