Environmental PerformanceA drilling rig operates in the Bakken Formation. We set high environmental standards to responsibly develop energy needed for economic growth and development globally.CLIMATE CHANGEClimate ChangeWe are committed to addressing concerns related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while providing the energy needed to support global economic growth and well-being. Achieving the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement while providing affordable energy to everyone, as set out in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, will require collaboration between governments, citizens and businesses, including the natural gas and oil industry.  Our focusWe manage several of our high priority issues — GHG Emissions, Methane, Carbon Policy and Carbon Asset Risk — through our Climate Change Action Plan. Our multi-year, comprehensive plan is refreshed annually as part of our long-range planning process. As goals and actions are identified, they are assessed against GHG emission price forecasts, commodity price forecasts, and our posi.tion statements for climate change and sustainability. Our current Climate Change Action Plan includes 
72 specific actions and projects. Priorities related to 
managing climate change risks in 2016 included:•	Identifying and carrying out emission reduction
	projects.•	Engaging with external agencies on future regulation
	that is practical and both economic and environmen-
	tally effective.•	Monitoring and engaging in proposed legislation
	and regulations across the globe following the Paris
	Agreement.Some of the actions completed in 2016 include work with the province of Alberta’s Climate Change and Emissions Management Corporation (CCEMC) and projects to reduce GHG emissions from Norway’s Greater Ekofisk Area. On track activities include our adaptation resiliency planning for our major business units that includes updating physical climate change risk assessments, and plans to be able to influence other industry operators where we see opportunities to reduce climate related risk. We deferred our plans to develop a global strategy for offsets and allowances due to the repeal of the Australia carbon legislation, thus they will be reviewed annually in the context of the global regulatory environment.2016 Action Plan StatusClimate Change Action Plan57actions completed8actions on track7actions on holdENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGE“It’s important to continue to reduce emissions while we invest in techno.logical solutions for future step-changes. It takes leadership throughout the organization and commitment to implementing our action plan to 
strengthen our competitive position and drive cleaner, lower cost 
performance.”   Strategy, Exploration & Technology Executive Vice President Matt FoxGHG emissions 
In 2016, total CO2e gross operated GHG emissions were approximately 26.8 million tonnes, an increase of about 2.7 percent, or 0.7 million tonnes, from 2015. We reduced our emissions by 114,000 tonnes CO2e from business-as-usual, bringing our total reduced or avoided to 6.9 million tonnes since 2009. These actions have kept our emissions nearly flat at 26-27.5 million tonnes since 2009. Primary drivers for increased CO2 from operations in 2016 were startup of the Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) operation, rampup of Surmont 2 Oil Sands operation in Canada, and venting of CO2 in Lower 48, which was previously sold for use in enhanced oil recovery. This was partly offset by reductions from dispositions and discontinued operations. While overall emissions increased slightly, methane emissions were reduced 14 percent from 2015. Primary drivers for reduced methane emissions were asset dispositions in Lower 48 and Canada, partly offset by regulatory reporting changes in Lower 48. Emissions intensity increased 4.3 percent due to our increased emis.sions, as well as a 1.7 percent decrease in gross operated production. Working to reduce our emissions 
Energy efficiency and technology implementation were key to managing our GHG emissions in 2016, even as we adjusted our level of activity amid the continued down.turn in prices of natural gas and oil. In Norway, we exceeded our business unit target and achieved emission reductions of 55,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent at our Ekofisk and Eldfisk complexes, mainly through the optimization of compression and power usage. The modification of the water injection system at Eldfisk allowed us to shut down one of the water injec.tion turbines, which reduced emissions by 17,500 tonnes of CO2 equivalent for the latter half of the year. The proj.ects also helped us to reduce power costs and carbon taxes of $57 per tonne.Methane leak detection and repair Managing methane, which is the primary component of natural gas, is one of our key priorities. Reducing methane emissions, even the small releases known as “fugitive emissions,” is a crucial aspect of our global well management principles and where appropriate we use technology to help. Audio visual olfactory (AVO) inspec.tions are routinely performed as part of operator rounds to identify any leaks or other issues. Leak detection and repair (LDAR) is a work practice used to identify and quickly repair leaking components, including valves, compressors, pumps, tanks and connectors, to reduce GHG emissions and increase efficiency. At many of our locations, especially those with control devices and compressor stations, we instituted a periodic (typically annual) voluntary fugitive monitoring program using forward looking infrared (FLIR) optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras to enhance our LDAR.In the San Juan Basin in the U.S., we implemented several emission reduction projects and programs that resulted in reducing emissions by almost half since 2011. This included a voluntary leak detection program, replacing high bleed pneumatic devices with lower bleed pneumatics, plunger lift optimization and compression optimization projects. These helped reduce or prevent approximately 9 billion cubic feet of methane emissions from our facilities in the U.S. Lower 48 over the past six years and reduced our global methane emissions by 12.8 percent. We also investigated new technologies for more effec.tive and lower cost leak detection, including the use of satellite imaging and drone flyovers. These pre-commer.cial evaluations have not resulted in a practical solution to date, but we will continue to pursue innovative solutions.FlaringFlaring is a process for safely burning off excess gases that might otherwise pose a hazard. In 2016, our total volume of flared gas was 23.5 BCF, a decrease of 10 percent from 2015. Although post-com.bustion flaring emissions represent less than 6 percent of our GHG emissions, reducing flaring continues to be a priority. The decrease is primarily related to improved pipeline availability to export gas for sales which was partly offset by startup flaring at the APLNG facility. Our rate of flaring per unit of production decreased by 9 percent to 34.5 MMCF/MMBOE and we continue to have improvement goals in key assets through our action plan.  Operational improvements In 2016, along with other operating companies in North Dakota, we signed a consent decree with the North Dakota Department of Health (NDDOH) that ensures our compliance with existing emission limits from storage tanks and associated vent lines. The NDDOH is the regu.latory body that oversees air quality in the state and the consent decree is a settlement for prior alleged emissions exceedances. A major aspect of the consent decree is implementation by the companies of a semi-annual LDAR program using FLIR optical imaging cameras.Evaluating further reduction projects  One goal in our action plan was to redesign and refresh the Marginal Abatement Cost Curve (MACC) to evaluate emissions reductions projects across the company in 2016. The tool helps to highlight and prioritize emissions reduc.tion projects, and has become increasingly important as we have already reduced our annual emissions by almost 7 million tonnes since 2009. The curve plots a breakeven cost of carbon that considers capital cost, operating costs, and potential increased revenue for each project, against the cumulative GHG emissions that can be reduced. For example, a project that installs a compressor to move pre.viously flared gas into a sales pipeline will have an upfront cost, increased expenses to operate and maintain, and increased revenue from natural gas sales. Depending on the volume and natural gas price, this could lead to either a positive or negative breakeven cost of carbon associated with executing the project.The redesigned process included initial data gathering for insights into project viability such as planning time, tech.nology availability, partners and permitting. We performed more detailed economic analysis on the more promising projects to see which might achieve the most emission reductions at the lowest cost, if implemented.          Our business units submitted nearly 50 projects to be screened for consideration. Of those projects: •	38 percent were included on the final curve forcomparison.•	21 percent have an excessively high breakeven cost andwill be provided as input to operations and technologydevelopment to seek ways to reduce costs.•	41 percent were excluded for other reasons (such asrelating to assets that were being, or would be, divestedbefore the detailed planning for the emission reductionprojects could be completed).The screening process indicated that our most cost-
effective emission reduction projects have already been carried out. Even if it were practical to do these additional 40-plus projects in one year, the associated emissionsreductions would be lower than our historical average.The number of emissions reduction projects in our inven.tory has been declining over the past four years as reg.ulations have increased and discretionary opportunitieshave been more limited. We will need to tap into creativeoperational solutions, new monitoring and measurementtechnology, and new operating technologies to furtherreduce emissions.Our next step is to look at more details for the lower cost projects and plan our future capital investments. In addition to our producing assets, we also consider proj.ects that are not yet in operation. By evaluating emission reduction projects at early stages in the life cycle, we may be able to reduce the cost of emission reductions and reduce possible future compliance costs by avoiding expensive retrofits.Incentivizing innovation Eight of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) member companies, led by ConocoPhillips Canada, partnered with NRG Energy, a leading integrated power company in the U.S., to back a global competition to research technologies to capture and transform CO2. The NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE challenges the world to reimagine what we can do with CO2 emissions by incentivizing and accelerating the development of technologies that convert CO2 from an environmental waste into valuable products.Launched in September 2015, the $20 million NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE received 46 entries before the field was narrowed to 27 semi-finalist teams in October 2016. Among the teams competing are innovative carbon capture technology companies, top-tier academic institutions, nonprofits, and new startups, from Canada, China, India, Switzerland, Scotland and the United States. Semi-finalist teams will test converting CO2 into various products like enhanced concrete, biofuels, toothpaste, nanotubes, fish food and fertilizer.The four-and-a-half-year competition gives finalists the opportunity to demonstrate their technology at commercial scale under real-world conditions at the Integrated Test Centre in Wyoming for the coal track or at the Alberta Carbon Conversion Technology Centre in Calgary for the natural gas track.Ten finalists will be announced in early 2018 and will share a $2.5 million purse to test their technologies. Ultimately, the winning team in each of the natural gas and coal tracks will be awarded a $7.5 million grand prize in the spring of 2020.Energy efficiency  Total energy consumption in 2016 was approximately 228 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs), an increase of about 5 percent. Of the 2016 consumption, about 97 percent was from combustion of fuel for our own energy use and about 3 percent was from purchased electricity. Combustion energy increased about 5 percent due to startup of the APLNG facility and the ramp up of Surmont 2 operations, partly offset by a change in calculation methodology in Lower 48 and discontinued operations. Purchased electricity increased about 8 percent due to the rampup of Surmont 2 operations, partly offset by reductions in Lower 48. Intensity, expressed as Trillion BTU/MMBOE, increased 9 percent due to the higher energy demands and lower operated production volumes.  Monitoring and engaging in climate policyWe believe that governments will continue to act to address global climate change concerns. Therefore, we recognize the importance of playing a constructive role in public policy dialogue to devise practical, equitable and cost-effective approaches to reduce GHG emissions and address the implications of climate change so that we can continue to succeed in a low carbon economy.We have sponsored the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change for several years. The program conducts research, independent policy analysis and public education related to global environmental change. In 2016, MIT program directors visited ConocoPhillips to meet with our ELT and climate change issues working group. Engagement with research establishments such as MIT helps us to learn about these issues and share knowledge throughout the organization.Our Climate Change Position outlines our principles of effective climate change policy. These principles guide our engagement on climate change policy in countries where we operate, and as we work with trade associations, industry peers and other key stakeholders. In the U.S., our efforts are reflected by our history of policy engagement on climate change. Low-emission pathways Climate Change Director Malcolm Fawcett led the development of IPIECA’s Low Emissions Pathways, a publication that provides perspective on the elements and enablers of pathways toward a low-emissions future. The paper draws on three common elements found in the construction of 2-degree Celsius scenarios: improving efficiency and saving energy; reducing emissions from power generation; and deploying alternative low-emission options in end-use sectors. It also describes the challenges to achieve the aims of the Paris Agreement and concludes that with collaboration, effective policy, market-oriented solutions, the development of carbon capture and storage and the availability of financing, they can be met. We believe that it is possible to address climate change risks while also meeting growing global energy demand and supporting economic development.Adopting emission limits for oil sands In Canada, one element of the Climate Leadership Plan enacted by the government of Alberta is the Emissions Limit for oil sands. In 2016, through our progressive work with leading environmental groups in Canada, we secured a seat on the Oil Sands Advisory Group (OSAG),   one of only seven industry seats. Designed to advise the government on the implementation of the limit and other oil sands environmental issues, the OSAG includes members from industry, environmental organizations, and indigenous and non-indigenous peoples.The primary focus of the group is to consider how to implement the 100 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year GHG emissions limit for the oil sands industry. The group will also provide advice on local and regional envi.ronmental performance, as well as innovation to increase efficiency and reduce emissions intensity.By bringing our voice to the table, we are construc.tively influencing the implementation of the emissions limit and environmental requirements for the oil sands industry. Ultimately, the policy creates the conditions for improved environmental performance, carbon com.petitiveness and economic success. It also strengthens the competitive position of Alberta’s oil industry, and its capacity to create sustained economic development and jobs, by driving cleaner, lower cost performance.Total GHG Emissions (CO2 Equivalent)Total GHG EmissionsENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGETotal Flaring VolumeJack Birchfield, production supervisor, inspects a wellhead in the San Juan Basin in New Mexico.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGEMarginal Abatement Cost CurveProjects below the line are economic and have a negative breakeven cost of carbon. The project on the left side of the chart, Flow Control Devices at Surmont, has already been included in our Long-Range Plan for cap.ital investment. Projects above the line are not economic — the taller the bar, the higher the breakeven cost of carbon. The width of the bar indicates the annual emissions saving that would occur should the project be undertaken — the wider the bar, the greater the emission saving.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGEView our global progress.SPOTLIGHTRecognition for energy efficiency We received an Emerald Award for implementing and sharing energy efficiency innovation in Canada. The award honors environmen.tal initiatives by corporations, individuals, not-for-profit asso.ciations, community groups and governments. Our Western Canada business unit (WCBU) was lauded in the Large Business category for the work of the Energy Efficiency team, now known as the Emissions Management Engineering (EME) team. Our Energy Efficiency program was established in 2008 to implement energy efficient tech.nology at many of our well sites and facilities, to reduce costs and to make a significant reduction in our GHG emissions footprint. With the assistance of a grant from the Climate Change and Emissions Management Corporation (CCEMC) in 2011, this program has imple.mented more than 1,870 projects, for a cumulative emissions reduc.tion of over 470,000 tonnes CO2e per year — the equivalent of taking about 98,000 cars off the road. These projects include technologies that capture and utilize waste heat and normally-vented methane, improve control of the air-fuel ratio of compressor station engines, and replace natural gas-driven pumps with solar-powered alternatives. To expand the impact, we hosted a workshop for more than 200 representatives from peer compa.nies, service providers, regulators and other stakeholders to share learnings from our program. Gas plant in Alberta, Canada.ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201621ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGEFrom left to right: MIT Program Directors Sergey Paltsev and Ron Prinn, and ConocoPhillips Climate Change Director Malcolm FawcettTotal Energy Use22ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGESPOTLIGHTMore efficient use of steam in the oil sands We continue to implement the use of flow control devices (FCDs) in the Canadian oil sands to improve our economic and environmental perfor.mance. The devices have contributed to a 50 percent production uplift early in well life and improved steam-to-oil ratio (SOR) by up to 10 percent. The lower steam to oil ratio means we’re producing more oil for the same amount of steam, lowering our GHG emissions per barrel of oil produced. In Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD) operations, FCDs may be employed in both the injector and producer wells. Using FCDs moves the steam across the reservoir to more efficiently heat the bitumen and improve how it flows into the well bore, especially in areas of complex geology. Increased use of FCDs has also reduced circulation time by 25 percent, which allows wells to start producing more quickly while decreas.ing our GHG emissions. FCDs also allow us to produce bitumen during the circulation period; we’ve seen about an 80 percent increase in pro.duction at conversion to SAGD from circulation, meaning that the wells are effectively paying for themselves before they officially begin production. “Using less steam helps us protect the environment by reducing SOR and therefore greenhouse gas intensity levels. It’s good news on all fronts,” states Oil Sands Development and Subsurface Vice President Nick McKenna. We have been exploring FCDs for SAGD since 2006. A 2012 lab study in Alberta led to understanding the physics of FCDs such that we can now design FCDs specifically for SAGD. We lead the industry in both technology and laboratory testing and are seeing impressive performance results from FCD implementation.With FCDsWithout FCDsConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201623ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGEA wellpad at Surmont 2.24ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016WATERWaterCommunities, ecosystems and economic development all rely on water, and fresh water can be a limited resource. Across the globe, we encounter water management challenges that can be environmental, social or economic in nature and meeting those challenges are key to our business success. 2016 Action Plan StatusOur focusResponsibly managing the water we need to produce energy includes working to prevent adverse impacts from water withdrawals and from water produced from our operations. Our high priority issues in 2016 included challenging water sourcing for some assets and water disposal. These were managed through our  Water Action Plan, which serves as a strategic tool for goalsetting and tracking risk mitigation actions with a focus on improving our performance. Our current plan includes 107 specific actions or projects.In 2016, new actions included produced water treatment pilot studies as well as updates to our water sourcing, discharge and disposal risk assessments. We continued our work to reduce residual oil in water concentration for produced water discharges in Norway and further optimized steam quality for our oil sands operations.  Completed actions include the launch of a Water Technology Toolkit, qualifying highly saline completion fluids for use with treated produced water and opera.tional groundwater and surface water monitoring plans for several assets globally.Integrating technology to manage local water risksPhysical risks from local water scarcity and evolving stake.holder expectations can impact our operations. Some of our assets are in regions experiencing water scarcity or are predicted to do so in the future. We rely on risk assessment, innovation and fit-for-purpose technology to find local solutions that work for our operations, commu.nities and ecosystems. Our Global Water Sustainability Center in Qatar develops advanced technologies for produced water reuse and our lab in Oklahoma provides scientific, analytical and technical water treatment sup.port as we develop innovative solutions.By integrating technology, engineering and sustainability, we have been innovative in our water management in several areas of our operations in 2016 while at the same time reducing our costs.In the Canadian oil sands, at our Surmont 1 and Surmont 2 facilities, we use steam to recover bitumen from the ground through the SAGD process. We contribute to the COSIA performance goal of reducing freshwater intensity usage by 50 percent by 2022, and continue to investigate, apply and optimize a number of water management practices. For example, the Surmont 2 project was con.structed and commissioned with saline water capability, which helps to reduce freshwater requirements. In 2016, we used 39 percent saline water for our steam genera.tion. The facility uses boiler blowdown evaporators to recover additional portions of usable water from waste.water streams prior to disposal. The facility also employs innovative well design, construction and retrofit improve.ments, such as vacuum insulated tubing and flow control devices — which preserve the latent heat of the steam and deploy it to the optimal location within the well — to ensure steam is being distributed efficiently while maximizing bitumen recovery. To further reduce water usage, steam quality improvement trials have recently been completed at Surmont 1 and Surmont 2. Initially, these facilities were designed to operate at 75 to 78 percent steam quality, meaning the percentage of boiler feedwater converted to wet steam after passing through the steam generators. Through a series of experiments, steam quality has now been successfully pushed to — and maintained at — more than 80 percent within the steam generators. This steam quality improvement could result in 15 percent less makeup water use. Enhanced steam assisted gravity drainage (e-SAGD) pilot projects and studies are also evaluating the commercial viability of solvent-aided SAGD processes to both improve bitu.men recovery and reduce water intensity.Actively encouraging dialogue about local water use and engaging with local stakeholders allows us to understand concerns about the use and protection of local water resources. In the U.S., our Lower 48 business unit developed a water tool and presentation to help illustrate to local com.munities and regulators how the natural gas and oil industry uses data, science and engineering to protect groundwater and manage water use in the Eagle Ford Basin. The presen.tation highlights the details of well construction and how aquifers are protected during drilling and production. The 3-D water tool provides a visualization of the subsurface,offering a 3-D image that details the locations of aquifers,water wells and natural gas and oil wells. We use the 3-Dtool in meetings to demonstrate that we target deeper,more brackish water sources, which are not used by locallandowners for municipal, domestic or agricultural purposes.


SeismicityIn some instances, oil and natural gas operations may correlate with seismic activity due to unique geological conditions. In 2016, we developed a risk-based Global Induced Seismicity Guideline for the salt water (produced water) injection wells we own and operate. The guideline helps characterize seismicity risks by assessing historical seismicity, identifying geological faults of concern, assess.ing actual or proposed injection operating conditions, and considering proximity to people and population centers. It also provides possible monitoring, manage.ment and response planning options if the assessed risk is elevated. We are working with our peers and academic researchers to better understand and document if, where and how fluid injection and hydraulic fracturing may contribute to the phenomenon of increased rates of seismicity over background trends.Water useIn 2016, ConocoPhillips-operated assets withdrew 10.2 million cubic meters of freshwater, a decrease of approximately 1.5 million cubic meters, or 13 percent. The decrease was primarily due to fewer completions, less exploration activity and lower oil throughput at a U.K. terminal.  It was partly offset by a one-time construction activity, ramp up of Surmont 2 and the addition of APLNG. We have also begun to report externally on two new metrics: non-freshwater withdrawn and produced water recycled/reused. Our 2016 non-freshwater withdrawn was 42.9 million cubic meters. The decrease from 2015 was primarily due to less seawater being withdrawn during an asset’s scheduled maintenance shutdown. We recycled or reused over 73 million cubic meters of pro.duced water in 2016, a decrease of about 7 percent. The decrease was primarily due to less water injected for beneficial use during a transmission line outage, less pro.duced water in one area, and asset dispositions. This was partly offset by ramp up of the Surmont 2 facility.            Water Action Plan75actions completed22actions on track10new actionsRead our Water Sustainability Position.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATER“We know water is an important issue to our stakeholders, and it’s just as important to us. We can’t keep our operations running efficiently without reliable, timely and environmentally sound solutions for water sourcing and disposal or reuse.”  Lower 48 President Don Hrap Water Solutions Engineer Joel Minier Matar working in the Global Water Sustainability Center lab.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATERSPOTLIGHTDesigning water reuse technology 
in Western Canada Successful development of the liquids-rich Blueberry Montney area, located in British Columbia, requires effective water management as drilling and completing a well can require upwards of 500,000 barrels. Local water licenses are limited for industry use due to social and regulatory concerns and limited avail.ability during seasonal low-flow or droughts — making water sourcing costs high. We evaluated additional ways to con.serve water and lower water-related costs, such as the reuse of water produced from oil and natural gas operations for hydraulic fracturing. We leveraged experience from other assets such as the Permian Basin in the U.S. to develop and implement a water treatment technology pilot to assess the opportunity.“We have limited access to sur.face water at Blueberry Montney, with two small rivers offering limited availability throughout the year,” said Western Canada Water Management Senior Coordinator Scott Hillier. “And stakeholders in the area, including two Indigenous Nations, are understandably sensi.tive about the use of fresh water for oil and gas production.” This first-of-its-kind project in Western Canada required collabo.ration between experts from our Global Production and Global Wells groups to tackle the technical chal.lenges associated with treating and reusing very salty produced water with high levels of iron.The team designed and safely exe.cuted an industrial-size pilot project to test various treatment technol.ogies. Results from the pilot were used to develop an optimized water treatment process that is scalable for full-field development. This work has demonstrated that up to 100 percent of the produced water generated could be reused. The project shows that we can lower overall water management costs while at the same time addressing stakeholder concerns and regula.tory restrictions on local water use. Significant investment opportunities in water management infrastructure to facilitate produced water reuse in future asset development were also identified. Read more about our water recycling and reuse.View our 3-D water tool.View our global progress.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATERProduced Water Recycle/ReuseMillion Cubic Meters797320152016Produced Water Recycle/ReuseNon-Freshwater WithdrawnFreshwater WithdrawnSPOTLIGHTWE2ST Center: Delivering sustainable water solutions As water resources become stressed locally, finding solutions to the diverse and specialized challenges affiliated with competition for water use is crucial. That is why we invested in the ConocoPhillips Center for a Sustainable WE2ST (Water-Energy Education, Science and Technology) at Colorado School of Mines. The center aims to be the go-to institution for research, education and outreach associated with water resources and energy production. WE2ST faculty and students work to address the range of challenges associated with water lifecycle for oil and natural gas operations, with a specific emphasis on finding ways to use less fresh water. Our unique relationship with the center offers opportunities for students to learn and research the science behind water use while exploring the issue holistically — not just in one department, but across all disciplines. It also provides the center access to actual ConocoPhillips well site data on water quality, consumption and competition for water use among communities, agriculture and oil and gas companies. Research ranges from extreme desalination using a process called membrane distillation to biological treatment of produced water using microbes to digest organics, to using sunflowers to provide insight into how purified pro.duced water can be safely and effectively used for agricultural irrigation. In addition to research, the center specializes in public outreach programs and educational programs pertaining to energy devel.opment, water use and conservation for faculty, students and community members.View “WE2ST Center: Delivering Sustainable Water Solutions.”View “Independent research on produced water desalination.”“The work we do here is not theoretical. People can use the information to make decisions; we are developing tools and studies that can inform the public and stakeholders.”  WE2ST Center Director Terri S. Hogue ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATERSPOTLIGHTInnovative water management in the Delaware BasinIn the water-stressed Permian Basin in the U.S., we have worked to improve our treatment and use of produced water since 2012. Water supply, reuse, transportation, and disposal can average 20 percent of well completion costs and operating expenses and the area has lim.ited surface and groundwater resources available. Since water-to-oil ratios are between 1:1 and 7:1 in the basin, produced water is abun.dantly available. Given the limited water in the area and resulting well cost implications, there is both an environmental and economic incentive to utilize produced water whenever feasible. Our solution in the western portion of the basin, called the Delaware Basin, is a central water gathering and distribution system with a portable treatment system that can accept water from the drilling site then return it for use in hydraulic fractur.ing. This infrastructure, tailored to the region, offers flexibility for water disposal or reuse, both reducing our surface footprint and eliminating emis.sions, dust, and road noise associated with truck transportation. The produced water pipelines took 300 trucks off the roads per day in 2016 and reduced disposal costs by over 50 percent. In 2016, we also piloted technology to assure safety and environmen.tal protection in open-top water storage, including:•	Use of green biocide to prevent water quality deterioration.•	Containment designed to exceed regulatory standards.•	Use of technology to significantly reduce evaporation.When rig activity increases in our Delaware Basin assets, produced water reuse will be the best option, economically and environmen.tally, for full-cycle water management. Water treatment technology addresses all stages of the 
life cycle.Read about our previous water effortsin our 2015 Sustainability Report.29ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016BIODIVERSITYBiodiversityTerrestrial and marine plant and animal species and ecosystems, known as biodiversity, are important to maintaining ecosystem health and to human well-being. We operate in diverse environments across the globe and work to understand and mitigate biodiversity impacts.2016 Action Plan StatusOur focusWe have identified sensitive environments as a high priority issue for 2016 and we manage it through our Biodiversity Action Plan. The plan applies throughout the life cycle of our assets, including planning, operations, decommissioning and reclamation. Our current plan includes 75 actions, the majority of which address local biodiversity risks for our operations. In 2016, our actions focused on:•	Understanding and protecting sensitive environments. •	Reducing the footprint of our operations.Everywhere we operate, science-based research informs our actions for evaluation and mitigation of our potential impact on biodiversity. Understanding sensitive environ.ments and minimizing our physical footprint helps lower operating costs and conserves sensitive environments.  Examples of actions in progress in 2016 were: •  The regulated removal of infrastructure associated with the Viking offshore facilities in the United Kingdom.•  Baseline assessments in Norway, Indonesia and Australia.•  The collection of ocean meteorological and natural resource data in the Barents Sea using autonomous, solar powered wave gliders.•  Collaboration with the Australian Institute of Marine Science on a new biodiversity survey project across the offshore shoals. Respecting and protecting sensitive environmentsAt our Alpine oilfield in Alaska, before any off-pad work is conducted during the sensitive nesting window, we employ avian biologists to carefully search the tundra for nesting Spectacled Eiders. This is done in accordance with permit conditions aimed at protecting this sea duck, a listed species under the Endangered Species Act. At our Kuparuk oilfield, even though we don’t have a regulatory requirement, avian biologists search from the road system in habitats that have historically had Spectacled Eider nests. If any nests are found in either field, a “do not enter” buffer is placed around the nest and activity in the area is limited until after the ducklings have hatched and fledged.  At our Darwin LNG facility in Australia, a bird nest was unexpectedly discovered in a 150-foot telecommunica.tions tower during a regular inspection. We consulted with the Parks and Wildlife Commission of the Northern Territory, who identified a pair of Whistling Kites with young chicks using the nest. On recommendation of 
the Parks and Wildlife Ranger, the nest remained undis.turbed for eight weeks to allow the kites to finish using it. The rescheduled inspection then took place, with the ranger on site to provide advice, and maintenance 
workers discovered a new egg in the nest. Work on 
the tower was again delayed for a few months until 
the egg hatched.In 2016, we began a multi-year, landscape-scale assess.ment project for funding a conservation plan for grass.lands across the U.S. Great Plains. The recipient of the funds is the North Dakota Natural Resources Trust work.ing through the Prairie Potholes Joint Venture. The need for grassland conservation is becoming well-
recognized in the conservation community and numer.ous organizations are holding discussions regarding grassland and grassland bird conservation. The goal is to coordinate and catalyze organizations and joint ventures already working on local or regional projects to share knowledge and science that can help improve ecosystem understanding and assess conservation pro.grams that sustain populations of grassland birds. These grasslands stretch from Canada (parts of Alberta and Saskatchewan) to Mexico. A report on this collaborative effort, due after assessments are completed in 2019, will detail the amount of grassland remaining, the juxtaposi.tion of grassland complexes or patches and the pace of change in these grasslands. The desired outcome is a set of recommendations for a grasslands conservation frame.work across the Great Plains that could attract scaled up support and multi-donor funding. This project fits well with the collaboration we have had with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service in bird joint ventures for over 25 years.  In the Canadian oil sands, we worked with the University of Alberta to pilot innovative technology that “listens” to the sounds of wildlife in the boreal forest. Partnering with other members of COSIA, we deployed acoustic recording units (ARUs) to capture sounds from birds, amphibians and mammals for extended periods of time. This emerging technology will allow us to better under.stand the effects of different types of land-use on wildlife species. Graduate students and technicians identified the animals behind the sound recordings to calibrate the technology. Sounds were also matched to their source using images from wildlife cameras installed at each sound station. This pilot will enable the development of automated methods of computer-based recognition of species, which is particularly useful for locating rare and endangered species that call less frequently. The ARU technology increases data reliability, reduces costs asso.ciated with performing field surveys, and allows ongoing wildlife monitoring in remote areas and difficult terrain. Data from the project will be compiled for use by the industry and other interested parties.  Reducing our footprintWhere possible, we are drilling longer laterals and using improved completions techniques to more efficiently develop reservoirs while decreasing our land footprint. Drilling one 10,000-foot lateral can be more efficient than drilling two that are 5,000 feet long. This strategy has boosted flow rates and the amount of resource we expect to recover, while also lowering cost of supply by reducing the need for additional well pads and facilities. This shrinks our footprint while increasing capital efficiency, mak.ing such wells more economically robust in a low-price environment. A great deal of analysis and testing has been devoted to optimizing stacking and spacing, especially in the Eagle Ford, where a combination of technology, geochemistry, seismic and data analytics techniques are being employed. We led the development and adoption of the first quantitative, proactive performance goal for land-use intensity at Canadian oil sands operations. COSIA’s Land Performance Goal is focused on reducing the footprint intensity and impact of oil sands operations on the land and wildlife in Northern Alberta. Members will strive to reduce land intensity by 10 percent by 2022. The purpose of the goal is to stimulate technological innovations that reduce the land-use intensity at existing in situ oil sands operations and to inspire innovative thinking for future development and permanent reclamation. Land footprint includes facilities, well pads, roads, and pipelines as well as other infrastructure. COSIA will publicly report aggregate member company performance against the goal on an annual basis.We continued to lead the COSIA Faster Forests program in Canada as well this past year, working with an increasing number of industry partners to accelerate the reclama.tion of areas impacted by exploration activities through better construction techniques and native shrub and tree planting. In 2016, the members collectively exceeded the previous single year total for area treated since program inception. In the offshore Barossa and Bayu-Undan Gas Fields in the Timor Sea, innovation in marine seismic survey technology improved data quality and allowed us to reduce the size and duration of the survey, reducing cost. The Bayu-Undan and Barossa Compressive Seismic Imaging (CSI) acquisition and processing programs are the first full-scale streamer surveys acquired using our proprietary CSI technology. Higher quality program data also resulted in significant optimization and cost savings for the upcoming drilling effort. Concerns from local commercial fishers related to underwater noise and displacement of fishing efforts during the Barossa survey prompted adjustment of the project timing and foot.print. This reduced potential impact to fisheries while maintaining an efficient survey process and results. We also continued to support a tree reforestation pro.gram addressing existing sparse areas in Timor Leste. With our support, Santalum, a local nonprofit organi.zation that runs natural conservation programs, has planted about 27,000 trees and provided 57,000 trees for community planting across the country since 2007. Activities are year-round and include work at existing and new reforestation sites. At the existing sites, fences are repaired to avoid further damage from humans and cattle, grass is cleared and the site is pruned to minimize the threat of fire during dry seasons. Plants impacted by droughts and fires are replaced. In 2016, the program had nine full-time local employees with about 40 tem.porary workers hired for planting season. To date, about 45,000 acres have been reforested. Biodiversity Action Plan31actions completed34actions on track10new actionsRead our Biodiversity Position.ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201630ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.BIODIVERSITYSPOTLIGHTMitigating biodiversity risks through baseline assessments in IndonesiaIn Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, we collaborated with a local university to conduct baseline assessments on our newly acquired Kualakurun Block prior to conducting seismic surveys as the first step of natural gas and oil exploration. The envi.ronmental and social conditions of the area, prior to any exploration activity, were documented in an Environmental Baseline Assessment (EBA) conducted by the Centre for Coastal and Marine Resources Studies – Bogor Agricultural University. The scope of the EBA included biodiversity, social economy, culture and 
community health of
the area.The Kualakurun Block is an area of mixed use, including natural and industrial forest areas, plantations, mining concessions and residen.tial areas of the Dayak Ngaju and Dayak Kapuas indigenous peoples. Researchers identified 65 species of birds, 17 species of mammals and eight species of amphibians and reptiles. Sensitive species identified by researchers included the Helmeted Hornbill and the Red-Naped Trogon. No orangutans were spotted during field activities, although some locals said they are seen occasionally. The data and information collected for the EBA was used to develop an environ.mental management and monitor.ing plan, which was approved by the government environmental agency. The plan will guide our environmen.tal management during and after the seismic exploration process.31ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2016ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE BIODIVERSITY“We operate in some of the most biodiverse regions of the world, so we engage with communities to understand their priorities and collaborate with researchers to get the scientific facts to better understand and protect plant and animal species and ecosystems near our operations.”Asia Pacific & Middle East President Bill BullockFaster Forests Cumulative Totals: All Companies32ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016SPOTLIGHTConservation and Preservation Through Offsets  In Australia, federal and state environmental approvals to develop major construction projects require biodiversity offsets to counterbal.ance disturbance. These offsets can involve conserving, enhancing and/or protecting areas of national environmental significance, marine habitat, endangered and of-concern regional vegetative ecosystems and/or significant fauna and their habitat. We are involved in efforts to protect these critical environ.ments both onshore and offshore. On Curtis Island, the LNG industry’s landmark conservation initiatives put nearly two-thirds of the island under a conservation management strategy. Combined with the existing national park, more than 59 percent of the island is actively managed under a conservation management plan, compared to just 2 percent used by LNG projects on the southern tip. This will protect the island’s unique ecology and heritage for future generations and contributes to conservation of about 100 square miles in perpetuity. The multi-mil.lion-dollar collaboration involved our Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) facility and other LNG proponents on Curtis Island working together to purchase a former grazing property and asso.ciated leases. These titles will transfer to the state government, allowing recovery of fragile marine plain eco.systems and long-term restoration of environmental values on this island located within the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area.Additionally, APLNG entered a ‘Reef Trust’ Memorandum of Understanding with the Commonwealth of Australia in 2016. The agreement resulted in APLNG providing financial contributions to offset the indirect impacts of the APLNG project. These funds are invested in projects that protect, repair or mitigate damage to the Mackay/Capricorn section of the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area. Commonwealth legislation allows for the pooling of funds (such as from other LNG pro.ponents in Queensland) through the Reef Trust for Great Barrier Reef to pro.tect and manage the World Heritage Area.Delivery of this offset package protects and enhances the World and National Heritage values of the Great Barrier Reef. This includes the natural connectivity between habitat for over 22 threatened fauna species (including a Critically Endangered sub-species of Yellow Chat and Vulnerable Water Mouse), significant marine and fish habitat areas, migratory shorebird habitat and declared wetlands. Additionally, control of feral pests is expected to improve turtle hatchling survival on adjoining beaches. Implementation of Reef Trust projects directly contributes to the Australia Reef 2050 plan submit.ted to United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), which addresses the Great Barrier Reef being placed on the “In Danger” list. The scale of the offset also allows for the implementation of a whole-of-island management approach by the government to improve environmental outcomes. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 201633FPO - correct
picture to comeView our global progress.SPOTLIGHTCaribou recovery in CanadaWoodland caribou live in Canada’s northern boreal forests, staying in small groups and not migrating large distances. Woodland caribou are designated as threatened under the Canadian Species at Risk Act.Woodland caribou populations in western Canada are declining due to landscape changes caused by both human and natural impacts. We are working with stakehold.ers to explore innovative ways to recover caribou, including a focus on restoring corridors and access routes in the forest created during exploration activities. Another key project designed to support caribou recovery aims to increase populations of declining cari.bou by creating a “safe zone” for females and their young calves. The COSIA Caribou Recovery Pilot project, led by ConocoPhillips, is one tool in the portfolio of caribou recovery options. The pilot project proposes to use a predator fence, a conservation approach that establishes and maintains a small breeding subpopulation of caribou in a large fenced enclo.sure. The fence, covering an area of approximately 25,000 acres, is designed to exclude wolves and bears so that caribou calf sur.vival is improved, allowing some yearlings from within the fence to be moved outside to supplement the surrounding range popula.tion. The pilot project is in the final design stages and potential locations are being discussed with a wide range of stakeholders. The Government of Alberta released its first Draft Range Plan for caribou in west-central Alberta in 2016, which also adopted the predator fence concept as one of the tools for caribou recovery. We will continue working with peers and through the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP) and COSIA to inform governments of the full spectrum of efforts underway to restore and conserve critical caribou habitat.34ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016Listen to the boreal forestSPOTLIGHTReuse and recycle: Decommissioning in NorwayDecommissioning and reclamation is the final step in our footprint reduction efforts. In the North Sea, areas for marine fauna and other users of the sea are being restored. The ongoing project involves environmental studies, material recovery and disposal. The disposal of several first generation Ekofisk platforms, known as the Ekofisk I Cessation Project, continued in 2016. These platforms were installed in the 1970s, and the fields are no longer producing, or installations have been replaced with new infrastructure. About 143,000 tons of structure have been removed and more than 97 percent (excluding hazardous waste) has been reused or recycled so far. Our decommissioning plan for Ekofisk I was based on environ.mental impact assessments and an analysis of alternatives for struc.ture removal and disposal. It was approved by Royal Decree. Old platform installations are cut at least three feet below the seabed so that they do not interfere with fisheries. Man-made debris has been removed within a 1,600-foot radius of the installations. Safety zones have been removed around most installations, leaving the areas accessible to other users of the sea such as fisheries and sea transport.The installations (topsides and jackets) have been demolished by a local company and disposed of per our strict environmental disposal requirements utilizing a state-of-the-art water processing plant and double impermeable surface barriers at the disposal site.“Health, safety and environment have always been our highest priority,” said Dag Roar Johansen, manager, Ekofisk I Cessation. “Safety challenges for a removal are greater than in a new-build because we are dealing with old structures with inherent uncertainties. The proj.ect safety performance has been outstanding.” Maximizing the re-use and recy.cling of material has been a primary focus of the project and material is accounted for and tracked to final disposal. About 85 percent of the installation is metal, which is cut into smaller pieces and recycled. Non-metals, marine growth and salable items account for about 10 percent. Marine growth is converted into compost. About 5 percent of the total waste is hazardous and is disposed of at sites authorized to handle hazardous waste. 