COMMON QUESTIONS Can hydraulic fracturing be done responsibly?  Protecting and Respecting People Our most important job each day is:  ZERO INCIDENTS, ZERO INJURIES, ZERO ILLNESSES  SPIRIT Values (Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork) guide everything we do at ConocoPhillips. These values begin with safety, and protecting our workers and neighbors has always been a cornerstone of our culture and how we do business. That’s why everyone on site is empowered and obligated to stop work to address safety concerns. Our operations at Eagle Ford and across the globe include:  • Frequent safety meetings, training and discussions. • Rigorous safety qualification standards for hiring and extensive safety inspections. • Ongoing employee and contractor support for achieving zero injuries, illnesses and incidents. Continual encouragement of employees, business partners and neighbors to address risks.  Eagle Ford development activity has brought a welcome infusion of jobs, economic activity and local revenue to South Texas. The University of Texas at San Antonio projects that by 2020 industry presence in Eagle Ford will support 68,000 full-time jobs and account for $11.6 billion in commerce.  Growth comes with challenges. To make sure we are aware of important local issues, we reach out through community meetings and informal discussions to develop relationships with a wide variety of stakeholders. These include civic groups, schools and community colleges, environmental groups, local officials, professional groups and many others. We engage to listen to concerns, discuss how we might work together to address issues and explain our work and potential implications for the community. In 2013, ConocoPhillips participated in over 250 community meetings in the Eagle Ford and engaged with more than 1,000 landowners.  We are also working with local officials to manage pressure on local infrastructure. ConocoPhillips convened the Eagle Ford Operators Task Force, a multi-company group that listens and responds to local issues in the counties where industry operates. This group tackles community concerns including emergency response, traffic safety and roadside trash removal. Because activity at Eagle Ford increases vehicle traffic, we meet with local Department of Public Safety officers. Collaboration like this helps identify and address priority issues for the benefit of everyone in the area. For example, heavy vehicles recently were instructed to enter or exit one work site by making right turns only, improving safety and preventing congestion caused by left turns on a busy highway. We also have made it a practice whenever possible to provide advance public notice of detours or road closures needed to move our vehicles. At Eagle Ford, we are committed to minimizing community impacts of development such as dust, noise and aesthetic issues where it makes sense. A few examples that have been used on specific work sites include:  • Putting non-potable water on roads to reduce dust. • Installing temporary sound barriers to reduce noise levels.  • Implementing interim reclamation to improve work site appearance. • Directing light downward as a courtesy to nearby residents and businesses. • Eliminating water truck traffic for drilling and completions, where possible, by utilizing temporary ponds and temporary piping. Read more about the company’s Eagle Ford stakeholder engagement in the linked article from spirit Magazine, a quarterly ConocoPhillips publication.    Can oil sands be developed responsibly? At ConocoPhillips, we say “yes.” And we believe we are doing so today. ConocoPhillips policies and practices are designed to minimize environmental, social and cultural impacts, while also helping communities realize economic benefits. We work to minimize impact on the region’s water and diverse ecosystems during bitumen production using a method called steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD).  A SAGD well injects steam into the reservoir to soften the bitumen and allow gravity to drain it into a producing well. The oil is then brought to the surface for further processing and sale. SAGD technology allows us to minimize water use, energy intensity, air emissions, land footprint and waste generation.   Water is an integral part of the SAGD process.  Most of the water used in the process is recycled. To obtain the make-up water needed for the process, ConocoPhillips SAGD operations draw from a series of deep underground sources, targeting water that is unsuitable for human consumption and agricultural or livestock purposes. We are continuing to research improved recovery processes that may reduce overall SAGD water demand. ConocoPhillips has approved an enhanced Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage (e-SAGD) pilot project to learn whether water demand and energy consumption can be reduced further by injecting a combination of light hydrocarbons and steam into a bitumen formation. If successful, e-SAGD effectively reduces both water usage and greenhouse gas emissions intensity.  ConocoPhillips is also researching improvements to water processing facilities and steam generation systems. Our Technology group is currently testing potential advances in boiler design. These prototype systems target a combination of water treatment and steam generation, which may be able to significantly reduce the carbon intensity for SAGD surface facilities, while also reducing water consumption.   On a well-to-wheels basis, Canadian oil sands crude generates somewhat higher greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions than the weighted average crude processed in U.S. refineries.1 We are actively pursuing technologies to reduce oil sands carbon intensity.   ConocoPhillips has developed a novel system to generate steam and power simultaneously for our operations. This co-generation technology could reduce our greenhouse gas footprint by:   • Increasing efficiency of steam generation.   • Generating power in the field with natural gas, which produces fewer carbon emissions than coal-fired electricity purchased from the grid.  We are also working on improved process-heat integration and testing enhanced oil production technologies – both aimed at maximizing fuel efficiency while reducing air emissions associated with steam generation. Currently we are testing these enhancements in the field. If successful, combining such advances in technology with co-generation could reduce the company’s GHG emissions by as much as 15%-35% per barrel of bitumen produced. The SAGD process disturbs less land compared to surface mining. Our Technology group is working to minimize land footprint further by increasing horizontal well lengths.   This would allow us to produce more bitumen with fewer well pads, resulting in less surface land impact.  We minimize land disturbance with careful planning and implementation of best practices. For example, our Faster Forests program accelerates the reforestation of boreal forest through the planting of a suitable mix of native trees and shrubs. To promote vibrant communities near our operations, we direct considerable resources and effort to build local capacity, create economic opportunities and mitigate potential adverse impacts. Our efforts include community investment, training and employment programs, local business contracting, and support for social initiatives and infrastructure development. In particular, we put a special focus on helping communities realize benefits to youth from industrial development. The company’s participation in an alliance of oil sands producers focused on environmental improvement is helping us and other industry members identify even more ways to reduce impacts. You can learn more about the alliance by visiting COSIA  For more information about our oil sands operations and the technologies we’re advancing to enable responsible development of the resources, please visit the ConocoPhillips Canada Sustainable Development Portal. 1 “Canadian Oil Sands: Life-Cycle Assessments of Greenhouse Gas Emissions”, Congressional Research Service, March 15, 2013.  Does the company care about communities? Our company views sustainable development success as conducting business in a way that promotes economic growth, a healthy environment and vibrant communities, now and into the future. The first two goals, economic growth and a healthy environment, get widely discussed and seem fairly well understood. But what does it mean to promote vibrant communities? Does the company care about communities?  Yes, ConocoPhillips does care. We run our business under a set of guiding principles that we call our SPIRIT Values of Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork. They are shared by everyone in our company. And they drive the way we care about the communities where we live and work.  We care deeply about developing relathionships with people and communities where we operate.  We think about communities during our daily work and decision-making, and view theserelationships as an important part of our social license to operate. We think about creating jobs, supporting community investments and, most importantly, understanding how a community feels about our activities near where they live. It’s important for us to have a strong community connection, and to hear about local community issues and concerns. Communities contribute diverse ideas and valuable perspectives. Listening and understanding these views helps us be better at what we do.  To get a sense of how the company works to build strong community connections, let’s take the example of what we’re doing in Australia. Community Engagement in Australia In Eastern Australia, ConocoPhillips is Foundation Shareholder (37.5%) and Downstream Operator of the Australia Pacific Liquid Natural Gas (APLNG) project, along with co-venturers Origin Energy and Sinopec. The project is currently under construction, with operations scheduled to start in mid-2015. As the project’s downstream operator, ConocoPhillips will operate the LNG facility on Curtis Island.  Our company’s community engagement approach for the APLNG project involves an extensive set of plans to ensure that local communities, including aboriginal communities, are engaged and consulted, benefit from the project, and play an active role in ensuring impacts are addressed.   The project includes a Social Impact Management Plan containing several action plans. These action plans address the project’s most significant impacts and benefits identified by a social impact assessment. The plans apply distinct strategies centered on the following six key themes:  • Housing and Accommodation • Community Investment • Indigenous Engagement • Workforce and Training • Local Content • Community Health and Safety  Additionally, the project features a Cultural Heritage Management Plan with local Aboriginal people, a Community and Stakeholder Engagement Plan, and a Grievance and Dispute Resolution Policy. Regional community consultative committees, comprised of a cross section of stakeholders, promote dialogue, engage communities in delivering action plans and ensure stakeholders participate in social impact monitoring.  Both the Social Impact Management Plan and Cultural Heritage Management Plan are carried out during project construction, with some aspects continuing into the operations period. Consistent with key themes identified in the project impact assessment, the ConocoPhillips Australia East Business Unit has also developed an Indigenous Content and Engagement Strategy to promote project employment, training and business development for indigenous stakeholders in the area. The goal is to develop and maximize employment and training opportunities for Aboriginal people in the Gladstone region, and to enhance indigenous participation in the APLNG supply chain. While some elements have already begun, most of the Indigenous Content and Engagement Strategy will be conducted during the operations phase.  We intend to share our progress on these strategies and plans as the APLNG project advances.  This is an example of how ConocoPhillips approaches our community responsibilities in the areas where we live and work. We make an effort to investigate and understand the relevant issues, develop strategies and plans for the long-term management of these issues and engage with stakeholders throughout the life cycle of a project. We would be happy to share other exampes, as needed.  Does natural gas reduce greenhouse gas emisssions? Many studies have shown that electric power plants fueled with natural gas emit far less greenhouse gas (GHG) than coal-fired plants. Reduction estimates tend to be quite consistent, ranging from 37% to 54%, depending on the age and efficiency of the plants being compared. So natural gas clearly does reduce power plant GHG emissions. What’s less clear is how much GHG is emitted on the way to power plants during natural gas development, production, transportation and storage. With differing methods and many more measurement points, estimates of pre-plant natural gas leakage rates vary widely, from 0.7%-2.6%. The main component of natural gas is a compound called methane. Compared to carbon dioxide, methane has more warming potential but leaves the atmosphere much sooner. The higher the methane leakage rate, the lower the GHG advantage natural gas has for power generation.     Natural gas leakage is a perfect example of a sustainable development challenge: it increases greenhouse gas emissions, causes people concern and costs the company lost revenue.  We don’t want any of those things to happen. When properly contained, natural gas is a useful and valuable product.  That’s why small releases of natural gas are known as ‘fugitive emissions’ because we want to capture them rather than let them escape. It’s not good for the environment. It’s money disappearing into thin air. And it’s something we take seriously.  So what can we do about it? We’ve already taken several steps:  • In 2000, we joined the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Natural Gas Star program, a voluntary partnership that works cooperatively to reduce natural gas leakage.   We were one of the first companies to apply technology to reduce natural gas emissions when drilling shale gas wells. Since implementation in the United States in 2007, this “green completions” technology has already captured 3 BCF of natural gas that would have been released or flared.   In 2008, we implemented a Climate Change Action Plan with goals to reduce venting and flaring of natural gas, and to share best practices across the company.  From 2009-2012, we reduced or avoided GHG emissions averaging 912,000 metric tons of CO2(e) per year from projects including reduced venting and flaring. In 2013 we updated our plan with the release and flaring of natural gas as one of the continuing key focus areas.   This year, along with other industry partners, we are participating in the second phase of an important University of Texas study focused on collecting more data on methane emissions from liquids unloading and conducting further study of pneumatics devices. This scientific peer-reviewed study is expected to be published in 2014. ConocoPhillips monitors and participates in many other studies to understand greenhouse gas emissions from natural gas production and use. We have teamed up with academics, industry, consultants and non-governmental organizations to learn more. For example, the company took part in a major study published by the Joint Institute of Strategic Energy Analysis in November 2012. This study found that greenhouse gas emissions from 16,000 shale gas sources in the Barnett Shale area amounted to less than half of those from coal when these fuels were used for electricity generation. We also joined with many other industry members in a study of 91,000 wells operated by 20 companies across the United States. This study found that natural gas leakage volume was 53% less than the Environmental Protection Agency’s estimate of 2%. Better data helps us manage GHG challenges better. We’re glad to have and share this information.  Our results are posted on our Power in Co-operation website in a fact sheet – ‘Natural Gas and GHGs’  For further information on regulation, standards, the life-cycle, and studies regarding the development of natural gas please consult the following:    How does the company prepare for an emergency ? While focused on operating safely, reliably and responsibly, ConocoPhillips also works hard to be ready for the unexpected. The company invests significant time, effort and resources in crisis and emergency management. Our preparation comprises three parts:  Prevention, Training and Collaboration. Prevention The most important job at every location is to operate without injuries, incidents or illnesses.  ConocoPhillips manages operational risks by paying close attention to planning, processes and operations excellence.  That means focusing on safe behaviors (personal safety) and safe facilities (process safety). We pursue safe, reliable and environmentally responsible operations by following a systematic and collaborative approach called Operations Excellence. Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy features a tool called the HSE Management System Standard, which helps deliver the commitments and expectations of the policy. Learn more in our Safety and Health section. Training ConocoPhillips places great value on having trained and capable emergency responders. As part of our ongoing commitment to safety and environmental stewardship, we want to be the best-trained and best-equipped emergency response organization in the industry. That’s why we involve hundreds of employee subject matter experts from all disciplines in crisis and emergency management training and exercises several times each year. In addition to numerous local programs intended to practice and test our response capabilities, several large-scale exercises are slated to take place on three different continents in 2014. These drills include participation by third-party experts, oil spill response organizations and government emergency response agencies.  The company’s 2013 major emergency management training and exercises were conducted in Southampton, UK; Gulf of Mexico, USA; Perth, Australia; Jakarta, Indonesia; and Alaska, USA. The Alaska drill included more than 600 staff and third-party responders, as well as local, state and federal government agency personnel. For more information on this exercise, see the related video. Collaboration  We operate in a highly competitive business. But we also work closely with peer companies on collaborative solutions to manage crises and emergencies. For example, ConocoPhillips is one of the founding members of both the Marine Well Containment Company and the Subsea Well Response Project. These consortiums provide well containment equipment, technology and response capabilities for deepwater wells.. . ConocoPhillips also belongs to or supports many other organizations similarly focused on emergency preparedness and response across the globe. The Response Partnerships and Industry Alliances section gives a description and list of links to many of these.