Valuing Our PeopleValuing Our PeopleOur strategy, our performance, our culture and our reputation are fueled by our world-class workforce. The diverse people of ConocoPhillips have always been the heart of our company, and we recognize that attracting and developing talent is a competitive imperative within our changing industry. At year-end 2021, we had approximately 9,900 employees in 14 countries. 
Read more about our workforce metrics on our website.We depend on our workforce to successfully execute our company’s strategy and we recognize the importance of creating a workplace in which our people feel valued. Our human capital management (HCM) programs are built around three pillars that we believe are necessary for success: a compelling culture, a world-class workforce and strong external engagement. Each of these pillars is described in more detail below.A COMPELLING CULTURE.	SPIRIT Values guide everything we do..	Actions grounded in DEI pillars: leadership accountability, employee awareness and processes and programs..	Leveraging data analytics to monitor key workforce and engagement metrics through dashboards shared with the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), leaders, Talent Management Teams, and employees..	Prioritizing successful post-M&A cultural integrations. .	Supporting different ways of working with new hybrid work program..	Global COVID-19 response prioritizes protecting our workforce, mitigating the spread of COVID-19 and safely running the business.A WORLD-CLASS WORKFORCE.	Recruitment/selection practices focused on minimizing bias..	Robust succession planning focused on diverse pipeline..	Hands-on Talent Management Teams guiding employee development..	Real-time recognition programs..	Competitive, performance-based compensation packages; global equitable pay practices..	Compensation programs linking individual and company performance..	Inclusive global benefits informed by external market practices and employee needs..	Global wellness programs addressing physical/mental well-being..	Expanded benefits to support families.EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT.	Expanded our external disclosures, including publishing our EEO-1 reports for the last three years and our inaugural HCM report..	Maintaining active partnerships with trade associations and minority nonprofit organizations..	Recognized by Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, with a score of 100 for multiple years..	Increasing partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-serving institutions..	Allocated significant amount of university contributions budget to programs advancing DEI..	Formed new partnership with INROADS, a nonprofit committed to leadership and career development for underrepresented talent, and awarded Corporate Partner of the Year recognition.Employees on Alaska’s North Slope.A Compelling Culture How we do our work sets us apart and drives our performance. We’re experts in what we do and continuously find ways to do our jobs better. Together, we deliver strong performance, but not at all costs. We embrace core cultural attributes that are shared by everyone, everywhere. Our SPIRIT Values – Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation, and Teamwork – set us apart, align our workforce and provide a foundation for our culture.With two significant acquisitions completed in 2021, we prioritized cultural integration. We seized the opportunity to learn from and value each other’s cultures. This involved employee engagement, active listening and leveraging data analytics to monitor key workforce/engagement metrics. Following the successful close of the Concho Resources transaction, we launched a comprehensive onboarding framework to introduce Concho employees to the ConocoPhillips culture and HR programs and processes. Using a phased, fit-for-purpose approach, we aimed to provide a positive transition experience for employees. The onboarding consisted of a dedicated resource site for employees, targeted training on culture, leadership, talent systems and processes, and comprehensive compensation and benefits education. Learnings from the Concho integration were implemented in plans for onboarding new Shell Permian asset employees.Advancing our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) JourneyAt ConocoPhillips, we value all forms of diversity, provide equitable employee programs and promote a culture of inclusion. Our DEI vision is for our workforce to have a strong sense of belonging and feel supported in meeting their full potential. Our commitment to DEI is foundational to our.SPIRIT Values. We hold our leaders accountable for having personal DEI goals each year and encourage all global employees to play a part in creating and sustaining an inclusive work environment. The ELT has ultimate accountability for advancing our DEI commitment through a governance structure that includes an ELT-level DEI Champion, a global DEI Council consisting of senior leaders from across the company and organization-wide DEI goals. The company sets goals and measures progress based on three pillars that guide our DEI activities: leadership accountability, employee awareness, and processes and programs. In addition, our DEI plans and progress are reviewed regularly with the Board of Directors.In 2021, HR and the DEI Council reviewed the results of the 2020 Perspectives Pulse: D&I employee survey and prioritized action plans tied to quantitative and qualitative employee sentiment. 2021 accomplishments included:.	Refreshed and diversified the global DEI Council to reflect the diversity we seek across our global organization..	Used survey insights to produce six multi-year corporate DEI priorities that will guide us through 2024..	Developed a detailed plan for our corporate DEI priorities, made up of 18 specific tactics that will position us to deliver meaningful progress through 2024. Two examples of specific tactics include establishing a centralized DEI organization to be led by a new Chief Diversity Officer and increasing internal and external DEI disclosures..	Championed the addition of the ‘E’ (equity) to D&I emphasizing the importance of providing equitable programs that lead to fair outcomes for all employees. This was a natural evolution of our D&I journey.We know that for DEI to be sustainable, we need programs and processes that promote fair, consistent, disciplined and equitable treatment of all employees. By putting a DEI lens on our people-related programs and processes, we can help improve DEI within the company. Some of our focus areas include:.	Recruiting: Enhancing our recruitment and selection practices to ensure DEI is embedded in each step. This includes educating managers on inclusive hiring practices, working with partners to connect veterans and individuals with disabilities with employment, ensuring diverse internal and external candidate slates, and creating balanced interview teams to mitigate any unconscious bias in our hiring processes..	Talent Management Teams: Examining Talent Management Teams’ processes to ensure we are eliminating bias within our selection and succession efforts..	Performance management: Implementing a “how” rating as part of our performance management process to hold our workforce and our leaders accountable for behaviors, including DEI..	Recognition: Expanding our workforce recognition programs to include a prestigious SPIRIT of Performance Award for DEI advocates..	Employee networks: Sponsoring broad participation in our extensive employee networks. Read more on our website. “The environment has been very welcoming. My colleagues are willing to share ideas and information freely, and that creates a culture where your opinion counts and is valued.”— NUNY RINCONES, 
RESERVOIR ENGINEERING SUPERVISOR2021 OUR PEOPLE BY THE NUMBERS26%28%10%WOMENU.S. POC*UNIVERSITY HIRES~9,9005%23%35%U.S. POC* HIRESVOLUNTARY ATTRITIONWOMEN HIRESTOTAL HEADCOUNTAs of Dec. 31, 2021* People of Color (POC)Measuring our ProgressWe are committed to being transparent as we build a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, and we actively monitor diversity metrics on a global basis. The DEI Council, in conjunction with the ELT, reviews diversity metrics and identifies the appropriate plans and priorities to address our trends.Starting in 2019, we began internal publication of our first DEI dashboards, which contain five years of key DEI statistics for our global and U.S. employees. These dashboards are updated annually. In 2021, we expanded the transparency of internal and external workforce metrics and HCM disclosures by publishing our 2018-2020 Consolidated EEO-1 Reports, expanding metrics in our Sustainability Report and launching our inaugural HCM report.You can find our workforce metrics in the Performance Metrics and key trends below:11.315%14AVERAGE YEARS 
OF SERVICEEMPLOYEES PROMOTEDCOUNTRIESOF OPERATION61%17.518.6U.S. POPULATIONAVERAGE YEARS 
OF EXPERIENCETRAINING HOURS
PER EMPLOYEEU.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Reports We are committed to publicly disclosing ConocoPhillips’ Consolidated EEO-1 Report. The report characterizes ConocoPhillips’ U.S. workforce by race, ethnicity and gender across job categories established by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Our U.S. workforce breakdown is included below:ConocoPhillips’ EEO-1 reports for the last three years: .	2021 EEO-1 Component Report.pdf.	2020 EEO-1 Component 1 Report.	2019 EEO-1 Component 1 ReportAdditional details on EEO reports are available on the EEOC website. RecognitionWhile we have been recognized for our inclusion efforts, we know that it takes ongoing commitment to make sustainable progress. So, we continue to provide training, build awareness and reinforce accountability at all levels of the organization and focus on behaviors and processes that build an environment where everyone has the opportunity to succeed.The Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index recognized us in 2021 and 2022 for our commitment to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender equality in the workplace with a score of 100. Additionally, we were recognized as one of Forbes’ 2021 America’s Best Large Employers and 2021 America’s Best Employers for Diversity. 6%5%U.S. VETERANSPEOPLE WITH DISABILITIESConocoPhillips prepares its EEO-1 reports based on strict guidelines issued by the EEOC. For internal reporting purposes, ConocoPhillips has expanded its lens to include employees that are excluded from our EEO-1 reporting pursuant to the regulations. Data may not equal 100% due to rounding.Valuing Our PeopleAttraction and RetentionAttraction and RetentionOur continued success requires a strong global workforce that can contribute the right skills, in the right places, to achieve our strategic objectives. We offer university internships across multiple disciplines to attract the best early-career talent. We also recruit experienced hires to fill critical skills and maintain a broad range of expertise and experience.Our global voluntary attrition rate for 2021 was 5%. We monitor the voluntary attrition rate for women and U.S. People of Color (POC) and leverage qualitative information from exit interviews to identify any potential trends.Succession PlanningSuccession planning is a top priority for management and the Board. Leaders at all levels review Individual Development Plans, provide feedback and facilitate career conversations on an ongoing basis to ensure that employees can reach their full potential. Annually, business leadership and Talent Management Teams (TMTs) meet to review succession benches, calibrate talent and provide recommendations to executive leadership and the Board to ready our succession candidates for future leadership roles and promote business continuity.U.S. Internship ProgramBringing new people with fresh ideas into our company is vital to our future. We take enormous pride in our Summer Internship Program, which strives to offer a compelling, hands-on experience. We provide interns with challenging assignments, knowledgeable mentors and engaging activities to help them grow their skills and network. The relationship between the company and the universities we support is important. We make financial contributions to 19 universities and designate a significant portion of our university contributions budget to programs advancing DEI. We also designate senior leaders to engage with university leadership, deans and senior faculty.23%35%OF GLOBAL HIRES IN 2021 WERE WOMENOF U.S. HIRES WERE PEOPLE OF COLORAttraction and RetentionSupporting Different Ways of Working: 
The Hybrid Office Work ProgramIn 2021, we introduced the Hybrid Office Work (HOW) program in the U.S. and some global locations offering a combination of work from both office and home. The HOW program blends the advantages of in-person engagement with individual flexibility for eligible office-based employees in the U.S. where a hybrid schedule is feasible. Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays are designated as core in-office days each week. Eligible employees have the option to work remotely on Wednesdays and Fridays. The program isn’t mandatory; our offices remain open and available throughout the week.We also acknowledge that many of our employees are field-based or in roles that cannot be performed remotely. The efforts of these employees are essential in running the business, and we are especially thankful for their commitment and contributions.“I have been a working mom my entire career. There are a lot of challenges that working moms face that can potentially hold them back in pursuing the career they would like to have, and I believe the Hybrid Office Work Program will go a long way in helping working parents overcome these challenges.”—	KYLA GONZALES, MANAGER, TALENT MANAGEMENTValuing Our PeopleEmployee Engagement and DevelopmentWorking in the lab at APLNG.Employee Engagement and
DevelopmentInvesting in our employees drives our company’s performance, so we approach talent development and succession planning with the same rigor that we apply to our business strategy. We seek to attract, develop and retain employees through a combination of on-the-job learning, formal training, and regular feedback and mentoring.Career DevelopmentWe empower our employees to grow their careers through personal and professional development opportunities. Employees can identify opportunities through career conversations with their supervisors and by creating an Individual Development Plan, a development tool that captures employees’ long-term career plans. As part of ongoing development, we encourage leaders to gain insights on their strengths and areas for improvement using a 360 degree assessment tool to gather feedback from supervisors, direct reports and peers to help increase an employee’s overall effectiveness. In 2021, we expanded use of this assessment tool for individual contributors to leverage in their Individual Development Plan.Talent Management TeamsSkill-based Talent Management Teams (TMTs) guide employee development and career progression by discipline and location. The TMTs help identify our future business needs and assess the availability of critical skill sets within the company. TMTs include senior representatives from business units (BUs) and corporate functions. These representatives are the interface among leaders, supervisors and employees. Dashboards of demographic metrics are utilized by TMTs to mitigate bias and inform promotion and development decisions. In 2021, the TMTs developed common DEI goals, creating alignment on key focus areas among all the TMTs. The TMT DEI goals are aligned to ConocoPhillips’ global multi-year DEI priorities and help drive progress toward the identified tactics. In addition, the TMTs diversified their representatives, defined a consistent onboarding curriculum which is inclusive of DEI training, and refreshed the TMT website to enhance employee visibility to these goals. Formal TrainingIn 2021, our employees completed more than 184,400 hours of virtual and in-person training on topics ranging from technical to professional development (approximately 18.6 hours per employee). We provide numerous training and development offerings to equip our workforce, our hiring managers and our leaders with the skills, knowledge and self.awareness to advance our DEI efforts. In 2021, employees completed approximately 1,280 DEI courses, and nearly 460 hiring managers completed our inclusive hiring best practices course.Leadership DevelopmentWe recognize that supervisors play a key role in talent development, so we offer a robust supervisor development curriculum to help leaders engage and develop their employees. Global courses focus on proactive communication, employee development and building trust. We continue to evolve our Leader of Leaders program, which brings together the company’s top senior leaders in small cohort groups to align on key drivers of our culture on a quarterly basis.Additionally, various business units and functions ran “Leaders Connect” programs, an informal community of practice where cohorts of six to eight leaders meet regularly to talk through topical leadership issues. The aim of the program is to help leaders establish a peer network, build trust, and share and learn from each other about various leadership topics such as DEI, leading through change, employee engagement and communication. In 2021, we created a centralized platform to connect global teams and provide common access to resources they can leverage for local programs.Performance ManagementWe use a performance management program focused on objectivity, credibility and transparency. The program includes broad stakeholder feedback, real-time recognition and a formal “how” rating to assess behaviors to ensure they are in line with our SPIRIT Values and leadership competencies. We have identified leadership competencies that provide a common baseline of knowledge, skills, abilities, and behaviors to support employee performance, growth, and success. Recognition is important to our employees and core to our culture. We have an employee-driven internal recognition program, The Mark Award: Instant Thanks, that enables employees to recognize their peers for individual accomplishments. In 2021, 48% of employees received Instant Thanks awards and nearly 10,720 Instant Thanks messages were sent.Employee Feedback SurveysTaking steps to measure and assess employee satisfaction and engagement is at the heart of long-term business success and creating a great place to work. Since 2019, the ConocoPhillips Perspectives Survey has become our primary listening platform for gathering feedback on employee sentiment and strengthening our culture. Leaders analyze the survey data and comments and identify focus areas for action, striving for incremental year-over-year progress on results. Our employee feedback strategy is comprised of an annual engagement survey and shorter DEI pulse surveys as needed. Due to ongoing cultural integration work in 2021, we delayed our 2021 Perspectives Survey to January 2022. We asked 24 questions on topics relevant to the health and long-term success of our organization, such as engagement, DEI, SPIRIT Values, company strategy, career development, leadership and well-being. We had a participation rate of 84% and received over 10,700 written comments from employees around the globe. Leaders will analyze organizational results and set key focus areas for relevant actions for their groups.Employee Engagement and DevelopmentValuing Our PeopleEmployee Engagement and DevelopmentColleagues at the Global Water Sustainability Center in Qatar.2022 CONOCOPHILLIPS PERSPECTIVES SURVEY75EmployeeSatisfactionScore76%of respondents would recommend ConocoPhillips as a great place to workCompensation, Benefits and Well-beingCompensation, Benefits 
and Well-being Our compensation and benefits philosophy and the overall structure of our programs are designed to reward all employees who contribute to our success. We offer competitive, performance-based compensation packages and have global equitable pay practices. Our global benefits are competitive, inclusive and align with our culture. We provide family-friendly policies such as flexible work schedules, competitive time off, paid leave to care for seriously ill family members and parental leave in many locations.Our compensation programs are generally comprised of a base pay rate, the annual Variable Cash Incentive Program (VCIP) and, for eligible employees, the Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) program. From the CEO to the frontline worker, every employee participates in VCIP, our annual incentive program, which aligns employee compensation with ConocoPhillips’ success on critical performance metrics and also recognizes individual performance. Our RSU program is designed to attract and retain employees, reward performance and align employee interest with stockholders by encouraging stock ownership. Our retirement and savings plans are intended to support employees’ financial futures and are competitive within local markets. Our global wellness programs are designed to educate participants and promote a healthy lifestyle. Each year, we host a six-week global competition featuring health and wellness activities called the SPIRIT of Wellness challenge. In 2021, nearly 2,000 employees and contractors participated as individuals or as part of a team. The event included three challenges: Move, Eat Right and Stress Less. Recording their activities daily, participants earned points and tracked their progress on Individual and Team Leaderboards. Read more about the 2021 challenge on our website.Ensuring our employees’ health and well-being remained an ongoing focus as the world continued adapting to the realities of COVID-19. In 2021, COVID-19 activities were guided by our three companywide priorities, set during early pandemic stages: protect our employees and contractors, mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and safely run the business. We have acted on these priorities via a coordinated crisis management support team, frequent workforce communications and flexible programs to suit the challenging environment. Our office and field staffs adhered to rigorous mitigation protocols implemented across operations, utilizing the most current guidance from health authorities. Mitigation measures, including requirements for remote work, vaccines and testing, were driven by the specific circumstances applicable to a region or business function.In the U.S., we partner with U.S. employees who participate in ConocoPhillips’ medical plan to promote accountability for personal health through our Health Improvement Incentive Program. This voluntary program encourages healthy behaviors, provides insights into potential health risks and offers opportunities to improve overall health. Employees can earn incentives toward medical premiums by completing a series of steps, including the newly added mental well-being incentive. In 2021, 75% of participants completed a biometric screening, of which 85% earned the mental well-being incentive.All employees have access to our employee assistance program, and many of our locations offer custom programs to support mental well-being. Members of Norway’s Production Delivery Center take a moment to savor the scenery during a hike.Valuing Our PeopleCompensation, Benefits and Well-being