BiodiversityAcross much of the globe, biodiversity has been significantly altered by human pressure, including land-use and sea-use change, overexploitation through harvesting, logging, hunting and fishing, climate change, pollution and introduction of invasive species. ConocoPhillips recognizes that our exploration and production activities contribute to pressure or impacts on biodiversity and nature. We manage biodiversity risks and mitigate impacts to areas with biological or cultural significance through the use of the Mitigation Hierarchy. We support habitat and species conservation through strategic proactive conservation initiatives.A sharp-tailed grouse. 
Photo by Kevin Barnes2021 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS›	Progressed reclamation at two gravel mine sites to create habitat for local fish, nesting shorebirds and grizzly bears. ›	Created biodiversity mapping tool to inform development strategies.›	Maintained voluntary conservation agreements for approximately 515,000 acres across New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. ›	Initiated research to improve boreal forest reclamation outcomes.›	Updated corporate biodiversity strategy within the context of evolving biodiversity frameworks and standards.BiodiversityGovernance and StrategyGovernance and Strategy Our governance structure provides board and management oversight of our risk processes and risk management. Read more about our sustainable development governance on our website.In 2021, we updated our corporate biodiversity strategy. We evaluated multiple alternatives and considered the evolving frameworks and standards aiming to address the global challenge of biodiversity loss, including the Task Force for Nature-related Financial Disclosure (TNFD), the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Biodiversity Standard, the Convention on Biological Diversity’s (CBD) Global Biodiversity Framework and the Science-Based Target Network (SBTN). We are implementing our strategy through actions aimed to reduce our impact on biodiversity, lower the related business risk, and be positioned to meet evolving regulatory expectations.Portfolio Risks and ExposureOur activities, operations and unplanned releases to the environment can directly or indirectly contribute to pressure or impacts on biodiversity and nature. Ecosystem services, such as water supply or soil and sediment retention, can be impacted through cumulative regional land-use and physical effects of climate change. Potential impacts on biodiversity, nature and ecosystem services (or dependencies), also referred to as “Natural Capital,” can lead to operational, reputational and regulatory business risks through:.	Restricted access to exploration or operational areas resulting in project delays or business interruption..	Increased costs associated with policy changes and regulations..	Changes related to physical effects of climate change on ecosystems, habitats or biodiversity..	Actions by investors and the financial sector including ESG performance and reporting expectations and shareholder resolutions.Risk AssessmentOur SD Risk Management Standard mandates a process for operated assets and projects to assess biodiversity-related risks to ensure corporate oversight, assurance and consistent implementation. Read more about our risk process on our website. The standard further mandates developing biodiversity action plans for risks ranked significant or high and tracking them in the corporate SD Risk Register. Risks that are no longer ranked significant or high, due to the effectiveness of mitigation actions, as well as risks identified as medium or low, continue to be tracked at the business unit level. Our biodiversity risk assessment is designed to identify potential impacts associated with our activities and operations, ecosystem services (or dependencies), and is aligned with ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure) output for the oil and gas exploration and production sector. Our biodiversity risk assessment focuses on: .	Occurrence of species designated as at-risk, endangered, rare, significant, threatened or of cultural importance..	Activities or operations that could contribute to habitat loss, disturbance, degradation or fragmentation..	Habitats including rare or threatened ecological communities and regionally unique ecosystems..	Internationally, nationally, regionally or locally designated protected areas..	Cumulative effects on habitats, ecosystems or species..	Access to or impacts on locally important ecosystems services.Priority risks are related to cumulative impacts to ecosystems, habitats and threatened or valued species. In 2021, one company-wide risk related to potential policy changes and regulations associated with evolving biodiversity and nature frameworks and standards was identified and ranked as significant.Read more about mitigation activities in the Risk Management section of our website.Risk Management Among the international frameworks and standards currently under development to address global biodiversity loss, such as CBD, GRI, SBTN and TNFD, there is agreement on the key anthropogenic drivers (or pressures) for biodiversity loss first identified by the Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). The key drivers include land-use and sea-use change, natural resource use and exploitation, climate change, pollution, and introduction of invasive species. Exploration and production activities can contribute to pressure on biodiversity and nature through:.	Land-use or sea-use change resulting in habitat disturbance, reduced habitat intactness and impacts on species distribution..	Pollution associated with accidental releases or spills to the environment. .	Invasive species associated with unintentional introduction.We manage risks and mitigate impacts to areas with biological significance through the use of the Mitigation Hierarchy. We support habitat and species conservation through strategic and proactive conservation initiatives in collaboration with conservation partners. Read our Biodiversity Position on our website.Mitigation HierarchyThe mitigation hierarchy is a decision-making framework involving a sequence of four prioritized steps to mitigate adverse biodiversity impacts: Avoid, Minimize, Restore and Offsets.AVOIDSome biodiversity impacts can be avoided through careful spatial or temporal placement of infrastructure or scheduling field activities outside peak migration or breeding seasons. AlaskaWe conduct aerial infrared surveys where winter activities are planned in coastal areas of the North Slope of Alaska to look for heat signatures indicative of polar bears in dens. Ice road routes are carefully mapped out, avoiding rough terrain, cultural sites and other potentially sensitive areas. In 2021, we built the equivalent of 582 acres of winter ice roads and ice pads which melted away in the summer. For over 17 years we have also funded grizzly bear research to help improve our activities and avoid human influence on bears. Read more about how we work to avoid human-bear interactions on our website. Ground-disturbing activity on the tundra, such as gravel placement and other construction, occurs in the winter, outside of the migratory bird breeding season.U.S. Lower 48In the Bakken area of North Dakota, we aim to design our footprint to balance protection of the existing ecosystem with current and future land uses near our operations. Sharp-tailed grouse are considered a management indicator species for North Dakota and are present throughout our asset area in McKenzie County. Because of their importance in the North Dakota grasslands, we initiated a three-year study in 2020.The goal of the study is to gain a better understanding of sharp-tailed grouse nesting, summer/brood rearing, and wintering habitat types, and local migration and movement patterns. In 2021, an additional 14 female and male sharp-tailed grouse were tagged with GPS transmitters, bringing the total to 45. Preliminary results from the GPS tagging indicate grouse within the study area use a wide variety of habitats including areas in close proximity to badland and forested habitat as well as agricultural fields. Deployment of additional transmitters is scheduled to continue during spring 2022 and field data collection will continue through the winter 2022-2023. This will provide the scientific input needed to determine the most effective way to avoid impacting sharp-tailed grouse populations throughout their life cycle. In the Permian, we identify and assess ecologically sensitive areas on company-owned land in the development pre-planning phase. These sensitive areas include playa lakes, waterways (such as rivers, draws and arroyos), areas with significant plant diversity and known sensitive species habitat. We integrate our understanding of these areas into the design of our surface development plans to identify options for avoiding impacts to sensitive habitats or biodiversity.Strategic initiatives like voluntary conservation agreements also help avoid adverse biodiversity impacts and protect sensitive habitats near our operations. These formal agreements with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and/or other federal or state agencies typically require that new well locations and surface infrastructure avoid certain species habitats or sensitive areas within those habitats. We have enrolled approximately 100,000 acres in conservation agreements that protect the lesser prairie chicken in Oklahoma and Texas and almost 320,000 acres to protect the lesser prairie chicken and the dunes sagebrush lizard in New Mexico. In addition, we have enrolled more than 95,000 acres in conservation agreements that protect the endangered Texas hornshell mussel.MINIMIZEWe minimize biodiversity impacts through measures taken to reduce the duration, intensity and/or extent of activities. New drilling technology, data analytics techniques and integrated planning have helped reduce our infrastructure footprint and improve reservoir development efficiency through multi-well pads, longer lateral wells, multi-lateral wells, tankless pads and central facilities.CanadaThrough Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), our Surmont team led the development of a goal to reduce the footprint intensity by 10% by 2022. The goal applies to the in situ projects of COSIA members collectively and is achieved primarily through surface infrastructure footprint optimization, improved drilling technology and progressive reclamation. We support COSIA in the development of environmental performance indicators for in situ oil sands operators that will replace the footprint intensity reduction goal after 2022.The Surmont Boreal Reclamation Project, a research initiative with the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology’s Centre for Boreal Research, is an example of progressive reclamation. The research focuses on the use of alternative site preparation and planting native plant species to establish forest vegetation on soil stockpiles decades in advance of final reclamation. The soil stockpile for our Surmont Regional Residence covers an area of about 25 acres and will remain in place for decades. Initial research data from plant surveys indicate that the alternative site preparation and revegetation with native plant species reduce erosion, contribute to increasing plant and animal biodiversity, significantly reduce the relative abundance of undesirable weed species and improve the amount and quality of reclamation material for final reclamation. Plant species diversity has increased from around 10 in the grassy monocultures observed on the site in 2015 prior to treatment to about 100 after five growing seasons.AlaskaThe size of well pads has been reduced from 65 acres in 1970 to about 12 acres. At the same time, the drilling radius has increased from 5,000 feet to about 22,000 feet. Our extended-reach drill (ERD) rig, currently used for specific applications, will have an even greater radius of around 37,000 feet. We expect to complete our first ERD well mid-2022. Our engineers are also integrating biodiversity preservation measures into the design and siting of infrastructure. New pipelines are elevated seven or more feet above the tundra to allow caribou to cross underneath. New roads and pipelines are also typically constructed 500 feet apart to further facilitate unimpeded caribou movement. For new projects, we place power cables on the pipeline racks to eliminate the need to build overhead powerlines and to reduce bird collision hazards.We collaborate with the North Slope Science Initiative and the Bureau of Land Management to share environmental reports. Our 2021 environmental field studies included: .	Avian studies on eiders, yellow-billed loons, brood-rearing geese and shore birds..	Mammal studies on polar bear denning habitat, caribou surveys and caribou tracking..	Fish surveys, hydrology studies, spring breakup monitoring, as well as subsistence fish harvest monitoring and cultural resources surveys.U.S. Lower 48Shrinking pad size and increased drilling radius have also helped minimize the infrastructure footprint for our unconventional operations in the Lower 48. Our Biodiversity Mapping Tools inform development strategies for the Bakken, Eagle Ford and Permian. The GIS-based tool helps identify the presence of sensitive species within project development areas and tracks results of field surveys or cultural resource surveys. It also provides information on applicable wildlife agencies.In the Permian, our understanding of habitats and species distribution on company-owned land is integrated into decision-making during the planning and development process. Our approach focuses on concentrating infrastructure in development corridors and utilizing horizontal drilling to reduce habitat fragmentation. Our goal is to minimize impact to ecologically sensitive habitats, biodiversity or areas of hydrological significance. A similar concept, based on utilizing centralized facilities, which reduces infrastructure footprint, land disturbance, impacts on wildlife, emissions and truck traffic is also being applied in our Bakken assets in North Dakota.AustraliaIn Australia, we have been conducting field-based monitoring of the mangroves near the APLNG facility quarterly since 2012. This has included analyzing leaves, assessing seedling regeneration, measuring trees and assessing water chemistry. Last year, we added satellite monitoring to complement our field-based study and to minimize human impact from the on the ground monitoring process. The mangrove satellite monitoring includes analyzing annual high-resolution and multi-spectral images back to 2006 to assess long-term mangrove canopy trends over a wider area. Results indicate the facility has not caused an impact to the surrounding mangroves and the canopy circumference has increased.In 2021, we completed a migratory shorebird monitoring study to assess potential impacts on local population trends associated with construction and operation of the APLNG Facility. The shorebird monitoring study started in 2009 and continued for five years beyond the completion of construction to 2021. Results indicate that population trends are in response to regional effects and are unlikely to be associated with the ongoing operation of the APLNG facility.RESTOREWhen impacts and disturbance cannot be completely avoided or further minimized, we employ measures to restore the area to a stable, productive and self-sustaining ecosystem through remediation or reclamation activities, taking into account beneficial uses of the impacted and surrounding areas. Remediation or reclamation of disturbed areas is part of our ongoing risk management at operating facilities and includes temporary and permanent measures. Asset retirement obligations are included in our Long-Range Plan.AlaskaIn Kuparuk, we began reclaiming gravel mine sites in the late 1970s. We use gravel for roads and pads to provide a stable driving surface and to keep the underlying permafrost frozen. Once the gravel resource is extracted, the mine sites undergo reclamation, returning the area to a functioning habitat. In collaboration with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game and Alaska Department of Natural Resources we have selected gravel mine sites near streams to promote eventual flooding, creating deep over-wintering fish habitat and providing fish with vital movement pathways. In addition to local fish habitat, this reclamation approach provides habitat for nesting shorebirds and grizzly bears. In 2021, we progressed reclamation work at two additional gravel mine sites.NorwayRemoval and recycling of offshore platforms reduces our footprint and restores marine habitat. In 2021, we removed the topsides and jackets of an old accommodation platform Ekofisk 2/4H, and jackets of Ekofisk 2/4Q and Ekofisk 2/4FTP at the Ekofisk Complex as part of our offshore decommissioning activities. Safety zones around removed platforms have been mapped and debris identified and removed on outlying platforms, making areas available for other users of the sea of approximately 1,400 acres of seabed associated with 7 platforms since 2010. Debris removal around platforms removed at the Ekofisk Complex will be completed upon future Ekofisk decommissioning.CanadaTo accelerate reclamation and restore disturbances in the Canadian boreal forest, we have led an industry collaboration through COSIA to develop, share and implement best practices for reclaiming exploration well sites. The Faster Forests program started in 2009 and has resulted in more than 6 million trees and shrubs being planted on about 5,500 acres of land in the oil sands region. The initiative has led to the adoption of improvements in site construction and reclamation practices and planting to accelerate site recovery and is transitioning from a special initiative to standard operating practice. The Algar Restoration Project was a COSIA-funded initiative that aimed to restore disturbances from legacy conventional seismic lines in caribou habitat. The five-year project included tree planting and regeneration protection of about 240 miles of linear disturbances, restoring over 600 acres.Our Surmont team is leading a research project with the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology’s Centre for Boreal Research on topsoil replacement criteria for forest reestablishment. The purpose of the COSIA-funded research is to achieve improved reclamation outcomes across the boreal forest by investigating factors including soil depth, nutrient loading, planting techniques, as well as techniques to suppress non-native species. U.S. Lower 48Our U.S. Lower 48 assets leverage strategic partnerships for proactive conservation with the goal of conserving biodiversity and restoring habitat before they need to be protected through government regulations. Read more about our proactive conservation achievements on our website.For company-owned land in the Permian, we have a history of implementing stewardship programs in support of habitat restoration. In 2014, we contributed to the creation of the Yoakum Dunes Wildlife Management Area, which extends over approximately 14,000 acres in Terry and Yoakum Counties near Lubbock, providing refuge for native grassland birds and wildlife, including the lesser prairie chicken, baird's sparrow, ferruginous hawk, western burrowing owl, swift fox, black-tailed prairie dog, Texas horned lizard and mule deer. Other Permian restoration efforts include:.	Enhancing habitat connectivity and promoting biodiversity using results from habitat assessments..	Controlling noxious and invasive species..	Reseeding rights-of-way with locally adapted native plant species in collaboration with the West Texas and Permian Basin-Panhandle Native Seeds Projects..	Reclaiming and restoring decommissioned frack pits, well and battery pads, roads, surface lines and electrical infrastructure, including evaluation of effectiveness of treatments in restoring impacted areas.Participation in programs recognizing landowners for efforts to provide high-quality habitat for pronghorn, mule deer and white-tailed deer.OFFSETSBiodiversity offsets may be used for impacts or disturbances that remain after avoidance, minimization and restoration measures have been implemented, or to address a regulatory requirement. Our Biodiversity Offset Guideline provides direction to asset teams where a biodiversity offset is a regulatory requirement or a strategic business preference. We have implemented biodiversity offsets in several areas of our operations. AustraliaFederal and state environmental approvals to develop major construction projects in Australia require biodiversity offsets to counterbalance disturbance. Curtis Island represents a local LNG industry’s landmark conservation achievement. Combined with the existing national park, more than 59% of the island is actively managed under a conservation management plan, compared to just 2% used by LNG projects on the southern tip. This will protect the island’s unique ecology and heritage for future generations and contributes to conservation of about 100 square miles in perpetuity. Read more about the Curtis Island Conservation Park on our website.CanadaIn Canada, we co-funded the Junction Lake Conservation Site in Northern Alberta as a voluntary offset. The 289-acre conservation area provides a unique opportunity for the public to view the piping plover, an endangered bird species with a local population of only about 100. Through this conservation collaboration, we received the first “early action recognition” from the Government of Alberta for a voluntary offset in 2015.In collaboration with Ducks Unlimited we conserved the Bullshead Conservation Area in southeastern Alberta in 2014. It encompasses more than 2,050 acres of wetland-rich prairie, native grasslands and high-value wildlife and plant species, including large numbers of waterfowl.Drill site in the Bakken area of North Dakota.Watch “Planning Our Footprint: Accommodating Landscape, Wildlife and Cultural Heritage in North Dakota.”A grizzly bear on Alaska’s North Slope.104ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2021ConocoPhillips and Ducks Unlimited team members in Louisiana’s coastal wetlands.Proactive ConservationProactive Conservation Proactive Conservation describes voluntary efforts with the goal of conserving or restoring biodiversity and habitats, focusing on conservation of species before they need to be protected through government regulations. Voluntary conservation actions benefit species that are at-risk to become threatened or endangered in the future as well as species already designated. Our efforts are designed to create positive outcomes by reducing impact on biodiversity or nature and by contributing to its restoration.In 2021, ConocoPhillips continued collaboration with strategic partners including government agencies, nonprofit organizations, institutions and conservation groups to:.	Track and reduce barriers essential for migratory bird and terrestrial species survival..	Conserve and restore habitat crucial for species survival.MigrationUnderstanding and tracking wildlife migration is crucial for conserving habitats essential to species survival. Without understanding migratory connectivity, conservation investments can often be ineffective because they are implemented at the wrong place or time, or for the wrong purpose. Further, regulatory or policy decisions based on missing or inconclusive scientific data have the potential to negatively impact our industry. We support species migration programs including: .	Smithsonian Institution’s Migratory Connectivity Project which collects information for several bird species of concern that follow a migratory flyway aligned with our areas of operation. While field work in 2021 continued to be challenging due to the pandemic, the Smithsonian team focused on updating species migratory maps and publishing new scientific papers. One study, published in Ecography (Volume 44, Feb. 2021), provided a comprehensive picture of the over 6,300-mile migratory route of common nighthawks by using GPS data to shed new light on where and why nighthawk population numbers are declining. View the Common Nighthawk migratory map..	National Fish & Wildlife Foundation’s Improving Habitat Quality in Western Big Game and Migration Corridors Program focuses on conserving habitat and restoring migration corridors needed to maintain healthy populations of pronghorn, elk, and mule deer. In 2021, the program provided $4 million in direct funding support to reconnect 132 miles of migration corridors for big game species and to protect and restore 180,000 acres. Since 2019, the program has reconnected 217 miles of migration corridors and conserved nearly 800,000 acres.Habitat Conservation and RestorationWe focus our habitat conservation and restoration efforts on: .	Activities to improve and expand habitat size, connectivity and quality..	Removing encroaching vegetation that negatively impacts grassland-nesting or sage-steppe habitat nesting birds..	Reducing invasive species..	Restoring wetland function and restoring important breeding, wintering or stopover sites..	Working to protect key habitats for birds through support of fee title or conservation easement acquisitions. ConocoPhillips continues to work with strategic conservation partners to help preserve and protect important habitat for species survival. In 2021, significant progress was made to improve data sharing among conservation groups and conserving grassland and wetlands habitat..	Central Grasslands Roadmap is a collaborative habitat conservation initiative between conservation nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), Indigenous tribes, governmental agencies, policy makers and corporations. In 2021, an interactive web map was developed to compile landscape level data pertinent to effective on-the-ground conservation efforts. .	JV8 Central Grasslands Initiative, represented by more than 63 federal, state, provincial, nonprofit and industry conservation partners, eight of the Migratory Bird Joint Ventures, known as the JV8,1 have joined forces to stem grassland losses and negative impacts to migratory bird habitat across the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. To date, approximately 1 million acres have been conserved..	National Fish & Wildlife Foundation: ConocoPhillips’ SPIRIT of Conservation program provided $1.3 million in direct funding to support the conservation of more than 28,000 acres of breeding, stopover and wintering bird habitat crucial for migratory grassland and wetland birds. A preliminary estimate using NFWF’s proprietary carbon benefit estimator indicated these projects are anticipated to generate a cumulative carbon benefit of more than 36,000 metric tons by 2052. Since 2005, the SPIRIT of Conservation program has helped to conserve, restore or enhance more than 531,000 acres. .	National Fish & Wildlife Foundation: Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative is dedicated to restoring and sustaining healthy rivers, streams and grasslands that provide important wildlife habitat in the Pecos River watershed and adjacent areas of New Mexico and Texas. In 2021, $1.45 million was awarded to support seven watershed conservation projects that resulted in the enhancement and restoration of 11,000 grassland acres, improved instream flow and restored riverine, riparian and wetland habitat benefiting Pecos gambusia, Texas hornshell mussels and multiple avian species. Since the program’s inception in 2017, $6.5 million has been invested into 34 conservation projects. As the largest private owner of wetlands in Louisiana, we collaborate with Ducks Unlimited to conserve and restore wetlands habitats that threatened and endangered species depend on to live and thrive. Through these efforts, more than 2,700 wetland acres were restored and over 350 acres benefited in 2021. These efforts also provide greater societal benefits by:.	Preserving the land’s ability to protect and nourish the habitats of many wildlife species..	Protecting the nation’s seafood, maritime trade, and natural gas and oil industries..	Protecting local homes and businesses..	Increasing the quality of commercial and recreational fishing.Since 2012, these efforts have helped to restore, conserve or enhance over 26,800 acres. Read more about ConocoPhillips’ conservation activities in Louisiana on our website.In addition to wetlands in Louisiana, we are stewards of almost 200,000 acres in the Permian Basin where we strive to balance energy production with stewardship of natural resources. Through conservation planning and collaboration with partners including the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, Borderlands Research Institute, and Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute, we have restored grasslands across over 4,000 acres. Our efforts are focused on Playa Lakes and adjacent uplands, enhancing habitat quality and connectivity for pronghorn, black-tailed prairie dogs, western burrowing owls, and other grassland dependent species.We partner with the Intermountain West Joint Venture to support the Sage Grouse Initiative, an effort by regulators, NGOs, universities and industry to conserve native rangelands for the species. We are co-funding a three-year, landscape-scale assessment project to develop a grassland birds conservation plan. Modeled after the successful Sage Grouse Initiative, the goal of the project administered by the Prairie Pothole Joint Venture is to develop a set of recommendations for a grasslands conservation framework to stabilize grassland bird populations and minimize impacts across the Great Plains. 1	ConocoPhillips supports five of the JV8 partners: Northern Great Plains, Oaks and Prairies, Prairie Pothole, Playa Lakes and Rio Grande.BiodiversityProactive ConservationPerformance MetricsPerformance MetricsWe collect data and information related to species occurrence and sensitive habitats located within or adjacent to our operated assets. We focus on species characterized as at-risk, endangered, rare, significant, threatened or of cultural value, and habitats characterized as sensitive by local regulators or conservation organizations as well as International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) I-VI protected areas. Data and information are used to develop metrics related to protected areas, restored or protected habitats and the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.IUCN RED LIST SPECIES12ASSETS IN FOUR COUNTRIES with at least one IUCN Red List species known to occur1For our operated assets, we identify species of interest at the local level including at-risk, endangered, rare, significant, threatened or of cultural value. Some of the local species of interest may also have been identified as near-threatened, vulnerable, endangered or critically endangered on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 1 The majority of our assets actively mitigate risks related to at least one species of local importance that is also an IUCN Red List species.PROTECTED AREAS0.03%1The assessment includes areas designated at the national and regional level (national parks or wildlife sanctuaries) as well as at the international level (World Heritage or Ramsar sites). Our infrastructure within or adjacent to protected areas includes pipelines, well pads, compressor stations, one LNG facility and one terminal.OVERLAPPINGWITH 8 ASSETSWITHIN3 MILES (5 KM)ASSETS: Anadarko | APLNG | Bakken | Indonesia2 | Uinta Basin1 Estimated as the percentage of lease areas overlapping with designated protected areas such as national parks or wildlife sanctuaries, World Heritage or Ramsar sites.2 In the first quarter of 2022, the company completed the sale of the Indonesia assets. HABITATS CONSERVED, PROTECTED OR RESTOREDOVER 13.4 millionCUMULATIVE ACRESthrough contributions to and collective efforts by joint venture partnerships.OVER 550,000CUMULATIVE ACRESon company-owned lands and 
operated assets.We consider habitat to be protected where the environment remains in its original state with a healthy and functioning ecosystem, and habitat to be restored where actions have either restored the environment to its original state or enhanced it to a state where it has a healthy and functioning ecosystem.External CollaborationBiodiversityMigratory birds along the Gulf Coast.External Collaboration We focus our external engagement on biodiversity risks on: .	 Developing best practices, guidance and conducting benchmarking with industry organizations. .	Collaborating with local and regional community, peer companies and industry groups. .	Supporting research and educational initiatives. We collaborate and engage with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). The IPIECA Biodiversity and Ecosystems Services Working Group focuses on integrating the management of biodiversity across the life cycle of operations and embedding the concept of biodiversity risk and impact management within operational practices and management systems. In 2021, we collaborated with IPIECA and IOGP peer companies on Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) guidance, protected areas reporting, post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework implementation and offshore habitat retention guidance.In addition, we collaborate with local, regional and international stakeholders and industry groups, including: .	Alaska: North Slope Science Initiative, Bureau of Land Management. .	Australia: Gas Industry Social & Environmental Research Alliance, Gladstone Healthy Harbour Partnership, Port Curtis Integrated Monitoring Program. .	Canada: Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), Northern Alberta Institute of Technology (NAIT), Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP) and the Northeast British Columbia Montney Operators Group. .	U.S. Lower 48: Texas A&M Natural Resources Institute, Texas A&M University-Kingsville Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute Texas Native Seeds Program, Texas A&M AgriLife Research, Sul Ross State University Borderlands Research Institute, Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, Borderlands Research Institute Game Bird Research Steering Committee, New Mexico LPC/DSL Technical Committee, Respect Big Bend Coalition. .	Corporate: Science-based Target Network (SBTN) Corporate Engagement Program, Task Force for Nature Related Financial Disclosure (TNFD) Stakeholder Group and World Benchmarking Alliance Nature and Biodiversity Benchmark draft methodology through IPIECA, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Biodiversity Standard Technical Committee.SpotlightSPOTLIGHTRestoring Burrowing Owl Habitat in the Permian BasinA program aimed at re-establishing Burrowing Owl habitats in the Permian Basin recently led to the successful restoration of more than 300 acres of native grasslands, facilitating conservation of the native species. The land in Upton County, Texas, is owned by Quail Ranch LLC, a subsidiary of ConocoPhillips. Quail Ranch LLC focuses on maintaining and enhancing wildlife habitats while balancing oil and gas development. “As a surface landowner in the Permian Basin, ConocoPhillips has the ability to efficiently conduct broad restoration efforts in this area,” said Ecology and Sustainable Development Director Jesse Wood. His team of biologists and property managers lead the effort to manage ConocoPhillips-owned surface located across the Permian Basin including almost 100,000 acres in Texas and almost 60,000 acres in New Mexico. The western burrowing owl is currently protected across the U.S., Canada, and Mexico and is designated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as a Bird of Conservation Concern. ConocoPhillips partnered with Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies on this effort, which was recognized by Texan by Nature’s project certification program.The restoration project began with the removal of 202 acres of mesquite, an invasive species of grassland habitats, in summer 2019. Twenty pairs of artificial burrows were installed in September 2019 with assistance from the Midland chapter of Stewards of the Wild, sponsored by Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation. For the next phase, which was initiated in 2020, ConocoPhillips provided funds to re-seed using a native seed blend and to install an additional 21 pairs of burrows.Camera surveillance conducted in May 2021 showed signs of use in eight pairs of burrows. Monitoring will continue through the spring of 2022. A total of 374 acres were restored for the burrowing owl project and 583 acres of additional adjacent rangelands were restored or are planned for restoration. ConocoPhillips biologists and personnel are working together along with third-party developers to minimize impacts from future development.Upon project completion, about 950 acres of contiguous grassland habitat will have been restored. Future goals include expansion of grassland and playa lake restoration efforts to restore habitat connectivity for grassland obligate species including pronghorn, black-tailed prairie dogs and burrowing owls.BiodiversitySpotlightBurrowing Owls, Quail Ranch113ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2021BiodiversitySpotlightSPOTLIGHTSiberian Cranes at Poyang Lake in China.Collaborating with the International Crane Foundation in ChinaEach year, between late autumn and early winter, thousands of birds migrate to Poyang Lake, China's largest freshwater lake. Its flourishing wetland ecosystem and associated biodiversity provides a safe haven of suitable habitats and abundant food supplies. More than 98% of the world's Siberian Cranes spend the winter here, in the southeastern province of Jiangxi. It’s one of the many locations protected through vital ecological work led by the International Crane Foundation (ICF). A global charitable partner of ICF since 1995, ConocoPhillips extended our conservation support to address habitat loss and fragmentation of wetlands in China in 2005. Efforts raise public awareness about crane conservation, with a particular emphasis on Siberian Cranes and Red-crowned Cranes. ICF leads and conducts science-based conservation work, such as species surveys, wetland management, environmental education, and international collaboration, including for the two most endangered species at the Hui River National Nature Reserve in Inner Mongolia. They also work to protect vital migratory stopover sites in Northeast China. Regular surveying is an important aspect of crane conservation, allowing researchers and scientists to better understand these endangered species. With support from ConocoPhillips, ICF conducts annual flyway-scale crane and waterbird synchronized surveys, as well as frequent monitoring, to provide data related to distribution and population trends. Between 2012 and 2021, the foundation conducted 59 surveys covering 35 wetlands in 10 provinces and mobilized more than 70 scientists, reserve staff and volunteers annually. To promote cooperation and information sharing, findings are widely shared within the network of local researchers and conservation organizations. “The long-term support of ConocoPhillips has enabled us to monitor trends in crane populations and wetland conditions,” said Spike Millington, ICF Vice President. “As a result, we better understand the challenges facing cranes and wetlands, notably in China, and we are able to target actions and areas to help cranes navigate changing landscapes.”The foundation also focuses on conserving wetland ecosystems. In 2012, ICF adopted an adaptive wetland management plan for the Momoge and Xianghai National Nature Reserves of the Songnen Plain. Working together with experts and nature reserve staff in China, they tailored the most up to date wetland zoning management with local requirements. Dr. Jiang Hongxing from the National Bird Banding Center of China said, “through adaptive and dynamic management of the Siberian Crane migratory stopover areas, the quality and resilience of these habitats are maintained, which ensures the migratory safety and reproductive development of the species.”Environmental education remains at the forefront of crane conservation efforts and raising public awareness among local communities in China is critical for crane survival. ICF organizes several learning initiatives, from presentations to volunteering and interactive experiences, to increase public knowledge about cranes and wetland conservation. To date, ICF has shared 78 presentations with over 10,000 participants. Other educational initiatives include International Nature School events, which have trained more than 200 teachers and volunteers to help over 2,400 students better understand wetlands and cranes. ConocoPhillips also worked closely with ICF to distribute environmental education materials to local communities in Northeast China and Bohai Bay. ICF also connects experts and resources to enhance international collaboration. In 2019, the organization joined the Center for East Asian – Australasian Flyway Studies to host a multilateral seminar on crane conservation in Beijing. The meeting brought together 150 representatives from six countries to develop a 10-year Crane Strategy and Action Plan for the East Asian Flyway. It now serves as the joint advocacy initiative for crane conservation among the participating countries.ConocoPhillips has sponsored several additional ICF research projects within the United States and Canada. Read more about our Proactive Conservation efforts 
on our website. BiodiversitySpotlightStudents and volunteers after an International Nature School Event in Tianjin. Photography by ICFSpotlightSPOTLIGHTMonitoring Caribou on Alaska’s North SlopeOn Alaska’s North Slope, caribou are one of the primary sources of food for Indigenous Peoples. So it’s only natural that the potential impacts of oilfield development on caribou abundance and distribution is of interest to North Slope residents. ConocoPhillips has been monitoring caribou movement and distribution in our areas of interest on the North Slope for decades. We also partner with the North Slope Borough and the Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G) to collect data about caribou movement and migration. Data gained through this collaborative work informs science, engineering design and best practices for operations and new project development.To monitor the movement of the two primary caribou herds, ConocoPhillips Alaska funds the purchase of radio telemetry collars and works with the ADF&G to place them on caribou. Using the data from the collars, individual animals are tracked to assess if their seasonal movement may be influenced by factors including oilfield activities, snow levels, vegetation, terrain, insect harassment or proximity to the coast. The shared data provides detailed information on which areas caribou use consistently during different seasons year-over-year, how those areas correspond with proposed development, and if movement patterns change after construction.“Simply put, it helps give us the big picture – shows us where the herds are moving and how they’re doing. Knowing this helps inform infrastructure decisions,” said Senior Environmental Coordinator for Biological Sciences Christina Pohl. There are “tens of thousands in each herd.”“Understanding how to coexist with the caribou is one of our top priorities,” Pohl continued. “By using science to inform operational decisions that may impact caribou or other animals we can best ensure that our activities don’t interfere with the animals.”Throughout the years, ConocoPhillips Alaska has improved oilfield facility design to accommodate caribou and developed best practices for operations to reduce potential for impacts. There is now a minimum spacing requirement between roads and pipelines, coating on new pipelines to reduce shine or glare, and speed limit restrictions. Pipelines are installed at least seven feet off the ground to allow the caribou easy passage underneath.Infrastructure placement may also be influenced by the collected data, including where drill sites are located and the height, shape and location of roads. One study focus area in 2021 was the Bear Tooth Unit, which includes the proposed Willow development and a region to the south. Most caribou in this area are from the Teshekpuk Herd, which has significant numbers of the herd remaining on the Coastal Plain during winter, in contrast to the Central Arctic herd in the Kuparuk and Prudhoe Bay areas, which mostly migrate further south for the winter. Although caribou distribution and movements vary widely by season, most calving of the Teshekpuk herd occurs near Teshekpuk Lake, over 20 miles from the proposed development area. The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A) Integrated Activity Plan requires caribou studies prior to construction to understand how caribou use the area. Researchers in other studies noted that the area north of Teshekpuk Lake is a popular area for caribou to escape mosquito harassment. Caribou monitoring and subsistence harvest studies will continue throughout the proposed Willow project’s lifetime to inform continued caribou protection practices.ConocoPhillips began monitoring caribou movement and distribution in the Kuparuk area in the late 1970s, including aerial surveys in the area from 1993 to 2017. In 2021, we continued annual monitoring to assess the Central Arctic Herd near our Kuparuk and nearby Alpine oilfields. 2021 data indicated that the herd moved through the oilfields repeatedly during early and midsummer and some large groups were on the Colville River Delta in June and July. The results were generally consistent with previous studies in the area showing different behaviors and response to oilfields during different seasons. For example, during the calving period of about two weeks in early June, caribou tended to avoid roads and pads, but the avoidance declined significantly after calving. In late June and early July, caribou moved rapidly through the oilfields and crossed roads to reach coastal mosquito-relief habitat directly. In late July and early August, many caribou favored gravel roads and pads to avoid harassment by oestrid flies, before they started their fall migration into the Brooks Range.SIGNIFICANCE TO HUNTERSA healthy and stable caribou population is important to communities on the North Slope and their subsistence lifestyle. In addition to monitoring the caribou, ConocoPhillips has sponsored a Caribou Subsistence Monitoring Study in Nuiqsut for the past 14 years. This study showed that subsistence harvests remain strong and that a sizable number of hunters are utilizing the Alpine and Greater Mooses Tooth roads to improve hunting access. The study also provides information about how to improve our operations, such as coordinating helicopters to avoid hunters, and designing subsistence pullouts and ramps in appropriate locations and configurations for access to the tundra. “Our goal is for our operations to not disrupt either the animals or the hunters,” Pohl said.Caribou at CD-1.BiodiversitySpotlightPipelines on the North Slope are installed at least seven feet off the ground to allow the caribou easy passage underneath.