CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis report includes forward-looking statements based on management’s current expectations relating to our operations and business plans. Examples of forward-looking statements contained in this report include the scenarios used in our strategic planning process, including the underlying assumptions, the estimated impacts on our business, including operating costs, revenues and cost of capital, and technology related to climate-related risks. Words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “budget,” “continue,” “could,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “target” or similar expressions that convey the prospective nature of events or outcomes generally indicate forward-looking statements. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. These statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control and we cannot predict. Actual results could differ materially from anticipated results and reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause results to differ include, but are not limited to: the impact of significant declines in prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids; potential failures or delays in achieving expected reserve or production levels from future oil and gas developments, including due to operating hazards, drilling risks and the inherent uncertainties in predicting reserves and reservoir performance; unsuccessful exploratory drilling activities or the inability to obtain access to exploratory acreage; legislative and regulatory initiatives addressing environmental concerns, including initiatives addressing the impact of global climate change or further regulating hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, flaring or water disposal; reduced demand for our products or the use of competing energy products, including alternative energy sources; substantial investment in and development of alternative energy sources, including as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations; general domestic and international economic and political developments, including changes in governmental policies relating to crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids pricing, regulation or taxation; competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry; failures in risk management and other factors discussed in this report and described in Item 1A—Risk Factors in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and any additional risks described in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless legally required, ConocoPhillips undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Third-party scenarios discussed in this report reflect the modeling assumptions and outputs of their respective authors, not ConocoPhillips, and their use or inclusion herein is not an endorsement by ConocoPhillips of their likelihood or probability. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors – The SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves. We use the term “resource” in this report that the SEC’s guidelines prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the oil and gas disclosures in our 2018 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC. Copies are available from the SEC and from the ConocoPhillips website.Ongoing engagement with stakeholders gives us the opportunity to understand the environmental and social issues that are not only important to them, but essential to our business success. In these conversations we hear requests for our participation in addressing matters ranging from local community concerns to broad global issues, as well as greater transparency about our performance. These engagements reinforce our long-standing commitment to demonstrating leadership in the way we produce natural gas and oil resources by being competitive both financially and with our environmental and social performance.Determining how to effectively manage climate change while maintaining human and economic progress is among modern society’s most compelling challenges. We believe there are many possible pathways to a low-carbon energy transition, and while natural gas and oil will continue to be part of the energy mix, how they are produced will remain critical. Though we cannot predict with certainty what the transition will look like, we are working to ensure we have a business strategy in place that provides ongoing resilience in a challenging marketplace. Our Managing Climate-Related Risks report, introduced in early 2019, outlines how we are building that resilient strategy.We recognize that driving continuous improvement in environmental and social performance requires an effective internal governance structure. This includes managing sustainable development risks and opportunities companywide, from strategic planning through field operations. Our board of directors provides oversight, our Executive Leadership Team sets strategy and expectations, and our business units and functions implement action plans to address risk-based priorities.We continually develop innovative solutions to manage our risks. For water management we increasingly utilize centralized gathering, storage and distribution systems to facilitate the use of recycled produced water for hydraulic fracturing. To minimize our exploration footprint, we built 140 miles of winter ice roads in Alaska that reduced the need for permanent gravel roads. We are pilot testing the use of drones to detect fugitive methane emissions and enable rapid leak repair. We have also reenergized our safety processes and tools by introducing human performance concepts and creating a learning culture to minimize or eliminate unexpected events.Our innovation also extends to sustainability reporting. Rather than publish quickly outdated annual reports, we are moving toward providing real-time performance examples and timely updates on our website. These coupled with annual metrics reporting enhance transparency about our operations. We welcome comments on this new approach as well as on our other sustainability efforts at sdteam@conocophillips.com.We consider sustainability vital to our business strategy. I am confident we have the people, processes and commitment in place to help solve the complex energy and environmental challenges of today and tomorrow.Chairman and CEO Ryan LanceRyan Lance, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer May 2019SPOTLIGHTShaina’s Dragon Boat adventure2:33 PLAY TIMESPOTLIGHTThe United Nations General Assembly has adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set the globalagenda for equitable, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic development. Our core businessof delivering energy to the world contributes directly to: Goal 7: Ensure access to a.ordable, reliable, sustainable andmodern energy for all. Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent workfor all. Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Many of our business and communityinvestment activities support other goals such as those on clean water, industry, infrastructure and innovation, andlife below water and on land. We are working with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association forenvironmental and social issues, on the role the oil and gas industry can most e.ectively play to support theachievement of the globally endorsed framework of the SDGs. We continue to monitor the goals as they move tointernational and national implementation.Over $2 million in support for Blood Bank of Alaska Road Safety programs in the U.S. Founding member of Coalition For Safer Alberta RoadsSupport for community wellness programs in ColombiaSupport for community wellness programs on the North SlopeScholarships in Timor LesteMath Education in HoustonThe ConocoPhillips Science Experience Program in AustraliaRodeo Run scholarship race in Houston Partnership with Sandnes Upper Secondary School in NorwayThe United Nations General Assembly has adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set the globalagenda for equitable, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic development. Our core businessof delivering energy to the world contributes directly to: Goal 7: Ensure access to a.ordable, reliable, sustainable andmodern energy for all. Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent workfor all. Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Many of our business and communityinvestment activities support other goals such as those on clean water, industry, infrastructure and innovation, andlife below water and on land. We are working with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association forenvironmental and social issues, on the role the oil and gas industry can most e.ectively play to support theachievement of the globally endorsed framework of the SDGs. We continue to monitor the goals as they move tointernational and national implementation.Over $2 million in support for Blood Bank of Alaska Road Safety programs in the U.S. Founding member of Coalition For Safer Alberta RoadsSupport for community wellness programs in ColombiaSupport for community wellness programs on the North SlopeScholarships in Timor LesteMath Education in HoustonThe ConocoPhillips Science Experience Program in AustraliaRodeo Run scholarship race in Houston Partnership with Sandnes Upper Secondary School in NorwayWith this report, ConocoPhillips is consolidating our climate-related disclosures to provide improved accessibility and meet evolving reporting guidelines and rising stakeholder expectations. We have transparently reported on our efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and manage climate-related risk since 2003, when we developed our Climate Change Position. This report further aligns our reporting to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to provide investors and the financial community with information to evaluate our performance and progress. We have the governance structure in place to manage climate-related risks and opportunities throughout the organization, from strategic planning to operating decisions. Our board of directors plays an oversight role in climate-related strategic planning and enterprise risk management, with our Executive Leadership Team responsible for direct management and assisting our business units in planning and implementation. Climate-related risks are mapped to relevant enterprise risks, and our Climate Change Action Plan includes line-of-sight goals for business units and key functions.Our current business strategy, including our asset portfolio mix and capital allocation approach, has been tested and showed resilience in a volatile and challenging marketplace. We have managed through a severe industry downturn, emerging with greater effciency, enhanced technical capability and reduced cost of supply. We have also divested higher-emission-intensity assets such as oil sands and some older natural gas fields.Consumer choices, government policies and technology advances will drive many possible pathways to a lower-carbon transition. We integrate climate-related risk scenarios into our strategic planning process to test our portfolio and we utilize annual GHG price forecasts for long-range planning and project evaluation. Consideration of these scenarios and monitoring of emerging issues provide the ability to manage risk, optimize opportunities and respond effectively to uncertainties. We believe that this capacity, along with our capital and portfolio flexibility and strong strategic planning process, equips us to manage long-term transitions in energy markets.As we go about our primary mission of competitively delivering reliable, affordable and sustainable energy to meet demand, we aspire to be a leader in managing climate-related risk. We believe we have the governance structure, strategy, risk management processes and engagement approach that will enable us to achieve these goals and provide disclosure that transparently tracks our performance.