People & SocietyStakeholder Engagement Action PlanWe are committed to respecting human rights and engag.ing with those who impact our business or who may impact our business.Our Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan encompasses stakeholder and community engagement, social issues and human rights. While we have focused on these areas for many years, the plan fosters continuous improvement, consistency, and alignment as we live by our Human Rights Position and Stakeholder Engagement Principles. Context for ActionStakeholder Engagement Principles Due to the size and scale of our company, as well as the nature of our business, our stakeholders have unique and evolving expectations. We proactively engage with them to learn their expectations of us, and then incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions. Through work with industry associations, participation in multi-sector forums, and dialogue with socially responsible investors, we’re gaining diverse and valuable perspectives as we con.tinuously improve our sustainable development programs and initiatives. Our stakeholder engagement activities are an integral part of our sustainable development commitments. Our business units have strategies which vary with each local community. In dispersed communities, we identify key stakeholders and engage with them face-to-face to ensure that our activities are understood and that we consider their feedback. Where there are opportunities to bring stakehold.ers together, we work with multi-stakeholder groups. Our approach is embedded in our SPIRIT value of Integrity, which states that we are ethical and trustworthy in our rela.tionships with stakeholders. Our Principles for Stakeholder Engagement:• Proactively identify and seek out key stakeholders early in the business endeavor. • Include these key stakeholders in the design and imple.mentation of the engagement process. • Listen in order to understand stakeholders’ interests, con.cerns and culture. • Communicate openly. • Seek solutions that create mutually beneficial business and engagement approaches that also build long-term value for both the company and our stakeholders. • Follow through on our commitments and stand account.able for the results, both internally and externally. Stakeholder engagement is how we go about implement.ing or “operationalizing” our commitment to human rights. From business unit engagement strategies, and peer-to-peer best practice sharing, to participation in investor and industry forums, our approach to engaging stakeholders reinforces and advances our human rights work. Human Rights Position Governments have the primary responsibility for protecting human rights. We believe business has a constructive role to play to advance respect for human rights throughout the world as do non-government organizations (NGOs) and other representative groups in civil society. We recognize the dignity of all human beings and our core values embrace these inalienable rights for all people to live their lives free from social, political, or economic discrimina.tion or abuse. Our Focus & ExpectationsWe will conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the International Labour Organi.zation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our intent regarding human rights is also reflected in our purpose and values and in our business ethics policy and health, safety and environmental policy. These policies address how we conduct our business with respect for people and the environment, accountability and respon.sibility to communities, and ethical and trustworthy rela.tionships with our stakeholders. We will maintain ongoing discussion with government, NGO and other business stakeholders through our participation in the Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security. The company’s approach to engagement with indigenous communities, in locations where they are an important stakeholder group for our operations, is consistent with the principles of the International Labour Organization Convention 169, concern.ing Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.Action PlanIn each of these focus areas, business units and functions have committed to specific actions. The full plan includes over 75 actions across the company with clear accountabil.ity to drive performance goals. Our 2014-2016 Action Plan includes continuous improve.ment goals and new initiatives: • Implement new company guidance in conducting issue and stakeholder mapping and planning for new ventures. • Implement stakeholder relationship management software to enhance and refine stakeholder and issue mapping. • Develop social issues performance indicators, expanding on existing implementation indicators (based on imple.mentation management systems). • Continue regular dialog with socially responsible investors and civil society on key sustainability issues and identify emerging topics for further dialogue. • Launch updated computer based human rights training for stakeholder engagement, social issues and sustainabil.ity practitioners across the company. • Launch updated sustainable sourcing tools and training to key procurement professionals across the company. • Build on current Lower 48 stakeholder engagement plans, develop several asset specific integrated stakeholder engagement plans for Lower 48. • Continue stakeholder engagement plan for Alaska citizens with a focus on the North Slope and continue to maintain relationships with Chukchi villages. • Advance stakeholder engagement efforts for Alaska LNG project. • Complete and implement Community Engagement Framework designed to deepen engagement and collabo.ration with local communities in Canada, including aborig.inal communities. • Develop enhanced and expanded aboriginal awareness training for Canada. • Roll out Sustainable Development awareness training for offshore assets in the United Kingdom. • Complete and implement indigenous content and engagement strategy in Eastern Australia in consultation with Port Curtis Coral Coast Traditional Owners regarding participation, capacity and capability development. • Develop and implement a Stakeholder Management Plan for Australia Business Unit East including transition from project construction to operations. • Expand stakeholder engagement with Timor-Leste by demonstrating our commitment to achieve an increase in local content. PerformanceOur work on Stakeholder Engagement and Human Rights produced meaningful results in 2014. The chart content below includes specific references to business unit actions, which is new (and is/will be approved by each business unit). The general actions in the plan were included in the Report last year so these listed actions demonstrate our progress on the general actions. As in the other sections, these listed actions represent a subset of our internal plans. While our Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan is new, our work on Stakeholder Engagement and Human Rights has produced meaningful results over the past several years. Some highlights include: • Development and implementation of stakeholder engage.ment plans for all operating businesses, and key operated exploration programs. • Development and external reporting of implementation management systems indicators for stakeholder and com.munity engagement, indigenous communities and human rights. • Regular annual reporting on implementation of our secu.rity and human rights program and activities. • Strengthening of company guidance on social issues and stakeholder engagement in our Health, Safety & Environ.ment Due Diligence process. • Incorporation of Stakeholder Engagement module into HSE core curriculum required for all HSE professionals. • Creation of new company guidance on stakeholder engagement preparation and planning for exploration and new ventures. • Implementation of human rights training for key project and operational leaders and practitioners utilizing our customized training built from the 2008 IPIECA training tool kit. • Integration of international frameworks on the rights of indigenous peoples into our Human Rights Position and related business unit assessments. • Establishment of ongoing engagement program with socially responsible investors and members of civil society. • Ongoing execution of functional excellence through the Stakeholder Engagement Network of Excellence and Stake.holder Engagement Working Group comprised of practi.tioners and leaders from across the company. Implementation Management SystemsOur processes and tools are used to implement our Human Rights Position and Stakeholder Engagement Principles. We are committed to benefiting communities, working ethically, and being transparent and accountable with our actions. And we integrate sustainability into our business practices. • Human Rights • Security & Human Rights • Community & Social Investments • Engaging with Communities • Indigenous Communities • Working with SuppliersPEOPLE & SOCIETYPEOPLE & SOCIETYPEOPLE & SOCIETYHuman Rights Due DiligenceWe intend to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Embedding Human Rights Into Business ProcessesOur position statement on human rights includes our intent to conduct business consistent with the human rights phi.losophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We partic.ipate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and incorporate key elements of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Management SystemsThe business practices, processes and tools we use to imple.ment our human rights position.  Stakeholder EngagementStakeholder engagement is integral to how we put our commitment to human rights into action. From business unit engagement strategies, and peer-to-peer best practice sharing, to participation in investor and industry forums, our approach to engaging stakeholders reinforces and advances our human rights work.Indigenous CommunitiesWe recognize and respect the choice of indigenous com.munities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships with the land. Wherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring.Training and AwarenessOur approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools. We’ve adapted and applied a human rights tool kit developed by the International Petroleum Industry Envi.ronmental Conservation Association (IPIECA). Additionally, we developed and rolled out training internally. We’ve also focused our Stakeholder Engagement Network of practi.tioners on further integration of sustainable development commitments into business planning and processes. Human Rights Training and Awareness We continue to support the IPIECA social responsibility working group and human rights project. We will continue to participate in IPIECA’s broader work on human rights due diligence and grievance mechanisms and incorporate IPIECA guidance into our own training and practices. Labor IssuesAs outlined in our human rights position, we commit to conducting business consistent with the human rights phi.losophy expressed in the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, which includes the core labor standards related to non-dis.crimination, freedom of association, and avoiding the use of forced or child labor. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human RightsWe have been a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights initiative since its inception in 2000. This commitment is aligned with our company’s human rights position and our related implementation activities. Our annual report to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights details our current practices as well as provides updates for previous years. Security and Human Rights Management Systems How we implement our commitment to security and human rights. The processes and tools are described in Our Approach.California Transparency in Supply ChainsWe recognize that slavery and human trafficking are crimes under state, federal and international laws. We also rec.ognize slavery and human trafficking likely exist in every country, including the United States, and the State of Cali.fornia. We are committed to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010. Economic Transparency & ReportingWe endorse transparency in the extractive industries. We are also a participating member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which seeks to ensure that natural resource wealth is an engine for sustainable eco.nomic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction. We remain actively involved in the EITI process and imple.mentation in participating countries in which we operate. Currently, three participating countries where we operate have achieved full EITI compliance – Timor-Leste, Nigeria and Norway. We also have operations in Indonesia, which has committed to EITI principles, and is considered a can.didate for EITI membership. We currently cooperate with the Indonesian government in its EITI validation efforts. We are also engaged in exploration activities in Azerbaijan and Senegal, EITI compliant and candidate countries, respec.tively. When we have assets in new countries, we will work to promote transparency and accountability with those governments. Through July 2014, ConocoPhillips was an investor in the Brass LNG project but not the operator. Our sale of the asset was completed on July 30, 2014. EITI requires the public reporting of payments to govern.ments. (See related information on the Dodd-Frank Act.) Such reporting requirements take into account host-country laws and the terms of contracts under which such revenues are accrued. Further information on EITI-compliant countries or the EITI-committed countries where we have production can be found below. Timor-Leste As the largest extractive-industry investor in Timor-Leste and operator of the major Bayu-Undan natural gas produc.tion project, we took an active leadership role in helping Timor-Leste reach EITI validation. Timor-Leste achieved its goal of being an EITI-compliant country in July 2010 and is now one of 32 EITI-compliant countries. This achievement is the result of years of cooperation within the EITI multi-stake.holder working group, comprising representatives from government, civil society and industry. From the early stages of Timor-Leste’s extractive industries, associated revenues have been made publicly available via quarterly and annual Petroleum Fund reports, prepared in accordance with EITI criteria and published by the Timor-Leste Banking and Payments Authority and the Ministry of Finance. In addition to complying with statutory obligations regarding payment and reporting of taxes and royalties, we provide details of Timor-Leste tax payments to the indepen.dent auditors of the Petroleum Fund to assist in the verifica.tion of payments made to the fund and public reporting of this information. The country’s most recent EITI Report was published in February 2015. Norway Norway was accepted by the EITI Board as EITI-compliant in March 2011. Norway will request to be revalidated in 2016. Norway was accepted as an EITI candidate country in Febru.ary 2009 and became the 25th implementing country. In July 2009, Norway formalized its multi-stakeholder group, passed EITI regulation into law, and began its first report. All extractive companies, including ConocoPhillips, and relevant governmental agencies operating in Norway were required to report all of their tax, license and royalty payments and receipts by August 2009. The most recent Norwegian EITI report was filed in 2013. Indonesia Indonesia announced its desire to become an EITI candidate country in 2009 and was designated as such by the EITI board in October 2010. We played an active role in Indone.sia’s effort to achieve EITI-compliant status. The first EITI Report was published in May 2013. Indonesia completed validation in July 2013, and in October 2013, the EITI Board concluded that Indonesia has made meaningful progress in implementing the EITI. The Indonesia EITI Multi Stakeholder Group (MSG) is currently working on the 2010 and 2011 EITI Reports.IntegrationTracking (Issues, Actions)Communication 
& TrainingGrievance Mechanisms• Human rights issues are incorporated into Capital Projects and HSE management systems (using a “Plan, Do, Assess, Adjust” approach). • Human rights issues are incorporated into the HSE Due Diligence Standard guidance. • Business units and functions collaborate on human rights due diligence processes and share best practices through working groups and Networks of Excellence. • Business unit, asset or project Stakeholder Engagement plans incorporate an assessment of human rights issues as appropriate, and project Social Performance plans also address such issues as appropriate. Where business units maintain separate social performance plans, human rights issues are also addressed. • Human rights issues are tracked at business unit, asset or project level and communicated internally as appropriate based on human rights risks identified at a country level. • Potential human rights risks or issues are identified and evaluated periodically through business unit, asset or project level risk assessments. • Community concerns or grievances related to company activities or human rights are tracked at business unit, asset or project level as appropriate, including responses and resolutions. Mechanisms include community or stakeholder relations contact points at the business unit level, and ConocoPhillips Ethics hotline and email address. • Our Human Rights position and its implementation are communicated internally and externally. • Training and guidance on human rights concepts, company approach to due diligence and implementation resources are provided to identified leaders and practitioners and made available to all employees through formal training and “Networks of Excellence.” • Where appropriate, business units, assets or projects have communicated with and engaged communities and their representatives on how to contact the company, and how to address any concerns or grievances. In addition, all interested stakeholders may access the ConocoPhillips Ethics Helpline to report a potential violation of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which is publicly available on our website. • Stakeholder relations staff is in close contact with communities and engage in regular two-way dialogue. • Stakeholder relations staff has a process in place to respond to concerns or grievances in a timely manner. • Mitigation measures are informed by issues or concerns identified through engagement with communities or other stakeholders. • Incident management and tracking systems incorporate elements to capture incidents or “near misses” related to the safety and security of company personnel and directly impacted communities. Human Rights Due Diligence • We performed a high-level human rights risk assessment (by country) of our global operations using externally provided human rights risk assessment tools to identify countries of focus for deeper level evaluation of potential human rights issues. Key areas include: security and human rights; land use/relocation; indigenous issues and rights; company and supplier labor standards; access to water; and vulnerable groups. • Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) assess human rights issues where appropriate. • Sustainable Development Scorecards are completed for capital projects including an analysis of human rights issues, and are updated through project phases. • The New Country Entry process evaluates human rights issues and risks. • Human rights risks are identified as part of corporate authorization guidelines for new ventures. • Business unit Stakeholder Engagement and Social Performance plans incorporate assessment of human rights issues, as appropriate. Impact Assessment PEOPLE & SOCIETYSecurity & Human Rights 	Focus Area	Management SystemsRisk Assessments Contracts with 
Security Providers Training for 
Security ProvidersStakeholder 
Outreach • We performed a high-level security and human rights risk assessment of our global operations using externally provided human rights risk assessment tools to identify countries of focus for our security and human rights efforts. • The New Country Entry process evaluates security and human rights issues and risks. • Security and human rights risks are identified as part of authorization guidelines for new ventures. • The company has conducted research related to security providers with proven good track records on human rights. • Contracts with security providers contain language pertaining to the contractors’ responsibilities regarding security and human rights. • Contractors are provided with training on security & human rights and related responsibilities and expectations. • The company participates in outreach with key stakeholders on security and human rights, which may include governmental organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) or local civil society, communities, governments, and/or other companies in the region. PEOPLE & SOCIETY	Focus Area	Management SystemsPEOPLE & SOCIETYBenefiting PeopleCommunity and Social InvestmentWe take pride in being a great neighbor and a responsible corporate citizen, contributing to the well-being of com.munities through charitable giving, employee volunteer.ism, sponsorships and civic leadership. Our charitable cash contributions totaled approximately $50 million in 2014, excluding university giving. Additionally, we developed and launched 2 signature programs – one focused on global water and biodiversity stewardship, and another in our headquarters city that is focused on math education for middle and high school students. Nine United Way campaigns around the world raised a company campaign record of more than $8.8 million in employee, retiree and company contributions. Management SystemsThe indicators below provide a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to community and social investment. Our global charitable investments are built around 3 giving pillars: • Signature Programs: We have 2 signature programs – one global and one in our headquarters location, Houston, Texas – that we focus on to help make a substantive impact in the community. The Global Signature Program is focused on water and biodiversity stewardship. The Houston Signature Program is focused on math education. • Local contributions: Our charitable investment initiatives reinforce our community engagement efforts where we operate. We seek to understand community needs and to support projects or initiatives that meet those needs. • Employee Giving Programs: We strive to improve the well-being of the communities where our employees live and work, providing programs that encourage and support employee involvement in local nonprofit orga.nizations. Matching gifts and volunteer grants provide employees and retirees more opportunities to give back to their communities. Positive Economic ImpactsOur global operations contribute substantially to social and economic development in the communities in which we operate. Our direct economic contributions during 2014 included: • Jobs – We employed approximately 19,100 people in 2014 • Taxes – Our operations generated $5.7 billion in income and other taxes from federal, state and local governments. • Shareholder dividends – ConocoPhillips common stock yielded $3.5 billion in cash dividends. • Capital investments – We reinvested $17.1 billion in capital expenditures and investments to find new energy supplies. • Payments to various vendors and suppliers for products and services: • $11.0 billion for production, operating and exploration expenses • $0.7 billion for selling, general and administrative expenses Note: Taxes, capital investments and payments represent amounts for continuing operations only. Philanthropic ContributionsPhilanthropic Contributions are outlined in the In Communi.ties section.Community and Social Investment Our company has a strategic focus for charitable giving and community investment including key focus areasOur approach to selecting projects or programs and managing giving and social investment promotes project/program sustainability and “self-sustaining models.” Business units, assets or projects seek to understand needs and assets of local communities to inform social investment plans.   We strive to understand or measure results of charitable giving and social investment. We have a comprehensive employee volunteer program in place. We have programs for in-kind and cash contributions. Alignment with Company Focus Project SustainabilityNeeds AssessmentsCommunity BenefitCompany VolunteerismCompany Cash and In-Kind GivingPEOPLE & SOCIETYEngaging StakeholdersStakeholder Engagement PrinciplesOur stakeholders have unique and evolving expectations. We proactively engage with them to learn their expecta.tions of us, and then incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions. We work with industry associ.ations, participate in multi-sector forums, and meet with socially responsible investors to gain diverse and valuable perspectives as we continuously improve our sustainable development programs and initiatives. Stakeholder engagement activities are an integral part of our sustainable development commitments. Our major businesses have engagement strategies that vary according to the nature of the local community. In dispersed commu.nities, we identify key stakeholders and engage with them face-to-face to ensure that our activities are understood and that we consider their feedback. In regions where there are opportunities to bring local stakeholders together, we work with multi-stakeholder groups in a similar way. This approach is embedded in our SPIRIT Value of Integrity, which states that we are ethical and trustworthy in our relationships with stakeholders. Expanding on the value of Integrity, our Principles for Stakeholder Engagement: • Proactively identify and seek out key stakeholders early in the business endeavor. • Include these key stakeholders in the design and imple.mentation of the engagement process. • Listen in order to understand stakeholders’ interests, con.cerns and culture. • Communicate openly. • Seek solutions that create mutually beneficial business and engagement approaches that also build long-term value for both the company and our stakeholders. • Follow through on our commitments and stand account.able for the results, both internally and externally. Key StakeholdersEmployees – We conduct surveys, town hall meetings and one-on-one employee development discussions on a variety of topics including: • Safety • Environmental preservation • Employee compensation and retention Shareholders – We communicate financial and operating performance with our shareholders through ongoing dia.logue, meetings, conferences and forums. Information is dis.seminated in the Investor Relations section of our website. • Company reports • Securities and Exchange Commission filings• Annual shareholders meetings • Quarterly earnings releases and conference calls • Presentations to securities analysts Governments – We collaborate with governments in the key areas such as:• Taxation • Environmental issues • Economic issues We endorse the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and support economic transparency.Communities – We engage with local communities in a variety of ways including consultations on specific projects, public forums and community investments. Although spe.cific areas of interest for communities vary, recurring themes include: • Availability of employment and other economic opportunities • Local environmental issues such as air and water impacts • Emergency response procedures • Our contribution to local social investment Customers, suppliers and contractors – Our website allows these stakeholders to contact us via e-mail and offers access to: • Financial information • Interactive processes • Fuel-purchasing procedures We hold regular meetings with suppliers to conduct safety training and offer educational programs covering topics such as: • Our long-term needs • On-site performance expectations • Our position and requirements concerning diversity, ethics and other sustainability issues Other organizations – We connect with various stake.holders and industry peers through active involvement in sustainability-related partnerships.  Engaging with CommunitiesManagement SystemsWe adapt to communities. In dispersed communities, we typically identify key stakeholders and work with them one-on-one. When our assets are near concentrated populations, we join or create collaborative forums to connect with multiple stakeholders. We also work with stakeholders at the local and state or provincial levels. How we implement our commitment to community engagement: AlaskaAs Alaska’s largest oil producer we strive to improve the quality of life in the communities where we live and work. Employees in Alaska contribute, on average, 6,000 hours each year serving nonprofit organizations and represent the industry on many multi-stakeholder boards. We have given more than $100 million to hundreds of Alaska-based non.profits across the state since 2000, funding programs that support education, social services, the arts, civic and youth groups, and the environment. We respect the rich culture of Alaska Native peoples and work diligently to build inclusive, honest and respect.ful relationships with our stakeholders, particularly with our neighbors who live near our operations. We support community projects and provide economic opportunities while minimizing impacts from operations on local resi.dents and the environment. We meet frequently with North Slope community leaders and residents to get feedback on our operations and gather knowledge to help protect their subsistence resources and to share information about current and planned operations. In the village of Nuiqsut we consult with the subsistence hunters, meeting at least twice a year with the Kuukpikmuit Subsistence Oversight Panel and employing Subsistence Representatives to monitor our operations. We also consult with the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska Bureau of Land Management Subsistence Advisory Board and marine mammal co-management groups such as the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission. Input from these consultations is incorporated in project operations. We have robust environmental study programs at existing operations that include: • Air monitoring stations. • Caribou, bird and fish surveys. • Hydrology studies. • Lake water quality and recharge monitoring. • Subsistence hunting studies. • Tundra rehabilitation. Extensive environmental baseline studies are conducted in all potential areas of new operations. New projects are subject to rigorous permitting and public review processesU.S. Lower 48Eagle Ford stakeholder engagement is managed both through group meetings and individual attention to stakeholders. We believe that a more personal approach creates an environment of transparency and courtesy when working with the community. Our newsletter, the Eagle Ford Landing, educates neigh.bors on the work we are doing in the Eagle Ford. We host regular Citizens Advisory Committee meetings and recently conducted a poll to determine what topics are of impor.tance to the community. Additionally, we facilitated tours in the Eagle Ford and supported the development of a Water Advocacy Tool. CanadaWe are actively involved with multi-stakeholder groups across Western Canada to share information about oil and gas development with community members, regulators, aboriginal groups, other industry representatives and educa.tion initiatives. We collaborated with landowners and other industry members to develop tools to inform the industry about potential impacts of oil and natural gas activities on key agricultural sectors, and have sponsored initiatives to support safety in the agricultural industry. We also work as part of multi-stakeholder groups aimed at improving indig.enous people’s employment and business opportunities.IndonesiaIn Indonesia, we supported economic development oppor.tunities for individuals in South Sumatra, Jambi and Riau Islands provinces. These include rubber plantation programs for local farmers and development programs in the fisheries industry. The development of small businesses and coop.eratives has had a long-term positive impact on the local community, particularly to youth and women. In the Riau Island province, to support the marine tourism, we initi.ated the diving and snorkeling skills instruction for tourist guides. We created mobile libraries that make rounds to public places such as schools, markets, and health centers, that have become for many, “the local library.” We also have participated in community programs that provide basic necessities for citizens such as solar base electricity for street lights, and access to clean water. Regular stakeholder engagement with local communities has contributed to improved relationships and community support in the areas in which we operate. We developed partnerships with regional universities and local business associations where, together with the community, we devel.oped environmental strategies incorporating local practices. Stakeholder Engagement NetworkWe established an internal Stakeholder Engagement Network in 2004 to enable employees, who have a wealth of different experiences, to learn from each other and share their insights into working with our stakeholders and implementing our sustainable development commitments. The network offers an online discussion forum where participants can seek advice from their peers and access a library of member-posted examples of stakeholder engage.ment in action. The library also offers tools, from internal management systems and external resources. Our Stakeholder Engagement Network charter and spe.cific goals were updated in 2014. The network provides an opportunity for the company and stakeholder engagement and social issues practitioners to: • Continuously improve integration of stakeholder engage.ment principles, sustainable development commitments, and our human rights position into business planning and processes. • Collaborate on the development of strategies and approaches to stakeholder engagement, social issues and human rights. • Share best practices and tools to enhance quality and con.sistency of stakeholder engagement and raise awareness of links between local and global issues and stakeholders. • Evaluate and update stakeholder engagement, social issues and human rights tools and procedures. • Enhance the professional development of practitioners. • Enable non-stakeholder engagement professionals in their engagements with communities and other external stakeholders.Indigenous CommunitiesWe recognize and respect the choice of indigenous com.munities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships to the land. Wherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring. Areas where we explore or operate near these communities include the United States, Canada, Australia, Indonesia and Russia. Our approach to such relationships is governed by national laws of the countries in which we are working, our own positions on sustainable development and human rights, and our core SPIRIT Values. In addition, there are several internationally recognized codes of conduct that outline the measures that should be taken to ensure respect for the rights of indigenous peoples. We strive to ensure that our actions meet the spirit of those codes, which cover company activity, engagement and consultation with indigenous groups, minimizing impact from resource devel.opment, identifying socioeconomic development opportu.nities, and respecting the local environment and culture. For example, the Canadian Constitution recognizes and affirms the existing Aboriginal and treaty rights of Aborig.inal peoples in Canada. The Canadian government, also known as the Crown, is obligated to consult with Aboriginal peoples in good faith on matters that may infringe upon these rights. Before an oil and gas project can proceed the government must determine, through consultation, whether the project has the potential to impact existing Aboriginal and treaty rights. The government must also determine how to balance the broader societal benefits of the project, with the potential impacts to Aboriginal and treaty rights. In practice, the government often delegates the procedural aspect of the duty to consult to industry. The understand.ing and balancing of Aboriginal and treaty rights, and the government’s fiduciary obligations, continue to be tested and defined through court decisions. As these issues are debated and challenged in court, the role of industry continues to evolve and be redefined. Ongoing devolution in Canada’s north, which includes the transfer of authority from the federal to Aboriginal governance organizations, and unsettled Aboriginal land claims in other parts of Canada add further complexity.Engagement and ConsultationWhen engaging with indigenous peoples, we seek first to understand their social hierarchy, culture and traditions, as well as their priorities, expectations and preferences for dialogue. We engage with indigenous communities at the regional, local and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional governments, community associations, and local leaders. These meetings provide an opportunity to share information on our plans, seek local input and learn the views of our neighbors before we undertake activities that could impact their community. In support of our long-term interest in assets in the western Canadian Arctic, we continue working to build and main.tain mutually beneficial relationships with the communities near our assets in the Mackenzie Delta/Beaufort Sea region of Canada’s Northwest Territories. Our approach has been strongly influenced by aspects of the local culture, which is consensus-based and values established relationships among people. Examples of how we adapt our actions to better meet local expectations include:• Joint meetings held with local officials and the general public that allowed for open and inclusive dialogue. • Participation of Calgary-based employees in Beaufort Delta’s community events. • Community investment that is based on community priorities. • Using multidisciplinary consultation teams to answer various technical questions from concerned citizens during meetings. We believe that we share a responsibility to support a skilled local work force, and will benefit from it. This responsibility includes providing business opportunities to local individ.uals and companies and taking actions to preserve local culture. These actions reflect our corporate commitment to positively impact communities, and will contribute to a sustainable approach in developing Arctic resources. Engaging SuppliersWe integrate sustainable development into our key business activities. Our suppliers play a significant role in our business activities from performing construction to providing well services to supplying equipment; how they manage their impacts on the environment and community is important to us and can impact our performance. In 2014, we hosted our third annual Supplier Sustainability Forum. Each year, supplier participation in the forum has grown and this year we welcomed more than 50 represen.tatives from more than 30 suppliers. We gathered the sup.plier representatives and senior ConocoPhillips participants with the objectives to: • Review the ConocoPhillips Sustainable Development strategy and goals and how we can work with suppliers towards success. • Identify Sustainable Development opportunities and risks at each step of the extended supply chain in critical categories. • Share best practices for building supplier capacity throughout the supply chain.We shared our action plans around climate change, water and biodiversity, and human rights and other stakeholder issues with the suppliers and highlighted how we have inte.grated sustainable development components in our supply chain processes to support those plans. Collaborating with the suppliers in working groups, we were able to identify activities in their operations and extended supply chains that have environmental and social impacts and discussed how they are managing those impacts. Minimizing Impact of Resource DevelopmentWe work to identify any potential impacts our project may have on an indigenous community by: • Conducting health, safety, environmental and social assessments. • Talking to indigenous groups. As part of our impact assessment and dialogue process, we partner with representatives chosen by the communities in order to identify strategies that we should avoid or actions we can take to mitigate negative impacts. We seek to document the agreements we reach with indig.enous communities regarding the impact of our activities and mitigation strategies. This documentation takes the form that best fits the local process and the indigenous community’s desire for engagement. The documentation may be part of a permit proceeding or a separate Memo.randum of Understanding with representatives chosen by the indigenous community. It also may summarize discus.sions held during our consultations with the indigenous community. The documentation can then be shared with the community’s chosen representatives to ensure mutual understanding. Australia, Bonaparte Fish Group In the remote waters off Australia’s Northern Territory, we are helping build a collaborative effort to strengthen the community’s understanding of the marine environment. Several operators, including ConocoPhillips, are active in the waters of the Joseph Bonaparte Gulf, which also contains productive commercial fishing grounds. In 2014 we supported a stakeholder engagement and research initiative involving commercial fishers, government regulators, research organizations and other operators as part of our Caldita-Barossa field development. The goal of the Bonaparte Fish Group (BFG) is to bring all parties with an interest in the area together and identify potential methods of pooling resources and effort to deliver mutually benefi.cial outcomes. In addition to building strong stakeholder relationships, the group aims to contribute to the broader scientific under.standing of fish distributions and stock structures which will assist long-term sustainable fisheries management as well as help our ongoing efforts to understand and mitigate the risks of our activities.Socioeconomic Development OpportunitiesIn all indigenous communities, we seek opportunities for our presence to inspire socioeconomic development by: • Partnering with representatives chosen by the community to help identify programs that best fit local needs. • Seeking opportunities for members of the community to develop skills and become part of the project work force or supply chain. • Striving to help address social needs that can facilitate the community’s own development. With these goals in mind, we team with our business part.ners to evaluate the challenges of implementing socioeco.nomic development programs and how we can improve the likelihood of their success before beginning a project. In these discussions, we seek to respect the community’s interest as to the balance they wish to achieve between maintaining their traditions and culture and participating in a cash-based economy. During our interactions, we learn lessons that help us improve our methodologies and communications. We supported economic development opportunities on rubber plantations and in fisheries in the South Sumatra, Jambi and Riau Islands provinces of Indonesia. The devel.opment of small businesses and cooperatives has had a long-term positive impact on the local community. In the Riau province, we initiated the existence of mobile libraries that make rounds to public places such as schools, markets, and health centers, and have become for many, “the local library.” We also participated in community programs that provide basic necessities for citizens such as electricity, clean water and sanitation. In Alaska, the 14-mile Nuiqsut Natural Gas Pipeline provides Nuiqsut residents with clean-burning natural gas to heat their homes. Along with our co-venturer in the Alpine field, we supply the pipeline with up to one million cubic feet of natural gas per day from the Alpine field as part of a land-use agreement with Kuukpik, the Nuiqsut Native Village Cor.poration. ConocoPhillips provides the gas to the community at no charge. The move to natural gas from heating oil dramatically lowers heating costs for the approximately 125 home owners in Nuiqsut while reducing the community’s ongoing GHG emissions and improving the overall health conditions related to air quality. The North Slope Borough financed the $10 million pipeline project. Indigenous Communities and EnvironmentWe recognize the special relationship indigenous people have with the land and natural environment and respect their unique knowledge in managing their local environ.ment and conserving biodiversity. While assessing the impact of our operations, we actively seek to learn from the traditional knowledge of indigenous communities as we work with them to develop mitigation strategies to any potential environmental impacts. Along with other industry partners, we sponsored a 7-year Chukchi Sea Environmental Study Program (CSESP) that concluded in 2014. In support of the CSESP, local subsistence hunters worked side by side with scientists as protected species observers and contributed traditional knowledge on the behaviors of marine mammals as well as ice and weather conditions. They also served as Inupiat communi.cators — working closely with the crews to avoid conflicts with subsistence activities. The CSESP received a Distinguished Achievement Award at the 2015 Arctic Technology Conference for the co-design and safe operation of one of the largest, most robust, mul.tidisciplinary science programs in the world. Over 200 pre.sentations, posters and papers have been presented so far using data collected from the program. The unprecedented data sharing agreement with NOAA has enabled all CSESP environmental data to be shared in the public realm. Additionally, we collaborate with the University of St. Andrews on the annual St. Andrews Prize for the Environ.ment, which recognizes significant contributions to environ.mental conservation. It has attracted entries from more than 50 countries each year on diverse topics, including sustain.able development in the Amazon rain forest, urban regen.eration, recycling, health and water issues, and renewable energy since inception in 1998.Indigenous Communities and CultureThe unique and long-standing culture of each indigenous group is a vital part of their community. We seek to honor those cultures by taking steps to learn about indigenous societies so that we know how to properly demonstrate respect in our relationships. Some of our larger businesses have cultural awareness training that is required at all levels of the organization. In many cases, our stakeholder engage.ment leaders and business leaders will educate themselves through mentors in the indigenous community or through the help of local experts. One example is ConocoPhillips’ participation in the Aseniwuche Winewak Nation (AWN) Cultural Camp in Canada. This camp is hosted by AWN leaders, elders and community members and is designed to increase understanding between industry and aboriginal peoples in whose traditional territories we work. Typically the camp is held for three days, during which participants listen to community leaders and elders speak about their relationship with the land and the cultural values by which they are guided.PEOPLE & SOCIETYCommunity EngagementFocus AreaEngagement PlanningSocial MappingImpact AssessmentsAddressing Community ConcernsManagement Systems• Community engagement and consultation is incorporated into business unit, asset or project stakeholder engagement plans. Plans include an assessment of key issues and community needs or assets where appropriate. • Business units, assets or projects may perform social or stakeholder mapping as part of Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) or as stand-alone assessments as appropriate. This is evaluated on a case-by-case basis. • ESIAs assess community impacts, and include mitigation measures for community impacts. • As part of ESIAs, communities are engaged regarding potential issues and concerns, as well as preferred mitigation measures. • Business units, assets or projects communicate with and engage communities and their representatives on how to contact the company and best ways for them to raise any concerns. • Community relations staff are in close contact with communities and engage in regular two-way dialogue. • Community relations staff has process in place to surface, track and respond to concerns or grievances in a timely manner and to develop appropriate mitigation measures. PEOPLE & SOCIETYPEOPLE & SOCIETYManagement SystemsFocus AreaConsultation & Agreement Land Use Issues Relocation Economic Development Environmental Conservation Cultural Heritage Management Systems• Business units, assets or projects identify indigenous groups for consultation on company activities that may impact them. Participatory methods of engagement are sought wherever possible including capacity building of indigenous communities to engage in a participatory manner. • Business units, assets or projects have plans in place to meet governmental requirements regarding consultation or formal agreement with indigenous communities, including recognized community leaders. • Business units, assets or projects conduct pre-engagement analyses to understand indigenous communities in areas of our activities, including their culture, decision-making structures, and methods of communication. • Business units, assets or projects develop plans that support culturally respectful consultation and engagement. • Indigenous communities are involved in the design of engagement and consultation. • Where governmental frameworks or requirements do not exist or are not clear as to requirements of companies to engage, consult or enter into formal agreements with indigenous communities, the company has put in place mechanisms for understanding indigenous group dynamics, traditional land use and preferences for engagement and consultation. • Business units, assets or projects have identified indigenous groups that may have a traditional claim to land where the company operates. • Engagement and consultation plans address land claims or issues where appropriate. • Business units, assets or projects are prepared to address indigenous community concerns where appropriate, including making adjustments to plans in order to avoid interference with local livelihoods and traditional land use. Where appropriate, consultation with indigenous communities is conducted to determine what mitigation efforts will be most effective.• If there is relocation related to company activities, roles and responsibilities of the government and the company are understood. • Should the company decide to move forward with a project or activity for which the government requires relocation, business units, assets or projects would meet related legal and regulatory requirements including consultation, agreement and/or compensation. Where applicable, these plans would consider non-financial impacts (e.g., cultural heritage of indigenous communities). • Business units, assets or projects identify opportunities to support economic development opportunities consistent with indigenous communities’ culture and community development plans.• Business units, assets or projects carry out staff awareness raising efforts related to the value of natural resources to indigenous communities. • Business unit, asset or project plans include assessment of environmental impacts, and mitigation plans to offset or address environmental impacts affecting indigenous communities. • The company provides support for conservation initiatives. • Business units, assets or projects understand the impacts of activities on cultural heritage. Mitigation measures are identified and implemented as appropriate. • Company personnel involved in indigenous relations receive cultural heritage awareness training. • Business units, assets or projects provide support for cultural heritage programs or projects as appropriate consistent with social investment plans. PEOPLE & SOCIETYFocus AreaManagement SystemsFocus AreaManagement SystemsPEOPLE & SOCIETYPEOPLE & SOCIETYPEOPLE & SOCIETYWorking With SuppliersSupply Chain SustainabilitySustainability is integral to our procurement processes and supplier engagement. We have identified Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) questions to be used in bids and performance indicators, and will continue to enhance processes to identify and manage risks, foster supplier inclu.sion, and increase productivity and efficiency within the supply chain. We developed a Code of Business Ethics and Conduct: Expectations of Suppliers and a Commitment to Supplier Inclusion, and communicated these positions with internal stakeholders and with suppliers. Proactively provid.ing business opportunities and building capacity of local and diverse suppliers is an expectation for our suppliers as well as our own company. Sustainable ProcurementThe supply chain function contributes to the company’s sustainable development commitments by integrating Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) issues into our processes and procedures. This incorporates sustainability thinking into strategic sourcing, category management, our requisition-to-pay process, contracts, systems, and material management programs.  Supplier ExpectationsOur commitment to our SPIRIT Values of Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork extends beyond our own activities. It is essential that our suppliers also remain fully aligned with those values to ensure the highest standards of operating excellence. Our contracts require that suppliers be guided in their performance for ConocoPhillips by the principles and standards set forth in the ConocoPhillips Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and their own ethics and conduct policies. We have devel.oped our Supplier Expectations to provide additional clarity to our suppliers regarding our expectations: integrity; labor and human rights; health, safety, and environment; and supplier inclusion. Commitment to Supplier InclusionWe don’t just expect our suppliers to promote local and diverse sourcing and supplier capacity-building, we have our own Commitment to Supplier Inclusion. We expect to do business with qualified suppliers that share our values, whether minority-owned, women-owned, or small business enterprises, or global, local or indigenous suppliers around the world. Local Content and Employment We place a high priority on purchasing goods and services locally and are committed to giving local contractors and suppliers the opportunity to participate in projects and operating requirements, generally through a competitive bidding process. Throughout the United States, we track the amounts we spend with diverse suppliers. We also look for opportunities to develop local suppliers and promote local hiring as appropriate to meet business needs. U.S. Supplier Diversity In the U.S., we do business with diverse companies and con.tinue to give them access to business opportunities through our Supplier Diversity Program. This approach attracts the best suppliers, stimulates local economic development, and creates long-lasting social and economic benefits to our stakeholder communities. Through our Supplier Diversity program we actively participate in certifying and develop.ing diverse and small local businesses in the United States. We are active corporate members, with board representa.tion, of the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and their affiliates in the regions where we operate. If your company is categorized as a minority-owned, wom.an-owned or small business and you are interested in doing business with ConocoPhillips in the United States, please submit a supplier profile form. Click here to return to Table of ContentsSupplier SustainabilityFocus AreaEnvironmental Sustainability Focus AreaLabor and Human Rights IntegritySupplier Engagement Management SystemsSuppliers must comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and conduct business with respect and care for both the local and global environment, including utilizing energy and natural resources efficiently and managing waste, emissions and discharges responsibly.Management SystemsWe conduct our business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and expect suppliers and contractors working on our behalf to be guided by these principles. Contracts require that suppliers be guided in their performance for ConocoPhillips by the principles and standards set forth in the ConocoPhillips Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and their own ethics and conduct policies. We engage with suppliers and contractors on sustainable development issues through the Quarterly Business Reviews, Supplier Collaboration Program, Annual Supplier Sustainability Forum and supplier audits. PEOPLE & SOCIETYSupplier InclusionFocus AreaLocal Employment Local Procurement Local Business Development Management Systems• Business unit, asset or project plans include support for local employment as appropriate. • Where appropriate, social investment initiatives support the strengthening of local capacity to respond to employment needs.• Business unit, asset or project plans include support for local procurement and providing opportunities for local contractors and suppliers, and investment in supplier capacity building as appropriate.• Certain business units support local business development initiatives or “incubators.” • Where appropriate, social investment initiatives support strengthening of local business development. 