CASE STUDY MIGRATORY BIRDSMigration Matters: Tracking the Habits of Native Birds  The Long-Billed Curlew was a mystery to scientists. Where exactly did it travel? Breed? Rest? How many of the large North American shorebirds still existed? And how could conserva.tionists help protect the species from extinction? Once so common in the southeast U.S. that John James Audubon’s famous painting of the Long-Billed Curlew features Charleston in the background, hunting and breeding habitat loss has devastated the eastern popula.tion of curlews. This year, researchers from the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute’s Migratory Bird Center tracked a male Long-Billed Curlew, which came from a near-ex.tirpated wintering population of less than 100 curlews along the Atlantic Coast, to its summer breeding habitat in Saskatchewan, Canada — the first time that anyone has tracked a curlew from this vanishing group. Thanks to this lone bird, scientists are finally getting answers about this species’ unknown migration. Tracking the Long-Billed Curlew is just one of the many migratory bird track.ing and habitat conservation programs we support through our Charitable Investments Signature Program focused on water and biodiversity stewardship and conservation efforts. In North America, more than a third of bird species are at risk of extinc.tion, according to a 2016 study by the North American Bird Conservation Initiative. The first of its kind to look at the vulnerability of bird popula.tions in Canada, the United States and Mexico, the study found that 37 percent of the 1,154 species on the continent need urgent conservation action. Understanding and tracking bird migration is crucial for conserving habitats that are essential to species survival. Migrating birds are what is known as an “indicator species” — their issues foretell other problems within the ecosystem and provide an opportunity to mitigate potential risks.Taking a wide-angle approach by sup.porting educational and conversation efforts offers an opportunity to lever.age research and establish priorities for action. Conservation work such as these strategic migratory bird projects also helps us learn about ecosystems near our operations, develop local relationships, and provide volunteer opportunities to spend time in nature. Additionally, by supporting research we can reduce the chance that regulatory or policy decisions based on missing or inconclusive scientific data negatively impacts our operations.Preserving habitatsWorking with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), we fund the ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservation and Innovation Program to support projects focused on the restoration of ecosystems and habitats, particularly those focused on high-pri.ority North American migratory species. We also support innovative conservation technologies and tech.niques in areas where we operate.We partner with Ducks Unlimited to help manage and conserve U.S. Gulf Coast wetlands — important wintering habitats for waterfowl. By identifying effective coastal restoration and mit.igation projects and working closely with diverse stakeholders, we support a variety of efforts, including freshwa.ter-introduction and marsh-terracing projects, shoreline stabilization, coastal ridge restoration, and hydrologic improvements. “The loss of coastal wetlands is not just a local problem, it is a national issue,” said ConocoPhillips Coastal Wetlands Director Phil Precht. “These areas pro.vide critical protection of the nation’s maritime trade, seafood and energy industries. The habitat in this area is also critical to the survival of many species of concern. Wetlands loss is crisis that requires the cooperation of public and private entities. We are proud to be on the front lines of this effort through our support of several important programs.”“ConocoPhillips is an excellent partner because their stewardship principles are similar to ours, and they have a very good reputation for working with agencies and moving projects forward,” said Jerry Holden, director of conserva.tion programs for Ducks Unlimited.In northeast China, we worked with the International Crane Foundation to manage and restore wetlands in Momoge National Nature Reserve, the largest global staging area for Siberian Cranes. About 3,600 are present daily, approximately 95 percent of the world population, for almost two months of each migration season. Significant water shortages threaten the habitats of Siberian Cranes and other species. Until now, no one has studied these habitats systematically or developed conservation recommendations and the species appears to be under threat.Tracking migratory patternsWe help advance the conservation and understanding of migratory birds through work with the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute’s Migratory Bird Center. Through this partnership, we gain a better under.standing of the important habitats throughout their migration cycle, and how we can take a coordinated approach for more effective conserva.tion. The center conducts both long-term and applied research. Using advanced tracking technologies, we are involved with six projects chart.ing the journeys of 12 migra.tory bird species, several of which spend parts of their migration cycle near our areas of operation in Alaska, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Colorado, and Texas. In 2016, a range of innovative track.ing devices were used to fit a variety of birds with track.ing tags. Species included Pacific Loons, Black-Bellied Plovers, Canada Warblers, Connecticut Warblers, Rusty Blackbirds, Common Nighthawks, Olive-Sided Flycatchers, Mountain Plovers, Glaucous Gulls, and Long-Billed Curlews.In Alaska, ConocoPhillips employees helped tag Pacific Loons and Black-Bellied Plovers near our Alpine facility on the north slope. A hoop net was used to catch the birds, which were then fitted with a sat.ellite tag that transmits daily data about connectivity information including migra.tory pathways, stop loca.tions and wintering areas, and the different patterns of individual birds of the same species. We discovered a distinct migratory divide between North Slope and Western Alaska Pacific Loon populations. The former crosses over to Russia, China and South Korea, while the latter flies directly south to Mexico. This page: A Long-Billed Curlew, North America’s largest shore.bird, flies over a channel at Mustang Island State Park on Texas’ Gulf Coast.Opposite page: The antenna of a miniature solar-powered satellite transmitter is visible on this female Black-Bellied Plover. She was tagged on the North Slope of Alaska in June and is now spending the winter in Peru, while her mate is overwintering along the Gulf Coast of Mexico. The aluminum band, on her upper right leg, and the uniquely positioned plastic color bands help to identify her from afar.36   ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016CASE STUDY“Years ago, we noted that many of the migratory pathways in the Americas and Asia are near our operations. Because of where our assets are positioned, we have a unique opportunity to support conservation in these areas.”  Production, Drilling & Projects Executive Vice President Al HirshbergWatch “Restoring the Louisiana Delta.”37ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016CASE STUDYMIGRATORY BIRDSSmithsonian Institution: Migratory Connectivity Project 2015–2016 Impact5,8442341412expeditions in the U.S. and Canadaspeciesbirds fitted withgeo-locatorsbirds bandedConocoPhillips Migratory Bird project support and impacts38ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016CASE STUDY“Understanding and tracking animal movement is crucial for conserving the habitats that are essential to species survival. Without an understanding of migratory connectivity, conservation investments can be ineffective because they are implemented at the wrong place or time, or for the wrong purpose.”  Dr. Pete Marra, head of the Smithsonian Migratory Bird Center NFWF: ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservation & Innovation Fund projects 1   Texas, Oklahoma – Enhanced or restored 13,570 acres of habitat for grassland bird species, such as Loggerhead Shrike, Eastern Meadowlark and Scissor-Tail Flycatcher in partnership with the Parks and Wildlife Foundation of Texas and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. Private land habitat restoration and enhancement will lead to increasing quality and quantity of grassland habitat. 2   Midwest – Enhanced or restored over 600 acres of habitat for the Lesser Prairie Chicken in Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas in partnership with the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. The project will contribute to sta.bilizing Lesser Prairie Chicken populations by creating additional habitat connectivity.3   Houston, Texas – Increased the number of oyster reefs and migratory bird islands in Galveston Bay to provide critical habitat for oysters, Whooping Cranes, Gulf Coast Ocelots and thousands of migratory birds through collaboration with Houston Wilderness. The project is a key step to protecting and preserving the unique biodiversity of the Greater Houston Region. 4   Texas Gulf Coast – Restored and enhanced over 1,700 acres of native prairie and wetland habitat on four Texas Parks and Wildlife Department Wildlife Management Areas on the Central Coast, working with the Texas Rice Industry Coalition for the Environment. The project will restore 600 acres of prairie and enhance and restore 1,162 acres of wetland in an area that is crucial to migratory birds. 5   Eastern Montana – Radio tagged, collected data, coordi.nated and analyzed grassland bird demographic monitoring for Bairds and Grasshopper Sparrows, Sprague’s Pipit, Chestnut-Collared and Lark Bunting in partnership with the Rocky Mountain Bird Observatory. The project will inform conservation efforts and management actions in the Northern Great Plains and full annual cycle demographic monitoring across the full migratory range.Smithsonian Institution: Migratory Connectivity Project6   Barrow, Alaska – Helped deploy GPS tags on nine Glaucous Gulls at Alaska’s North Slope. This study was the first to focus its attention on immature arctic seabirds, who were originally thought to spend their first year along the U.S. west coast. Data revealed however, that these birds actually migrate to Russia. 7   Texas Gulf Coast – Helped tag more than 2,100 birds at the Mad Island Marsh Preserve, a rest-stop for the birds after flying across the Gulf of Mexico. This effort by our volunteers will allow scientists to track the migratory patterns of songbirds from the Smithsonian Bird Banding Center.  8   Fort McMurray, Alberta – Tagged 43 migratory birds, working with students and faculty from the University of Alberta Edmonton. Wildfires near Fort McMurray, in the summer of 2016 significantly altered the habitats of birds that had been tagged in previous years. Ducks Unlimited9   Louisiana coast, Liner Canal, Carencro Bayou and Lost Lake – Restored more than 2,500 coastal acres of waterfowl wintering areas through the Liner Canal, Carencro Bayou and Lost Lake projects, working with the Louisiana Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority and the North American Wetlands Conservation Council. Preserving this marshland is crucial as it is an important area for migrating waterfowl.10   Cypress Hills, Alberta – Established the ConocoPhillips Bullshead Conservation Area, with more than 2,050 acres of native grasslands and high-value wildlife and plant species, including large numbers of waterfowl. Protecting this land means protecting important habitat features that many of these species need to survive. View migration maps.ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201639Social ResponsibilityProject Engineer Sasha Schmick discusses oil exploration with an Applied Math Program (AMP!) teacher. Relationships matter – that’s why we strive to be a safe and responsible neighbor, operator, and employer. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTStakeholder EngagementEngaging with people who may impact or be impacted by our business — our stakeholders — is a cornerstone of our operations across the globe and contributes to our business success. We engage with our stakeholders to understand their perspectives, values and interests and to clarify their expec.tations and concerns so we can incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions. Our focusWe have identified stakeholder engagement, community impact, human rights, and indigenous peoples as high priority issues, based on their importance both to our business and our stakeholders. Our activities to manage these issues are guided by our multi-year Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan, our Human Rights Position and our Stakeholder Engagement Principles. Our current plan includes 42 specific goals and actions. Actions are implemented via management systems for indigenous peoples, human rights, community engagement, secu.rity and human rights, social investment and supplier engagement.Our priority work in 2016 included:•	Engaging with communities near our operations.•	Working with indigenous communities to maximize benefits from our operations.•	Implementing social performance indicators.Examples of actions completed in 2016 include con.ducting updates to stakeholder mapping in business units across the globe to better understand our footprint and engaging fisheries in Indonesia in a safety initiative around our offshore facilities. On track activities include managing our risks through refining our social perfor.mance indicators and updating our social risk assessment tools. We deferred the development of a sustainability training module for suppliers to a later date due to the economic environment.  Engaging with communitiesBy seeking early and frequent engagement with our stakeholders, we can build trust, garner respect, and develop mutually beneficial relationships. Our stake.holder engagement professionals integrate commu.nity input into our business decisions to create better outcomes for communities and our company. Engaging with communities proactively provides the opportunity to address community concerns that might otherwise lead to costly delays.  Reducing community impactsThroughout the life cycles of our projects, we place a high priority on sustaining stakeholder engagement. In Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, we collaborated with the Center for Coastal and Marine Resources Studies – Bogor Agricultural University to conduct social mapping and engagement in 2016 prior to starting exploration activities near our newly acquired Kualakurun Block. The mapping included identifying commercial interests and villages in the area, including indigenous peoples. We then met with local leaders to discuss our proposed development activities and listen to their priorities. It was important that we worked with the Dayak tribe to understand their traditional sites and forest in a detailed way. That information was then provided to our seismic contractor to ensure that seismic lines do not cross those traditional sites. We also participated with the Dayak people in a traditional ceremony that honored their customs and beliefs prior to our seismic activities.After completion of our Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) facility in Queensland, Australia, we conducted a post-project survey of key stakeholders to assess our performance and the effectiveness of our engagement process and to establish a baseline of post-construction perceptions of ConocoPhillips by key stakeholders in the Gladstone area. The survey measures our performance in areas such as: Citizenship, Community Expectation, Community Concerns, and Social Compliance. This sur.vey fulfills a goal we set in our Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan. The survey is also part of our public com.mitments to continue consultation and engagement programs to ensure stakeholder views are understood and considered throughout the life of the project, and to participate with government in local and regional planning processes. In Malaysia, we collaborated with PETRONAS, other oil and gas companies and the Malaysia Maritime Enforcement Agency (MMEA) in the ongoing “Sahabat Maritim” pro.gram to promote safe fishing activities through commu.nity engagement and education in areas near oil and gas facilities. The effort focused on the dangers of fish bomb.ing and fishing activities conducted within the 1,640-foot safety radius surrounding offshore operations.Across our operations, we try to minimize traffic and road safety concerns, which typically increase with higher activity levels, by reducing the number of trucks on the road. Since oil and natural gas operations require the movement of goods and services and local infrastructure is sometimes not designed for increased traffic, stream.lining our operations and reducing our physical footprint can reduce our impact on local communities.  Strategic community investmentsOur charitable investments are strongly aligned with our business plans. With significantly lower capital spending in 2016 compared to 2015, we modestly curtailed our spending on charitable investments. However, while our global charitable investment level was lower than in previous years, we contributed $34.9 million to support the communities where our employees live and work through charitable giving, employee volunteerism and civic leadership. Our charitable investment strategy is built around three giving pillars:Signature Programs help unify our global giving around relevant themes and make our charitable investments program significantly more impactful. The company focuses on two signature causes: water and biodiversity stewardship (global) which aligns with our sustainability commitments to protect the environment; and math education (Houston) which is key to academic and career success and aids in building capacity in communities. In 2016, our support of essential conservation efforts continued with the Smithsonian’s Migratory Connectivity Project and National Fish & Wildlife Foundation’s SPIRIT of Conservation. In Houston, we also supported innova.tive teacher and student development math education programs offered by Rice University, United Way, and the Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Houston.Local Contributions help meet each community’s unique needs and enhance and protect ConocoPhillips’ reputation as a good corporate citizen and neighbor. In 2016, our efforts ranged from providing disaster relief after floods in the U.S. and fires in Canada, to support for health and social services, to aid for children with congenital heart disease in China and those with life-threatening medical conditions in the United Kingdom.Employee Programs recognize that employees and retirees are often the company’s best liaison with the communities in which we operate. We encourage and support their involvement in local charitable activities through several Employee and Retiree Giving Programs including the United Way, Matching Gift, Volunteer Grant and Dependent Scholarship programs. In 2016, we sup.ported local communities by participating in six United Way campaigns raising more than $5.9 million from employee and corporate contributions, and logging over 28,000 volunteer hours in the U.S. and Canada. Providing energy education toolsResource access, energy supply diversity, technological innovation, energy efficiency, industry competitiveness and environmental stewardship can and should be achieved together. In the U.S., we support the National Energy Education Development (NEED) Project, funding energy education workshops for teachers to provide tools to educate students on a wide range of topics from energy conservation to energy sources, including renewable energy. Teachers receive curriculum guides and experiment ideas to promote innovative thinking and encourage a dialogue about energy. Since 2007, we have sponsored NEED workshops in 95 cities, throughout 35 states, attended by 6,279 teachers, reaching 5,093,150 students. In 2016, teachers who attended the program impacted about 218,000 students. Building healthy communitiesCongenital heart disease is one of the most common birth defects in China, especially in high-altitude and remote areas. Residents of these areas typically lack medi.cal facilities and local medical professionals are unable to diagnose and treat patients with the condition. The Love and Hope Project, a local project we have supported since 2008, funds heart surgery for children from pov.erty-stricken families who suffer from congenital heart disease. In 2016, we provided funding for a screening van to tour remote areas and provide free diagnosis for underprivileged children, in addition to funding for treat.ment and surgery. Our donations have funded surgery for more than 400 children.Addressing human rightsWe believe businesses have a constructive role to play to advance respect for human rights throughout the world and conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophies expressed in global frameworks. Our actions are embedded in our Social Impact Assessments and Action Plan. In 2016, we updated our human rights training module which reviews the company’s position on respecting human rights, the importance to our busi.ness and our approach to managing human rights issues. It includes education on issues related to indigenous peoples, cultural awareness, labor standards risks, and risks associated with security and human rights.  Indigenous peoplesWherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring. In the U.S. Lower 48, we have formal and informal meetings with the Jicarilla Apache, Southern Ute, and Navajo Nation to maintain open dialogue about ongoing development plans, regulatory matters and tribal vendor selection. We regularly discuss high priority items related to compliance and permitting. Additionally, our social investment activities in the tribal communities provide informal consultation opportunities. We support the Clontarf Foundation, a national organiza.tion that exists to improve the education, discipline, life skills, self-esteem and employment prospects for young indigenous men across Australia. The Clontarf Academy, a football academy established in partnership with local schools, encourages participants to stay in school by making academy activities only open to students. Additionally, the organization provides mentors to coun.sel students on a range of behavioral and lifestyle issues.We continued to build local capacity in Australia in 2016, launching the Indigenous Land & Sea Ranger Program in Gladstone. This new project is the first ranger partnership program in Queensland between corporations and state government. The program focuses on protecting the environment and the local cultural heritage by increas.ing the number of indigenous peoples participating in environmental management. This highly successful Queensland program is delivering real environmental and employment outcomes in some of the most sen.sitive parts of the state. It is based on a structured work and training plan designed to provide qualification in conservation and land management that will develop into a self-sustaining business.  We also pursue opportunities to support economic development opportunities consistent with indigenous communities’ culture and community development plans. The West Arnhem Land Fire Abatement (WALFA) project in Australia centers around an innovative mix of customary indigenous fire management techniques and contemporary technology to manage late dry season fires to protect important places and encourage new growth. In 2016, the program abated more than 280,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, a new annual record, bringing the program total to 1.9 million tonnes. The project offers economic, environmental, social and cultural benefits for local indigenous community members across 17,574 square miles of remote, biodiversity- and culturally-rich Aboriginal land adjoining the Kakadu National Park. WALFA supports over 200 indigenous jobs per year, con.serves rainforest vegetation, protects local wildlife and rock art sites and allows cultural aspects of land man.agement to be passed down to younger generations. It also reduces greenhouse gas emissions cost effectively and is one of Australia’s top 10 largest offset programs. All of this makes it a truly sustainable project with social, environmental and economic benefits. The program is so successful that it has now been emulated in more than 40 other projects across Northern Australia.Implementing social performance indicatorsWe implemented social indicators related to human rights and indigenous peoples across our operations in 2016. These reflect how potential human rights issues are tracked and addressed via a risk evaluation process. Indicators include the number of engagements or con.sultations and agreements with indigenous communities as well as the number of employees who take our human rights training.  2016 Action Plan StatusStakeholder Engagement Action Plan28actions completed10actions on track4actions on holdSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTSPOTLIGHTWildfire fosters community collaborationOur engagement efforts are some.times unplanned, such as when a wildfire threatened the Fort McMurray area near our Surmont operations in Canada. The fire broke out in May 2016 and grew quickly, forcing the largest wildfire evacuation in Canada’s history within 48 hours. It eventually destroyed approximately 2,400 homes and buildings and burned 1.5 million acres of forest. At the onset of the blaze, our leadership knew immediately that we needed to pro-actively respond to the community’s needs. We called leaders in local indigenous commu.nities and asked what they needed urgently, and stayed in contact daily. At their request, we deployed buses to transport members of these communities to Surmont. Other area residents who were evacuated were also bused to Surmont. We donated and delivered much needed sup.plies to an isolated community that was not evacuated, but on standby for the entire event. North Cariboo Air, our long.time supplier, provided air charter transport support and their terminal facility for 800 people when Surmont and the surrounding area were evacuated at short notice, in the middle of night. Since the blaze was near our Surmont operations, about 1,200 rooms at the Surmont Regional Residence were made available to emergency response teams once the area was declared safe. We lent laptops to the Red Cross for crisis use which were later donated to local nonprofits. In Calgary and other field offices, we held a fundraising sale of company merchandise like logoed jackets and shirts with the proceeds going to the Red Cross. Staff members volunteered at the local food bank and used our match.ing gifts program to increase their cash donations for relief efforts. A total company contribution of about $445,000 was directed to the Fort McMurray Fire recovery. 42ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT$34.9 millioncontributed to communitesSPOTLIGHTHelping dreams take flight In the U.K., Dreamflight helps ill and disabled children leave their troubles behind when they take a 10-day dream vaca.tion to Orlando, Florida. It is one of the programs sponsored through our Local Contributions giving pillar. For the past five years, we have provided funding and volunteers to sup.port the nearly 200 local children who visit the area’s famous theme parks each October. An extensive network of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and nonmedical volunteers care for them during the trip. A chartered 747 filled with medi.cal equipment ensures the children have a safe and secure flight, and the medical staff has access to detailed infor.mation on each child’s medical needs. Doctors and nurses across the U.K. nominate the youths for the Dreamflight trip.  “The trip gives children who have been through a really tough time an opportunity to have a good time — they’re children first, and their illnesses and disabilities come second. We treat them as kids, help grow their confidence and let them make friends and share their experiences. ConocoPhillips has been instrumental in helping our fundraising and supporting us.” Dreamflight Director Sally Wrampling ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201643SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT“We believe that the most effective social and charitable investments come through strategic relationships with organizations dedicated to serving the needs of the community.” Investor Relations & Communications Vice President Ellen DeSanctis2016 Global Community Investment Spend by Type44ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTView “Queensland Indigenous Land and Sea Ranger program.”SPOTLIGHTRespecting human rights in ColombiaOur Human Rights Position and Stakeholder Engagement Principles serve as the framework for our inter.action with stakeholders in Colombia. Our community engagement prac.titioners, including contractors and security personnel, receive training on the Position and the Principles, as well as our Code of Ethics and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR).In 2016, we were preparing to test a previously drilled well and plan.ning an exploration program in the Middle Magdalena Valley, located in the Cesar department in northern Colombia. We collaborated with agencies of the Colombian national government to conduct more than 100 meetings with stakeholders, including local communities, to listen to concerns and address questions about our exploration plans. These meetings focused on the legal, technical, social and environmen.tal aspects of our plans. They also included discussions about our existing, government-approved environmental license that allows us to conduct the vertical, conventional production test, the environmental impact assessment for exploration of unconventional resources that we are preparing to submit to the government, and our community benefit plan.Protests by a local anti-fracking group began illegally blockading the public road to our well site, prevent.ing us and government authorities from entering the site. We suspended work activities while we engaged with the activists with the help of the Colombian National and Local authorities, including the Regional Ombudsman, but were unsuccess.ful in demobilizing the protest. An interagency meeting determined government support was needed to address the block.ade and the local Security Council requested federal gov.ernment intervention. We emphasized our commitment 
and expectations regarding the government’s commitments to the VPSHR at the local, regional and national levels. The government deployed the National Police, accom.panied by a Human Rights advisor, and the blockade was dispersed safely without material incidents and we were able to resume our permit.ted activities.45ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTView “Fire with Fire.”View our global progress.SPOTLIGHTBuilding sustainable benefitsIn Canada, we operate within the traditional territories of Indigenous Peoples including First Nations, Inuit and Métis. We seek to understand their interests and concerns before and during resource development and production, and actively work to minimize any potential infringe.ment on their traditional rights. While provincial and federal governments regulate processes for consulting Indigenous communities, we develop consultation and engagement plans to support successful relationships now and over the long term. We have a values and interest approach, which includes exploring, planning, action and reflection. We also work to provide access to the economic benefits of development, including contracts for goods and services, jobs, training and education opportunities. Our Indigenous Operator Trainee program offers the education and training necessary to become a Power Engineer. We have trainees in all of our asset areas. Of the trainees recently selected within the oil sands region, two were affiliated with the Sustainable Communities Initiative as youth or youth workers, an example of cross-pollinating efforts to guide youth to positive futures. We have another three apprentices currently working in a maintenance training program, in the final years of their millwright and instrumentation apprenticeships. In 2016, we added a new Heavy Equipment Technician program as well as shift supervisor training specific to Indigenous com.munity members near the oil sands. We also celebrated an important milestone of building sustainable relationships with Indigenous lead.ers and communities in 2016. The Cooperation and Mutual Benefits Agreement (CMBA) with Fort McMurray First Nation (FMFN) rep.resents multiple years of engagement to build trust and respect, mutual areas of interest and benefit, and a formal commitment to a stronger relationship. This agreement has a process to resolve concerns about rights infringement from our activities at Surmont and includes language that commits both parties to work toward beneficial economic and social dimensions of our relationship.By respecting the historic cultural connections that indigenous peo.ples have to the land and incorpo.rating our community framework guidelines, we can help ensure that they share the long-term sustain.able benefits from natural resource development.ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201646SUPPLY CHAINSupply ChainSupply chain sustainability is integral to our operations — we work with thousands of contractors, suppliers and local businesses across the globe. Our reputation and the success of our operations are influenced by those who support our operations at our worksites and beyond.   Our focusThree of our highest priority issues — safety and health, local content, and business ethics  — can all be impacted by supplier performance. Our commitment to operating responsibly extends to our suppliers, and we have pro.cesses to address risks and opportunities in our supply chain. We integrate sustainability criteria into our supplier selection and evaluation, and clearly outline our expecta.tions regarding integrity, labor and human rights, supplier inclusion, health, safety and the environment for contrac.tors and suppliers.In 2016, our actions focused on:•	Developing and utilizing local suppliers•	Working with suppliers to develop key sustainability performance indicatorsLocal contentOur operations require a range of products and services to do business effectively at a local level. We promote economic growth in communities where we operate by employing and training local workers and supporting local suppliers and service providers. Along with our stra.tegic community investments, this allows us to provide sustainable economic benefits, both direct and indirect, to the local communities where we work. We are continuing to address the challenge of increasing local participation and encouraging local business in Timor Leste. This requires close collaboration with our key contractors at the Bayu-Undan facility, including Clough AMEC who provides labor for our offshore operations and maintenance. A key component of their contract is skill development for local Timorese. By improving the train.ing of Timorese personnel and formalizing plans linked to in-role development, they improved productivity and significantly increased the overall percentage of Timorese personnel in the workforce. This effort is consistent with the expectations of the Bayu-Undan regulator and rein.forces our commitment to sustainable development in Timor Leste. We also work to promote supplier diversity by supporting access to business opportunities and fostering relation.ships with diverse businesses. Our U.S. Supplier Diversity Program yielded expenditures of $391 million with minority and women owned businesses and $313 million in expenditures with small businesses in 2016. Engaging with suppliers We recognize contractors and suppliers play an import.ant role in helping us meet our business objectives, and how they manage their impacts on the environ.ment and community reflects on our performance. We expect our suppliers and contractors and their employees to act in accordance with our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. We provide greater clarity about our Code through our Expectations of Suppliers and Commitment to Supplier Inclusion documents which provide clear, concise insight into our operating philosophies and expectations.   Questions related to sustainability are included in our bid processes and we work with our suppliers to identify and manage risks, foster supplier inclusion, and increase productivity and efficiency within the supply chain. We collaborate with suppliers to improve our sustainability performance together. In 2016, we worked with our larger suppliers to develop and rollout key standardized environmental performance indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are meant to support our action plans and focus on opportunities for improving efficiency and reduc.ing waste. They require key suppliers to report annual performance in several categories, including green.house gas emissions, amount of fresh water consumed and weight of solid waste disposed. A yearly review with each supplier regarding their results will focus on year-over-year changes to performance, the drivers for positive change in performance such as technology or processes, and the current or potential application of those drivers to be used more broadly within our operations. We hope that these KPIs will help clarify performance expectations, track results and identify continuous improvement opportunities and options.Our annual Supplier Recognition Awards honor sup.pliers who positively impact our business while exhib.iting exceptional leadership and alignment with our SPIRIT Values. There are two categories of nominations. Execution recognizes criteria such as delivering the plan; flexibility and adaptability; superior budget and schedule control; and innovative solutions. Doing Business Better recognizes criteria such as contributing sustainable cost reductions, process improvements and waste elimination; fit-for-purpose solutions; alignment with our brand; and demonstrated teamwork and initiative. Sustainability is an integral consideration for these supplier awards. In 2016, awards ranged from reducing footprint and materials when constructing facilities and well sites, to improving community engagement and local content.Read more about our Code of Business Ethics 
and Conduct.Supplier Diversity & Special Projects Lead Tami Hunter meets with a small business owner.SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.SUPPLY CHAIN“About 80 percent of our spend goes through our suppliers, so we want to work with companies that align with our values and focus on sustainable development. Making sure we operate in a sustainable way is key to our business and therefore also important for our suppliers.”   Wells & Operations Senior Vice President Steinar Vaage 2016 Total Spend by Segment$9.27 billionTotal spend with contractors and suppliers in 20162016 Total Spend by CategorySOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.SUPPLY CHAIN2016 Supplier Recognition 
Award Winners Bristow Norway AS/Bristow Helicopters Ltd. Clough Amec Pty. Ltd.Halliburton Energy Services, Inc.IKM TestingMMA Offshore Ltd.North Cariboo AirUGL LimitedWorleyParsons Canada Service Ltd. (WorleyParsons Group)SPOTLIGHTReducing footprint and cost with innovative design In Canada, we formed a multi-func.tional team to rethink well pad design at our Surmont oil sands facility. Our aim was to reduce well pad cost through reduced footprint, a sim.plified and repeatable design, and a manufacturing approach to execution. WorleyParsons Group worked with us to design our Integrated Wellpads Program. The team adopted a zero-based approach that challenged con.ventional development processes and brought internal stakeholders to the table to focus on actual, rather than perceived, value drivers. The result was a reduction in the amount of structural steel required of 65 percent, a 30 per.cent reduction in footprint, and a 30 to 40 percent reduction in well pad costs. It also reduced the amount of site work required which minimized social and environmental disruptions asso.ciated with road traffic. We delivered an innovative fit-for-purpose design that can be replicated for future well pairs. WorleyParsons received a 2016 Supplier Recognition Award for their detailed design work and execution of the project. This reduces environ.mental footprint, improves economics and benefits communities by reducing truck deliveries. View “Collaborating with WorleyParsons.”