Safety and Health Our Safety Commitment At ConocoPhillips, it is our collective goal to eliminate all injuries, occupational illnesses, unsafe practices and incidents of environmental harm from our activities. We believe that our work is never so urgent or important that we cannot take the time to do it safely and in an environmentally responsible manner. The ConocoPhillips SPIRIT values – Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork – inspire all our actions and confirm that safety is core to how we operate. Our plan for achieving safe and environmentally sound performance is described in our Health, Safety and Environment Policy. Safety Performance Safety performance metrics can be found in the Reporting section of this document. Operating Safely Developing a strong safety culture and delivering superior safety performance is achieved by having dedicated and engaged leadership working with a committed and skilled workforce. Together, we work toward the goal of zero injuries, illnesses and incidents. Our businesses develop programs that emphasize personal and process safety. Working safely is a condition of employment, and each employee and contract worker has the right to stop any job they believe to be unsafe. Our improvement in safety performance has resulted in significantly fewer people being injured, but we cannot rest on that success. In 2012 we also experienced the tragic loss of an employee and a contract worker in separate fatal incidents, underscoring the reason for our relentless drive to eliminate all injuries. We strive to be a learning organization and as such encourage the reporting of both actual incidents and near misses. Although a near miss is an event without immediate consequences, we recognize that it could have resulted in personal injury, property damage, fire, process upset, spill, release or other failures. If a potential hazard is identified through a near miss or other hazard analysis, we believe reporting the problem is not enough; we implement corrective actions to address the root cause in order to eliminate recurrence. Safety leadership is a key responsibility of line management. Employee participation is a key component to our safety efforts and can be evidenced through work in various safety committees, behavioral based safety observation programs and industry forums. Company.sponsored safety summits bring together ConocoPhillips management from around the world to discuss our safety programs and commitment. We also use internal and industry case studies to share knowledge and to strive to prevent unsafe situations. Through the implementation of HSE Management Systems, our businesses identify and eliminate work hazards and risks. The process builds on the principle that all incidents are preventable and that HSE considerations must be embedded into every task and business decision. HSE Management Systems are assessed annually using the company Operations Excellence process, an integrated systematic and collaborative approach, to guide continuous improvement and ultimately achieve the highest standards of excellence. Each year, all business units review their management systems against corporate HSE standards using the HSE section of the Operations Excellence assessment tool. They analyze current status, identify areas for potential improvement, and then implement key activities to reduce risk and further enhance HSE performance. Contractor Selection & Oversight The ConocoPhillips Contractor Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Standard provides corporate HSE requirements for the company’s contracting process. This process allows the HSE risks to be measured using the ConocoPhillips Risk Matrix, and any contractor assignments that could include "high and significant risks" require the full implementation of the Contractor HSE Standard. A Pre.Qualification Assessment is conducted to prescreen potential contractors, which includes a review of contractor.supplied information. Documentation provided by the contractor is assessed against ConocoPhillips’ standards and industry standards. The HSE portion of the overall contractor evaluation process is based on a combination of trailing indicators such as injury rates and the completeness and functionality of the contractor’s HSE management system. Oversight of contractor performance is accomplished through the various assessment steps of the ConocoPhillips HSE Management System. The ConocoPhillips business owner of the contracted work will have in place a two.level HSE audit system (local assessments and business unit audits) as well as a variety of key performance indicators and monitoring activities that allow the ConocoPhillips staff to review the contractor’s performance levels against requirements and expectations. OSHA VPP We strongly support the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), which distinguishes work sites that achieve exemplary occupational safety and health standards. Many of our operations have achieved VPP Star recognition in recent years including: Alaska . Beluga Gas Field . Kuparuk Oil Field . Tyonek Gas Production Platform . Alpine Oil Field . Anchorage Office Tower Bartlesville . Offices . Technical Center Houston .Headquarters Campus .Lower 48 . Bossier Asset . San Juan Gas Plant . South Texas Asset . Wingate Fractionator Governance & Management The ConocoPhillips Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy is the foundational HSE document for ConocoPhillips. A component of this policy, the HSE Management System Standard, provides corporate expectations for each individual business unit’s HSE Management System and is the primary tool that our business units use to execute the contents and commitments contained within the company’s HSE policy. Key elements of the HSE Management System include risk assessment, incident and near miss reporting and investigation, onsite job safety analysis, HSE training, audits, and annual review and goal setting. Through the execution of the HSE Management System Standard, a variety of deliverables are generated by each business. Some of these include investigation reports of "high and significant risk" incidents, audit findings and HSE Compliance Verification Reports. A monthly report highlighting HSE performance is electronically communicated via the company intranet, which is accessible to all employees. Both the ConocoPhillips Management Committee and Public Policy Committee of the company’s Board of Directors receive regular updates of key HSE issues, events and performance from the vice president of HSE. ConocoPhillips maintains a multi.tiered risk based HSE audit program encompassing regulatory and management system compliance audits at both the corporate and business unit levels. Our program also includes external insurance risk assessments. An independent firm periodically conducts a limited assurance engagement on ConocoPhillips’ corporate level processes for collating and reporting aggregated HSE data presented in ConocoPhillips’ Sustainable Development report. Integrated into our HSE Management System Standard is the requirement to assess all risks and mitigate them appropriately. ConocoPhillips uses an array of techniques and tools to perform appropriate risk assessments, including using the ConocoPhillips Risk Matrix Model to perform qualitative or semi.quantitative assessments, and using quantitative risk assessments where necessary for increased levels of complexity. Operations Excellence Operations Excellence (OE) is a systematic and collaborative approach to enabling safe, reliable and efficient operations. It provides the tools to identify and turn opportunities into realized improvements. The approach recognizes the operational and business challenges inherent in our global business. OE's methodology is aimed at striking the optimal balance between the discipline gained from structured global processes and the quick decision making and personal ownership derived from an experienced.based organization. Operations Excellence provides the platform for the retention and sharing of corporate knowledge that is critical to ConocoPhillips' future success. It establishes a common language and approach that drives consistency in performance across the company. Vision . Be an industry leader in Health, safety and Environment and Asset and Operating Integrity. . Deliver on long.range plan commitments. . Achieve an aspirational target of 95% or greater direct operating efficiency. Mission To improve operational performance and deliver a sustainable competitive advantage. Objectives OE is an essential component of the company's continuous improvement efforts to: . Reduce risk: A comprehensive risk.management process can prevent the occurrence and mitigate the consequences of major incidents. Leadership and Management; Planning and Scheduling; Human Performance; Asset and Operating Integrity (including Process Safety); Health, Safety and Environment (HSE); and Maintenance and Reliability programs contribute to the prevention of serious incidents. The OE systems are designed to minimize the potential for HSE impacts and maximize operating reliability. . Improve base production: On any given day, ConocoPhillips produces over a million barrels of oil equivalent production per day from existing sources, so even small improvement in production can significantly impact the company's bottom line. . Ensure operability: It is essential that projects come on stream and perform as premised in the basis of design. For this reason, it is critical that learning from operations is fed back into project design and construction. In order to achieve these objectives, ConocoPhillips has developed a systematic approach to delivering sustainable improvements. Process Safety ConocoPhillips invests significant resources and provides focused attention to continually improve our process safety culture and performance across the entire company. Process safety refers to the control of process hazards in a facility with the potential to impact people, property or the environment. This includes the prevention, control and mitigation of unintentional releases of hazardous material or energy from primary containment. The foundation of our successful process safety management program is promoting employee participation. At ConocoPhillips, our employees: . Have defined safety roles and responsibilities at all levels. . Serve as employee representatives on joint health and safety committees. . Participate in analyses that identify process hazards together with their control and mitigation measures or barriers; . Provide operator input and exhibit ownership of process startup/shutdown procedures and emergency procedures. . Participate in safety qualification and training programs. . Are empowered with the right and responsibility to stop unsafe work. . Perform work permitting and pre.job hazard analysis. . Participate in safety, technical and procedural reviews, incident investigations, audits and emergency response teams. Process safety performance at ConocoPhillips is continually tracked to monitor strengths and assess opportunities for improvement across key business areas. This monitoring includes a strong emphasis on process safety auditing to validate and support metric data. ConocoPhillips has adopted additional process safety metrics across key business sectors beginning in 2011 based on the American Petroleum Institute (API) Recommended Practice (RP) 754 “Process Safety Performance Indicators for Refining and Petrochemical Industries,” and on the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) “Asset Integrity – Key Performance Indicators.” These metrics are intended to provide management with additional tools to evaluate the effectiveness of our risk control barriers in preventing or mitigating unplanned losses of containment. Analysis of metric results helps direct specific improvement measures, which may include changes in engineering design, operating and maintenance procedures, and training opportunities. Emergency Preparedness At ConocoPhillips, prevention of any spill through project planning, design, implementation and leadership is a primary objective. However, in the event that a spill occurs, we have plans and processes in place to ensure we can respond effectively. We also conduct thorough investigations of all significant incidents to understand the root cause, share lessons learned and prevent future incidents. ConocoPhillips conducts oil spill exercises and drills each year for its U.S. operations in compliance with the requirements of the Oil Pollution Act and adopts many of those concepts for its international operations. We work with organizations such as the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and International Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) to encourage regulators to support international cooperation, including bringing outside resources into specific locations to improve local spill response capabilities. ConocoPhillips utilizes best practices for spill response on an international basis. We design our programs to meet robust compliance requirements and where feasible apply these standards internationally and in alignment with host.country requirements. ConocoPhillips places great value on having trained and capable emergency responders. As part of the company’s emergency preparedness program, ConocoPhillips conducted several major response exercises in 2012. Two of these drills included the ConocoPhillips Global Incident Management Assist Team (GIMAT). In August of 2012, 125 employees from across the company gathered to participate in the first Global IMAT training event since the spin.off of the downstream assets. Five days of training stressed integration and consistency through the Incident Command System. Participants put their learning to the test with a full.day exercise simulating a seabed oil seep in Asia. Throughout the week, cultural awareness moments provided insight into other regions. Speakers shared lessons learned from the 2011 China response and other industry incidents, while our leaders spoke about the company’s vision, culture and strategy, and highlighted the necessity of major incident prevention and mitigation. As part of the ConocoPhillips/Polar Tankers Vessel Response Plan, the Polar Spill Management Team and the ConocoPhillips GIMAT responded to a simulated scenario. Held in October of 2012, the exercise spanned two days and included approximately 150 industry and agency responders. Participating organizations included ConocoPhillips, the U.S. Coast Guard, other government agencies and third.party spill response experts. In addition to numerous local programs to practice and test our response capabilities, about 500 people will participate in four large.scale exercises involving the GIMAT on three different continents slated to take place during 2013. These drills often include participation by third.party experts, oil spill response organizations and government emergency response agencies. We also utilize the National Oil Spill Response Research and Renewable Energy Test Facility (Ohmsett) in New Jersey for spill response training. This facility is operated by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), and provides full.scale oil spill response equipment testing, research and training. Our investment in spill response technologies includes membership in Oil Spill Removal Organizations (OSROs) across the globe, which affords us access to substantial inventories of, and the latest advances in, proven response equipment. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are members of two OSROs, Clean Gulf Associates (CGA) and Marine Spill Response Corporation (MSRC). Our Alaska business unit has memberships in three large OSROs including Alaska Clean Seas (ACS), Cook Inlet Spill Prevention & Response, Inc. (CISPRI) and Ship Escort/Response Vessel System (SERVS) for our exploration and production operations on the North Slope, in Cook Inlet and our Polar Tanker operations in Prince William Sound, respectively. Our membership in MSRC as well as a contract with the National Response Corporation (NRC) provides coverage for our Polar Tankers operations along the west coast. In addition to our U.S..based OSRO memberships, ConocoPhillips is also a member of Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) and Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Companies (NOFO), which both perform roles similar to that of the CGA and MSRC for offshore operators, focusing on global (OSRL) and region (NOFO) specific solutions. We are also active participants in many other emergency response cooperative efforts. For a more complete listing, along with descriptions and links to more information about these groups click on Response Partnerships and Industry Alliances. Response Partnerships and Industry Alliances ConocoPhillips has established mutual aid arrangements and alliances with many other oil and gas companies around the world, especially in areas where our facilities operate near one another. We also make a concerted effort to work collaboratively with a wide variety of government agency response organizations that have jurisdiction for our assets across the globe. In addition, ConocoPhillips actively participates in a variety of more formal, cooperative efforts focused on crisis and emergency management. Here is a brief description of many of those groups, along with links to their websites. . Alaska Clean Seas (ACS) protects the environment by providing effective response services to the Alaska North Slope Crude Oil Producers and the first 167 miles of the Trans.Alaska Pipeline System in accordance with the oil spill response agreements and plans. With offices in Anchorage and Prudhoe Bay, ACS strives to be recognized as a world leader in arctic land and marine oil spill response. . Australasian Marine Oil Spill Center (AMOSC) provides rapid response to safeguard the Australian coastline with oil spill resources and equipment. Based in Geelong, Victoria, the center is financed by nine participating oil companies and other subscriber companies. . Clean Caribbean & Americas Association (CCA) provides petroleum and maritime industry members immediately accessible emergency preparedness and response resources, services and support to minimize environmental impacts from oil spills and related incidents in the Caribbean and the Americas. It is based in Hollywood, Fla., and has recently elected to merge with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL). . Clean Gulf Associates (CGA) is anot.for.profit cooperative based in New Orleans that provides oil spill response resources and personnel in the Gulf of Mexico for 122 member companies. . Eastern Canada Response Corporation (ECRC) is one of three Canadian Certified Response Organizations east of the Rocky Mountains. Based in Ottawa, it serves ConocoPhillips and other members in three regions from six staffed and equipped response centers. . Marine Spill Response Corporation (MSRC) is the largest, dedicated oil spill and emergency response organization in the United States. ConocoPhillips is a major customer of this not.for.profit group, based in Herndon, Va., and classified by the U.S. Coast Guard as an Oil Spill Removal Organization. . Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC) strives to be continuously ready to respond to a deepwater well control incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Founded by ConocoPhillips and three other companies, this not.for.profit and Houston.based company now has 10 members, and membership is open to all oil and gas operators in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. . Natural Resources Damage Assessment – Joint Assessment Team (NRDA – JAT) grew out of the desire to enhance dialogue among the parties involved in natural resource damage assessment, which may be confrontational. JATs serve as a natural complement to NRDA casework, providing a forum through which the parties can build on existing expectations, understanding, communication, and trust. In fact, JATs and comparable structures have helped move NRDA cases in a more cooperative fashion. . Norwegian Clean Seas Association (NOFO) aims to be a leading, efficient and robust oil spill response organization by ensuring oil spill preparedness at any time in accordance with operator needs and plans. Supported by 30 participating companies, NOFO is based in Stavanger and has five offshore response bases strategically located along the coast of Norway. . Oil & Gas Producers – Arctic Oil Spill Response Technology (OGP – Arctic OSR Tech) The International Association of Oil & Gas producers (OGP) is a unique global forum in which members identify and share best practices to achieve improvements in every aspect of health, safety, the environment, security, social responsibility, engineering and operations. OGP established The Arctic Coordination Task Force to be the technical and advocacy focal point for the E&P industry on issues related to upstream activities in the Arctic. . Oil & Gas Producers – Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Program (OGP – OSR JIP) In response to the 2010 Montara and Madondo oil spills OGP formed the Global Industry Response Group (GIRG), tasked with identifying learning opportunities both on causation and in respect of the response to the incident. Nineteen recommendations were identified and these are being addressed via a three.year Joint Industry Project (JIP) funded by sixteen oil industry members. The Oil Spill Response JIP (OSR.JIP) has initiated discreet projects or provides support to projects initiated by other trade associations in the nineteen subject areas resulting from the OGP GIRG.OSR project. . Oil Spill Global Response Network (GRN) is a coalition of major oil response companies operating throughout the world focused on maximizing the knowledge, expertise and preparedness of each participating response organization and sharing that with other participants. ConocoPhillips has access to this group though its membership in MSRC and other groups. . Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) is an industry.owned cooperative which exists to respond effectively to oil spills wherever in the world they may occur. About 120 companies are members of this London.based group with strategic bases in the UK, Singapore and Bahrain, and regional offices in the UK, USA, Indonesia, North Africa and West and Central Africa. In 2013 OSRL will create additional facilities in Norway, Singapore, Brazil and Africa to support expanded subsea response programs. . Subsea Well Response Project (SWRP) is anon.profit joint initiative of nine major oil and gas companies working together to enhance the industry’s capacity to better respond to subsea well.control incidents. Based in Stavanger, Norway, the participating companies include ConocoPhillips and Shell, the project team operator. Offshore Incident Prevention & Response Our company’s focus and investments in offshore safety and environmental protection are best summarized in three primary areas: PREVENTION – to reduce the risk of an incident from occurring. CONTAINMENT – to reduce the footprint and impact of an incident and maximize the response capability. RESPONSE – to mitigate incident damage rapidly and effectively. Incident Prevention Safety and accident prevention are core focus areas in our business and are integral parts of our operations. ConocoPhillips invests significant resources on prevention – training of personnel, selecting the right contractors and executing our operations in a manner that maintains safety and environmental stewardship. A focus on prevention begins with proper well design and carries forward into the daily drilling work execution. ConocoPhillips uses a well design methodology which meets or exceeds the requirements in all countries where we operate. We have well control, casing design, drilling fluid and cementing, and directional drilling and wellbore surveying standards, which are the building blocks we use to ensure a safe well design. Additionally, we have several processes embedded into our operating management system to help prevent a drilling accident from occurring. These processes include inspection, testing and maintenance of all safety critical elements of an asset (including wells), placement of precautionary safety critical elements to respond to certain scenarios, well integrity assurance and intervention to help ensure reliability of the well envelope, and detailed planned maintenance programs to ensure asset integrity. ConocoPhillips was one of the first companies to develop a Design Safety Case applied in the Gulf of Mexico. The company used this compilation of design information and studies to ensure the facility was designed safely. Although a regulatory requirement in UK North Sea operations since 1991, safety cases have not been required in the Gulf of Mexico. The safety case for Magnolia identified several Major Accident Hazards that could occur in an offshore facility, including a process safety incident or well blowout. Since installing Magnolia in 2004, ConocoPhillips has developed and implemented a Safety Case Standard that requires the development of a safety case for all ConocoPhillips offshore facilities. As of December 31, 2012, ConocoPhillips’ operated facilities in the Gulf of Mexico were limited to the Magnolia Offshore Platform, located about 150 miles off the coast of Louisiana. The wells associated with this platform produce a combined total of approximately 4,100 barrels of oil equivalent per day. However, ConocoPhillips.operated production may expand in this region following the company’s current drilling program. The majority of ConocoPhillips’ research and development funding in offshore drilling focuses on increasing efficiency without compromising safety. Some of this funding is leveraged in joint industry projects in association with multiple operators and contractors. While our company does not directly design and build rigs, we devote considerable financial resources to drive improvements in the drilling industry through our contracting and construction oversight strategies. We actively seek to identify and partner with those companies that have the safest equipment and best safety records through our Contractor HSE Standard. (See Contractor Selection & Oversight for more information.) In our U.S. onshore rig fleet, we are contracting with innovative, safety.focused drilling companies for newly built, high.tech rigs equipped with fully automated pipe handling equipment. This equipment reduces the human.machine interaction which results in many of the injuries associated with drilling operations. We also provide oversight during construction activities Spill Containment ConocoPhillips recognizes that industry oil spill response capabilities should be improved particularly in the case of subsea wells. We are participating with the industry in developing new spill response strategies and/or equipment improvements that will materially increase our ability to capture leaking oil at its source at the sea floor, stage equipment in locations where it might be needed, and engage in advanced and ongoing research and development. In July 2010, ConocoPhillips Chevron, ExxonMobil and Shell committed to providing a new containment response capability in the Gulf of Mexico. These founding companies of Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC) an independent, not.for.profit, company, recognized the need to be better prepared in the event an operator lost control and subsequent containment of a well. As a result, in February 2011, MWCC's interim well capping and containment system became available for use. The interim system improved the industry's ability to respond to a deepwater well control incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Now supported by 10 members, MWCC has advanced this capability by constructing a more robust well.capping system and is currently developing an expanded containment system. This system further increases capacity to capture, contain and process oil and gas from a well control incident if the well cannot be capped. Engineering and procurement are well advanced and fabrication has been initiated on all key components; the expanded containment system will be available for use in 2013. As MWCC's members look for new and deeper sources of oil, the company is committed to progressing technology that keeps pace with its members' needs. Although the containment system described above is appropriate for the Gulf of Mexico, our company recognizes that deepwater conditions vary around the globe and that separate regions may require different oil spill containment and response solutions. That’s why ConocoPhillips was also a founding member of the Subsea Well Response Project (SWRP). Similar to MWCC, SWRP is a Norway.based nonprofit joint initiative of nine major oil and gas companies working together to design and construct four subsea well capping systems for storage at strategic locations around the globe. These systems enhance the industry’s capacity to better respond to subsea well.control incidents. To learn more about Marine Well Containment Company, visit https://marinewellcontainment.com/ Industry Response In May 2010, in response to the Gulf of Mexico incident, the oil and gas industry, with the assistance of the American Petroleum Institute (API), assembled three joint industry task forces (JITF) to focus on critical areas of Gulf of Mexico offshore activity: . The Joint Industry Task Force to Address Offshore Operating Procedures and Equipment, . The Oil Spill Preparedness and Response Task Force, and . The Subsea Well Control and Containment Task Force. These groups provided more than 50 recommendations including quicker and more effective methods for capping an uncontrolled well, improvements to subsea dispersant application and monitoring, in.situ burning, shoreline protection and cleanup and other response operations, and a new well construction interfacing document that offshore operators and drilling contractors can employ to integrate all aspects of safety management systems. ConocoPhillips is actively participating on each of these JITF. For more information, please visit API JITF. In addition to participating in the above JITF, ConocoPhillips actively participates in other industry groups such as: . API Emergency Preparedness and Response Sub.Committee, . IPIECA’s Industry Technical Advisory Committee (ITAC), Oil Spill Working Group (OSWG) and Global Initiatives, . OGP’s Oil Spill Response and Arctic Response Joint Industry Projects (JIPs) . Oil and Gas UK Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group (OSPRAG) and European Issues Subgroup . Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Committee (provided industry guidelines on how to calculate worse.case discharge volumes in response to a Bureau of Ocean Energy Management directive) Through our continued participation in the various national and international industry groups, ConocoPhillips benefits from opportunities to evaluate new technologies and equipment that maximize recovery and minimize waste during spill response. ConocoPhillips also remains committed to collaborating with government regulators, operators and industry to advance the state of the art in both equipment and procedural aspects of spill response and deepwater drilling operations. As additional guidance and regulations are put in place, ConocoPhillips will incorporate them into our procedures, policies, and oil spill response plans. We will continue to review our internal policies and procedures with all global locations to ensure the safety of our operations. Through these efforts, we will contribute to improving safety not only for ConocoPhillips operations, but for the entire industry. The “Response Partnerships and Industry Alliances” section of this report has a complete listing and more information about these groups. Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene ConocoPhillips has a well.established process for identifying, evaluating and controlling workplace health hazards. The core of our process is the requirement for each business unit to develop and implement an Exposure Assessment Plan (EAP) for employees and contractors. The EAP identifies chemical and non.chemical risks that workers may be exposed to during daily work activities. Sampling performed under an EAP focuses our efforts on minimizing exposure risks to workers and the community. ConocoPhillips has also established Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene performance metrics used to continually evaluate and improve our processes. These metrics measure the effectiveness of our chemical risk identification processes, associated protection measures and medical surveillance of worker health. The ultimate goal of our Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene process is to effectively protect the health of our workforce and facility neighbors to prevent any related adverse health effects. © 2013 ConocoPhillips Company. All Rights Reserved. Legal & Privacy Security Although security risks cannot be entirely eliminated, we believe they can be effectively managed. ConocoPhillips has taken comprehensive steps and invested heavily to address potential threats to our operations around the world. Through systematic security audits by specially trained personnel, we continuously monitor and assess our compliance with international security regulations, company security policies and the potential for malicious action and implement a variety of preventive measures to provide for the safety and security of our personnel and operations. As an operator of critical infrastructure in many challenging locations worldwide, we work closely with governmental agencies, nongovernmental organizations, our peers and local communities on initiatives to identify, detect, deter, prevent and mitigate potential terrorist attacks and other threats to company personnel and facilities. ConocoPhillips facilities are compliant with the: . Chemical Facility Anti.Terrorism Standards, . Maritime Transportation Security Act, . Hazmat Transportation Security requirements, . International Ship and Port Facility Security Code, . U.S. Customs.Trade Partnership Against Terrorism standards, and . All other applicable governmental security requirements. ConocoPhillips maintains its Tier Three status in the Customs.Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program by demonstrating effective security that exceeds the minimum program criteria. Our program examines categories of company procedures intended to maintain the integrity and security of the international supply chain. This effort is conducted through on.site visits and procedural reviews by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials who assess the overall effectiveness of our security processes. ConocoPhillips continued as an active, participating member of the Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC), with the ConocoPhillips Chief Security Officer presently fulfilling the industry Co.Chair position. OSAC is a federal advisory committee of public.sector entities and U.S. government. It is chartered by congress to promote security cooperation between American business and private.sector interests worldwide. OSAC includes representation from the U.S. departments of Treasury, State and Commerce; the Executive Office; and more than 140 country councils. Today, members of more than 7,500 U.S. companies, educational institutions, faith.based institutions and non.governmental organizations are OSAC constituents. ConocoPhillips is also a founding member and leadership board member of the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC). This group creates a strategic partnership between the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the U.S. private commercial sector to enhance communications and promote the timely and effective exchange of information. The DSAC advances the FBI mission in preventing, detecting and investigating criminal acts, particularly those affecting interstate commerce, while advancing the ability of the U.S. private sector to protect its employees, assets and proprietary information. In 2012, there were more than 200 companies participating in the DSAC program, representing every critical infrastructure and business sector. Additional security programs and initiatives include: . security vulnerability assessments, . journey management, . contraband searches, . due diligence investigations, . threat analysis, . work place violence prevention, . emergency evacuations, . external investigations, . information protections, . facility security plan development, . security training, . site access control and monitoring, . technical counter surveillance monitoring, and . special events security. Safety Data Sheets Safety data sheets provide procedures for handling or working with substances in a safe manner. They provide valuable information about the chemical makeup of toxic substances, as well as how to store and properly dispose of toxic substances. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are available online at ConocoPhillips.com.Sustainable Development.Safety & Health .Safety Data Sheets. 