OUR APPROACH   ConocoPhillips is making our mark as an independent exploration and production company, while holding ourselves accountable to our legacy values. Our SPIRIT Values of Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork define who we are as a company. These values are the basis for our sustainable development activities across the world.  Safety continues to be a top priority for the company, and our goal is to have zero recordable incidents. To help us achieve this goal, we launched our 8 Life Saving Rules in 2013 as part of our ongoing, focused effort to eliminate serious and fatal incidents from every aspect of our business.  Our sustainability efforts last year centered on updating action plans for climate change, biodiversity, water and human rights. These action plans include objectives related to understanding our footprint, managing projects and operations, addressing risk and opportunity, and engaging externally. We also made progress on defining supplier expectations for business conduct, and on addressing related risks in our supply chain. We continue to work to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our operations and to integrate climate change-related activities and goals into our business planning. As part of this work, we completed additional projects around the globe to improve energy efficiency and lower GHG emissions. These projects reduced or avoided about 1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions from ConocoPhillips-operated assets. This equals a reduction of approximately 4 percent and continues our 3 to 4 percent year-on-year success since 2009, for a total of more than 3.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent reduced or avoided emissions.  We recently revamped our sustainable development reporting to be more informative, searchable and responsive to common questions, and we make ongoing report upgrades to provide additional information that is better organized and more reader-friendly. It includes an innovative learning module, originally designed to promote employee awareness of sustainability issues. We have since added this module to our website in response to requests for sharing it publicly. Last fall we held a highly successful best practices Environment and Sustainable Development Workshop for nearly 150 practitioners worldwide.  We pride ourselves in serving as responsible citizens in the communities where we work and engaging our diverse stakeholders. We also contribute to these communities through charitable giving, employee volunteerism and civic leadership. Worldwide, we give to organizations supporting education, health and safety, environment, arts, and social services. We also provide disaster relief when needed.  The ConocoPhillips commitment to sustainable development provides the foundation for our actions, which concentrate on conducting business to promote economic growth, a healthy environment and vibrant communities, now and into the future. Sincerely,   Ryan M. Lance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   About Our Report Scope  This report covers ConocoPhillips sustainable development performance through calendar year 2013, updating previous content for 2012.  ConocoPhillips is the world’s largest independent oil and natural gas company, based on production and proved reserves.Our vision is to be the exploration and production company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence. This report covers sustainable development activities and practices related to our current business activities focused exclusively on exploration and production. Performance data has been restated to reflect strictly upstream results for recent years.  This report also describes how we do business, and it shares our sustainable development approach and action plans, as well as our successes and challenges. We have provided company wide policies, positions and programs, as well as examples of local initiatives across our worldwide operations. Our report is informed by external reporting standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative and IPIECA standards, an internal systems-based approach, and key stakeholders.  We utilize our Sustainable Development Report to communicate about the key areas of our performance that interest stakeholders. Based on stakeholder feedback, we are continuing to use this website as our primary reporting method.  Our business units also communicate sustainability performance to stakeholders through dialogue, as well as formal reports associated with local regulatory processes. Several ConocoPhillips business units, including Alaska, Australia, Canada, and China published sustainable development reports to communicate performance and to engage with local and regional stakeholders.  In each year beginning in 2007, ConocoPhillips has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, which lists North America’s leading, sustainability-driven companies.   For more information about this report, contact:SDteam@conocophillips.com       Transparency and Collaboration   ConocoPhillips believes it is our responsibility to seek to understand and be understood by our stakeholders – a diverse group of individuals and organizations who can impact or be impacted by our business. We work to accomplish this by maintaining open communication through both formal and informal engagement processes, and providing accessibility to information concerning our business practices. Our principles of stakeholder engagement inform our approach.  As we develop plans and report results, we consider stakeholder feedback, questions, and insight in a variety of ways.  Stakeholders shown in this diagram all play a role in informing our approach, priorities, plans, actions and reporting. We listen and learn through individual and group engagement, receive questions from our website and other sources, and analyze our performance based on external ratings and best practices from our industry and other industries.  We use this process to assess the “materiality” of issues and information to include in the report.  Internal training and awareness is  built through active engagement with Networks of Excellence, Issue Working Groups, Discussion Forums and Leadership Teams, as described under Sustainable Development Governance . These governance and best practice structures reach more than 900 leaders and practitioners. Broader training, like the new Sustainable Development Learning Module is available to all employees. In the first few weeks that it was available, over 4500 employees viewed the training.    External organizations are important for best practice sharing and learning as well. Our approach leads to enhanced issue understanding through work with industry associations and stakeholder forums and dialogue with socially responsible investors. Some of the key organizations that we collaborate with to advance our sustainable development work are including in this diagram with links to the relevant part  of their websites.   Report Library & Indexes   Regional Sustainability Reports   Developing energy responsibly includes processes, standards and people with the skills and passion to deliver on the expectations of our stakeholders. In addition to this Corporate SD Report, ConocoPhillips also develops regional SD Reports where it’s appropriate to provide more detail about regional activities. .   These business unit sustainable development reports provide more examples of how our businesses are translating SPIRIT values into action.   Recent reports have been prepared for:  • Alaska • Australia • Canada • China • Peru (move to archive reports)    Company Sustainability Reports   • 2012 • 2008 • 2006 • 2005 baseline          Our Principles  ConocoPhillips’ approach to sustainable development stems from our fundamental intent to prosper as a business and to meet the energy needs of present and future generations. In doing so, we also will create value and improve living standards for our stakeholders.   Our sustainable development approach integrates principles, commitments, positions, action plans, performance indicators, engagement results and reporting. We seek continuous improvement and skills development in each of these management system elements. That’s what leads to measurable results for social, economic and environmental performance. Our mission is to power civilization. Energy plays a foundational role in enabling global economic development and human progress. Many sources will be needed to meet global energy demand, and this fact underscores the importance of a balanced energy policy approach. In support of ongoing dialogue with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, ConocoPhillips developed 10 energy principles to guide development of positions on specific public policy issues including environmental issues such as climate change. We invite you to read and share your thoughts on these principles. We also recognize that there are environmental and social implications, and that emphasizing responsible development is important. That’s why we created the ConocoPhillips Global Onshore Well Management Principles to guide how we protect and respect people and the environment. We take these principles seriously, and we welcome your comments on them. Our Sustainable Development Commitments   Our Vision Our vision is to be the E&P company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence. Our SPIRIT Values consist of Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork.  Our vision and values are essential building blocks in the continued success of ConocoPhillips. We further define and uphold our values through the following policies and positions.  Policies Key ConocoPhillips operating policies include: • Code of Business Ethics and Conduct • Health, Safety and Environmental Policy • Political Support Policy and Procedures • Political Contributions • Substance Abuse Policy  Code of Business Ethics and Conduct  The history of ConocoPhillips includes a long-standing commitment to conduct all business activities with the highest ethical standards. Our SPIRIT values lay out what we expect from ourselves and each other, as well as our commitment to integrity. In today’s business environment, living our values is critical for our continued success in the global marketplace.  Our Code forms the foundation of our compliance and ethics program and guides us in our day-to-day work. It explains ConocoPhillips’ standards as well as our legal and ethical responsibilities, and it provides concrete guidance for the behaviors expected of us.   For more details,  read the complete Code of Business Ethics and Conduct.  Health, Safety and Environmental Policy  ConocoPhillips is committed to protecting the health and safety of everybody who plays a part in our operations, lives in the communities in which we operate or uses our products. Wherever we operate, we will conduct our business with respect and care for both the local and global environment and systematically manage risks to drive sustainable business growth. We will not be satisfied until we succeed in eliminating all injuries, occupational illnesses, unsafe practices and incidents of environmental harm from our activities.       Our Plan ...  To meet our commitment, ConocoPhillips will:  • Demonstrate visible and active leadership that engages employees and service providers and manage health, safety and environmental (HSE) performance as a line responsibility with clear authorities and accountabilities. • Ensure that all employees and contractors understand that working safely is a condition of employment, and that they are each responsible for their own safety and the safety of those around them. • Maintain "stop work policies" that establish the responsibility and authority for all employees and contractors to stop work they believe to be unsafe. • Manage all projects, products and processes through their life-cycles in a way that protects safety and health and minimizes impacts on the environment. • Provide employees with the capabilities, knowledge and resources necessary to instill personal ownership and motivation to achieve HSE excellence. • Provide relevant safety and health information to contractors and require them to provide proper training for the safe, environmentally sound performance of their work. • Measure, audit and publicly report HSE performance and maintain open dialogue with stakeholder groups and with communities where we operate. • Comply with applicable regulations and laws. • Work with both governments and stakeholders where we operate to develop regulations and standards that improve the safety and health of people and the environment. • Maintain a secure work environment to protect ourselves, our contractors and the Company's assets from risks of injury, property loss or damage resulting from hostile acts. • Communicate our commitment to this policy to our subsidiaries, affiliates, contractors and governments worldwide and seek their support.       Our Expectations ...  Through implementation of this policy, ConocoPhillips seeks to earn the public's trust and to be recognized as the leader in HSE performance.  Political Support Policy and Procedures  Customers, community groups, political organizations and others regularly approach ConocoPhillips to support civic and political activities. Management and the ConocoPhillips Board of Directors encourage involvement in activities that advance the company’s goals and improve the communities where we work and live.        Overview  A number of local, state and federal laws exist that govern corporate involvement in activities of a political or public policy nature. These statutes contain numerous prohibitions and detailed reporting and record-keeping requirements. They also contain enforcement provisions that carry civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. Employees may be asked to participate in activities that fall under the jurisdiction of one or more of these statutes.  The policies and guidelines below have been approved by the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors and are intended to help ensure corporate compliance with these laws and regulations. With respect to political contributions, all such contributions will promote only the interests of ConocoPhillips, and not the personal political preferences of its company officers and executives. These policies and guidelines deal primarily with U.S. domestic political activity, and are not intended to cover the many global political, legal and business issues that apply to U.S. corporations and their international affiliates. Other countries' rules and U.S. rules, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, are covered under other policies. Additionally, the policies and guidelines below only apply to situations where employees are asked to act on behalf of ConocoPhillips and do not apply to personal activities employees choose to fund or pursue at their own cost and on their own time.  In addition to undergoing a voluntary, internal assurance audit of its corporate political expenditures each year, ConocoPhillips assesses its political policies on a regular basis and in light of changes in federal, state and local lobbying and campaign finance laws and regulations. For the period May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013, ConocoPhillips has adhered to its own code for corporate political spending.        Gifts to Elected Officials, Regulators and Government Employees Federal law prohibits registered federal lobbyists and those entities that employ federal lobbyists (such as ConocoPhillips) from providing gifts or anything of value to Members of Congress or Congressional staffers. This includes appreciation gifts, items for display in his or her office, as well as tickets to sporting or other events. Of particular note, it also includes meals and lodging. While the rules provide for selected exceptions, great care is required to ensure compliance. Separate and similarly strict gift rules apply to the Executive Branch of the federal government. Additionally, states and localities have various types of gift rules, with some states such as California having very strict gift prohibitions and reporting requirements. Any gift to an elected official or government employee made on behalf of ConocoPhillips must comply with the applicable gift ban rules and receive prior approval from Government Affairs.        Lobbying & Grassroots Activities -- Government Contacts  Federal, state and local statutes govern corporate lobbying activities. These statutes require activities and expenses associated with working legislative and regulatory issues be reported regularly and in prescribed ways. Contacts with officials and other efforts to influence government action, including permitting or licensing of company operations, may constitute lobbying activities under various state and local laws. While the Federal Lobbying Disclosure Act exempts infrequent contacts with federal lawmakers, advance consultation with Government Affairs is essential to confirm the ground rules for these discussions and proper reporting. Consultation with Government Affairs is also required for contacts with state and local policymakers. This is especially important given the wide variation in rules from state to state and locality to locality. Additionally, ConocoPhillips employees should refrain from the following activities at the state or federal level without prior internal consultation and approval. • Testifying before a legislative or regulatory body. • Agreeing to share in the costs of retaining a firm or individual to work a regulatory or a legislative issue.  • Agreeing to join an association or coalition whose purpose is to influence a regulatory or legislative issue.  • Lending ConocoPhillips’ name to any effort to endorse or oppose a pending legislative or regulatory issue.      Grassroots Activities  Grassroots activities are designed to supplement lobbying efforts in influencing officials to take favorable action on legislation important to the company. When appropriate, ConocoPhillips will initiate calls to action targeted to our employees, which typically include the development and distribution of information and mobilization to contact policymakers or elected officials. In the same way, ConocoPhillips may expand its grassroots activity and/or calls to action to include the general public, as deemed necessary on a case-by-case basis. All grassroots activities are based on collaboration between appropriate Government Affairs and business unit personnel.       Lobbying-related Activities --Trade Association Membership ConocoPhillips actively engages with trade associations at the national, state and local levels. We encourage our employees to represent the interests of the company and the communities in which we operate through participation in committees and/or leadership roles in these associations. While not the primary motivation for joining or maintaining membership in any trade association, many such organizations actively engage in lobbying. Employees who serve on trade association committees that are advocating legislation or regulation must work closely with Government Affairs, affected business units and Legal to develop appropriate positions and ensure compliance with any possible lobbying disclosure requirements.  With respect to trade association contributions, the Company’s primary purpose in joining groups such as the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the American  Petroleum Institute is not for political purposes, nor does the Company agree with all positions taken by trade and industry associations on issues. In fact, ConocoPhillips publicly acknowledges that we do take contrary positions from time to time. The greater benefits we receive from trade and industry association memberships are the general business, technical and industry standard-setting expertise that these organizations provide. Through participation in trade associations involved in lobbying, ConocoPhillips seeks to champion legislative solutions that are practical, economical, environmentally responsible, non-partisan and in the best interests of the company.. See U.S. trade associations to which ConocoPhillips paid more than $50,000 in annual dues for the year 2013. The report will be updated annually to reflect the current year’s trade association memberships."       Independent Expenditures For ConocoPhillips purposes, independent expenditures are defined as those funds given or expended to directly support or defeat a candidate, without collaboration of the candidate. ConocoPhillips’ policy is to not make independent expenditures itself. However, if a compelling business purpose exists, an exception to this policy may be granted with the consent of Government Affairs, business unit personnel and Legal. Approval of the Public Policy Committee is also required. For the period May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013, no contributions   to independent expenditures were made by ConocoPhillips. Certain trade associations in which the company maintains membership elect to incur independent expenditures. We have engaged in discussions with certain stakeholders who have expressed concern about this trade association practice. As with prior reporting periods, ConocoPhillips again stipulated that none of our national trade association dues be applied to independent expenditures focused on the election or defeat of any federal candidates for the period May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013.    Issue Advocacy   For ConocoPhillips business purposes, issue advocacy is the support of a pro-energy and/or pro-business position regarding a ballot initiative to be voted on by the people. Issue advocacy may also include support of an initiative that would defeat anti-energy and/or anti-business measures. Actions typically include development and distribution/broadcasting of information either jointly or solely, and may include signature gathering on initiative petitions which the company has expressly supported. ConocoPhillips will be active in such issues, provided there is a compelling ConocoPhillips business rationale; an agreement to participate among the affected business units and Government Affairs personnel and management; and where there is distribution/broadcasting of information, significant ConocoPhillips and/or energy industry involvement, input and approval of the message development and the tactics taken in the initiative process.   Political Contributions       Federal Political Campaign Contributions Federal laws strictly forbid the giving or use of corporate funds for candidates campaigning for federal office, such as Congress. These laws apply to actual candidate campaigns and to solicitations from third parties, such as external political action committees, whose purpose is to help elect federal candidates. ConocoPhillips is authorized under law to establish an employee political action committee (PAC) and fund its cost of administration. Consistent with approval of the Public Policy Committee, Spirit PAC has been formed to facilitate contribution of employee funds to federal candidates as well as state and local candidates. See list of contributions made by Spirit PAC from May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013. This information is provided as an 18-month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. The Spirit PAC Board of Directors has established in its operating guidelines the following nonexclusive criteria for selecting candidates to support:  • The integrity and character of the candidate;  • The candidate’s holding of a leadership or policy position in his party or on a standing legislative committee, or the likelihood of the candidate’s attaining such position in the future;  • The candidate’s position and/or voting record on issues affecting the relationship of business and government and on economic and social questions of importance;  • The candidate’s relationship with or representation of an operating facility or company operations;  • The nature and strength of the candidate’s opposition in primary or general elections; or  • Other sources of financial assistance available to the candidate.  In addition, the Spirit PAC Board of Directors primarily concentrates on contributions that go direct to candidates for office, generally avoiding: • Independent expenditures in support of or opposition to a candidate; • Out-of-election-cycle contributions; • Contributions to Presidential campaigns; • Contributions to leadership PACs; • Contributions to political parties; and • Large contributions to trade association PACs. State & Local Political Campaign Contributions Individual state and local laws govern contributions to candidates running for election to state and local offices. The Public Policy Committee has authorized a strict process for the justification, approval and reporting of any corporate political contributions made in states that permit corporate contributions. The Public Policy Committee also sets a bi-annual budget for such corporate contributions in the U.S. and Canada.  The guidelines for determining whether a corporate political contribution should be made to a candidate are the same as the political action committee guidelines above, including those contributions to be avoided. The responsibility to approve and administer contribution requests has been delegated to the corporate officer responsible for government affairs or his or her designee. Accordingly, the Vice President, Federal & State Government Affairs, and Legal must approve all requests for U.S. state and local contributions. The Vice President of ConocoPhillips Canada responsible for Government Affairs and Legal must approve all Canadian requests. See list of corporate political contributions made from May 1, 2012 - June 30, 2013.  This information is provided as an 18-month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. The Spirit PAC Board of Directors may elect to make state and local contributions in states where corporate contributions are not allowed subject to applicable laws and PAC operating guidelines.        Contributions to Other Political Action Committees  Many industry and special interest groups have created their own political action committees to elect candidates to office. State and national petroleum marketing associations, for example, have created PACs and are soliciting members and suppliers. Corporate contributions to these   external PACs are strictly prohibited under ConocoPhillips policy if the contributions are intended to be used to fund candidates or their election campaigns. This includes the expensing of any costs for events such as golf and fishing tournaments, hunts, dinners, silent auctions and other types of activities used by these PACs to raise funds. Corporate contributions to fund administrative costs of certain external PACs may be permitted if allowed under applicable law, if doing so advances company goals, and if approved by Government Affairs and Legal.         Candidate Fundraising Events and Other Related Requests Candidates and their supporters hold social activities as political fundraisers. Recognizing federal and many state laws impose restrictions, corporate funds for these activities require prior review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. ConocoPhillips does, from time to time, contribute to ballot initiatives, get out the vote activities and partisan organizations such as the Democratic and Republican governors associations. These, too, require review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. See list of contributions made from May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013. This information is provided as an 18-month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report.        Contributions to Political Parties  Contributions to national parties by a corporation are illegal. Any such requests should be forwarded to Government Affairs given the potential for changes in the law and the need to monitor such requests. Contributions to state parties remain legal, but subject to varying limitations and reporting requirements depending on the state. All requests require Government Affairs and Legal review and approval.        Party Conventions ConocoPhillips may elect to participate in state or federal political party conventions. Although corporate contributions to political parties at the national level are prohibited by law, corporations may make contributions to the presidential conventions held by the parties through the host committees. Any such contribution requires the review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal.      Substance Abuse Policy  At ConocoPhillips, our objective is to create and maintain an operating environment free of substance abuse. We believe that substance abuse increases the potential for accidents, absenteeism, substandard performance, and poor employee morale and health, as well as damage to the company's reputation. The company has zero tolerance for violations of this Policy and the employment of even first time offenders will be terminated in accordance with relevant law.  To enforce this Policy, ConocoPhillips will:  • Implement a substance abuse testing program that subjects employees to random drug and alcohol screening. • Require pre-employment drug testing of job applicants, and drug and alcohol testing of employees for reasonable suspicion/cause, post-accident situations, rehabilitation follow-up, and to verify return-to-duty eligibility post-rehabilitation. • Ensure that all employees are aware that this Policy covers improper use of prescription medications, as well as abuse of alcohol, illegal drugs and other substances that may alter an individual's mood, perception, coordination, response, performance or judgment. • Provide relevant training to raise employee awareness of substance abuse issues and the onsequences for violation of this Policy. • Provide employees who voluntarily disclose their substance abuse problems with opportunities for rehabilitation, where adequate facilities are available and it is feasible to do so. • Offer internal or external resources, where available, to answer employees' questions regarding the potential work-related impact of over-the-counter or prescription medications. • Communicate our commitment to this Policy to our employees, contractors, and visitors and engage their support for creating and maintaining an environment that is free of substance abuse.  In those circumstances where government regulations, laws, or local practices impact the implementation of this Policy, business unit leadership will develop and implement a country-specific Substance Abuse Policy that conforms to local requirements, after which the local policy will be included as an addendum to this Policy. Applicants and employees will adhere to the Substance Abuse Policy addendum relevant to their country.  We believe that the successful implementation of this Global Substance Abuse Policy will help ensure a continued safe, healthy and productive work environment.                    Our Positions   Sustainable Development Position  For ConocoPhillips, Sustainable Development is about conducting our business to promote economic growth, a healthy environment and vibrant communities, now and into the future. We believe that this approach will enable us to deliver long-term value and satisfaction to our shareholders and our stakeholders.   Sustainable Development is fully aligned with our vision, to be the E&P company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence, and our SPIRIT Values.   Our Focus   To deliver on our commitments, we will prioritize issues, establish plans for action with clear goals and monitor our performance. In addition, we will develop the following company-wide competencies to successfully promote sustainable development:   • Integration – Clearly and completely integrate economic, social and environmental considerations into strategic planning, decision-making and operating processes.  • Stakeholder Engagement – Engage our stakeholders to understand their diverse and evolving expectations and incorporate that understanding into our strategies.  • Life-Cycle Management – Manage the full life-cycle impacts of our operations, assets, and products.  • Knowledge Management – Share our successes and failures to learn from our experiences.  • Innovation – Create a culture that brings new, innovative thinking to the challenges of our evolving business environment.   Our Expectations   Through delivering on our commitments to sustainable development, we will be the best company to have as a supplier, investment, employer, partner and neighbor.      Biodiversity Position   ConocoPhillips will implement mitigation planning processes aimed at reducing the effects of our activities on the environment and conserving biodiversity. We will address biodiversity conservation as part of investment appraisal, and during the planning and development of major capital projects, by conducting environmental impact analyses, collecting key environmental data and implementing mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and assure results.   Our Focus   We are continuously building our knowledge about the ecosystems in which we work and recently completed an internal study to benchmark our performance compared to other extractive-industry companies. To increase internal awareness about biodiversity, a knowledge-sharing intranet site has been launched to foster employee collaboration within ConocoPhillips in the areas of biodiversity and ecosystems.   We conducted industry benchmarking to explore better ways to collect and manage our biodiversity data. We are using a range of technologies, from improved animal tagging to streamlined databases. Employees are encouraged to ask questions about challenges they encounter in this area, and to share project ideas for technology development in the area of ecosystems and land use. The intranet site also provides such resources as global conferences and contacts to benefit its members.    Our biodiversity focus will include the following elements:   • Integration of biodiversity conservation principles in our business management systems, considering all stages of the asset life cycle.  • Development of Biodiversity Action Plans for projects located in areas of high conservation value.  • Use of widely available and effective planning tools such as those developed by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) , Energy and Biodiversity Initiative, and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers to facilitate biodiversity conservation.  • Adoption of a landscape-scale perspective which promotes habitat integrity and connectivity over a broader area than just our facility sites as important issues in land use decision making.  • Consideration of targeted opportunities for habitat improvement, including projects for rehabilitation. The use of biodiversity offsets will be considered when appropriate.  • Collaboration with key stakeholders to increase capacity for biodiversity protection, internally and in related institutions and communities.  • Linkage of biodiversity protection with GHG emissions reductions, where both goals can be met through integrated planning and action.   Our Expectations   We follow widely accepted guidelines from the IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) in our approach to biodiversity conservation. As a member of the IPIECA biodiversity working group, we work to develop tools and materials to help companies across our industry enhance their biodiversity conservation activities. As a founding member of the OGP’s Sound and Marine Life program, we support continued research to increase scientific knowledge on the possible impact that sound produced by offshore exploration and production has on marine mammals, fish, turtles, seabirds,  invertebrates and other marine life. In the fulfillment of our business strategy, we will serve as a positive example of how natural resource development can occur in harmony with society’s need to conserve biodiversity. For more information, see Biodiversity  Climate Change Position   ConocoPhillips recognizes that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate.   Our Focus   While uncertainties remain, we continue to manage greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and to integrate climate change related activities and goals into our business planning. Our corporate action plan focuses on the following areas:   • Understanding our GHG footprint  • Reducing our GHG emissions  • Evaluating climate change related risks  • Leveraging technology innovation to explore new business opportunities  • Engaging externally in support of practical, sustainable climate change solutions  • Reviewing progress and updating business unit climate change management plans   Our approach to climate change is designed to advance the company’s vision to be the exploration and production company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence.   Climate Change Public Policy   We believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with the following principles:  • Recognize that climate change is a global issue which requires global solutions – economy-wide governmental GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors  • Result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric concentrations at safe levels  • Coordinate with energy policy to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy  • Utilize market-based mechanisms rather than technology mandates  • Create a level competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries  • Avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs  • Provide long-term certainty for investment decisions  • Promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development  • Match the pace at which new technology can be developed and deployed  • Encourage efficient use of energy  • Foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate  • Avoid undue harm to the economy.   Building balanced energy policies is challenging, and we recognize that no one has all the answers. As economies around the world continue to develop, fossil fuels will play an important role in meeting the growing global demand for energy. Meeting the challenge of taking action on climate change while providing adequate, affordable supplies of reliable energy will require financial investments, skilled people, technical innovation and responsible stewardship from policy makers, energy producers and consumers.   ConocoPhillips is committed to doing our part.  Diversity & Inclusion Position   At ConocoPhillips, we strive to represent and reflect the global communities in which we live and work. To deliver superior performance, we create an environment of inclusion that respects the contributions and differences of every individual (employees, contract workers, suppliers and business partners). Wherever possible, we use these differences to drive competitive business advantage, personal growth and, ultimately, create success for ConocoPhillips globally. Our Focus  As we pursue opportunities in a dynamic marketplace, we value motivated people who set the standard of excellence by: • Living our SPIRIT Values. • Demonstrating a proactive attitude and being culturally capable of doing business globally. • Using creativity and a variety of approaches to capture opportunities.  • Inspiring and supporting others to reach new heights. Our Expectations  At ConocoPhillips, our pledge to diversity is a global commitment that reaches across the entire company. Our leadership team, managers and supervisors are accountable for developing and progressing our global inclusion initiatives. Additionally, employees and contractors are responsible for playing a key role in ensuring that their personal behaviors create an inclusive work environment. As a company, we continue to measure our progress toward becoming representative and reflective of the communities in which we live and work.  Economic Transparency and Reporting Position   ConocoPhillips participates in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which seeks to ensure that natural resource wealth is an engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction.   Our Focus & Expectations   We remain actively involved in the EITI process and implementation in participating countries where we operate. Currently, three participating countries where we operate have achieved full EITI compliance – Timor-Leste, Nigeria and Norway. Of the countries that have committed to EITI principles, and therefore are considered candidates for EITI membership, we have resource interests in two: Indonesia and Kazakhstan. Of the EITI compliant or committed countries, only our investments in Indonesia, Nigeria and Norway involve production. We currently cooperate with these governments in their EITI validation efforts. When we have assets in new countries, we will work to promote transparency and accountability with those governments.   EITI requires the public reporting of payments to governments. (See related information on the Dodd-Frank Act). Such reporting requirements take into account host-country laws and the terms of contracts under which such revenues are accrued.   HIV/AIDS Position   ConocoPhillips recognizes that HIV/AIDS is a global pandemic resulting in the death of over 3 million people every year, with potential to grow unless concerted action is taken to check the spread of the disease. There remains a significant stigma associated with this disease, which limits willingness of infected individuals to seek effective diagnosis, which frequently results in social and workplace discrimination. There are now treatments available which make HIV/AIDS a manageable chronic illness for those infected with this disease to live normal and productive lives. Yet economic and technical limitations in much of the developing world have created disparities between developed and developing countries, in their ability to effectively manage spread of the disease and treatment of infected individuals.   Our Focus & Expectations   To the extent that HIV/AIDS affects the health of our employees and their dependents and represents a significant public health risk where our employees live and work, ConocoPhillips will work to identify, use and otherwise support community-based resources and programs that recognize and seek to mitigate the social stigma and adverse impact of HIV/AIDS, emphasize preventive education and provide early intervention and long-term treatment.  Human Rights Position   Governments have the primary responsibility for protecting human rights. ConocoPhillips believes business has a constructive role to play to advance respect for human rights throughout the world as do Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and other representative groups in civil society.   We recognize the dignity of all human beings and our core values embrace these inalienable rights for all people to live their lives free from social, political, or economic discrimination or abuse.   Our Focus & Expectations   ConocoPhillips will conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.   Our intent regarding human rights is also reflected in our Purpose and Values and in our business ethics policy and health, safety and environmental policy. These policies address how we conduct our business with respect for people and the environment, accountability and responsibility to communities, and ethical and trustworthy relationships with our stakeholders. We will maintain ongoing discussion with government, NGO and other business stakeholders through our participation in the Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security. The company’s approach to engagement with indigenous communities, in locations where they are an important stakeholder group for our operations, is consistent with the principles of the International Labour Organization Convention 169, concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.   Renewable Energy Position   In alignment with our mission to power civilization, and consistent with our positions on sustainable development and climate change, ConocoPhillips is evaluating and supporting development of technologies for renewable energy. We are leveraging our expertise, intellectual property and physical assets in pursuit of economically viable, renewable energy business opportunities.   Our Focus   We continue to develop technology options with the potential to enable or complement renewable energy use.   Investments in technology development will be disciplined and commensurate with the likely returns, market size, timing of development and technology risk inherent in renewable energy projects. Our criteria for business investment include:   • Business Leveraged. Renewable energy opportunities that complement our existing processes will be prioritized.  • Competency and Asset Leveraged. We plan to focus our efforts on renewable technologies that directly leverage our experience in energy development and markets.  • Ongoing Awareness. We plan to continue to evaluate renewable energy technologies to proactively identify new opportunities and to understand the economic drivers, strengths and weaknesses of the alternative technologies available.  • Sustainable Solutions. We remain open to developing and using renewable energy as a component of our portfolio of energy offerings, as and when these technologies can be deployed in a sustainable manner for our stakeholders.     Our Expectations   Our work will assist in the development of viable, sustainable and environmentally responsible energy for existing and future customers. For more information, see Technology Ventures     Water Sustainability Position   As a responsible global energy company committed to sustainable development, we recognize that fresh water is an essential natural resource for communities, businesses, and ecosystems. Global population growth will increase demand for fresh water and all users – domestic, agriculture, and industry – will need to effectively manage supplies to meet demands.   Our Focus & Expectations   ConocoPhillips produces and utilizes water in its operations. We are committed to the development of water management practices that conserve and protect fresh water resources and enhance the efficiency of water utilization at our facilities. We will assess, measure, and monitor our fresh water usage and based on these assessments we will manage our consumption and strive to reduce the potential impact to the environment from wastewater disposal.  Our initial focus for implementation can be broken down into four broad categories:   • Focusing on priority assets and developing evaluation and mitigation tools.  • Sharing best-practice water management systems at a local level.  • Developing and implementing technologies to reduce the environmental impact of our water footprint.  • Delivering on sustainable development public commitment.   For more information, see  Integrated Water Management .                Accountability and Governance   Each of the company’s various businesses are responsible for integrating sustainability issues into day-to-day operations, project development and decision-making, and are held accountable through an annual performance management process. Members of senior management have final responsibility for developing corporate strategy, reporting company performance, and assisting the businesses with implementation of sustainability.   Sustainable Development Governance   Sustainable Development Governance includes direction and oversight from the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). As shown in the diagram, there is an executive champion for each of the key focus areas of sustainability – human rights, stakeholder engagement, water, biodiversity and climate change. To assure alignment between functions and businesses, and to provide for practical operational insight into key actions, we have established a Sustainable Development Leadership Team (SDLT).  The SDLT consists ofworks with topic Issue Working Groups and Networks of Excellence to build consistency and quality into our approach to sustainable development implementation.    The Public Policy Committee oversees our positions on public policy issues, including climate change and on matters that may impact the company’s reputation as a responsible corporate citizen, including sustainable development actions and reporting.  The committee makes recommendations to the Board, and monitors compliance with the company’s programs and practices regarding health, safety and environmental protection, including climate change, water and biodiversity management; business operations in sensitive countries; government relations and political contributions; human rights and social issues; corporate philanthropy; and corporate advertising. It also approves the budget for political and charitable contributions, and monitors compliance with these plans.  The Committee, currently comprised of3 independent Directorsconvenes at least quarterly and is regularly updated on sustainable development issues. For more information see Public Policy Committee Charter. Sustainable Development Group – Within corporate planning, which includes long-range planning and strategy, the company’s Sustainable Development group mission is to provide regular reports to the businesses and executive leadership as to the company’s risks, opportunities, commitments and performance in sustainable development. Within this corporate team, directors are responsible for key topics in sustainability including:  • Water • Climate Change • Biodiversity • Stakeholderl Issues  Modeling and Life Cycle Analysis  Issue Working Groups – Issue Working Groups are internal, international, cross-functionalgroups of leaders and practitioners who meet periodically to share learning, understand and address issues. There are IWG’s for topics above and cross-cutting issues such as Hydraulic Fracturing.  Issue Discussion Forums – We also have established Discussion Forums, which are open to all employees. The objective is to educate and inform attendees on both external and internal sustainable development issues of general interest. NoEs – The Networks of Excellence support cross-business and cross-function communication relating to sustainable development implementation. These networks include over 100 practitioners and leaders who are working on social and environmental issues. Task workgroups within the NoE’s collaborate to co-create guidance documents and tools, and share best practices.   Performance & Compensation   Executive Compensation - Three of the four components of executive compensation are performance based: the Variable Cash Incentive Program (VCIP), the Stock Option Program and the Performance Share Program (PSP). Awards under these programs are determined by company performance measured against several criteria, including the development and implementation of strategic plans to enhance ConocoPhillips operating and financial position. The strategic planning process includes consideration of climate change and sustainable development risks and opportunities.   Employee Compensation - Incentivized performance indicators vary among different corporate, business and functional units, and include, but are not limited to:   Health, Safety and Environmental Performance - We set very high operations excellence standards for protecting and respecting people and the environment. Therefore, we incorporate metrics of health, safety and environmental performance in our annual incentive compensation program.   Employee Non-Monetary Rewards - The ConocoPhillips SPIRIT award is given to employees who have delivered outstanding work to advance our SPIRIT Values (Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation, Teamwork).   Non-Employee Monetary Rewards - The St Andrews Prize for the Environment is an initiative by the University of St Andrews in Scotland and ConocoPhillips. The prize recognizes significant contributions to environmental conservation, and since its launch in 1998, has attracted entries from more than 50 countries each year on diverse topics including:   • Sustainable development in the Amazon rainforest  • Urban regeneration  • Recycling Health and water issues  • Renewable energy   Submissions for the annual prize are assessed by a panel of eminent trustees representing science, industry and government with the award going to the project the trustees consider displays the best combination of good science, economic realism and political acceptability.  Integrating Sustainability   Sustainable development requirements are integrated into the key business planning processes for the company: New Country Entry, the Long Range Plan, Project Development Authorization and Management System and the Health Safety and Environment Management System. In addition, corporate and business unit, and functional SD action plans provide specific focus on climate change, water, biodiversity and stakeholder issues. This creates a complete system of continuous improvement (Plan, Do, Assess, Adjust) for new ventures, exploration, projects and assets at all lifecycle stages.           New Country Entry  A new-venture project team must ensure that the identified risks and constraints are understood, documented and addressed in order for the project to obtain approval.   Before starting a venture in a new country, we take several steps to assess the potential sustainability and business risks. Once an opportunity is identified and a request for approval is drafted, a new-country-entry risk report is prepared. A preliminary due-diligence assessment is conducted to identify significant risks, including social and environmental concerns, and define how they will be managed.   The new-country entry request is then reviewed by the business-unit leadership and the CEO. In some cases, such as areas at high risk of political instability, consultation with the board of directors would take place. If we are entering into a joint venture, we use these assessments during negotiations with potential co-venturers to outline the risks identified, clearly state our expectations on environmental and social-issue performance, and discuss how the venture will manage these concerns.   Before entering a new country – or for other new developments, when warranted by the geopolitical environment – the company assesses the political risk of a potential investment. The majority of ConocoPhillips’ oil and natural gas reserves and production are within Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) nations.   Some of the world’s most resource-rich areas, however, are in countries that pose risks associated with political instability, inadequate rule of law or corruption. Consequently, ConocoPhillips has adopted comprehensive enterprise risk management tools to evaluate and manage these types of risks.   The company has developed internal guidelines to help employees comply with policies related to business activities in sensitive countries, and applicable government regulations in areas subject to U.S. or international sanctions.   We also perform due diligence on acquisitions or divestments of businesses or properties, new business ventures, incorporated and unincorporated joint-venture agreements, and initiations and terminations of property leases or subleases. This process is designed to ensure that past, present and potential HSE liabilities and other social issues are clearly identified, understood and documented, with our sustainable development positions addressed prior to major business transactions. This due-diligence standard applies to ConocoPhillips and its global subsidiaries, and we strive to influence all affiliated companies and joint ventures to conduct due diligence prior to undertaking binding business transactions.   Following completion of the due-diligence assessment, a corporate HSE non-objection request that also addresses social issues is required for all major business transactions. The non-objection letter provides documentation that past, present and potential HSE liabilities have been adequately identified and assessed for the particular transaction, and that the liability risks are or can be satisfactorily mitigated.  -See Integrating Sustainability for more information.        Sustainable Development Strategies and Action Plans  ConocoPhillips considers a range of insights on the external context when evaluating appropriate actions to take on key sustainability issues in our businesses and functions. As issues mature, the company develops strategies and specific action plans to address them. Corporate strategies and action plans have been developed for key issues and are updated periodically. The objective of these plans is to prepare the company to succeed in a world challenged by complex environmental, social and economic issues and increasing stakeholder expectations. In support of this objective, we have implemented a comprehensive company-wide action planning process. This process addresses our long-term efforts to understand our footprint, manage projects and operations, evaluate risks and opportunities, and engage externally. The planning process is designed to prompt appropriate action for adapting to a range of possible future scenarios.   The action plans  include updates on external expectations and context, current status of the company’s activities addressing the issue, future objectives and our plans to achieve those objectives. Work on an issue may begin with improving our understanding of the issue, developing measurements of key data, or assessing risks and opportunities, for example.    These comprehensive Issue Action Plans focuson addressing key aspects of the issues, assigning clear accountability, and driving goal setting and engagement.  Business Unit Action Plans are also created to define goals, targets, objectives and/or key actions in more detail, and to be responsive to the priorities of the business, stakeholders and assets in that region.   Our first plans were developed over the past several years. We have now updated our key forward-looking goals and multi-year plans as summarized in the table below.  This Sustainable Development Report also still includes the results of our previous plans. We will continue to provide annual updates on our plans and completed actions. The updated plans have four main focus areas:  • Understanding Footprint – mapping and measuring our social and environmental footprint and continuously improving how we do so. • Managing Operations and Projects – Assessing and implementing actions in our areas of operations and projects, which can include: • Prioritizing and implementing projects to reduce our footprint.  • Evaluating mechanisms, including targets, to drive performance.  • Monitoring, developing and implementing new technologies. • Managing Risk and Opportunity Exposure – Scanning for emerging issues and preparing the company to address risks and opportunities, including:  • Planning for business resiliency to changes in external context. • Reviewing plans and performance for our operated and non-operated assets. • Planning within political, regulatory and legislative uncertainty. • Maintaining our business unit risk and opportunity assessments and resulting action plans. • Engaging Externally – Engaging with diverse stakeholders to understand their views and share our perspective; and shaping consulting, engagement and advocacy to address  potential business implications, including: • Engagement and communications about issues of interest to stakeholders. • Global monitoring and engagement about regulation and legislation. • Engaging with trade associations appropriately.  Our action plans, performance results  and management system indicators of implementation highlight the  key business results and business practices. The plans and results are summarized for all topics in the reference chart below.  This overview provides a comprehensive view into the completeness of the Action Plan framework for driving performance.  Each action plan includes specific detailed actions with clear accountabilities and timetables.       Project Development  Project Authorization Guidelines -- Project and program approvals follow a consistent framework to manage for project economics, deliverables, reviews, authorization and funding. These guidelines communicate standard techniques to analyze and develop viable projects and communicate the project’s value and risks effectively so that management can make a fully informed decision. The intent of these guidelines is to work in concert with specific functional and management processes to deliver projects that consistently outperform industry average and level the playing field so management decisions are based on information that is consistent, comparable and of appropriate quality.  The Capital Project Management System is a project management system codified in a set of documents that define requirements and provide guidance. It applies to all Project Development and Procurement personnel throughout the phases of any project and is a foundational element of how ConocoPhillips executes projects. Through effective use of this system, the company aims to deliver projects that are safe, transparent, predictable and competitive.  Sustainable Development Standard -- Within the Capital Project Management System there is a Sustainable Development Standard. The standard defines the minimum requirements for ConocoPhillips Project Management Teams for applying Sustainable Development principles in the management of capital projects. The standard refers to the criteria for using the Sustainable Development Scorecard and risk assessments for climate change, water, and biodiversity, as well as the social performance plan requirement. The standard also refers to the ConocoPhillips HSE Due Diligence standard for further guidance on how to account for Sustainable Development issues in new business ventures, joint ventures, or real property transactions. Sustainable Development Scorecard -- The scorecard provides a consistent process to ensure proper evaluation and documentation of sustainability issues at key stages. It also provides teams with a simple but thorough method of assessing whether potential risks and uncertainties have been fully addressed and resolved. All project teams are encouraged to use the scorecard to measure alignment with our sustainable development approach and requirements, and its use is mandatory for capital projects that require approval by our board of directors. Such projects are not funded until this evaluation has been completed.  The scorecard is initiated in the early stage of the project, when a single location has been identified, as the team begins planning design details. The scorecard uses a qualitative risk-based scoring system to assess whether our nine sustainable development commitments have been properly addressed during planning. It enables decision-makers to assess a project’s readiness to proceed to the next stage from a sustainable development perspective.  During project development, the completed scorecard provides a concise visual summary of a project’s continued alignment with our principles. It also encourages project teams to take a life-cycle perspective by considering at the start of a project those issues that will become relevant during the operational and eventual decommissioning phases. The scorecard fosters discussion of sustainable development issues among project team members, and between the project team and decision makers. These issues are logged into our risk tracking system for management throughout the project development process. In addition to the issues raised in the scorecard discussions, this process also enables the project team to set objectives for sustainability issues in each phase of the project. Associated with the scorecard are two additional important processes: a social and environmental impact assessment, and a formal stakeholder engagement plan. These provide a baseline understanding of the existing social dynamics and environmental considerations within a location prior to our involvement, help identify important issues and potential effects that should be considered, and allow for continued learning as the project progresses.     Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Integration  We conduct assessments to identify how our business activities might impact the communities and ecosystems in areas where project development is planned. By identifying specific issues and the requirements of the host country, we can assess potential impact and how those issues can be avoided or mitigated. In determining what issues to investigate during the assessment, we begin with the host country’s legal requirements, and supplement these as needed in order to address the issues covered by our own HSE standards and sustainable development requirements.       HSE Management System The HSE management system supports implementation of HSE and SD policies by providing a consistent framework and approach to managing vital issues. A systems approach helps ensure that business activities are conducted in a safe, healthy, and environmentally and socially responsible manner, aimed at preventing incidents, injuries, occupational illnesses, pollution and damage to assets. It enables our employees and communities to thrive, which helps keep our business healthy.  Through the implementation of HSE Management Systems, our businesses identify and eliminate work hazards and risks. The process builds on the principle that all incidents are preventable and that HSE considerations must be embedded into every task and business decision. HSE Management Systems are assessed annually using a common tool to guide continuous improvement and ultimately achieve the highest standards of excellence.  All business units periodically review their management systems against corporate HSE standards using the HSE Excellence Assessment Tool. They analyze current status, identify areas for potential improvement, and then implement key activities to reduce risk and further enhance HSE performance.  In 2012, we completed an update of the company’s HSE management system and standard. Among other advancements, we incorporated sustainable development into new or revised management system elements and strengthened company guidance on integrating sustainable development into the life cycle of our assets. Business units All ConocoPhillips business units are responsible for integrating sustainability issues into day-to-day operations, project development and decision-making. They are held accountable through an annual   performance management process.       Operations Once a project is ready for operations, the HSE management system and other company sustainability programs help define company expectations and provide direction for managing environmental and social issues.  It is the asset manager’s responsibility to direct asset sustainable development performance. Audits carried out by corporate and business unit staff are a key process through which we assure these expectations are being met. These tools are described in further depth under each topic heading throughout our website.  For more information, please see our sections on Health, Safety and Environment Policy, Management System and Audits, Safety & Health , and Performance Data.          Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)   LCA methodology provides business units with a quantitative estimate of potential environmental and social impacts over the life of a project.   By assessing project emissions, natural resource usage and social footprint, business units can understand their individual performance, their footprint relative to other oil and gas projects, and their impacts relative to competing energy sources. See Life Cycle Thinking to learn more.   For more information, see the Environment section         Training & Awareness   Our approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools. We’ve adapted and applied training materials developed by IPIECA and other best practice groups, and rolled out training to new hires, key functions and leaders. We’ve also focused our Networks of Excellence and practitioner work groups on further integration of sustainable development commitments into business planning and processes to broaden awareness and skill development.   ConocoPhillips is active in IPIECA best practice groups to develop training and guidance materials and improve our approach. Our internal training is distributed in a variety of ways, including a new animated video which addresses key concepts of sustainability – economic, social and environmental performance – and includes examples in Australia, Alaska & Canada of successfully incorporating sustainability in business decision making.  