CASE STUDYCASE STUDY BAROSSA PROJECTEnsuring natural gas supply with sustainability in mindOur Barossa offshore project in the Bonaparte Basin in the Timor Sea will develop the area’s large natural gas and light condensate resource and extend the operating life of our existing Darwin LNG facility. The concept for the proposed project, located approximately 160 miles north of Darwin, includes a Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) facility, subsea production system, supporting in-field subsea infrastructure and a pipeline to the Darwin facility. By incorporating sustainability con.siderations early into project planning efforts, we can reduce impact to the environment and support alignment with local communities. Prior to drilling for natural gas or oil, we work with governments and communities to assess and mitigate risks related to climate change, water, biodiversity, and social performance. As the first project in Australia eval.uated under a new environmental approval process for offshore natural gas and oil, the project underwent a thorough risk assessment and robust approval process. We collaborated closely with regulators to navigate the new, evolving process of assess.ing the project’s potential risks to both the environment and commu.nities. This included the preparation of an in-depth Offshore Project Proposal (OPP) for submission to the National Offshore Petroleum Safety and Environmental Management Authority (NOPSEMA) and extensive, years-long stakeholder engagement to solicit concerns about the project, including an eight-week formal public comment period. “Nothing about these projects is quick or easy. We began apprais.ing the area in 2014, establishing baseline environmental analysis and determining how to mitigate or minimize the impact of our oper.ations on the area. We spent years meeting with communities, including fishermen, who may be impacted by our operations, working to under.stand and address their concerns. And we aren’t scheduled to produce gas until 2023,” said Pat Dinan, Barossa Project Director. The OPP is prepared during a project’s early design phase and considers all potential impacts and risks over the project’s life cycle. Environmental risk assessments consider the nature and scale of each potential impact and risk, including conservation of biodiversity and overall ecosystem integrity. The risk assessment was informed by exten.sive marine baseline studies that provided a greater understanding of the remote region’s environ.ment. The proposal also defines measurable, specific key manage.ment controls and environmental performance outcomes that will be applied to manage the potential environmental impacts and risks associated with the project. The remote project location, predomi.nantly in open offshore waters, and pipeline channel planning mean that facility siting can avoid areas of regional environmental importance such as shoals, banks, coral reefs, or biologically important areas for marine fauna. Extensive stakeholder engagementOur stakeholder engagement efforts began far before the start of the formal OPP public comment period, early in the project planning process. Over the course of a four-year period, we consulted with more than 100 stakeholder organizations, including community members, governments, commercial fishing associations, fishermen, educational and scien.tific organizations, non-government organizations (NGOs), spill response agencies and other natural gas and oil industry operators. Though our planned operations are not in an area of high fishing activity, we closely consulted with the active commercial fisheries in the region and plan con.tinued research and collaboration with them as well as government and research groups.Indigenous peoples living on the Tiwi Islands will be the closest neighbors to the Barossa project and were consulted about the project and potential opportunities to create mutual benefit. The Tiwi Islands are about 60 miles south of the Barossa offshore development area and about four miles from the gas export pipeline corridor at its closest point. We consid.ered several important habitats, including nesting sites for marine turtles, seabird rookeries, and the conservation of dugongs — large marine mammals often known as “sea cows.” “We have consulted extensively with a wide range of stakeholders, includ.ing Tiwi Island indigenous groups and fishermen. Since this is a very remote area, many people rely on the ocean for their food, so they are con.cerned about potential harm to the area and very involved with develop.ment plans,” said Kayleen Ewin, vice president of External Relations.Marine studies
program Advanced scientific environmental baseline studies, including collab.orative studies with the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS), characterized the existing marine environment within and surrounding the Barossa offshore development area using remote sensing technol.ogy, metocean and underwater noise studies, water quality and sediment habitat studies, and dispersion modeling. The studies involved the collection of detailed baseline data over an 18-month period to capture seasonal variability and inform the risk assessment for the project. Building on work undertaken as part of the Australian National Environmental Science Programme, AIMS modeled regional data to char.acterize the benthic habitats of the Oceanic Shoals marine park, Barossa offshore development area, and gas pipeline corridor. This information was incorporated into the Barossa assessment and shared with the government agency responsible for marine parks management, Parks Australia. Additionally, an advisory panel of recognized experts includ.ing representatives from the Centre for Whale Research (CWR), Charles Darwin University (CDU), and Monash University, assisted in understanding environmental values and sensitivi.ties and validating potential risks and impacts. Further targeted surveys of seabed features along the natural gas pipeline route will be conducted as the engineering design pro.gresses to inform route optimization. Information gleaned from the surveys will further supplement knowledge of the existing marine environment along the proposed route.A modeling study was commis.sioned to provide an assessment of hypothetical spills on surface waters and within the water column. Though we place the highest importance on preventing spills, the study provides data to guide cleanup efforts in the unlikely event one occurs.Emissions studies
program The atmospheric emissions asso.ciated with the Barossa offshore project were also characterized for the OPP risk assessment. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were considered in the context of contributions to Australian and global concentrations at a wider spatial context. The total GHG emissions footprint comprises both native reservoir CO. and equipment/processing emissions. Early feasibility studies included an evaluation of alternative options for management of GHG emissions. Through the forward design and execution of the project, opportu.nities to minimize GHG emissions will continue to be investigated, in line with our GHG intensity target and as appropriate for the domestic Australian and international policy context at the time.Future environmental approvalsWe received acceptance of the project from NOPSEMA in March 2018. The next step is to continue engineering and design of the facilities considering potential environmental impacts during installation and ongoing opera.tion. Plans for the different project activities will be prepared and submitted to NOPSEMA for assess.ment and acceptance. We will use the development of these plans to undertake further engagement with stakeholders to make sure we continue to consider and address their issues and concerns.“We spent years meeting with communities, including fishermen, who may be impacted by our operations, working to understand and address their concerns.” — Barossa Project Director Pat DinanCASE STUDYCASE STUDY BAROSSA PROJECTRendering of FPSO facilityCASE STUDYJulia Spethman, Darwin LNGBarossa studies
and reportsWater quality field survey reportSediment quality and infauna field survey report Benthic habitat report Underwater noise monitoring survey AIMS regional shoals and shelf assessment Drill cuttings and fluids dispersion modeling study PFW dispersion modeling studyCooling water dispersion modeling study Wastewater dispersion modeling study Hydrocarbon spill modeling studyToxicity assessment of Barossa condensate Underwater noise modeling study — FPSO facility anchor pilingUnderwater noise modeling study — FPSO facility operationsEPBC Act Protected Matters database searchesPotential Impacts of Pipeline Installation Activities on Marine TurtlesRead the reports.Focusing onSafe OperationsWe seek to better understand how people work in order to identify potential risks, put in appropriate defenses and maintain positive control. SAFETYSafetyPriority issuesSafety and healthWorkforceCommunity impactsThe guiding principle that “work is never so urgent or important that we cannot take the time to do it safely and in an environmentally responsible manner” is core to our day-to-day operations. Our goal is to prevent all injuries, occupational illnesses and incidents.To achieve that goal, we are working to increase our operational reliability, resiliency and learning. This means understanding how work is done, being mindful of risks, and committing to predicting errors so that we can minimize or eliminate unexpected events. By introducing human performance concepts, we have been able to reenergize our existing processes and tools.Human performance is the way people, equipment, work processes and our culture interact as a system. We are specifically focused on proactively reducing the outcome of human error by improving the interaction between individuals and critical controls and systems, recogniz.ing error-likely situations, and applying tools to reduce the likelihood of error. In 2017, we introduced a learning team tool. Learning teams serve as one means to oper.ationalize human performance concepts and mindsets, and to better understand how work is actually done. Learning teams are facilitated sessions with workers in which the team and the facilitator discuss successful work or an event to determine what can be learned. Work as imagined in the office is rarely like work done in the field. The collective input from sharing different perspectives results in a better understanding of how we succeeded or how an event occurred. Our aim is to develop a culture of learning where all employees and contractors are encouraged to collaborate, hold each other accountable for learning and improving, and seek diversity of opinion. By applying human performance concepts such as learning teams to existing processes and tools, we are changing the way we look at failure. Across our opera.tions, we take learnings from past events or near misses and use them to improve our procedures, training, maintenance programs, and designs. Understanding how people work enables us to identify potential risks and verify safeguards to mitigate them. This approach is rein.forced through activities such as verification of personal and process safety safeguards and continued and mean.ingful leadership engagement with field operations.A focus on safety extends beyond our operations to our partners. As an example, when considering shipping bitumen by rail nearly 2,000 miles from Canada to the U.S., we conducted an internal risk assessment on the route, which is managed by three different rail companies and multiple crews along the way. We took a proactive, multi-discipline approach to working with key rail con.tractors to ensure process safety defenses were in place. The contractors participated in a kick-off meeting where they explained their approach, including communication processes, rail routes, care and custody, product handoff, and emergency response and preparedness. ConocoPhillips personnel then toured facilities and reviewed and assessed emergency response processes, HSE Management System functionality, inspection processes, and asset and operating integrity programs. We also participated in an emergency response drill with Burlington Northern Santa Fe and conducted a table top drill with Canadian Pacific to ensure roles and respon.sibilities are clear should an incident occur. The project gave ConocoPhillips Canada the assurance required to consider transportation by rail as an alternative for getting oil to market.Process safety Enhancing process safety awareness and competency across our company has been a key factor in reducing the rates of serious incidents and process safety events in 2017. We rely on a system of people, processes and equipment to achieve process safety and consider any unplanned release of hazardous material a process safety failure.Global subject matter experts meet regularly to review leading indicators related to our process safety perfor.mance. Emphasizing leading indicators, such as process safety near misses, provides insight into the performance of our barriers. This team also develops informative Barrier Sheets to communicate to the workforce on how to strengthen barriers and identify weaknesses. We recognize that competency is integral to assuring process safety within our organization and critical to ensuring that our people can safely execute their work. A revised HSE Risk Matrix Standard clarifies criteria and promotes consistency in risk assessments across our operations. By better understanding the risks we face, we can learn from incidents and strengthen barriers to prevent recurrence. In Norway, operational integrity work has been ongoing since 2013, focused on improved understanding of system requirements, compliance, and verification. Creating an integrated operational integrity team with onshore and offshore workers, dialogue and verification between colleagues, and discussions regarding devia.tions and solutions has improved the understanding of requirements for execution and led to a notable reduc.tion in incidents related to operational integrity. SpillsThe volume of both small and large spills was signifi.cantly reduced compared to 2016. We had two hydro.carbon spills greater than 100 barrels, both initiated by nature. One was due to a tank fire started by a lightning strike and the other was due to storage tanks toppling over during Hurricane Harvey flooding. All hydrocarbon spills are considered serious, with those impacting a sen.sitive area and those greater than 100 barrels immediately reported to management. Following a reduction in the number of spills greater than 1 barrel in 2016, the number of spills in 2017 was basically flat, with spill volume decreased by 57 percent. Asset integrity programs, spill prevention teams and monitoring activities are credited for the improved performance. PreparednessThe complex nature of our business means we must be prepared to respond to a range of possible disrup.tions. Potential threats come in many forms such as major accidents, political instability or extreme weather. We maintain a strong emphasis on training to develop effective emergency response capabilities. In 2017, we conducted three large-scale emergency response exer.cises. In eastern Australia, our Global Incident Management Assist Team (GIMAT) conducted a two-day drill to practice the response to a simulated materials delivery barge oil spill potentially impacting Gladstone Harbor. An exercise in Norway was based on a hypothetical subsea problem with an offshore well and included industry peer participants.Personal safetyBuilding on our strong personal safety performance over the last few years, we had no fatalities and once again broke records in 2017 with significant reductions in serious incidents and workforce recordable injuries. We believe our focus on the 8 Life Saving Rules and field verification is preventing injury by reducing the risk of incidents when workers perform critical activities. Targeted reliability conversations and verification of the 8 Life Saving Rules uncover potential risks and elevate a sense of vulnerabil.ity and chronic unease, helping to prevent catastrophic events in an envi.ronment of complex risk factors.Minimum require.ments for critical activities are addressed as part of pre-job planning through permits and/or risk assess.ments. Once the activity has commenced, field verifica.tion minimum requirements are effectively implemented through two-way learning conversations during these critical tasks. In the U.S., our Lower 48 business unit is using mobile device technology to help improve the quality of field verifications through real time reporting and analysis at the asset level. Over 1,200 focused audits have been entered into the system and opportunities for improvement have been integrated into operational meetings. A similar mobile solution is also being used to enhance Behavior-Based Safety Observations. These discussions support an improvement-based culture of learning and keep the conversation about risk alive.FOCUSING ON SAFE OPERATIONS SAFETY53% Serious Incident Rate improvement vs. 20160.16Total Recordable Rate, improvement of 7% vs. 201658%Tier 1 Process Safety Event improvement vs. 201657%Reduced
spill volume vs. 2016FOCUSING ON SAFE OPERATIONS SAFETY“Our curiosity helps our understanding of the context surrounding an issue, event or successful work. We use this information to better understand the effectiveness of, and to strengthen, our barriers and safeguards, especially critical controls for critical tasks.”
Health and Safety Assurance Global Chief Steve de AlbuquerqueSafety meeting at APLNGFOCUSING ON SAFE OPERATIONS SAFETYOther resourcesHealth, Safety and Environment PolicyLife Saving RulesSustainable reliability in CanadaBy incorporating high reliability prin.ciples into how work is conducted, our Canadian business unit contin.ues to mature the safety mindset for both leadership and front-line workers. A key element of the effort is a cultural shift toward account.ability instead of blame, shifting our focus from discussions after incidents to pre-accident learning. This includes being curious and constantly looking for weak signals in order to evolve systems so our workers can function in a complex and highly variable environment. It requires leaders to develop a culture of transparency, with a focus on lessons learned. This shift is highlighted by the 20 learning teams who assessed inherent risks and reviewed upcoming work in 2017, elevating chronic unease and creating awareness to ensure defenses are in place prior to execution. The teams focus on culture (leadership and safety values), key behaviors (organi.zational learning, reaction to failure, and sharing), and key structures (tools needed for work). The use of data analytics helps identify weak signals, further enhancing a proactive, instead of reactive, approach to work planning. A foundation of deliber.ate execution, an intentional focus on mindful change, and maintaining an element of chronic unease are the cor.nerstones being used to become a high reliability organization (HRO). Jessie Chong and Trevor Hartt at Surmont 2FOCUSING ON SAFE OPERATIONS SAFETYSPOTLIGHTListen to ConocoPhillips Canada HSE Vice President Darryl Hass discuss safety.