LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERSDuring 2015, we took a number of steps to enhance our safety, health, environmental and social performance, all of which we regard as essential to the sustainability of our ongoing business. This progress was achieved despite the severe downturn in oil and natural gas prices that began in 2014. We recognize that stakehold.ers have high expectations of us and we are determined to remain a safe and responsible employer, neighbor, partner and operator. Our accomplishments included our best overall year in personal safety for recordable injuries. We are particu.larly proud of this achievement considering that we had seven major facility startups, including megaprojects at the APLNG liquefied natural gas venture in Australia, the Surmont 2 oil sands development in Canada and the CD5 drilling program in Alaska.Across our global activities, we continued to actively engage with stakeholders to develop workable solu.tions for a range of local and broader societal issues. For example, in Australia we supported a fire abatement program developed by indigenous communities. In sev.eral areas of our operations we worked to promote road safety focused on speed limits and text-free driving. We held dialogues with socially responsible investors to develop social performance indicators. We appreciate the mutual benefit created by our relationships with stakeholders. Oil and natural gas operations are dependent upon a vast supply chain of goods and services provided by other companies. We have raised our performance expectations of key suppliers. An important step was conducting Supplier Quality Audits to assess vendor management of emissions, waste generation, water usage, human rights and forced labor risks. These efforts  provide insight into how we can work with suppliers to learn and improve together. Integrating advanced technology and engineering with our approach to water sustainability resulted in numer.ous process improvements and innovations. We achieved success with the first large-scale produced water reuse project in our Lower 48 operations, improved steam quality at our oil sands operations in Canada and opti.mized offshore water treatment in Norway.We continue taking action on climate change issues. During 2015 we either eliminated or avoided an esti.mated 0.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent emissions, bringing cumulative reductions since 2009 to 6.8 million tonnes compared to business as usual.Looking ahead, we believe that the global greenhouse gas emissions reduction framework agreed to at the COP-21 meeting in Paris validates the importance of managing our footprint and engaging constructively with policymakers, communities, investors and other interested stakeholders. We continue to position the company to successfully operate in a world challenged to reduce its emissions. Our work entails managing risk, optimizing opportunities, investing in technologies and preparing to respond to evolving government policies in countries around the world. This Sustainability Report details our activities during 2015, and our web-based content outlines the foundation of our comprehensive approach to incorporating sustain.ability goals into business planning and decision making. We are proud of what we have been able to accomplish as we strive to develop resources responsibly and create lasting value for communities. As always, we invite input from stakeholders at sdteam@conocophillips.com.Ryan Lance, Chairman and CEOResponsible OperationsAt our Surmont facility in Canada, Operator Brian White checks a water storage tank. Exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and natural gas globally is what we do. A commitment to safety, operating excellence and environmental stewardship is how we do it.SAFETYSafetyWe recognize the responsibility that comes with managing complex oil and natural gas operations around the world, and we understand the gravity of potential consequences of failing to operate safely. Keeping people and assets safe, and being good stewards of the environment are critical to running our business well. Our SPIRIT Values — Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork — inspire our actions and confirm that safety is core to how we operate. Our FocusDeveloping a strong culture of safety and delivering superior safety performance are achieved by having ded.icated and engaged leadership working with a commit.ted and skilled workforce. The framework through which we safely manage our operations, the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System Standard, emphasizes occupational safety, risk management, emer.gency preparedness and environmental performance, along with an intense focus on process safety.In 2015, our workforce continued to build on momentum gained through existing, effective programs. We set out to further embed these systems into our culture through the following actions:
•	Enhanced integration of the 8 Life Saving Rules. •	Continued implementation of the Process Safety Strategy with improvements to training, governance, documentation and communications. •	Continued implementation of Learning Teams to better learn from successes and challenges, and where defenses can strengthened.•	Continued to target improvements to emissions, spills and flaring through the Environmental Strategy Framework. •	Continued strengthening of crisis and emergency management capabilities.  Best Safety Performance on RecordOverall, HSE performance was strong through 2015 with significant reductions in serious incidents and workforce recordable injuries. Serious incidents were down 32 percent versus 2014, and we experienced no serious Tier 1 Process Safety Events. At 0.20, our Total Recordable Rate dropped to a record low and improved 30 percent versus 2014. An increased focus on verification of the Life Saving Rules in 2015 is believed to have contributed to the improvement in our serious incident rate. Business units are accountable for developing and implementing a field verification program that best suits the needs of the business. Process safety awareness played a key role in the
company experiencing no serious Tier 1 Process Safety Events in 2015, compared to six in 2014. A Tier 1 Process8 Life Saving RulesRead our Health, Safety and Environment Policy.RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYRESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYWorkforce Total Recordable RateSafety Event represents a loss of primary containment of energy or hazard.ous material that has the potential to result in a serious consequence. The improvement in our process safety performance speaks to the importance we have placed on process safety competency and preventing losses of containment in our operations.  New leading metrics, including Life Saving Rules verification, leadership visibility and process safety defenses, were combined with existing lagging metrics like Total Recordable Rate and Significant and High Risk Incident Rate to create a more holistic and balanced view of performance. Using these performance indicators will place increasing focus on leading metrics and will help businesses focus on activities designed to strengthen barriers and ultimately, prevent incidents. Along with our intense focus on prevention, we continued to enhance our emergency preparedness and response capabilities. Our Global Incident Management Assist Team (GIMAT) received third-party certified training from the internationally recognized Incident Command System (ICS). We conducted three regional emergency response exercises, completed training for 19 internal functional support teams and institutionalized lessons learned. In addition to internal resources, we subscribe to surface and subsea oil spill and emergency response entities, participate in mutual aid agreements and collaborate with regulators and external agencies that may further augment and support a response, if needed.Workforce Lost Workday Case RateSPOTLIGHTIndonesia’s iCARE Program Targets Continuous ImprovementAnalysis of industry data shows that low consequence, high frequency incidents are good predictors of low frequency, high consequence events. In Indonesia, we implemented a plan to identify and correct low consequence incidents before they result in an event with higher consequences. A new tool called iCARE (Intervention Card for Appropriate Risk Engagement) helps workers perform appropriate risk behavior interventions. The goal is to make others aware of risk and potential consequences, appropriately manage the risk, and make targeted improvements based on human fac.tor learnings gained in the intervention. Other advantages to the new program include lower cost and greater flexibil.ity than previous programs, more efficient use of manpower and simplified number of reporting tools.Encouraging people to intervene when they observe unsafe behavior has led to greater understanding of human behav.ior, and the implementation of improvement programs based on those learnings. With a Total Recordable Rate below 0.1 for the past seven years, our safety performance in Indonesia is already strong. Incorporating this program has the potential to further improve our safety culture, resulting in even better HSE performance.RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYRESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYSPOTLIGHTCanada’s Focus on High ReliabilityIt was an outstanding year for safety performance in Canada. We saw a step-change in safety outcomes across the organization, including a decrease of our total recordable inci.dent rate by 57 percent. This success was demonstrated across all aspects of the business. The year started well, with Oil Sands Delineation Drilling completing their program free of recordable injuries
for the first time ever. In 2015, our Western Canada business unit began increasing their best ever periods of time recordable injury-free, while maintaining industry-leading process safety performance in areas such as pipeline integrity. Additionally, ConocoPhillips Canada achieved first steam and first oil at Surmont 2 in the oil sands, a project that demonstrated how world-class construction safety performance can be achieved. At Surmont 2, staff turned over 
1,058 systems with zero recordable incidents, completing more than 
3.6 million work hours. The year ended with volumes ramping up at Surmont and the commissioning and startup of Surmont 2, an extremely complex operation, conducted in a safe and controlled manner. The main drivers of these results can be traced to a focus on safety, contractor engagement efforts and the journey to high reliability. High reliability is characterized by deliber.ate execution and mindful change. 
It is leadership driven, fixated on detecting error-likely situations and learning from them, working to sim.plify while remaining alert, and main.taining awareness of what happens at the front line. Operational learning serves as the catalyst for change. Application of these characteristics, combined with previous efforts and leadership focus, has shifted the safety culture in Canada and enabled significant improvements in safety performance. The underlying efforts consistent across the business were: •	Careful planning to ensure the right people and equipment were in place. •	Accountability of field leadership to ensure work was always under control. •	A focus on the frontline, giving those doing the work a voice that could be heard. Our 2015 performance in Canada reflects how effective the journey to high reliability can be. WORKFORCEWorkforceWe are committed to attracting and retaining collaborative, innovative and responsible people and providing them with growth opportunities. We invest in people to strengthen our organizational capability and develop a talented global workforce.  Our WorkforceAs we managed through low commodity prices, we took the opportunity to find ways to do business better. Through this effort, we’re building a more competitive ConocoPhillips that can outperform through industry cycles. This work required some difficult decisions in 2015, including a 17 percent global workforce reduction and a consolidation in management positions. At the end of 2015 we had 15,900 employees working in 21 coun.tries. Despite challenges in the industry, we’re focusing on maintaining core capabilities in our workforce and believe that innovation and excellence create a platform for opportunity and growth.DiversityValuing everyone's contribution isn't just something we talk about. It's what we put into practice each day. We believe that diverse opinions, ideas and perspectives are what fuel innovation throughout our company. Everyone plays a role in giving our company a com.petitive business advantage. Consistent with our focus on excellence, we continue to progress in diversity and inclusion — for the good of our enterprise, employees, vendors and communities.In the spirit of valuing all people, we support numerous employee network groups. These local groups align with our corporate objective of fostering a diverse workforce and focus primarily on professional development, net.working, community involvement and supporting our recruiting activities. Although network memberships are limited to employees only, many of the social, educational or cultural events and activities are open to all employees, contractors, family members and external stakeholders. Talent Management and TrainingOne unique element of our talent development process is our Talent Management Teams (TMTs). Seventeen TMTs represent the majority of employees across the globe and are responsible for managing skills critical to busi.ness success, now and into the future. They provide the foundation for our employees to develop their skills and provide us with the ability to attract, develop and retain employees with strong skillsets. Each TMT is comprised of senior representatives from business units and corporate functional organizations. These representatives are the interface between business unit leaders, supervisors and employees.Performance Management at ConocoPhillips is an ongo.ing process in which supervisors and employees work together to:•	Set individual business and development goals.•	Ensure goals are aligned with business performance objectives.•	Measure progress toward those goals.•	Identify developmental needs to achieve goals.The process also incorporates ongoing coaching, feed.back and progress assessment throughout the cycle.Each employee is responsible for managing his or her own career and we offer many tools to assist employ.ees in their career development. Training opportunities are customized for each region and specific job role. In 2015, our employees logged more than 250,000 hours in online training, with an average of 16.5 hours of training per employee. Time spent training decreased as compared to previous years due to focus on other business priorities. More than 2,000 employees attended a technical training course in 2015 and approximately 200 participated in our Engineering Academy.WellnessWe offer programs to help give employees what they need to achieve better health and wellness. Our Good for You! campaign is intended to educate, encourage and challenge all employees to learn how to improve their well-being through good nutrition, physical activity, managing stress and knowing their numbers by partici.pating in biometric screenings.Throughout the Good for You! campaign, there have been a number of activities like the Energy in Action event that allows individuals and teams to earn points for physical activity, track their progress and challenge others to increase their level of activity. The 2015 campaign focused on the connection between wellness and safety in particular, addressing fatigue, distraction and stress.Payroll Country Distribution21Countries with operations and activities15,900Employees worldwideRESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.WORKFORCEA group of employees attending training in our Learning Center.Our Good for You! campaign challenges employees to achieve their health and wellness goals.STAKEHOLDERSStakeholdersDeveloping and maintaining relationships with a broad range of stakeholders is fundamental to our business success, and our stakeholders have varied and evolving expectations. This is particularly true in a year like 2015, when falling commodity prices had dramatic effects on our industry and the communities where we operate. Even in this tough business environ.ment, we understand the importance of our responsibilities on the ground. Ongoing stakeholder engagement allows us to under.stand a variety of perspectives as we continue to improve our company. As we develop plans and report results, we consider stakeholder feedback, questions, and insight in a variety of ways. The ways we engage with our stakeholders are as varied as stakeholders them.selves. We include town hall meetings, community meet.ings, one-on-one discussions, conferences and forums, emails and social media among others. Our stakeholders and topics of interest include:EMPLOYEESSafety, compensation and retention, environmental responsibility, career development, health and wellness, company strategy, ethics and complianceCOMMUNITIESLocal employment, economic development, training, emergency response, air and water impacts, noise, traffic, safetySUPPLIERSPerformance expectations, supplier diversity, cost efficiencies, local content developmentSTOCKHOLDERSGovernance, financial sustainability, climate change, carbon asset risk, water, hydraulic fracturing, human rightsGOVERNMENTSHealth, safety and environmental protection issues, tax policy, U.S. crude oil exports, job protection and creation, hydraulic fracturingThrough this engagement in 2015, we tracked issues of significance to stakeholders to prioritize in our reporting. See page 32 for more information about our
stakeholder engagement.Supporting Industry DialoguesTo ensure we have a full understanding of all the issues and trends facing our industry and company and to contribute our experience to those discussions we are a member of numerous industry associations. External organizations are important for best practice sharing and learning as well. The benefits we receive from trade and industry association memberships include the general business, technical and industry standard-setting exper.tise that these organizations provide. Through leader.ship and participation in trade associations involved in lobbying, we seek to champion legislative solutions that are practical, economical, environmentally responsible, non-partisan and in the best interests of the company. ConocoPhillips does not always agree with all positions taken by trade and industry associations on issues and in fact, we publicly acknowledge that we do take contrary positions from time to time. We have strong governance around these activities, annually report on trade associ.ation memberships with dues in excess of $50,000, and engage with stakeholders who have questions about these activities.Learn more about our approach to people and society.CORPORATE GOVERNANCECorporate GovernanceThe Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our positions on public policy issues, HSE and matters that may impact the company’s reputation, including sustainable devel.opment performance and reporting. The committee is regularly updated, at least annually, on sustainable development issues and the progress the company is making on the action plans. The committee also engages in deeper discussion on timely topics, including the company’s approach to managing carbon asset risk and water.	Learn more about our governance.Ensuring Ethical Business PracticesOur reputation and integrity depend on each employee, officer, director and those working on our behalf assum.ing a personal responsibility for our business conduct. Led by our Chief Compliance Officer, our Global Compliance and Ethics team was established to ensure adherence with applicable laws and the highest ethical standards, promote a positive corporate reputation, prevent criminal and civil liability, and set the tone for an ethical work envi.ronment. The team includes local ambassadors embed.ded in business units and functions who help support and administer our global compliance program.Code of Business Ethics and ConductOur Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Code), along with our SPIRIT Values, provides clear direction to all employees, contractors and suppliers about how to behave ethically and in accordance with ConocoPhillips standards. The Code covers a range of topics including business ethics, anti-trust, anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment and political involvement.TrainingNew employees receive training on the Code and all employees receive web-based training periodically. All employees are also required to read the Code annually and confirm compliance. People who are most exposed to corruption risks take part in annual web-based training and other targeted training. Systems and Practices for Reporting ViolationsWe encourage employees and contractors to ask ques.tions and seek guidance about ethical concerns and to understand their responsibility to report actual or suspected misconduct. We have several confidential reporting mechanisms, including speaking to a manager, supervisor, human resource representative or a Global Compliance and Ethics representative. Additionally, there is an anonymous option. Any stakeholder, whether employee, contractor, shareholder or the general public, may report an actual or suspected violation anony.mously through our 24-hour Ethics Helpline. The Ethics Helpline is hosted by a third party to ensure anonymity and is available worldwide via the web or phone in mul.tiple languages. ConocoPhillips prohibits retaliation of any kind against employees for raising an ethical or legal concern.CASE STUDY  SAN JUANCASE STUDY SAN JUANSan Juan: Reducing Emissions in New MexicoSince 2009, we have reduced global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 6.8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent when compared to business-as-usual, keeping our absolute emissions nearly flat. Much of this was achieved in the San Juan Basin in the U. S., where we own 1.3 million net acres of oil and gas leases with more than 10,000 producing wells.“We have voluntarily implemented an aggressive emissions reduction strategy in the San Juan Basin,” said Bij Agarwal, vice president, Rockies business unit. “These proactive efforts have been implemented in a safe and efficient manner.” Methane is the main component of natural gas. Methane accounts for about 10 percent of U.S. GHG emissions, of which less than 30 percent is from natural gas and petroleum systems according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). That includes emissions from 
production, processing, storage, transmission and 
distribution of natural gas. Methane is also emitted from manure management, coal mining, landfills  and enteric fermentation. Our GHG emissions include about 24 percent carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) from methane, so reducing those emissions is a focus of our global and business unit climate change management plans. In San Juan, we continued to create and implement a wide range of programs to drive operational improvements and emission reductions in 2015. Primary sources of reductions have been replacing pneumatic devices and installing plunger lifts, traditionally the two largest sources of natural gas emissions. While regulations now restrict the use of high-bleed pneumatic devices on new installations, we voluntarily replaced most existing high-bleed devices with no-emission or low-emission controllers on existing installa.tions across our operations. And we plan to finish replacing all of our remaining high-bleed devices in San Juan in 2016.In addition to replacing the pneumatic devices, we con.tinue to optimize plunger lift operations on wells that require liquids unloading. This involves upgrading current controllers with high tech devices that optimize the produc.tion of oil and minimize emissions. “These proactive efforts to reduce emissions demonstrate the successful balancing of the economic, social and envi.ronmental benefits of ensuring natural gas is a clean fuel across its life cycle,” said Don Hrap, president, Lower 48 busi.ness unit. We further reduced emissions by using infrared cameras to detect and repair small natural gas releases and by capturing methane vented during well completions. We are converting our 300-truck fleet in northwest New Mexico from gasoline to propane autogas, which will dramatically reduce vehicle emissions. Other energy efficiency improve.ments include greater utilization of photovoltaic solar pan.els field equipment, optimized compression, and the use of solar-powered chemical injection units in place of gas-
powered pumps on some wells to reduce emissions and fuel use. We also work with our service providers to evaluate alternative energy sources for well pad operations. These efforts are part of the the asset’s climate change manage.ment plan.The work resulted in 2015 CO2e emissions in the San Juan Basin being reduced by 26 percent relative to 2014. Other 2015 performance indicators include a 24 percent reduc.tion in liquids unloading CO2e  emissions and a 34 percent reduction for pneumatic device CO2e emissions.We have completed the majority of feasible emissions reductions projects. As we look to the future, our emissions should continue to decline, albeit at a slower rate because other economic reduction opportunities using existing technology have already been completed. We are currently evaluating several new technologies for their potential fea.sibility, cost effectiveness and emissions recovery potential, and will continue this work in 2016. Our focus will continue to be on identifying voluntary projects that improve our overall performance by reducing emissions and flaring.“We have voluntarily implemented an aggressive emissions reduction strategy in the San Juan Basin,” said Bij Agarwal, vice president, Rockies business unit. “These proactive efforts have been implemented in a safe and efficient manner.”CASE STUDY  SAN JUANSince 2009, we’ve reduced GHG emissions by6.8 milliontonnes of CO2 equivalent.Frank Anstead monitors and controls well performance in real time using solar-powered telemetry.