EnvironmentLife Cycle ThinkingEnergy enables global economic development and human progress.Yet, it is not always clear how best to protect the environ.ment, conserve resources and operate compatibly with neighbors while delivering the energy needed to realize these benefits. Energy companies, including ConocoPhillips, deal with these issues on a daily basis. How can com.panies make the best choices for the environment and communities?ConocoPhillips believes in using a systematic approach to understand these often complex issues. One tool in this approach is Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology – a tool to quantify environmental impacts and natural resource usage from project conception to completion. Having full understanding of project life cycle impacts allows planners to make more informed decisions regarding the environ.ment and natural resource use. It also allows comparisons between alternative approaches and competing technolo.gies. To conduct an LCA, a company must:• Define the LCA goal, scope and boundaries.• Develop an inventory of all products, resources and emis.sions entering or leaving the boundaries.• Assess the benefits and impacts of products, resources and emissions leaving the boundaries.• Interpret the results.For instance, LCAs consistently find that electric power pro.duction from natural gas produces half the greenhouse gas emissions of coal when comparing total emissions across the entire life cycle, including fuel production, transporta.tion and transformation into electric power.1 But how does liquefied natural gas (LNG) compare with coal? Applying systematic LCA methodology, the U. S. Department of Energy Technology Lab finds that LNG can provide a similar greenhouse gas reduction benefit relative to coal (up to a 45% reduction).2LCA methodology provides important information to company planners so that potential impacts to the environ.ment, natural resources and communities are considered as part of ongoing operating decisions. By taking this system.atic life cycle approach, ConocoPhillips can better under.stand and manage our environmental footprint.Life Cycle Analysis Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is a systematic approach for quan.tifying the potential environmental impacts of industrial processes and consumer products, providing us with a common method to assess process emissions and natural resource usage. By assessing natural resource usage and process emissions, business units can understand their individual environmen.tal performance, their footprint relative to other oil and gas projects, and their impacts relative to competing energy sources. 1U. S. DOE, NETL (2011), Deutsche Bank/Worldwatch Institute (2011), IHS CERA (2011), University of Maryland (2011)2 U. S. DOE NETL, (2010)ENVIRONMENTBiodiversityBiodiversity, or biological diversity, is a term used to capture the concept of the world’s biological richness and variety.Biodiversity Action PlanContext for ActionProtecting terrestrial and marine plant and animal species and ecosystems – also known as biological diversity or biodiversity – is essential for our operations and a key component of our sustainable development commitment, position, and actions. Biodiversity includes all populations and species of plants, animals and microbes that occur in nature, and the interac.tions within and between these populations that contrib.ute to ecosystem function. Ecosystem functions provide essential services that support human needs such as food, shelter, clothing, medicines and fuel. Biodiversity can also have recreational, cultural, spiritual and aesthetic values. We recognize the importance of biodiversity in maintaining ecosystem health and as a vital factor in human well-being. Action PlanOur Biodiversity Action Plan includes actions on implement.ing mitigation planning processes that conserve biodiversity for existing and future operations. The plan spans 2014-2018, following successful results from our first company-wide action plan from 2009-2013. We continue to improve our understanding of our performance in biodiversity via peer comparisons and by cataloging current challenges and activities. For each of the Action Plan categories, we have committed to specific actions. The current plan, which is updated annu.ally, describes 41 specific actions and accountabilities. The Biodiversity Action Plan content is managed for align.ment and consistency by our Biodiversity Issues Working Group and led by a member of the Sustainable Develop.ment Team. The group’s members are onshore and offshore biodiversity subject matter experts, advisors, team leads and managers representative of our global exploration and production portfolio. Business units and corporate functions share best practices and innovation on our Biodiversity & Ecosystems Network of Excellence. Our Action Plan commit.ments and progress are overseen through our sustainable development governance process, which includes our Sustainable Development Leadership Team and a champion from the Executive Leadership Team. PerformanceWe are continuously building our knowledge about the ecosystems in which we work and include studies to bench.mark our performance compared to other extractive-
industry companies. The information from early peer analysis was used to establish our baseline. We continue to explore better ways to collect and manage our biodiversity data, including improved animal tagging and streamlined databases for key regions. Employees are encouraged to ask questions about challenges they encounter and to share project ideas for technology development in the area of ecosystems and land use. To increase internal awareness and collaboration about biodiversity, an internal knowledge-sharing website is actively used by over 100 specialists.  Biodiversity Position (View Link)Understanding FootprintUnderstanding our footprint means evaluating if and how the infrastructure we need to place on the land surface or the sea bottom for our onshore and offshore exploration and production projects impact local ecosystems and bio.diversity. Typical exploration and production infrastructure may include: •	Access roads •	Seismic lines •	Well pads or platforms •	Process facilities •	Pipelines To better understand our biodiversity footprint, our Biodi.versity Action Plan includes projects to understand current biodiversity impacts and to establish common corporate biodiversity metrics and data requirements. ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by ConocoPhillips to provide assurance in relation to selected 2013 environmental data in the online 2013 Sustainable Development Report (the Report).Taking Steps to Reduce Footprint Our Action Plan describes our comprehensive commit.ments to reduce footprint. This section includes examples to illustrate the completeness and breadth of the work. For example, in Indonesia we conducted a terrestrial ecological project in the vicinity of Sumatra Onshore pipeline routes. The project evaluated Environmental Sensitivity Indices (ESI) that are comprised of a Vulnerability Index, a Ecolog.ical Index and a Social Value Index. This composite ESI will be used as reference to inform decisions in emergency situations within the areas of pipeline routes. In addition, our Indonesia operations also completed an update of an environmental sensitivity index mapping exercise for the Matak coastal area. The Algar Restoration Pilot Project, a Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) Joint Industry Project, won the Alberta Emerald Foundation’s “Shared Footprint Award.” As part of COSIA, ConocoPhillips Canada played a major role in the success of this project. The award recognizes COSIA’s efforts to improve the woodland caribou’s habitat and support herd survival. The project team selected the project area based on high caribou habitat value and low probability of further industry development. This required collaboration with a range of local stakeholders and government to secure access and permission for the project. Over the last 4 years, the Algar Caribou Habitat Restoration initiative has applied restoration techniques to more than 200 kilometers of seismic lines. Another example for reducing the impact of our land footprint in the oil sands region is Faster Forests, a COSIA collaborative industry initiative to accelerate the recla.mation process of areas that have been disturbed by oil sands exploration. To date, the Faster Forests program has resulted in almost 3 million trees and shrubs being planted on approximately 2,500 acres of land in Northern Alberta. In 2014 alone, the Faster Forests program participants planted more than 650,000 plants on approximately 740 acres of land in Northern Alberta. The project has committed to plant more than 1 million trees over the next 3 years. Data process for understanding footprint are also considered in internal and external assurance. Managing Operations and ProjectsWe manage the impacts of our operations’ footprint on bio.diversity and ecosystems through identifying local biodiver.sity risks and developing fit-for-purpose management plans. Taking Steps to Reduce FootprintIn 2012 and early 2013, key operated assets completed biodi.versity risk assessments. As an initial input into the assess.ment, our asset locations were plotted in the Conservation International biodiversity hot spots mapping layer of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conserva.tion Association’s (IPIECA) Global Water Tool for Oil and Gas and PROTEUS UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC). Using the Global Reporting Initiative, IPIECA practices, and internal expertise, we developed an internal risk framework to evaluate our assets and provide a consistent method.ology and common tool for evaluating risks. The process considers international, national and local risk elements and creates a categorization of risks for the asset. Our biodiver.sity risk assessment process is based on science and the recognition that the acceptability of strategies for mitigating risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems is also guided by stakeholder consultation. Mitigation action plans are aimed at helping each asset appropriately manage the risks within the local context and may include: •	Optimizing new land footprint •	Monitoring •	Plans for engagement •	Specific technology Managing Local Biodiversity RisksManaging local biodiversity risks in our operations and projects is a key focus areas in our Action Plan. This section provides examples from our operations. Our Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) operation supports the Quoin Island Turtle Rehabilitation Centre. The facility, which was established in 2012, is licensed by the Queensland Government and is sup.ported by specialists at both the Australia Zoo and SeaWorld. “Quoin Island Turtle Rehabilitation Centre was started as an overwhelming passion for the preservation of wildlife, and as a necessity to provide a resource to our region which was previously not available,” said founder Bob McCosker. The facility has 4 stand-alone tanks, an in-ground heated reha.bilitation pool, an air conditioned treatment room and dry dock room, water filtration systems and a necropsy facility. Australia Pacific LNG has provided funding assistance for food, medical and veterinary expenses, rescue boat and volunteer transport from the mainland to Quoin Island since 2013. “The Quoin Island Turtle Rehabilitation Centre is one that we feel is important to support, to provide care for the turtle population and marine animals of the harbor. It is also important to recognize the work that Bob McCosker and all of the volunteers have done in setting up this facility and managing it with very successful results,” said ConocoPhillips Downstream Project Manager, APLNG, Kent Anderson. Since 2006, we have consulted with the U.S. Fish and Wild.life Service (USFWS) for our annual polar bear den detection surveys on Alaska’s North Slope. Pregnant sows construct dens in drifted snow during the winter months to birth and nurse their cubs. The surveys utilize aircraft equipped with a gimbaled infrared (IR) camera that can detect a bear’s body heat emitting from a den. We conduct the surveys in areas of our planned winter operations to avoid disturbing denned bears. The survey flights usually occur during the first half of December. Upon discovery of a den, all travel and activity are typically prohibited within 1 mile of its loca.tion while it is occupied. In 1992, we initiated a broad avian studies program in the Colville River Delta, on Alaska’s North Slope. The purpose of the ongoing studies is to ensure our existing and future operations have minimal impact on migratory bird popula.tions. Yellow-billed loons are one species of special interest due to a relatively small population and limited breeding and nesting range. Avian biologists employ field techniques such as aerial surveys, ground-based nest searches, and time-lapse cameras at nest sites. The results of the studies have contributed a significant amount of knowledge about some of the factors that control the population dynamics of this particular species.TechnologySome of our biodiversity risks can be effectively managed through technology. Our Action Plan has several examples on how technology can be employed to reduce not only our footprint but also biodiversity risks for our operations. For example, the use of horizontal and directional well drill.ing technology allows us to access resources deep under.ground with less disturbance to land. These innovations also reduce the equipment, roadways and pipelines needed to complete a project. Drilling multiple wells from one pad also minimizes the amount of time we are actively developing an area because we don’t have to move the drilling rig. In the Eagle Ford area of Texas, we routinely place 4 wells on a single well pad that often occupies less than 7 acres of land, reducing acreage/well by 70% or more versus single well pads.In the Canadian Oil Sands, well pads designed to minimize the size of our drilling operations continue to reduce our land footprint. Modular designs (those that include inter.changeable parts) also provide the flexibility necessary to make the most efficient use of the available land. Managing Risks and OpportunitiesWe aim to minimize long-term risks and provide a focus on our opportunities through collaboration, innovation and technology deployment. Our global businesses follow spe.cific, well-defined processes that help manage sustainabil.ity issues, from the initial phases of identifying a potential opportunity through project development and operations. We are committed to the development of biodiversity man.agement practices that conserve and protect resources and enhance the efficiency of land utilization at our facilities. We follow widely accepted guidelines from IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) in our approach to biodiversity conservation. As a member of the IPIECA Biodiversity and Ecosystems Services Working Group, we develop tools and materials to help companies across our industry enhance their biodiversity conservation activities. We are also members of the OGP and are on the manage.ment committee for this organization. OGP companies, share information and develop guidance on safety, the environment, governance, fiscal transparency and corpo.rate social responsibility. Additionally, we serve on the OGP Environment Committee. Operating in Marine Environments	As a founding member of the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers’ (OGP) Sound and Marine Life Joint Industry Programme, we support continued research to increase understanding of the effects of sound from oil and gas exploration and production activities on marine life. The research allows governments to make regulatory decisions based on science and helps the industry develop effective mitigation strategies.We also carefully manage our tanker operations, which typ.ically move Alaskan crude to U.S. west coast refineries. We are certified under the Washington Department of Ecology’s Exceptional Compliance Program (ECOPRO).Offshore Baseline AssessmentsAs part of the Greater Poseidon Development Project in the Browse Basin offshore North Western Australia, we completed an extensive environmental baseline studies program. The program consisted of: •	16 months of metocean and underwater noise data collection •	Water quality and sediment sampling •	Benthic habitat surveys •	Remote sensing studies Additionally, we worked with experts from a range of disciplines including marine mammals, marine reptiles and avifauna. Ongoing collaboration with the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) provided better understanding of the coral and fish biodiversity of Seringapatam Reef and coral spawning activity. By combining this information with hydrodynamic modelling, we were able to demonstrate for the first time that there was connectivity between the coral populations of Seringapatam Reef and nearby Scott Reef. A comprehensive baseline program provides data to inform future environmental approvals documents and also enhances the overall scientific fabric of the region. Ongoing collaboration with experts also provides regulators and other stakeholders with increased confidence in projects since there has been independent assessment of both the science and the resulting environmental impact assessment. Managing and Conserving HabitatsWe are committed to the development of biodiversity man.agement practices that conserve and protect habitats that may be impacted by our operations. APLNG Curtis Island Conservation In collaboration with peer Australian natural gas companies our Australia Pacific LNG operations have agreed on a land.mark conservation initiative that will see nearly two thirds of Curtis Island, near Gladstone, set aside for environmental conservation, ensuring the protection of the island’s unique ecology and heritage for future generations. This combined effort by natural gas companies includes: •	Purchase of the Monte Christo property on Curtis Island in order to transfer the titles to the State Government •	Protection of land either as newly declared conservation park or national park, or existing protected areas upgraded to national park under the Nature Conservation Act •	Removal of cattle grazing from acquired areas in the Curtis Island Conservation Park and Curtis Island State Forest Combined with the existing National Park on the island, more than 59 percent of Curtis Island will be actively managed under a conservation management plan, com.pared to the 2% used by the LNG projects on the southern tip of Curtis Island. Sage-Grouse Habitat Conservation Sage-grouse, which are found in 11 western states and 2 Canadian provinces, are in decline because of habitat frag.mentation. They need intact native rangelands to flourish, feeding heavily on sagebrush and relying on the shrub for nearly every aspect of their life. We are providing $1 million to support implementation of the Sage-Grouse Initiative, an effort by various stakeholders to conserve sage-grouse habitat. The Intermountain West Joint Venture is a partner.ship of stakeholders working across all or parts of 11 western states to conserve habitats capable of sustaining bird popu.lations at desired levels. Alaska Potter Marsh Habitat Reclamation We work collaboratively with regulatory agencies and envi.ronmental non-profit organizations to protect and reclaim habitats. Potter Marsh, located within the Anchorage Wild.life Coastal Refuge, is one of our signature SPIRIT of Conser.vation programs in Alaska. We have invested over $2 million at Potter Marsh, and more than $4 million in other projects since 2005 that include habitat enhancement for migratory birds and fish, educational outreach, and increased public access to trails and outdoor resources.Engaging ExternallyWe recognize the special relationship communities and people have with the land and their natural environment. And we respect their unique knowledge in managing their local environment and conserving biodiversity. While assess.ing the potential impact of our operations, we actively seek to learn from them as we develop mitigation strategies for any potential environmental or socioeconomic impacts. Sustainability for all StakeholdersOur Indonesian team collaborated with the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) to create a Wildlife Conflict Miti.gation training program in 2014. The program improved understanding of tiger ecology for 71 ConocoPhillips staff and 101 members of the local community, educating partic.ipants on how to avoid human-tiger encounters, and how to manage any contact situations. Bonaparte Fish Group In the Timor Sea, we collaborated with a range of stake.holders on fisheries management strategies and impact assessments of fish distributions and stock structures. By facilitating a working group between oil and gas operators, the fishing industry, regulators and research organizations, we are undertaking research that will provide information that will enable multiple industries to operate in a more sustainable manner.Louisiana Coastal Wetlands Through our subsidiary, the Louisiana Land Exploration Company LLC (LL&E), we own approximately 636,000 acres in southeast Louisiana, known as the ConocoPhillips Coastal Wetlands. We are the largest private wetlands owner in the United States, which includes surface and mineral rights. Our property extends west to east from the Atchafalaya Basin to the Mississippi River and north to south from the New Orleans area to the Gulf of Mexico. Our work in the wetlands focuses on enhancing the environment through activities such as hurricane protec.tion, coastal restoration, wetlands mitigation and biomass carbon sequestration. Through partnerships with public, private and non-profit organizations, we have been involved in about 63 projects that have enhanced approxi.mately 177,000 acres of wetlands. The Coastal Wetlands also provide an economic resource for the company through royalties, future oil and gas production, and land leases such as hunting, trapping, fishing and camping. A joint project pilot project with Tierra Resources focuses on mangrove plantings and preventing wetland loss. The pilot is being implemented on a small section of salt marsh where various mangrove planting techniques are being tested. This 3 year pilot project aims to: •	Study the viability of planting mangroves for restoration purposes •	Apply the best practices of the recently certified wetland methodology to quantify carbon sequestration •	Research the carbon impacts of prevented wetland lossScience in the Chukchi Sea We received the Arctic Technology Conference Distin.guished Achievement Award for Companies, Organizations or Institutions for the Chukchi Sea Environmental Studies Program (CSESP) along with Olgoonik-Fairweather, Shell and Statoil in March 2015. This award recognizes the co-design and safe operation of one of the largest, most robust multi.disciplinary science programs in the world. Completing the seventh and final year in 2014, the CSESP aimed to charac.terize pre-exploration baseline information on the ecology of the region. Studies encompassed acoustics, physical and chemical oceanography, benthic ecology, fish, marine mammals, seabirds, and plankton. To date, more than 200 presentations, documents and papers have been presented using data collected from the CSESP. The program fea.tures an unprecedented data sharing agreement with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) that enables CSESP data to be shared freely with the public through the NOAA and Alaska Ocean Observing System websites.Global Signature Program – Water & Biodiversity Stewardship We pride ourselves on being a great neighbor and a respon.sible corporate citizen. The most effective charitable invest.ments are achieved by entering into strategic relationships with organizations that serve the needs of the community and help the company meet its business objectives. Our Signature Program is a coordinated, integrated charitable investment campaign that provides focus and leverages brand and company resources to have a substantial impact on a social or environmental issue. Investments include: •	Conservation International – Western Indonesia Marine Habitat Conservation•	Smithsonian Migratory Birds Connectivity Project•	Smithsonian – Mason School of Conservation•	Yellowstone Park•	Timor-Leste Reforestation Program•	St Andrews Prize for the Environment•	National Zoo of MalaysiaENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTWaterWater is integral in our operations. We recognize that responsible water management for our onshore and off.shore operations is a high priority for communities, stake.holders, consumers and ecosystems.Water Action PlanContext for ActionSuccessful water management starts with understanding and measuring our water footprint and identifying and assessing water-related risks for onshore and offshore operations. Our commitment to developing management practices and technology to conserve and protect freshwater resources applies to all stages of the project life cycle including: • Water sourcing • Storage • Transport • Use • Recycle and reuse • Discharge and/or disposal In addition to managing freshwater, we carefully manage water discharge and water disposal for onshore and off.shore operations, and are exploring ways to use non-fresh sources, ranging from brackish water to recycled produced water and reuse of municipal wastewater. Treatment, reuse or recycling of low quality or non-freshwater sources can pose challenges and require a careful assessment of environmental trade-offs, but represent an important opportunity for innovation and for local water resource management. Building awareness, skills, technology inno.vation and sustainable and economical practices at a local level is crucial to our commitment to successful water management. Water impacts society, businesses and ecosystems on the local and global scale. Almost half the world’s population is projected to be living under severe water stress by 2030. Projected population growth will increase water demand for: • Domestic use • Sanitation • Manufacturing • Energy production • Food production Although water is an important global issue, water use and water quality are typically locally addressed. We work to assess, measure and monitor water use at our operated assets, while cost-effectively addressing the short-term and long-term water related risks to our businesses. These risks include possible impacts from climate change that may impact water resources locally through: • Rising sea levels • Declining surface water storage in the form of snow, gla.ciers and ice caps• Declining groundwater availability • Increasing frequency and severity of droughts and floods Action PlanOur Water Action Plan targets: • Understanding water use, costs and performance benchmarking • Identifying risks and opportunities for reducing our water footprint • Improving data management and minimizing water risks through collaboration • Engaging with stakeholders, communities and regulators • Building capacity through knowledge-sharing and skill development The plan includes actions such as conserving and protect.ing freshwater resources and optimizing water treatment for recycle and reuse, discharge or disposal through innova.tion and technology. This plan spans 2014-2018, following successful results from our first company-wide water action plan between 2009-2013.  For each of the Action Plan categories, our businesses and functions have committed to specific actions. We also inte.grate water into our long-range planning process to allow us to assess possible risk scenarios. The current plan, which is updated annually, describes 47 specific actions, plus accountability and performance. The Water Action Plan commitments and progress are managed through an integrated governance process. Our Water Issues Working Group includes onshore and offshore water subject matter experts, advisors, team leads and man.agers representative of our global exploration and produc.tion portfolio. Business units and corporate functions share best practices, innovation and technology development on our Water Network of Excellence.PerformanceWater Sustainability PositionAs a responsible global energy company committed to sustainable development, we recognize that fresh water is an essential natural resource for communities, businesses, and ecosystems. Global population growth will increase demand for fresh water and all users – domestic, agriculture, and industry – will need to effectively manage supplies to meet demands. Our Focus & ExpectationsWe produce and utilize water in our operations. And we are committed to the development of water management practices that conserve and protect fresh water resources and enhance the efficiency of water utilization at our facil.ities. We will assess, measure, and monitor our fresh water usage and based on these assessments we will manage our consumption and strive to reduce the potential impact to the environment from wastewater disposal. Our initial focus for implementation can be broken down into 4 broad categories: • Focusing on priority assets and developing evaluation and mitigation tools. • Sharing best-practice water management systems at a local level. • Developing and implementing technologies to reduce the environmental impact of our water footprint. • Delivering on sustainable development public commitment. Understanding FootprintUnderstanding our water footprint means: • Understanding how much water we need for exploration and production • What quality of water we need • Where we need water • Where we will obtain water • Who else wants or needs to use water from the same source• What water will be disposed or discharged and where The water management priorities of the oil and gas industry are evolving globally in response to physical risks, from local water scarcity and changing priorities to expectations of people and society. Understanding our water footprint includes measuring water use from surface water, fresh and non-fresh ground.water and ocean water sources. We also measure water we transport, store, discharge and/or dispose. To better understand our water footprint, our Water Action Plan includes projects to continuously improve our data management processes; performance comparisons with our peers; evaluation of cost and sourcing options through the supply chain process; and the development of tools. One example of these tools is a Water Valuation Tool developed by our Canadian Oil Sands business unit in collaboration with the COSIA industry organization that captures the project lifetime costs, including capital expense, operating and water management costs, as well as monetization of water-related risks and opportunities. We have expanded the set of metrics we collect to measure our water performance and initiated the process of assess.ing the additional information and potential trends of the new data. We have also included projections for our antic.ipated future water demands in our long-range planning process. Managing Operations and ProjectsReducing Our Water FootprintManaging water resources often means implement.ing actions designed to reduce our water footprint in operations. When evaluating water risks, we start at a high level with an enterprise-wide search for issues around the world using the IPIECA Global Water Tool for Oil and Gas and other internal expertise to screen for risks. We then take a deeper look at potential water risks or opportunities in specific areas using tools such as the GEMI Local Water Tool for Oil and Gas. Our water specialists were among the members and leaders of the consortiums that developed these tools. We were the first company to pilot the GEMI LWT at our Canada Oil Sands operations. Our Indonesian group also used the tool to evaluate risks. Both of these pilot projects and the actions taken to explore alternative sources have been shared with regulators and other stakeholders. Each operated asset completes a water risk assessment so we can develop a fit-for-purpose management or mitigation response that is included as an action item in the Action Plan. These actions are designed to address the local risks identified and may include seeking alternatives to fresh.water use and increasing the efficiency of use, monitoring, plans for engagement, or technology deployment. They are aimed at helping each asset appropriately manage water risks and opportunities within the local context. Actions to Address Local Water Risks We take steps to improve our water management perfor.mance for business units across our global operations. In 2014, in conjunction with our corporate Sustainable Development group, the Lower 48 Water Leadership Team was formed to foster collaboration and coordination among all Lower 48 asset teams managing water. This Leadership Team focuses on evaluating and recommending oppor.tunities to reduce Lower 48 onshore freshwater use. These and other actions taken in the Lower 48, and more broadly in ConocoPhillips, reflect our commitment to monitor and reduce our freshwater usage: • In the Eagle Ford, more than a quarter of all water used for well stimulations was from non-freshwater sources in 2014. We made a conscious effort to target deeper water sources that are not used by local landowners. Additionally, we have recycled municipal wastewater effluent by using it for well stimulations in Karnes County. • In the Delaware Basin, a majority of the water used for drilling and completions in 2014 was from non-freshwater sources. • ConocoPhillips founded the Eagle Ford Water Consortium in 2011 to share information about water use planning and to interact with local and state regulators regarding water use in the Eagle Ford Shale. Now operating under the South Texas Energy and Economic Roundtable (STEER) Water Sustainability Committee, the group has continued its work with stakeholders to promote sustainable water use. As part of the Greater Poseidon Development Project in the Browse Basin offshore North Western Australia, we completed an extensive environmental baseline studies program. The program consisted of 16 months of metocean and underwater noise data collection, water quality and sediment sampling, benthic habitat surveys and remote sensing studies. Additionally, we collaborated with experts from a range of disciplines including marine mammals, marine reptiles and avifauna. There was also ongoing collab.oration with the Australian Institute of Marine Science to better understand the coral and fish biodiversity of Serin.gapatam Reef and to investigate coral spawning activity. By combining this information with hydrodynamic modelling, we were able to demonstrate for the first time that there was connectivity between the coral populations of Seringa.patam Reef and nearby Scott Reef. Innovation and continuous improvement by our Indonesian business unit has not only improved our water manage.ment processes and enhanced our relationship with stake.holders and regulators, but also earned the ConocoPhillips SPIRIT Award. The multidisciplinary team successfully demonstrated that produced water from Corridor Block of Sumatera Onshore Operation, previously sent to disposal wells at shallow reservoirs, can be re-injected into produc.ing reservoirs instead. Results of a model simulation and a pilot test confirmed that this new approach provides improved containment of the produced water, reduces the risk of migration to surface water bodies or shallow ground.water aquifers and does not adversely affect nearby gas production wells. One result was the reduction of produced water spills from 17,761 to 8 bbls in 2014. In our Canada Oil Sands operations we have reduced our fresh groundwater use and improved our water recy.cling rate by transferring wastewater from our pilot to our Surmont 1 facility. We maintain the pilot facility as a place where we can test new technologies and practices for Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD) production. Previously, the pilot facility had no water recycling capacity, which meant that all produced water was sent directly to disposal. In 2011, we commissioned and installed a pipeline between the pilot and Surmont 1, so now all wastewater is reused for steam generation at Surmont 1. Recycling this produced water reduced the amount of local groundwater we used in 2014 by 45 million gallons. We are a founding member of the industry organization Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), which has developed a public water performance target to “reduce fresh water use intensity by 50% by 2022” for oil sands in-situ producers. Progress on achieving this target is mea.sured and publicly reported annually as the average fresh water use intensity of in-situ COSIA member companies. At Norway’s Ekofisk field in the North Sea there is a dis.charge of produced water associated with the production of oil. Over the past few years since the CTour plant was installed in 2008 there has been a continuous reduction of the concentration of oil in produced water discharges at Ekofisk. The improvements are a result of proactive main.tenance and optimized operation of the water treatment facilities at the Ekofisk J and Ekofisk M installations. The produced water treatment facilities consist of hydrocylone units, a CTour unit on Ekofisk J to help further extract dispersed and dissolved oil droplets from the water and produced water flash tanks. Yearly weighted average oil in water concentrations at the Ekofisk field Managing Risks and OpportunitiesWe aim to minimize long-term risks and provide a focus on our opportunities through collaboration, innovation and technology deployment. Our global businesses follow spe.cific, well-defined processes that help manage sustainability risks and opportunities as we begin a new venture, from the initial phases of identifying a potential opportunity through project development and operations. Our actions include: • Integrating the data collection process into our HSE audits • Developing and implementing strategies at the BU and corporate level• Collaboration between business units and corporate Tech.nology, HSE and Sustainable Development functions Internal Collaboration We have a dedicated Water Solutions team of engineers, research experts and other water specialists, including many with Ph.D. degrees. Their sole focus is advancing technology and innovation to reduce water consumption from freshwa.ter sources through recycling and reuse and to reduce the volume of water we discharge or dispose. The team collab.orates with water experts from our operations, Sustainable Development and HSE groups to find the best solutions for each project. The Global Water Sustainability CenterThe Global Water Sustainability Center (GWSC) is a dedi.cated applied research facility located in Doha, Qatar. The GWSC technical programs focus on various desalination processes, in addition to the removal of inorganics and hydrocarbons from produced water. Increased emphasis is directed toward advanced technologies, including mem.brane processes. In addition to research at the center, a key goal of the GWSC is to increase awareness of the importance of water conser.vation within Qatar. The GWSC visitor center includes inter.active, hands-on exhibits to educate local school children and other visitors about water conservation. The facility also hosts workshops on key issues for water-scarce regions, such as water conservation and municipal water recycling. The center opened in early 2010 in the Qatar Science & Technology Park in Doha, Qatar. The close proximity of Hamad Bin Khalifa University at Qatar Foundation provides opportunities for collaboration with top scientists who have access to world-class facilities and to employ local graduates from that university. Recycling and Reusing Water in our Operations The Permian Basin, an arid region in West Texas and South.eastern New Mexico, is the site of one success story from our 2014 Water Action Plan. Scarcity of fresh water, abun.dance of produced water and limited disposal options make the region a perfect fit for produced water treatment and reuse. Our scientists and engineers designed a water man.agement solution that minimizes the impact on the limited local water resources while cutting costs. The team devel.oped a fit-for-purpose treatment process that customized the quality of recycled water to meet requirements for the hydraulic fracturing process. The successful project reduced fresh water usage for one of our conventional completions programs by over 65,000 barrels in 2014, not counting addi.tional fresh water use reductions for our unconventional production. Another example of successful collaboration between technology and sustainable development occurred at our Canadian Oil Sands operations. Water is an integral part of the SAGD process, and more than 85% of the water used to generate steam for production is recycled. We are continuing to research improved recovery processes that may reduce overall water demand. We have approved an enhanced Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage (e-SAGD) pilot project to learn whether water demand and energy consumption can be further reduced by injecting a com.bination of light hydrocarbons and steam into a bitumen formation. If successful, e-SAGD can effectively reduce water use and emissions. We are also researching improvements to the produced water processing facilities and steam generation systems with our dedicated technology devel.opment professionals and participation in an alliance of oil sands producers, COSIA, focused on environmental perfor.mance improvement through technology and innovation. Our technology group is currently testing potential advances in boiler design and operation. These prototype systems target a combination of water treatment and steam generation, which may be able to significantly reduce the footprint for SAGD surface facilities while also reducing water consumption. Knowledge Sharing and Collaboration Our Water Issues Working Group has been a key collabora.tion and knowledge sharing forum for water subject-matter experts, team leads and managers. The group leverages collective expertise and experience to further embed and integrate performance improvement into our water management process and focuses on all aspects of water management, including: • Water sourcing • Transport and storage • Use for exploration and production • Water recycle and reuse • Produced water management and treatment • Discharge and/or disposal The internal Water Network of Excellence is the primary knowledge sharing tool for Water Issues Working Group members to transfer knowledge, share innovation and best practices and foster collaboration. Engaging ExternallyWe continue to help address larger global and societal water risks such as the lack of access to clean water and sanitation. These difficult global challenges require holistic water stewardship; we are not able to solve them alone, but are committed to doing our part. At the community level we support water conservation efforts such as the USBCSD Water Synergy Project and China BCSD Water Synergy Project. In addition, research and educational initiatives undertaken at the Colorado School of Mines WE2ST Center will benefit not only unconventional energy producers and water-reliant industrial stakeholders, but also the general public. Our Australia East Business Unit sponsors and supports the Gladstone Healthy Harbor Partnership. The partnership brings together members of the community, academia, government and industry to collaborate on the develop.ment of a holistic approach to improve and protect the health of Gladstone Harbor through scientific research. Since its inception in 2013, the partnership has been assessing the health of the Gladstone Harbor. The data and information collected for the project will be summarized in a report at the end of 2015 and used by all stakeholders to guide future strategies for the harbor. In the Lower 48, we developed a poster titled ‘Technology that Protects Nature’ to share our knowledge of the local water resources with our stakeholders and regulators. We work to improve access to water and improved sani.tation in a community relations initiative with UNICEF in Angola. For more than 3 years the project has supplied safe drinking water to a total of 60,000 people. Additionally, 60 community health workers (10 in each municipality) were trained to provide hygiene education. UNICEF will support the Angola government in future, similar efforts, since droughts and flooding are cyclic in the southern part of the country.ENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTUsing Material Resources WiselyWe manage material resources based on a simple set of priorities: • Operate in the most efficient manner possible. • If materials are left over from our operations, find ways to reuse it. • If no uses can be found, dispose of the remaining materials safely. Operating EfficientlyOperating efficiently is good for the environment and for business. We are pioneering new ways to safely drill faster and with fewer materials – leading to lower emissions and operating costs. Our focus on reducing methane losses from our operations provides more usable products to consumers. By managing our supply chain logistics, we minimize freight transportation miles, resulting in fewer air emissions. Good environmental stewardship includes setting stan.dards for waste management, decommissioning and minimization. We seek to identify new and better ways to diminish our environmental footprint and social impacts by becoming more efficient in the workplace and in the com.munities in which we operate. Material ReuseWe recognize the importance of global fresh water resources and are actively engaged in finding new ways to reuse non-potable water from our operations as an alternative to fresh water use. We launched the Global Water Sustainability Center to study technology related to produced water and desalination in 2010. We found ways to successfully use produced water instead of fresh water for drilling activities in the Permian Basin in Texas and are driving towards higher levels of water reuse in Canada to reduce fresh water requirements in our oil sands operations. Disposing of Unusable Materials Safely We have a global waste management standard that requires all operations to evaluate the waste they generate and the suitability of the waste facilities they use. The standard applies to all operations worldwide. In ventures where we are not the operator or hold a minority interest, we strive to influence our co-venturers to implement similar programs. In the United States and Canada, for example, we developed a commercial waste management program to track waste disposal activity and compiled a list of company-approved commercial waste management facilities. We inspect poten.tial new waste sites and periodically audit the sites that we choose to utilize. Preference is given to contractors who provide cost-effective responsible alternatives to landfill dis.posal. But if this is not an option, we select sites that comply with strict environmental standards. We manage drilling platform decommissioning projects in a way that safeguards public safety and health and minimizes environmental impact. We removed 7 decommissioned platforms between 2009 and 2012 in the Ekofisk area of the North Sea. Two additional platforms were removed in 2013 and disposed of in 2014. For all platform installations removed through this project since 2009, the recovery rate (i.e., the combined reuse and recycling rate) of disposed structure materials exceeds 97%, excluding hazardous waste. Around the world, we manage the disposal of surplus or obsolete electronic equipment in a process known as e-cycling. As part of this process, we negotiate contracts with vendors for the remarketing and recycling of electronic equipment, such as computers, televisions, microwave ovens, copiers, fax machines and telephones that no longer have value to ConocoPhillips, but may have value for others. In many locations, we have partnered with our recycling contractor to provide similar services for the public, using company locations as collection points. Additionally, our employees help their local communities collect household waste and recyclable material that cannot be disposed of in regular household garbage. Climate ChangeWe recognize that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate. While uncertainties remain, we continue to manage GHG emissions in our oper.ations and to integrate climate change-related activities and goals into our business planning.Climate Change Action PlanAs we work to safely find and deliver energy to the world, addressing climate change-related issues is a high priority. We believe that we are defined not just by what we do, but by how we do it.Context for ActionOur climate change strategy is designed to prepare the company to succeed in a world challenged to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We implemented a corporate climate change action plan.ning process to manage GHG emissions as our business grows. The planning process also prompts adaptation to physical changes in climate. We consider a range of external insights as we evaluate and plan actions to address climate change issues in our busi.nesses and functions. Examples include: • Government actions on reporting and regulating green.house gas emissions. Globally governments are taking action on reporting and regulating greenhouse gas emissions, such as the European Union, the United States through the Clean Air Act, and some Canadian provinces. However, it is uncertain which other governments will act, and the timing, type and range of actions. • Listening to stakeholders. Some stakeholders are con.cerned about the impact of fossil fuel production and use on GHG emissions. • Understanding investor concerns. Some investors have questions about the impact of increasing regulation and legislation on the company’s returns, valuation and busi.ness outlook. Action PlanOur plan is constructed of 4 main focus areas: Understanding Footprint – mapping and measuring our emissions and improving the accuracy and consistency of recording and reporting. Managing Operations and Projects – Assessing and imple.menting emissions reductions where it makes sense to do so, focusing our efforts on priority areas. Managing Risks and Opportunities – Scanning for emerg.ing issues and preparing the company to address climate change risks and opportunities. Engaging Externally – Communicating our position on climate change issues, both corporately and within external organizations; and addressing the potential impact to our business.  Our 2014–2018 Climate Change Action Plan comprises 73 specific detailed actions within the 14 major groupings shown on the next page. These actions are being imple.mented across the company. The comprehensive Corporate Climate Change Action Plan is refreshed annually as part of our long-range planning process. During the planning process, we assess risks and opportunities against several criteria, including commodity price forecasts, GHG price forecasts, and the company’s climate change and sustainable development position statements. PerformanceGlobal Climate Change PositionWe recognize that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate. While uncertainties remain, we continue to manage greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and to integrate climate change related activities and goals into our business planning. Our corporate action plan focuses on the following areas: • Understanding our GHG footprint. • Reducing our GHG emissions. • Evaluating climate change-related risks. • Leveraging technology innovation to explore new busi.ness opportunities.• Engaging externally in support of practical, sustainable climate change solutions. • Reviewing progress and updating business unit climate change management plans.Our approach to climate change is designed to advance the company’s vision to be the exploration and production company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence. Climate Change Public Policy We believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with the following principles: • Recognize that climate change is a global issue which requires global solutions – economy-wide governmen.tal GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors. • Result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric con.centrations at safe levels. • Coordinate with energy policy to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy. • Utilize market-based mechanisms rather than technology mandates. • Create a level competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries. • Avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs.• Provide long-term certainty for investment decisions. • Promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development. • Match the pace at which new technology can be devel.oped and deployed. • Encourage efficient use of energy. • Foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate. • Avoid undue harm to the economy. Building balanced energy policies is challenging, and we recognize that no one has all the answers. As economies around the world continue to develop, fossil fuels will play an important role in meeting the growing global demand for energy. Meeting the challenge of taking action on climate change while providing adequate, affordable supplies of reliable energy will require financial invest.ments, skilled people, technical innovation and responsible stewardship from policy makers, energy producers and consumers. We are committed to doing our part. Understanding FootprintGreenhouse Gas MetricsDetails of our greenhouse gas emissions, natural gas flaring performance and energy efficiency may be found under Performance Data.External Reporting and VerificationEach of our business units is responsible for quantifying emissions and reporting the information to our HSE group for compilation and internal verification. Reporting to authorities and regulators is the responsibility of our individ.ual business units. The method at each individual source ranges from con.tinuous emissions monitoring to emissions estimations. Estimating approaches meet applicable regulatory report.ing requirements or industry guidance, as appropriate. The quality of estimating methodologies, measurements and calculations are audited on a routine schedule by our Cor.porate HSE Auditing team. External Reporting/Verification of GHG Emissions The majority of our large stationary sources of GHG emis.sions around the world report annual GHG emissions to state/provincial or national governments. For those not listed below, verification/assurance is addressed through a framework of internal HSE audits with periodic external review of processes and/or data.United States We began reporting GHG emissions to the U.S. Environmen.tal Protection Agency (EPA) Jan. 1, 2010. The EPA assesses data quality through the use of selective audits. AustraliaOur Australia Business Unit participates in the federally mandated National Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reporting System (NGERS), which began in 2009. The federal legisla.tion has a process for conducting or mandating external auditing but this is only triggered for cause, such as if a cor.poration is suspected of not meeting reporting obligations. ConocoPhillips activities have not triggered this auditing procedure. Publicly available data is published in a single list for all reporters of Australian GHGs.Canada Environment Canada publicly posts GHG emissions informa.tion for Canadian facilities greater than 50,000 metric tons of CO2e. The agency does not require third-party verification of emissions reported to the federal government. However, the information reported by the facility should be verifiable. The government of Alberta requires third-party verification of GHG emissions from regulated facilities. The verification report from the ConocoPhillips-operated Elmsworth Gas Plant is available from Alberta Environment upon request. Norway The verified emission report is provided in Norwegian for ConocoPhillips Norway assets. Some information is available in English.• Ekofisk• Eldfisk• Tor• EmblaEurope Data for all installations in the EU ETS is publicly available at The European Commission’s Environment site. The page opens at our Seal Sands facility in the UK code 102. Our other facilities in the UK can be found by entering the fol.lowing codes: 10; 24; 25; 28; 29; 30 & 361. Estimating Future Process Emissions As is the case with financial metrics, ConocoPhillips does not publish its long-term forecast of GHG emissions, but we do include emissions in our forward planning activities within the company. GHG emissions from our operations are likely to increase as we grow our long-term oil and gas production, so the Action Plans include a focus on reduc.tions and technologies that could reduce GHG absolute emissions and/or intensity.CDP The annual CDP survey collects a wide range of information concerning corporate efforts to manage climate change issues. ConocoPhillips has participated in the survey since 2004. Our most recent CDP submission can be found in the 2014 CDP document.Managing Operations and ProjectsTaking Steps to Reduce GHG EmissionsIn 2014, ConocoPhillips businesses worldwide completed numerous projects to improve energy efficiency, recover product and reduce GHG emissions. Examples include:• Reduced methane venting during well completions• Plunger lift optimization• Optimized compression• Replacement of high bleed controllers• Electrification of central facilitiesThese projects are estimated to have reduced or avoided 0.9 million tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2014, bringing our cumulative emissions reductions since the implementation of our first Climate Change Action Plan in 2009 to 6.2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent – an annual average reduction of 3.8% against the forecast for each year.  It is important to note that emission reductions resulting from some projects, for example reduced methane venting during well completions, occur only at the time that the activity takes place, whereas others will continue to deliver energy efficiency and GHG reduction benefits for a number of years into the future. The list above does not represent a complete inventory of ConocoPhillips GHG reduction activi.ties and the resulting emission reductions have not all been third-party verified.2015 Greenhouse Gas Reduction TargetWe delivered GHG emission reductions in the range of 2.5 to 5% against our forecast for each of the last 5 years. In order to increase our focus on emission reductions, we have set an overall company GHG emission reduction target of 3 to 5% against our business-as-usual forecast for 2015. Oil Sands GHG Intensity We recognize that there are questions about GHG emissions from oil sands production. Industry has successfully reduced the GHG intensity per barrel of oil sands crude produced by 28% since 1990. To capture both economic and environmental benefits, we continue to work to reduce per-barrel GHG intensity. We are investigating technologies focused on running our facilities more efficiently, using less energy, and reduc.ing greenhouse gas and other air emissions. We are also designing plans for improved heat integration and testing an enhanced oil production technology, both aimed at maximizing fuel efficiency while reducing air emissions associated with steam generation. We are evaluating technologies that address environmental performance including: • Flow Control Device (FCD). This technology improves how efficiently the steam injected in a well flows to the bitumen resource. This reduces the steam required to produce each barrel of bitumen (known as the steam-to-oil ratio, or SOR) and the associated GHG emissions inten.sity. While still in early testing, flow control devices may help us reduce our GHG emissions and water use intensity by approximately 10—20%. • Enhanced steam-assisted gravity drainage (e-SAGD). Injecting lighter hydrocarbons along with steam reduces the viscosity of the bitumen in our wells using less steam and, therefore, less fuel gas. This technology may reduce our steam-to-oil ratio compared to a typical SAGD process, which could reduce our GHG emissions and water use by 15—35% on an intensity basis. • Fishbone well configuration. A fishbone well configura.tion involves drilling a channel and extending 30-centi.metre-wide “ribs” between a producing well and adjacent steam chambers. The process distributes heat more evenly, reducing our fuel consumption and related GHG emissions per barrel of bitumen produced. This technology is cur.rently being piloted at our Surmont site, and could reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 10—20% if successful. • Gas turbine once-through steam generator (GT-OTSG). In conventional steam generation, natural gas is burned to heat water and turn it into steam. A GT-OTSG reuses waste heat that comes from a gas-powered turbine, reducing the amount of natural gas that must be burned in a steam generator. The turbine also produces electric.ity, reducing our demands on grid-purchased electricity. GT-OTSG increases the efficiency of steam generation from approximately 80 percent to between 90 and 95 percent. We anticipate that this technology could reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 10—15% and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions intensity by 40—50%, compared to a baseline of using a once-through steam generator and a natural gas combined-cycle turbine for generating electricity. Flare ReductionFlaring is the safety practice of burning off excess gases that might otherwise pose a hazard and that cannot be: • Recovered for export to consumers. • Used as fuel within the field. • Cost-effectively re-injected into the producing formation. Goals addressing flaring and venting have been adopted by our business units in their Climate Change Management Plans.• In 2012, a new pipeline in Asia Pacific helped to reduce current flaring volumes and intensity to below 2008 levels. • From 2008 to 2010, we experienced an increase in flaring mainly from operating in areas of the world with insuffi.cient infrastructure to transport natural gas to a market. • From 2003 to 2008, we made significant progress reducing the volume of gas flared at our facilities. Voluntary GHG Reduction TargetsApproximately 100% of our facilities are covered by GHG-re.lated reporting and/or permitting requirements, and 24% of ConocoPhillips facilities operate in countries with specific GHG emission reduction targets, including emission control legislation or regulation in Canada, Europe and the United States. For example, the Specified Gas Emitters Regulation (SGER) in Alberta, Canada requires large facilities to reduce facility emissions intensity by 12% after eight years of com.mercial operation. We are on track to meet the emission reduction targets before the compliance deadline. We continue to demonstrate our commitment to address.ing climate change by taking action to reduce GHG emis.sions by: • Implementing reduction plans at the operational level. • Complying with existing regulatory GHG targets. • Investing in lower-carbon energy and through active par.ticipation in efforts to develop sound government policy for GHG regulation. In support of our commitment, the company implements a corporate-wide Climate Change Action Plan that requires business units and major assets to develop and maintain climate change management plans. Each plan includes: • GHG emission measurements and forecast. • Identification of key risks and opportunities. • Business appropriate goals and metrics. We will continue to report progress on our plans, emissions data, emission reduction results, investments, and policy engagement as part of our regular updates to the Sustain.able Development Report. The report is updated annually with consideration of feedback from stakeholders. We also report progress through organizations such as CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), which assesses companies on both their actions and disclosure related to GHG emissions and climate change related activities. ConocoPhillips was placed in performance band ‘B’ with a disclosure score of 89 out of 100 for its 2014 CDP response, reflecting positive performance and disclosure. Technology to Manage Our EmissionsWe undertake research and development on technologies that reduce the environmental footprint of oil and gas activ.ities through a mix of: • Internal technology development. • Investment in start-up companies. • Partnerships with academic institutions and key suppliers. For example, we invested in Skyonic, a company developing technology to capture CO2 from industrial waste gases and mineralize it into carbonates and bicarbonates, chemical by-products with commercial value. Skyonic’s technology is intended to be retrofitted to existing industrial plants, and does not need the underground sequestration of carbon dioxide. We also have a significant number of technologies that have already reduced our oil sands footprint, or have the poten.tial to do so in the future. Our Canadian Surmont 1 2008 to 2013 project operating efficiency initiative has reduced our steam to oil ratio by more than 17%, which has directly reduced our fuel usage and greenhouse gas intensity by a proportional amount. In addition, we are a member of the Canadian Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). Two of our technologies were chosen as leading technologies to reduce greenhouse gases: the Gas Turbine-Once Through Steam Generator (GT-OTSG) and Vacuum Insulated Tubing technologies. We have over 20 patents and patents pending related to greenhouse gas reductions in oil sands production applications. Our Gulf Coast Business Unit continues to evaluate clean-burning natural gas alternatives for some of the drill.ing and completions activities in order to reduce diesel fuel usage to provide power for drilling rigs and hydraulic frac.turing completion operations. Activities like this can allow us to potentially expand the use of abundant natural gas within the United States and other countries with sufficient natural gas related infrastructure. Carbon capture and underground storage may represent a key set of technologies and practices that could play an important role in meeting long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals. We are working to advance capture tech.nologies and beneficial reuse options. The company is leveraging its more than 30 years of opera.tional experience in miscible gas injection at its North Slope assets in Alaska and 25 years of CO2 enhanced oil recovery (EOR) experience in West Texas to evaluate new EOR oppor.tunities to facilitate production growth. ConocoPhillips has contracted to sell CO2 captured from the ConocoPhillips’ Lost Cabin Gas Plant in Wyoming for use in EOR. The company began shipments in March 2013 reducing CO2 emissions by approximately 700,000 tonnes per year. Energy EfficiencySince the combustion of fossil fuels is a contributor to GHG emissions, we continuously strive to make our operations more energy efficient. This provides an environmental benefit through reduced emissions, as well as an economic benefit through lower production costs. The company has conducted a number of projects to improve overall energy efficiency in its producing fields. Among them, the Ekofisk II redevelopment project in the North Sea utilized high-
efficiency turbines to reduce power usage and recover waste heat produced during power generation. The C-GAS project, undertaken by ConocoPhillips China, replaced diesel fuel with excess associated gas to fuel the turbine generator during the early operational years. This project achieved greater efficiency, reduced flare volumes and reduced diesel fuel consumption. An optimization process has been implemented at Belida LGP/DPPA and Hangtuah platforms. These 2 assets that are operated in Block B Natuna Sea of our Indonesian business unit have been able to reduce the needs to treat the raw gas at each facility by concentrating the gas processing at Hangtuah platform. The raw gas from Belida LGP/DPPA platform has been flowing freely to Hangtuah platform and will be later exported to the buyer via this facility. This initiative led to deactivation of GEC (Gas Export Compressor) of Belida LGP/DPPA, which has been able to save 5.5 MMScf of gas fuel for running the GEC per day. Flaring reduction initiatives in Offshore Operations have been progressing well. The offshore asset has been identify.ing and implementing process optimization, modifying and upgrading process controls and improving shutdown man.agement by aligning maintenance with the gas customer to minimize shutdown time. The shutdown management has proven can reduce flaring volume from non-routine events, which was declining from 405 MMScf in 2013 to 228 MMScf in 2014 (43%). This number contributed to overall Offshore flaring volume, which has been declining 20% from 2013 to 2014. ConocoPhillips China completed the “Associated Gas Export” project, exporting most of the extra associated gas to the partner gas terminal through partner’s subsea pipe.line network for further treatment and final distribution. This effort reduced the flare volumes. In Canada, significant GHG reductions have been accom.plished through the implementation of a large variety of technologies that aim to reduce/eliminate vented natural gas, improving engine fuel efficiency, and recover/utilize waste heat. The Operations Energy Efficiency Team is a very unique part of the Canadian operation, as they bring a ded.icated and innovative focus on the evaluation, scoping and execution of GHG reduction projects within the Canadian business unit. From the implementation of projects since 2011, a GHG reduction of approximately 200,000 metric tons of CO2 annually has been achieved (equivalent to taking approximately 40,000 cars off the road). The U.S. Lower 48 business unit has carried out energy efficiency improvements through greater utilization of photovoltaic solar panels on field equipment and optimiz.ing compression in the San Juan Basin. We are now using solar-powered chemical injection units in place of gas-
powered pumps on many wells, thus reducing emissions and fuel use. Carbon TradingOur commercial organization trades GHG emission allow.ances to optimize emissions management in countries implementing emission-trading programs. Where our operations are subject to GHG regulation our goal is to meet our compliance obligation in the most cost-effective manner possible. We begin by understanding the cost and impact of our internal GHG reduction oppor.tunities, for example, through projects that improve energy efficiency in our operations. When reducing our own emissions will be costly and where the regulatory system allows trading, we consider purchas.ing allowances and high-quality offset credits to meet our compliance obligations. Carbon Trading Around the WorldEurope Our facilities across Europe have participated in the Euro.pean Union’s emissions-trading program (ETS) since 2005. The company’s commercial organization trades allowances on the secondary market exchanges. Canada ConocoPhillips Canada participates in the regional emis.sions reduction scheme in the province of Alberta and has experience with all the compliance mechanisms of that program: • Making internal improvements to operations to reduce emissions. • Purchasing or using Emission Performance Credits (EPC). • Purchasing Alberta-based offset credits and Contributing to the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund (CCEMF). Integrating the Cost of Greenhouse Gas Emissions into Project EconomicsFor operations in countries with existing or imminent GHG regulation, the cost of regulatory compliance is evaluated based on specific regulation and local greenhouse gas pricing information. This information is incorporated into the base-case economic analysis for ongoing and new capital expenditures. For operations in countries without existing or imminent GHG regulation, all capital projects with a total installed cost of $150 million or greater or that result in a change to annual emissions in excess of 25,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent are required to perform a sensitivity analysis that includes carbon cost as part of the project’s economic analysis. The company uses an estimated market cost of greenhouse gas emissions in the range of $6 to $51 per tonne (in 2014 uninflated terms) depending on the timing and country or region to evaluate future project opportunities. Managing Risks and OpportunitiesThe effect of many current and potential greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations will be to establish a price or value for a unit of avoided GHG emission. Such laws and regulations bring both risks and opportunities. The introduction of a cost of greenhouse gas emissions could also increase demand for less carbon-intensive energy sources and tech.nologies such as natural gas and renewable energy. There are both risks and opportunities that we see developing in a lower carbon business environment. Carbon Asset RiskThe objective of our climate change strategy is to prepare the company to succeed in a world challenged to reduce GHG emissions. This includes managing risk, optimizing opportunities and equipping the company to evolve our strategic approach to respond to changes in key uncer.tainties including government policies around the world, technologies for emission reduction and alternative energy technologies. We are aware that some stakeholders are concerned that at some point, the use of fossil fuels could be restricted in order to limit GHG concentrations in the atmosphere in an effort to limit changes in global temperatures. This concept is being called “carbon asset risk” or “unburnable carbon”. The issue appears to be that some stakeholders are concerned that reserve and resource projections might be overstated or that there may be a “carbon bubble.”Unburnable Carbon In June 2014, the IPIECA — the oil and gas industry asso.ciation for environmental and social issues of which Con.ocoPhillips is a member — published a fact sheet on the topic of carbon asset risk titled, “Exploring the concept of ‘unburnable carbon’” The fact sheet makes several key points: • The industry agrees with the need to address the chal.lenges of climate change. 	– “… rising GHG emissions and global temperature pose risks to society and ecosystems that are serious enough to warrant cost-effective policy responses that balance mitigation and adaptation, as well as other societal priorities.” • Oil and gas are needed to meet increasing energy demand. 	– In all of the International Energy Agency’s scenarios, including their 2-degree scenario, “there is a need for new oil and gas production capacity to accommodate the projected increase in demand and compensate for the decline in production at existing fields.” • There is no clear evidence of a speculative “carbon bubble.” 	– “Markets are pricing oil and gas companies rationally. This is based on their expectations of future earnings, taking into account the size and type of mineral reserves, the risks arising from future climate policies and many other factors.” • Managing risks is at the core of the oil and gas industry. 	– “Oil and gas companies manage climate risk alongside other business risks. A number of strategic tools are cur.rently used to manage these risks, including CO2 costs in project economics.” IPIECA concludes that oil and gas companies, including ConocoPhillips, are taking the necessary steps to build car.bon-constrained scenarios into their long-range plans and strategic portfolio decisions. How we manage Carbon Asset RiskRegulations are in place for publicly traded companies to provide a consistent set of rules that allow investors to evaluate and compare investment choices. All U.S. publicly traded companies must comply with these types of rules and regulations, including those regulated by the Securi.ties and Exchange Commission (SEC). ConocoPhillips fully complies with rules and regulations for reporting reserves. We have also increased our disclosure over the years to be able to give investors and stakeholders additional insights into the processes and procedures that we use to manage climate change related risks, including carbon asset risk.Key elements of our carbon asset risk evaluation process include: • Considering a range of possible future carbon-constraint scenarios • Developing broad strategic alternatives to maximize share.holder value in a future with uncertain carbon constraints • Testing strategies in various scenarios • Developing actionable insights We have integrated carbon-restricted scenarios into the strategic portfolio planning process to test our portfolio, and have developed annual GHG price forecasts for compa.ny-wide use in long-range planning and project evaluation. Carbon Scenarios To evaluate the implications of different scenarios that combine alternative energy technology advancement and government actions, we have developed four carbon con.straint scenarios: All of the above scenarios, with the exception of Scenario 3 have been developed in such a way to achieve the Inter.national Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) scenario of achieving a near 50% chance of limiting the increase in global average temperature by 2°C.  Carbon Tracker Fact Sheet In August 2014, the Carbon Tracker Initiative issued fact sheets analyzing several oil and gas companies’ portfolios to determine the price per barrel required for each company’s projects to be profitable. Through constructive dialogue with Carbon Tracker we have been able to discuss and correct most of the misunderstand.ings in the use of industry data, resulting in revisions to the fact sheets. While we do not agree with all of the Carbon Tracker assumptions, we would point out that, nevertheless, Carbon Tracker found: “Amongst the majors, ConocoPhillips’ portfolio appears to have a focus on quality over quantity; potential production is the lowest amongst the majors and the same is true for potential capex, yet amongst the majors it also has one of the lowest proportions of projects that require a market price of $95/bbl or more for sanction.” Opportunities in a Lower Carbon Business EnvironmentPotential business opportunities related to anticipated climate change regulatory requirements fall into 3 broad categories: • Opportunities associated with increased demand for and value of lower carbon energy sources and technologies associated with our existing business, for example natural gas exploration and production. • New business opportunities in lower carbon energy and technologies with the potential to provide future growth prospects for ConocoPhillips, e.g., Energy Technology Ventures • Opportunities to extend the life or increase the value of our existing assets and business, for example through the potential application of CO2 capture and storage. There are potential opportunities in all these categories to increase revenues, decrease expenses, expedite business development, enhance our license to operate, and to grow our business. Energy Technology VenturesAlong with partners GE and NRG Energy Inc., we participate in Energy Technology Ventures (ETV) to accelerate emerging energy technology. The companies have committed $300 million in capital to the new joint venture to fund approx.imately 30 venture- and growth-stage companies over a four-year period. ETV invests in and offer commercial collaboration oppor.tunities to venture- and growth-stage energy technology companies in the renewable power generation, smart grid, energy efficiency, oil, natural gas, coal and nuclear energy, emission controls, water and bio-fuels sectors, primarily in North America, Europe and Israel. With their wide range of deep technical and financial expertise, relationships, services and products, the 3 companies behind Energy Technology Ventures intend to help start-ups develop next-generation energy technology. The current investments are in companies developing potentially game-changing technologies in solar photo.voltaic (Alta Devices, 1366 Technologies), cleaner coal (Ciris Energy), non-food biofuels (CoolPlanetBioFuels), energy storage technologies (Ioxus) and energy management software (Hara). Greenhouse Gas Regulatory RiskThere have been a broad range of proposed or promul.gated state, national and international laws focusing on GHG reduction. These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. Laws in this field continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compli.ance costs relating to implementation, such laws, if enacted, could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Examples of legislation or pre.cursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our operations include: •	Federal mandatory GHG reporting (United States, Canada, EU, Australia). •	The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497, 127 S.Ct. 1438 (2007), confirming that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide as an “air pollutant” under the Federal Clean Air Act. •	The US EPA’s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as “Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act Permitting Programs,” 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2, 2010)), and the EPA’s and U.S. Depart.ment of Transportation’s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, that triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act, may trigger more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects. •	The U.S. EPA’s announcement on Jan. 14, 2015, outlining a series of steps it plans to take to address methane and smog-forming volatile organic compound emissions from the oil and gas industry. The current U.S. Administration has established a goal of reducing the 2012 levels in methane emissions from the oil and gas industry by 40 to 45% by 2025. •	European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), the program through which many of the European Union (EU) member states are implementing the Kyoto Protocol. Our cost of compliance with the EU ETS in 2014 was approximately USD $3 million (pre-tax equity share). •	A regulation issued by the Alberta government in 2007 under the Climate Change and Emissions Act. The regula.tion requires any existing facility with emissions equal to or greater than 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide or equivalent per year to reduce the net emissions intensity beginning July 1, 2007 by 12%. New facilities must reduce 2% per year until they reach the maximum target of 12%. We also incur a carbon tax for emissions from fossil fuel combustion in our British Columbia operations. The total cost of compliance with these Canadian regulations in 2014 was approximately USD $6 million (pre-tax equity share). •	Norwegian Carbon Tax - Our cost of compliance with Nor.wegian carbon tax legislation in 2014 was approximately USD $41 million (equity share pre-tax). •	Australian Clean Energy Legislation which took effect from July 2012. Our cost of compliance with the Australian Clean Energy Legislation carbon tax (repealed July 2014) in 2014 was approximately $3 million (net share pre-tax). •	Compliance with changes in laws and regulations that create a GHG emission trading scheme or GHG reduction policies could significantly increase our costs, reduce demand for fossil energy derived products, impact the cost and availability of capital and increase our exposure to litigation. Such laws and regulations could also increase demand for less carbon intensive energy sources, includ.ing natural gas. The ultimate impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to: 	– Whether and to what extent legislation is enacted. 	– The nature of the legislation (such as a cap and trade system or a tax on emissions). 	– Whether both process and product emissions are covered. 	– The GHG reductions required. 	– The price placed on GHG emissions (either by the market or through a tax). 	– The price and availability of offsets. 	– The amount and allocation of allowances.	– Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services. 	– Any potential significant physical effects of climate change (such as increased severe weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in temperature). 	– Whether, and the extent to which, increased compliance costs are ultimately reflected in the prices of our prod.ucts and services. The ultimate financial impact arising from environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor easily determinable as new standards, such as air emission stan.dards, water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations continue to evolve. However, environmental laws and regu.lations, including those that may arise to address concerns about global climate change, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate. Notable areas of potential impacts include air emission compliance and remediation obligations in the United States. Operating in a Physically Challenging WorldWe are an independent exploration and production company operating in 27 countries around the world with physical assets in many of these countries. As such, the company can be exposed to impacts related to a changing physical environment caused by various factors in a number of locations. A few years ago, we co-led the development and publication of the World Business Council for Sustain.able Development (WBCSD) report Adaptation — An Issue Brief for Business. The report concluded that changes in the Earth’s climate system could have repercussions on how business operates. The magnitude and frequency of impacts are uncertain, but consequences with negative effects on business could include: •	Higher temperatures, which could affect the location, design, efficiency, operation and marketing of business infrastructure, products and services. •	Water scarcity, which could stymie business operations, particularly those of water-dependent industries. •	Rising sea levels, which could affect the location of busi.ness operations, submerge or complicate access to raw materials or natural and human resources. •	Increased frequency of extreme weather events, which could damage business infrastructure, disrupt logistics, and affect business continuity and costs. • Changes in the distribution of vector-borne disease (e.g., malaria) and greater population migration, with their atten.dant socioeconomic impacts on workforces and markets. Our business operations are designed and operated to accommodate expected climatic conditions. To the extent there are significant changes in the Earth’s climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materi.ally impacted, and demand for our products could fall. Given the uncertainty regarding future physical impacts associated with changing local, regional or global climate, it is not possible to determine at this time whether future physical impacts of climate change represent significant opportunities for our company. Building Resiliency to Climate Change Business resiliency planning is a process that helps the company prepare to mitigate potential impacts of a changing climate in a cost-effective manner. The key ele.ments of this process include: •	Identifying the risks and business opportunities associated with the physical impacts of changing climate. •	Identifying physical impacts of greatest concern. • Identifying potential technologies and solutions to miti.gate risks and take advantage of opportunities. Adaptation will not reduce the frequency or magnitude of events related to a changing climate, but will increase the resiliency of our business to events such as drought, hurri.canes and flooding. We conducted pilot workshops with business units in regions that cover a broad representation of resiliency risks to establish, on an informed basis, future programs and actions based on projected physical changes to the operating environment. The business units chosen were in Texas and the Gulf Coast, Arctic Canada, Canada Oil Sands, Australia North and West (including offshore) and North Slope Alaska. The results were discussed within each business to deter.mine the appropriate follow up actions and to integrate those changes into each business unit’s Climate Change Action Plan.  Engaging ExternallyPublic Policy Engagement Overview We believe that over the months and years ahead, govern.ments – federal, state/provincial and local – will continue to act upon the issue of global climate change. In order to succeed in a low carbon economy, we must play a con.structive role in public policy dialogue to devise practical, equitable and cost-effective approaches to reduce GHG emissions and address the impacts of climate change. Effective Climate Change Policy Our climate change position outlines our principles of effec.tive climate change policy. These principles continue to guide our engagement on climate change policy in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and other countries in which we operate. We work with trade associations, industry peers and other key stakeholders to develop and use best practices and in efforts to align the policymaking process with our positions and principles. External PerspectiveWe are members or sponsors of a number of external groups, which are involved in our efforts to manage the impact of climate change. American Petroleum Institute (API) – Climate Change Steer.ing Committee The API’s Climate Change Steering Committee addresses climate change issues affecting the U.S. oil and natural gas industry. The group oversees API’s Climate Challenge program, including participation in government voluntary GHG reduction programs, as well as development of the API Compendium methodology for estimating oil and gas industry greenhouse gas emissions. IPIECA – Climate Change Working Group IPIECA established its Climate Change Working Group in 1988. Since then the group has monitored the climate science and policy discussions, engaging with international governmental bodies and other stakeholders. It now also focuses on providing best practice guidance on GHG emis.sions monitoring, reporting and management. It is not an advocacy body. IPIECA participates in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and provides IPIECA members with reliable and timely information about these and other international process dealing with climate change. The Climate Change Working Group is currently working on: •	GHG emissions management. •	Revision of the petroleum industry guidelines for report.ing GHG emissions. •	Technical input into the IPCC fifth assessment report. • Pilot version of the study addressing uncertainty in oil and natural gas industry greenhouse gas inventories. MIT - Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global ChangeWe sponsor efforts to: •	Improve knowledge of interactions among human and natural Earth systems, with a particular focus on climate and energy, and of the forces that drive global change. •	Prepare quantitative analyses of global change risk and its social and environmental consequences. •	Provide independent assessments of potential responses to global risks, through emissions mitigation and anticipa.tory adaptation, contributing to improved understanding of these issues among other analysis groups, policy-mak.ing communities and the public, and • Augment the pool of people needed for work in this area by the education of graduate and undergraduate students in relevant disciplines of economic and Earth science anal.ysis and methods of policy assessment. An interdisciplinary team of natural scientists, social scien.tists and policy analysts supports this mission, with their efforts coordinated through the maintenance and appli.cation of a set of analytical frameworks that integrate the various components of global system change and potential policy response. IHS/CERA – Climate Change and Clean Energy ForumIHS/CERA hosts bi-annual forums where member compa.nies can discuss global climate change and clean energy research and its implications for policy. IHS/CERA provides a wide range of research products to ensure that members are up to date with current developments around the world. In addition we worked with the following groups discussed in the Reporting & Transparency section: •	International Oil and Gas Producers Association (OGP) •	U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development (USBCSD) • Social Responsible Investors and Non-Governmental Organizations 