LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERSCompanies that produce oil and natural gas operate in a market undergoing continual change, while serving stakeholders whose expectations are also evolving. Our strategies must adapt to changing times and address multiple challenges. For example, in recent years we have taken a broad range of actions to withstand weak oil and natural gas prices by streamlining operations and improving efficiency. These actions have reduced our cost of supply — all the capital, overhead and operating expenses that it costs to produce oil and natural gas. And we’ve seen many of these actions also enhance our performance as a safe and responsible employer, community member and environmental steward.We are developing innovative ways to recycle and reuse water; reduce our own energy and materials use in the production process; shrink the land foot.print used for drilling sites; and decrease resulting emissions. These and other measures contributed to a projected 33 percent reduction in our annual adjusted operating costs in 2016 as compared to 2014 while lessening our environmental impact.We are also pleased to report that 2016 was our best overall year yet in safety performance. We believe this improvement in performance stems from our focus on formally adopting Life Saving Rules and follow-up programs to verify and reinforce them in the field. This achievement is a credit to our people, who are working safely while exceeding operational targets.Additionally, we further reduced our greenhouse gas emissions and updated our Marginal Abatement Cost Curve used to assess possible future reductions. Since 2009, we’ve reduced almost 7 million tonnes from business as usual by investing in and implementing cost effective technologies. We will continue to look for emission reduction projects across the global portfolio, but it is more challenging to find new eco.nomic opportunities. Technological innovation in water management during 2016 yielded new fit-for-purpose water recycling and reuse projects for hydraulic fracturing applications and improved water recycle rates in the Canadian oil sands. To inspire future innovation, we have invested in the ConocoPhillips Center for a Sustainable WE.ST (Water-Energy Education, Science and Technology) at the Colorado School of Mines. It enables faculty and students to work on overcoming the water challenges associated with oil and natural gas operations.Sustainability also creates lasting value for our stake.holders. Our stakeholder engagement teams strive to understand the unique and evolving expectations of people living near our operations. Examples include:•	Efforts to develop local capacity among indigenouspeoples in Timor Leste, Australia and Canada.•	Utilization of local, small and women-owned busi.nesses in the U.S.•	Charitable support of community-based programsfocused on health, education and conservationglobally.As we continually strive to position ConocoPhillips for future success, we are proud of our emphasis on sustainability, and of our ability to reduce costs while improving environmental and social performance. This report highlights these efforts. We remain focused on developing energy responsibly, while creating lasting value for communities and stakeholders.Chairman and CEO Ryan LancePositioning ConocoPhillips for Future Success“We embrace our role in responsibly accessing, developing and producing oil and gas to help meet the world’s energy needs, operating globally with a relentless focus on safety, social and environmental stewardship. By pursuing these objectives together with cost improvements, we are able to prioritize opportunities that can contribute to profitability and sustainability.”Chairman and CEO Ryan Lance Capital ExpendituresEmployees$4.913,300BillionTotal Spend with SuppliersProduction$9.271,569BillionThousandbarrels of oil 
equivalent per dayGHG EmissionsDividends Paid$1.326.8BillionMillion Tonnes CO2eSafety0.18Total
Recordable RateAs of Dec. 31, 2016.Our work in 2016 includes projects that reduced costs, environmental footprint, emissions and material use, while benefitting communities.Supplier Collaboration in Facility Design•	30% smaller land footprint•	65% less structural steel used•	Reduced environmental impact during decommissioningNew approach at our Surmont asset in the Canadian oil sands yields a 22% reduction in cost per well pair, with substantial environmental benefits:Read more on page 49.Footprint Reduction for Wells and Infrastructure•	300 trucks removed from roads daily, enhancing safety and reducing cost 
by over 50%•	70% smaller land footprint A new water gathering and distribution system in the Delaware Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico enables reuse of facilities throughout the program life cycle, shrinking the environmental impact, addressing community concerns, and reducing cost for future wells.Read more on page 29.Improved Technology with Flow Control Devices •	Lowers the steam-oil ratio, reducing energy use per well•	Improves bitumen recovery and revenue per well•	Up to 50% uplift in initial production ratesInstallation of flow control devices in the Canadian oil sands decreases our environmental impact and improves production.Read more on page 23.Reduced Emissions through Energy EfficiencyOptimization of compression and power usage decreases emissions from venting and exhaust at our Ekofisk and Eldfisk complexes offshore Norway.Read more on page 18.•	Emissions reductions of 55,000 tonnes 
of CO2e•	Reduced power costs and carbon taxes of $57/tonneOUR APPROACHOur ApproachChange is constant in the oil and natural gas industry. In 2016, we faced challenges including low prices and volatility, changing energy supply and consumption patterns, geopolitical instability and diverse stakeholder concerns. However, continuing to create enduring social, economic and environmental value wherever we operate provides a competitive advantage, regardless of industry conditions.Planning for actionAs our business units address unique challenges and opportunities, our sustainable development action plans contain multi-year commitments and forward-looking qualitative and quantitative goals to manage key priority issues, and our policies and positions provide consistent governance on a range of issues. This complete man.agement system tracks progress across our operations, guiding innovation and process improvements. Since we began using this approach in 2008, we have delivered GHG reductions of almost 7 million tonnes, developed water sourcing alternatives and reuse for hydraulic fracturing, expanded community and global stakeholder mapping and engagement, worked closely in key assets on respecting human rights and took actions to protect biodiversity both near our assets and through our chari.table signature programs.  Our action plans are built around five key performance components to provide a complete and comprehensive approach.We start by mapping and measuring our social and envi.ronmental footprint. This includes improving the quality of our environmental metrics and building social perfor.mance indicators.  Managing our day-to-day operations and projects involves assessing and improving operating conditions and prioritizing and implementing technolo.gies. One example from 2016 is the reduction of fugitive emissions. To manage our risks and opportunities we prepare for emerging issues and assess potential chal.lenges. This includes periodic risk assessments for assets and at key decision milestones for projects. External engagement is critical to our success and includes listening, sharing best practices, and collaborating with a diverse group of stakeholders. This happens within orga.nizations such as Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change or in meetings and town halls with stakeholders in communities close to our operations. Finally, pro.grams such as internal knowledge sharing and human rights training build our capacity as a company to meet current and future challenges.  Over time, our intention is to build a culture of sustainability as strong as our safety culture is today.   The company-wide plan provides both a “bottoms up” compilation of key actions from business specific action plans and a “top down” view of overall performance on key topics including water, biodiversity, stakeholder engagement and climate change. Managing our envi.ronmental and social performance is integrated into business decisions to provide a holistic understanding of the alternatives. Our action plans outline specific tactics and goals to be completed within a three- to five-year span. Examples of voluntary and regulatory compliance actions, both completed and in-progress, are highlighted throughout this report.Read more about Our Approach.Sustainability governanceWe have clear and effective governance structures in place throughout the company supported by standards, polices and guidelines. They are the foundation for how we operate. Our corporate governance structure includes the Board of Directors, four board committees, and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). The Public Policy Committee of the board provides oversight and guid.ance of our sustainability practices and performance. We have ELT champions for key issues in sustainability: overall implementation, stakeholder engagement, human rights, climate change, water and biodiversity. Strategic planning and implementation are reviewed by the Sustainable Development Leadership Team (SDLT), Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team (HSELT), and stakeholder engagement leaders comprised of senior functional and operational leaders from across the business.Read more about our approach to governance.Ensuring ethical business practicesOur reputation and integrity depend on each employee, officer, director and those working on our behalf main.taining personal responsibility for ethical business conduct. Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, along with our SPIRIT Values, provides clear direction to all employees, contractors and suppliers about how to behave ethically and in accordance with our standards. The Code covers a range of topics including business ethics, anti-trust, anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment and political involvement.We continue to provide web-based training periodically to all employees and require annual confirmation of compliance with the Code. We encourage employees and contractors to ask questions and seek guidance about ethical concerns and to understand their responsibility to report actual or suspected misconduct. We have sev.eral confidential reporting mechanisms for employees, contractors, shareholders and the general public. In order to create an environment where we can report suspected violations without fear, our company does not tolerate retaliation of any kind. In 2016, we received guidance requests from employees and stakeholders across all our businesses, investigated concerns and took appropriate action. Depending on the scale and type of concern, issues are elevated to provide appropriate management level oversight.Learn more about our approach to Business Ethics and Conduct.StakeholdersActive stakeholder engagement and dialogue is an integral part of our sustainability commitment. It is a key component of our action plans and our business units develop fit-for-purpose solutions to assess and address stakeholder priorities at all stages of operations. Our stakeholders are as diverse as the communities they live in or the organizations they represent. The breadth of the perspectives they provide give us a greater understanding of not only concerns and expectations, but also options and opportunities to create lasting value. We engage with our stakeholders in a range of ways as we work to improve our performance.Supporting industry dialogueWe actively work with different organizations and associ.ations around the world to ensure we have a full under.standing of the issues and trends facing our industry and company. The benefits we receive from trade and industry associations range from best practice sharing to technical standard setting and issue advocacy. We do not always agree with all positions taken by the organiza.tions that we work with. For example, we may not always agree with the positions they take on climate change or regulatory reform. In these cases, we make our views known and seek to influence their policy positions. We have strong governance around our association activities and annually report on trade association memberships with dues in excess of $50,000. We also work with many other local organizations around the world.Prioritizing reporting topicsOur sustainability reporting focuses on the environmen.tal, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter to our business and our stakeholders. To select content for our 2016 sustainability reporting, we used a process involving:Identification: Through meetings and discussions with key stakeholders, we identified and gained an under.standing of important topics. We also received feedback on our 2015 report and considered international reporting guidelines and rating agency survey questions. This was aligned with topics important to our business strategy to develop a comprehensive list.Prioritization: Subject matter experts from key functions in our organization then provided further insight and pri.oritized topics based on level of interest or concern to key stakeholders and strategic importance to the company. We validated these priorities in our ongoing engage.ments with external stakeholders. Final Prioritization: Topics with the highest priority are included in the annual sustainability report and lower priority issues are covered less comprehensively. Foundational information with additional details are also on the website. Our Annual Report and financial reporting also include environmental and social risks when they reach a “material” level as defined by regulatory require.ments. Information about issues deemed material to our investors may be found in our Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. In 2016, we have included governance as a priority and reframed our water priorities to include water sourcing and water disposal.OUR APPROACH“We pay attention to sustainability at all levels of the organization, from project inception to operations. The existence of executive leader Sustainability Champions, who are charged with providing direction, advice, oversight and leadership for our performance, underscores our commitment.” Senior Vice President Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Janet Langford CarrigUnited Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations General Assembly has adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set the global agenda for equitable, socially inclusive, and environmentally sustainable economic development. Our core business of delivering energy to the world contributes directly to: Goal 7:  Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Goal 8:  Promote inclusive and sus.tainable economic growth, employ.ment and decent work for all.Goal 13:  Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.Many of our business and community investment activities support the other goals such as those on clean water, industry, infrastructure and innovation, and life below water and on land. SDG icons throughout the report indicate examples of our activities that sup.port the goals.We are working with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry associ.ation for environmental and social issues, on the role the oil and gas industry can most effectively play to support the achievement of the globally-endorsed framework of the SDGs. We continue to monitor the goals as they move to international and national implementation. 5ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016OUR APPROACHStakeholder Priorities and EngagementConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 20166OUR APPROACHIssue Priority MatrixLearn more about our collaboration with organizations and associations.Responsible OperationsWorkers at our Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) facility drive continual improvement in the areas of safety, business conduct, environment, community and social engagement and economic activities. Everywhere we operate, we are committed to these principles.SAFETYSafetySafety is core to how we operate. Everything we do depends on the safety of our operations, our people and the communities around us. Across our operations we want a work environment in which safety is deeply embedded in our culture. This is guided by our long standing principle that “our work is never so urgent or important that we cannot take time to do it safely and in an environmentally responsible manner.”Our focusOur goal is to prevent all injuries, occupational ill.nesses and incidents. The framework through which we safely manage our operations, the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System Standard, emphasizes occupational safety, risk management, emer.gency preparedness and environmental performance, along with an intense focus on process safety.In 2016, our workforce continued to build momentum as we further embedded effective programs into our opera.tions through the following actions:•	Aligned our policies and programs with a risk-basedoperating model, and implemented an audit strategyfocused on high-risk issues.•	Continued implementation of the Process SafetyStrategy with focus on technical and process safetydefenses.•	Continued implementation of Learning Teams tobetter learn from successes and challenges, and wheredefenses can be built or modified to strengthen thesystem.•	Enhanced integration of the 8 Life Saving Ruleswithin the company’s global operations through fieldverification.•	Continued strengthening of crisis and emergencymanagement capabilities.Personal safetyBuilding on our strong personal safety performance in 2015, we had no fatalities and once again broke records in 2016, with significant reductions in serious incidents and workforce recordable injuries.A continued focus on the Life Saving Rules in 2016 is believed to have contributed to the improvement in our Serious Incident Rate. Business units developed and implemented field verification programs to verify that work is being done according to minimum requirements, and learnings are shared to ensure effective programs are in place. Process safetyA process safety incident is any unplanned release of hazardous material. Under industry standards, we measure and report according to the significance of the incident, with Tier 1 as the most significant potential. With implementation of our global Process Safety Strategy, process safety awareness continues to build among the workforce. However, we experienced two serious Tier 1 Process Safety Events in 2016: a condensate leak from a pipeline in Alberta, Canada, and a compressor fire in New Mexico, United States. We are using learning teams to better understand the context surrounding these events so that we can strengthen our systems and prevent similar incidents in the future. We continue to place significant emphasis on process safety competency and preventing losses of containment in our operations. We are always looking for ways to better manage our health, safety and environmental performance. In 2016, we focused on high-risk issues by revising policies, programs and our audit strategy to be more fit-for-purpose. Rather than a “one size fits all” approach, we prioritized activities and assets that posed the highest risk, and focused our improvement efforts on them. Metrics continue to be an important part of managing our performance. By combining leading metrics like Life Saving Rules verification, leadership visibility, auditing and process safety defenses with lagging metrics like Total Recordable Rate and Significant and High Risk Incident Rate, we are able to evaluate a more balanced view of performance and focus on activities designed to strengthen barriers and ultimately, prevent incidents. Spills We take numerous precautions to reduce the risk of a spill in our operations. Design, operation and maintenance of our facilities plays a key role in protecting the environment where we operate. Our global Process Safety Strategy focuses on enhancing training, governance, documentation and communications to prevent spills and releases. We are also focused on strengthening our oil spill response capability through our systematic, multi-tiered approach to emergency preparedness and crisis management.In 2016, there was a significant reduction in the number of spills greater than 1 barrel (50 percent reduction) and greater than 100 barrels (63 percent reduction). All hydrocarbon spills are considered serious, with those impacting a sensitive area and those greater than 100 barrels immediately reported to management. The spill volume increased in spills greater than 1 barrel and greater than 100 barrels due to the pipeline release in Canada. In 2016, we experienced three hydrocarbon spills greater than 100 barrels. Asset integrity programs, spill prevention teams and monitoring activities are credited for the overall improved performance since 2013.Prevention, preparedness and response We place the highest importance on preventing spills and losses of containment. Recognizing that our people play a significant role in preventing spills, we train our personnel regularly, carefully select the right contractors and execute our operations in a manner that maintains safety and environmental stewardship. We incorporate proper well design, critical well reviews, hazard and operability studies, spill risk analyses and task specific job hazard analyses to identify and mitigate our risks. Preventing spills or incidents is our primary objective. However, if a spill or other unplanned event occurs, we respond immediately with a robust set of plans and processes designed to ensure an effective response. For any incident, our response priorities are people, the environment, assets and our reputation, in this order. We dedicate significant resources to enhancing our emergency preparedness and response capabilities. As part of our Global Incident Management Assist Team (GIMAT), more than 120 employees received third-party certified training in the internationally recognized Incident Command System (ICS). We conducted three regional emergency response exercises in Australia, the United States and Norway. The Norway exercise was carried out in collaboration with Statoil where our GIMAT integrated directly into Statoil’s emergency response structure. For further assurance, we subscribe to land, on-water and subsea oil spill and emergency response entities, participate in mutual aid agreements and collaborate with regulators and external agencies which may further augment and support a response, if needed. We are also a founding member of the Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC) and Subsea Well Response Project.17%Serious Incident Rate improvement vs. 20150.18Total Recordable Rate, improvement of 11% vs. 2015Read our Health, Safety and Environment Policy.RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYRESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYWorkforce Lost Workday Case RateWorkforce Total Recordable RateA safety meeting at the Helena plant in Texas.RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYRESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETYVolume of Spills >100 BBLVolume of Spills >1 BBLSPOTLIGHTField verification is key 8 Life Saving RulesThe 8 Life Saving Rules were intro.duced in 2013 to reduce the risk of serious incidents while workers per.form critical, high-risk activities, and to save lives. They define how we work and communicate expectations to employees, contractors and partners. While minimum requirements have always been associated with each rule, we’ve taken it one step further by implementing a system to ensure that our workforce is working within those requirements.All operations are required to perform verifications of the Life Saving Rules in the field. This means performing sample checks periodically to verify workers are performing work accord.ing to the minimum requirements and appropriate controls are in place. The verification process can take different forms, from a paper checklist to an app or other existing methods, but we’ve learned that an effective field verification system engages workers in meaningful dialogue and results in a better understanding of work and expec.tations. This pro.cess helps create a culture of verifica.tion, where controlled work is a habit.Company and contractor manage.ment reviews data trends and analysis of Life Saving Rules verifications each month to assess areas for improve.ment. As an example, more than 1,600 Life Saving Rules verifications were performed in Alaska in 2016, and analysis of these verifications identified an opportunity to develop enhanced energy isolation training.“Our field verification process is a two-directional learning opportunity,” said Scott Fahrney, superintendent of fieldwide operations on Alaska’s North Slope. “It is something that we use to more effectively communicate the risks involved in the job, and how to appropriately mitigate those risks. At the same time, we hear back from the workers about what their challenges are, and how we can improve the sys.tem to address those challenges.”View “Field Verification in Alaska.”11ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.SAFETY“During a time in our industry where activity and oil prices have fluctuated dramatically, we’ve remained steadfast in our commitment to operating in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. Our strong health, safety and environmental performance reflects that commitment.”   Health, Safety and Environment Vice President Dirk Faveere SPOTLIGHTThis is not a drill: Emergency response in CanadaIn May and June 2016, two signifi.cant emergency events impacted our Canadian operations: a wildfire in northern Alberta and a pipeline release in western Alberta. The emer.gency response to both incidents demonstrated ConocoPhillips Canada’s objective to safely protect people, the environment and the company’s assets. In May, a massive wildfire in the Fort McMurray area threatened our Surmont facility. At one point the fire came within less than one mile from a well pad. We safely evacuated 800 personnel, including 200 members of the public, from the Surmont area to a safe location hundreds of miles away. With significant effort and teamwork from the site Incident Command Team, employees, contractors and the Calgary Emergency Management Support Team (EMST), the Surmont facility was safely shut down. Staff and equipment were deployed for more than 20 days to monitor the facility and protect critical infrastructure from being impacted by the wildfire. This dedicated team also planned and executed a safe remobi.lization and facility startup once the evacuation order was lifted. In early June, the emergency response team was activated when a leak was discovered on a condensate pipeline in the Resthaven field, a remote area in western Alberta. The critical objective of the emergency response was to protect the environment and minimize potential impacts of the release. The location’s remote and hilly terrain, along with extremely wet conditions, created significant challenges for responders. Under the direction and teamwork of the Incident Command Center, with support from the Calgary EMST, a response consisting of more than 200 personnel and significant equipment was deployed to help contain and clean up the spill. The response team successfully mitigated environmental impacts and imple.mented a cleanup and remediation plan with approval from the regulators.Wildfire at Fort McMurrayConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 201612WORKFORCEWorkforceWe invest in our employees to develop a diverse, talented and engaged global workforce that drives our business success.Our workforceIn 2016, our company experienced significant changes. We took steps to adapt to the challenging price environ.ment and ensure we have the necessary skills to support our long-term strategy. At year-end, our global workforce included approximately 13,300 employees. This reflects a 16 percent workforce reduction and internal restructur.ing to position our company to operate in a world with greater price volatility. Diversity and inclusionWe respect and value the contributions and differences of every individual and use these to create competitive advantage, personal growth and, ultimately, business success. By striving to reflect the global communities in which we live and work, we gain an improved under.standing of — and are better positioned to meet our stakeholders’ expectations and needs.To help foster a diverse workforce and create an inclusive environment of mutual respect, trust and understanding, we support 14 employee networks with more than 6,200 employee participants and numerous chapters across 10 countries. Open to all employees, these groups provide personal and professional development, networking and community involvement opportunities. An executive sponsor helps guide, promote and mentor each network. Networks like our Native American Network in Oklahoma and the Aboriginal Network in Canada reflect local com.munities near our operations.All employees, including non-members, are invited to participate in various network-sponsored community and development events. New networks and chapters are created as a result of employee interest and ini.tiative, with support from Human Resources. In 2016, the Women’s Network launched a new chapter in our Western Australia business unit, which includes members across offices in Perth, Darwin and Dili. Two leadership team members, one male and one female, sponsor the network. The Australia chapter joins existing chapters in Houston, Bartlesville, Anchorage, Calgary and Midland.Learning and developmentThrough a combination of on-the-job development, networking, formal training and feedback, we strive to attract, develop and retain employees to enhance our business success.
In 2016, our employees completed more than 275,000 hours of online and in-person training, averaging 19 hours per person. We increased the amount of virtual training, utilizing commercially available technology and our own products, to offer global training across all time zones to all business units. We also increased our application of eLearning courses, independent learning programs, external resources, instructor-led courses and virtual train.ing offerings. Individual business units and functions also offered supplemental employee development opportuni.ties and training throughout the year. During our annual performance management process, supervisors and employees work together to set business and development goals, discuss progress and receive feedback. All employees can utilize our 360 survey tool to gain feedback on individual strengths and development opportunities.Our 17 Talent Management Teams (TMTs) are responsible for managing — either globally or regionally — shared skills critical to business success. Each TMT is comprised of senior representatives from business units and corpo.rate functional organizations. Collectively, TMTs enable our company to build high-performing teams. Wellness Strong health and wellness is good for our employees and therefore good for our company. Through our global Good for You! campaign, we provide biometric screen.ings, as well as nutrition and physical activity programs aimed to raise awareness and reduce health risks. Since the program’s inception in 2012, obesity has decreased 10 percent, high blood pressure decreased 26 percent and high cholesterol decreased 8 percent among our global employees. In 2016, almost 4,000 employees, family members and contractors participated in Energy in Action!, a global event promoting fitness, fun and friendly competition. Participants earned points by tracking physical activities online over an eight-week period. Participants logged an average of 47 hours of exercise during the challenge, for a global total of approximately 180,000 hours. Our various locations provide individual programs to complement our global wellness offerings. For example, in 2016 our Canada business unit launched a “Five-in-Five Campaign” to promote mental health and resiliency. Participants shared stories of real-life challenges so others could relate and discuss their experiences. In addition, many locations encouraged proper nutrition by hosting farmer’s markets, healthy nutrition presentations and programs. In the U.S., employees who participated in our 2016 wellness programs lost an average of 10 pounds.Payroll Country DistributionRESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.WORKFORCEMembers of the Asian American Network celebrate 25 years. 2016 also marked the 25th anniversary of our Women’s Network.“Good for You! helps employees improve their health through programs that reduce risks and improve overall well-being.”  Chief Medical Officer Dr. Paul Hodgins We aim to recruit and train local citizens for jobs at all levels across our company. In 2016, Indonesian nationals represented 98.6 percent of our ConocoPhillips Indonesia employee base.14ConocoPhillips.Sustainability Report 2016RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS.WORKFORCEWellness Programs Improve Employee Health and Well-Being10%70%4,00026%8%Decrease in obesity among global employees 
in past 3 yearsDecrease in blood pressure amongglobal employeesin past 3 yearsDecrease incholesterol among global employees in past 3 yearsGlobal participation 
in biometric 
screeningEmployees, family members and contractors engaged in Energy in Action!Energy in Action! participants at Bayu-Undan conduct an exercise session during their “Biggest Loser” competition.