planting and coastal ridge restoration. Through the SPIRIT of Conservation & Innovation Program, we support NFWFprojects focused on the restoration of habitats and the development of tools and techniques to supportconservation. Since 2005, the program has awarded grants worth $11.6 million to conservation groups in 13 statesand .ve countries. Grantees matched this funding with an additional $25.7 million, for a total conservationinvestment of $37.3 million. As a result of these investments, more than 306,000 acres of .sh and wildlife habitathave been conserved, restored or enhanced.SPOTLIGHTUnlocking Alaska’s 
Energy Resources2:31 PLAY TIMESPOTLIGHTCollaborating to promote water and biodiversity stewardship is key to solving global environmental challenges. Weoperate in diverse environments across the globe and work to understand and mitigate biodiversity impacts.Through our charitable investments, we partner with communities and institutions to advance conservation andskill building and to improve access to technology. This deep commitment to biodiversity and water is important toour operations and is integrated into the planning, exploration, development and production over the life of ourassets.Conservation PartnershipsSmithsonian InstitutionWorking with the Smithsonian to collect migratory bird information.LEARN MORESPIRIT of Conservation & InnovationFunding innovation to promote conservation.LEARN MORE"Understanding and trackinganimal movements is crucialfor conserving habitats that areessential to species survival."—DR. PETER MARRA, DIRECTOR OF THESMITHSONIAN MIGRATORY BIRD CENTERSmithsonian InstitutionWe work with the world-renowned Smithsonian Institution to collect connectivity information for several bird species that follow a migratory .yway aligned with our areas of operation. These birds include species that breed from the North Slope of Alaska to the oil sands of northern Alberta, then migrate south through the "prairie potholes" into Texas, and across the Gulf of Mexico to wintering grounds as far south as Colombia.Tracking animal movement aids conservation and is also essential for predicting the spread of invasive species, agricultural pests and pandemic disease.The Migratory Connectivity ProjectThe Smithsonian Migratory Bird Center uses advanced tracking technologies including satellite and cell phone transmitters. Species currently under analysis include:Black-bellied PloverBroad-winged HawkCommon NighthawkConnecticut WarblerGlaucous GullLong-billed CurlewPaci.c LoonRusty Blackbird 2019 plans include .eld expeditions and species analysis of:Bluethroats and Arctic TernsLong-billed CurlewsMountain PloversFlammulated OwlsLong-tailed, Parasitic and Pomarine JaegersLearn more about The Migratory Connectivity Project on Alaska’s North Slope.SPOTLIGHTConocoPhillips supports Colombia community3:10 PLAY TIMESPOTLIGHTSPOTLIGHTSPIRIT Values — Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork — inspire our actions andcon.rm that safety is core to how we operate. We consistently promote safe work practices and are focused oncontrol of work. All employees and contractors have the responsibility and authority to stop work they believe isunsafe. We also implement the programs, training and internal controls necessary to reduce and mitigate risk to ourfellow employees, our neighbors and the environment. SafetyA Learning OrganizationIntroducing human performance concepts and enhancing leadership behaviorsthat promote learning.  LEARN MOREProcess SafetyWe take special precautions to eliminate potential impact to people, property orthe environment.LEARN MOREPersonal SafetyOur safe work cycle includes planning, execution, veri.cation and correction.LEARN MOREEmergency PreparednessA strong emphasis on training to develop e.ective emergency responsecapabilities.LEARN MORESPOTLIGHTSPOTLIGHTRatings & RecognitionWe have been honored for our sustainable development performance and success. As of May 31, 2019, this includes:Awards and RecognitionCorporate Responsibility Magazine100 Best Corporate CitizensUnited StatesAmerica’s Best Employers 2018ForbesUnited StatesHuman Rights Campaign2018 Corporate Equality IndexUnited StatesTop 25 Companies for DiversityTexas Diversity CouncilUnited StatesSocial Conflict Management AwardColombia Ministry of Mines and Energy and the National Hydrocarbons AgencyColombiaSriwijaya CSR Award and Padmamitra AwardGovernor of South Sumatera for efforts to eradicate poverty and support local contentIndonesiaRatings and QuestionnairesCDP Climate(B score, above average)Disclosing the Facts(16 out of 25)ISS E&S Quality Score1 = Lowest Risk, both Environmental and SocialSustainalytics82nd percentile, Oil and Gas ProducersSustainability Yearbook, RobecoSAMTop 15% of industry; One of only two North American energy companies listedCorporate Human Rights Benchmark38.7%; industry average is 29.4%MSCI ESG‘AA’ rating from, up from an ‘A’ rating in 2017Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)Highest ranked North American energy companyVigeo EirisHighest ranked North American energy companyWe also have a long history of sustainable development leadership:•	Founding member of the United States Business Council for Sustainable Development.•	Founding member of the Marine Well Containment Company.•	Founding member of the Subsea Well Response Project.•	Co-led the development of the GEMI® Local Water Tool™.•	Co-led the development of the IPIECA Human Rights Training Toolkit.•	Founding member of the Climate Leadership Council.