ClimateBuilding a Resilient Strategy
for the Energy TransitionManaging Climate-Related RisksIn a world aiming for net-zero emissions, we have a framework that consists of the governance, strategic capability, risk management processes and disclosure to demonstrate resilience across a range of transition scenarios. Our current Climate Risk Strategy and actions for our oil and gas operations are aligned with the aims of the Paris Agreement while being responsive to shareholder interests for long-term value and competitive returns.2021 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS.	Developed our Plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition1 to describe in detail how we intend to manage through the energy transition and address the associated risks and opportunities. .	Improved our Paris-aligned target framework of near-, medium-, and long-term targets for reducing the emissions over which the company has ownership and control, namely Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions with an ambition to become a net-zero company for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2050. These targets include: •	Strengthening our previously announced operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction target to 40-50% by 2030 on a gross operated basis.•	Expanding the GHG emissions intensity target to apply on a net equity basis to ensure active engagement in our non-operated investments. •	Meeting a further 10% reduction target for methane emissions intensity by 2025 from our 2019 baseline, building upon the 65% reduction we have made since 2015.•	Aiming to achieve our ambition for zero routine flaring by 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank initiative’s goal of 2030..	Demonstrated active advocacy for an economy-wide U.S. carbon price that would directly address consumer demand for energy and end-use (Scope 3) emissions..	Enhanced the comprehensive scenario planning process to understand alternative energy transition pathways and test the resilience of our corporate strategy to climate risk. .	Matured our use of scenario analysis and a fully burdened cost of supply, including cost of carbon, as the primary basis for capital allocation. .	Demonstrated portfolio focus on low cost of supply, low GHG emissions intensity assets, which will be essential for meeting transition pathway demand..	Established our multi-disciplinary Low Carbon Technologies organization focused on enabling our Scope 1 and 2 net-zero ambition and pursuing low.carbon energy transition opportunities, including CCS and hydrogen.1	The Plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition, as published in the 2022 Proxy Statement, can be viewed in full on our website. Sections of the plan have been reorganized to align with TCFD and current reporting structure. Any updates since first publication will be captured in this report.ClimateConocoPhillips is applying its strategic capabilities and resources to meet this challenge in an economically viable, accountable and actionable way that balances the interests of our stakeholders. Our goal is to support an orderly transition that matches supply to demand and focuses on returns on and of capital while safely and responsibly delivering affordable energy.In 2021 we advanced our role in addressing Scope 3 emissions and accelerated our contribution to the energy transition in several focus areas..	Advocating for policy to address end-use emissions through support of an economy-wide price on carbon..	Addressing upstream supply chain emissions by engaging with major suppliers on our Climate Risk Strategy..	Evaluating renewable energy opportunities in our operations through power purchase agreements or building solar or wind opportunities to support growing market demand of alternative energy..	Investing in new energies and mitigation measures such as carbon capture and storage and hydrogen.We are evaluating a project to electrify central facilities in a portion of our Eagle Ford operations.Governance FrameworkGovernance FrameworkWe have a comprehensive climate-related risk governance framework that extends from the Board of Directors, through executive and senior management to the working levels in each of our business units.Board OversightThe ConocoPhillips Board of Directors oversees our position on climate change and related strategic planning and risk management policies and procedures, including those for managing climate-related risks and opportunities. In particular, the Board reviews:.	Sustainable development risk management processes..	Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) policy and output..	Corporate strategy and Climate Risk Strategy..	Energy transition scenarios..	GHG emissions intensity target and progress..	Low Carbon Technologies plans.The Board delegates certain elements of climate oversight functions to one or more of the five standing committees: Executive, Audit and Finance, Human Resources and Compensation, Directors’ Affairs, and Public Policy and Sustainability. Each committee, other than the Executive Committee, is made up of independent directors and convenes at least quarterly. Issues considered by the committees are, as appropriate, regularly reported to the full Board.The Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) oversees ERM. The AFC facilitates appropriate coordination among the committees to ensure that our risk management processes, including those related to climate change, are functioning properly with necessary steps taken to foster a culture of prudent decision-making throughout the company. The AFC receives annual updates on how, through the ERM system, we address, mitigate and manage enterprise risk, including climate-related considerations that influence market, reputational, operational and political risks. The Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) is responsible for identifying, evaluating and monitoring climate-related trends and risks that could affect business activities and performance. In 2021, the PPSC met five times and received in-depth briefings and engaged in discussions on the following climate-related topics:.	Climate Risk Strategy..	Implementation of our Climate Risk Strategy..	Our position on Scope 3 emissions and review of climate-related and environmental resolutions..	Updates on emissions reduction projects..	Improvement to 2030 GHG intensity targets..	Low-carbon strategies..	Carbon offset primer..	Reporting and engagement..	ESG engagement in the financial sector..	Performance progress against targets and 2020 SD report highlights..	E&P Roundtable Net-Zero Principles..	SD governance. .	Improvements to SD policy and company position on water..	Review of SD priorities for 2022..	The IEA Net-Zero by 2050 report..	Just Transition and its application to exploration and production companies.Other Board committees also address climate-related issues. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee oversees executive compensation and performance-based components, including sustainability performance. Annual incentive programs promote responsibility for sustainability progress throughout all levels of the organization as well as achievement of strategic milestones and objectives that address stakeholder issues essential to sustaining excellence in environmental and social performance.Read more about the skills and qualifications of our Board members on our website.Executive ManagementThe Executive Leadership Team (ELT) manages climate-related risks and opportunities and drives the business in implementing climate-related plans. This includes:.	Reviewing and approving GHG pricing forecasts for inclusion in our long-range planning and project authorization reviews..	Supporting climate-related Variable Compensation Incentive Plan milestones..	Reviewing the GHG emissions long-range plan and peer analysis..	Approving Low Carbon Technologies plans and transition opportunities.The EVP, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology reports to the chief executive officer and has overall accountability for corporate planning and development, including corporate strategy and long-range planning, and is the ELT’s climate change champion. In addition, the Sustainability and Public Policy Executive Council (SPEC), a subcommittee of the Executive Leadership Team, leads global oversight of existing and emerging sustainable development and public policy risks including climate change. The SVP, Government Affairs is responsible for government engagement and advocacy on climate-related public policy. Members of SPEC met six times during the year for detailed briefing and discussion on emerging climate-related issues, strategic priorities and the Climate Risk Strategy. Examples of issues reviewed by SPEC during 2021 include:.	ESG engagement in the financial sector..	Improvements to SD policy and company position on water..	GHG target tracking..	Review of global climate-related meetings occurring prior to COP26..	Review of SD priorities for 2022.Read more about our governance structure on our website.Climate-related risks are communicated and integrated into strategy through the SD risk management process and ERM system. Climate-related risks from the corporate SD Risk Register are mapped to relevant enterprise risks. Owners of these enterprise risks, who are ELT members or senior managers, are briefed on the risks and our mitigation activities. Enterprise risks are then presented to the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board. The climate-related risk category is managed by the SD team; the EVP, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology and SVP, Government Affairs are jointly accountable for this risk.Read how climate-related performance is a component of executive compensation on our website.Organizational ManagementSustainable Development Leadership TeamThe Sustainable Development Leadership Team (SDLT) is comprised of global business unit presidents and functional department heads supported by the SD team. Chaired by the vice president, Sustainable Development, the SDLT consults on and facilitates alignment on SD strategic priorities, goals, action plans and results throughout the company. Sustainable Development TeamThe SD team is responsible for advising the ELT and Board on long-term climate-related risks and opportunities for our business and ensuring that these issues are integrated appropriately into strategic decisions. This includes leading the Climate Change Issues Working Group (CCIWG), an internal, global, cross-functional group for knowledge sharing among business units and functions on emissions reductions practices, climate-related regulatory or policy issues and emerging climate-related risks. The SD team reports to the executive vice president, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology, who reports to the chief executive officer. The vice president, Sustainable Development, leads the standing SD agenda item for the PPSC.The SD team works closely with the Environmental Assurance group within the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) function to provide environmental metrics for public disclosure and track our performance against those metrics. The groups collaborate to ensure that the requisite climate risk tools, processes and procedures are developed and integrated into our activities.OperationsEach ConocoPhillips business unit is responsible for identifying and monitoring near- and medium-term climate-related risks and opportunities and integrating sustainability issues, as appropriate, into day-to-day operations, project development and decision-making. They participate in our internal HSE auditing program as well as an annual goal-setting process that includes the Climate Change Action Plan to mitigate risks and a GHG emissions intensity target, and they report progress to the ELT.Subject matter experts from the business units are members of the CCIWG, which meets quarterly to discuss climate-related risk, including:.	Internal activities to address climate-related risks and opportunities, including energy efficiency and operational emissions reduction projects..	Developments in operational emissions reduction technology..	The outlook for GHG prices that might impact our operations..	Climate-related long-range planning issues..	Legislative and regulatory actions and related activities and positions of trade associations.The objective is to share key climate-related risk learnings across the company, identify issues and work to resolve them as they arise. The CCIWG also provides input from subject matter experts on climate-related processes, procedures and issues prior to review by the SDLT.Key ProcessesClimate-related considerations are integrated into the following key business planning processes for the company:.	Scenario planning..	Corporate strategy..	Long-range plan..	SD risk management process..	ERM.Our SD risk management process, risk register and Climate Change Action Plan are used to guide goal setting and track performance. Line-of-sight goals for business units and key functions are shown as specific action items within the action plan. Progress against the plan is reported through our governance structure to the ELT and Board of Directors.“As part of our oversight responsibilities, the Board engages extensively with management on all sustainable development issues. We believe the company has the right governance, strategy and risk-management processes in place to successfully navigate and compete throughout the energy transition.”— JODY FREEMAN, BOARD PUBLIC POLICY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE CHAIRClimateGovernance FrameworkGOVERNANCE FRAMEWORKGovernance FrameworkClimateGovernance FrameworkStrategy Our objective is to manage climate-related risk, optimize opportunities and equip the company to respond to evolving investor sentiment around the world, technologies for emissions reduction and alternative energy technologies and uncertainties such as government policies.The continually evolving energy transition requires a strategy that will remain robust across a range of potential future outcomes. Our strategy is comprised of four pillars:.	Targets: Our framework consists of a hierarchy of targets – from a long-term ambition that sets the direction and aim of the strategy, to a medium-term performance target for GHG emissions intensity, to near-term targets for flaring and methane intensity reductions. .	Technology choices: We continue to expand our emissions reduction programs at existing operations, while also evaluating opportunities and technologies that can closely integrate with our global operations, markets and competencies..	Portfolio choices: We are integrating climate-related risk into our portfolio decision making through consideration of carbon pricing and stranded assets, as well as low cost-of-supply and low GHG-intensity resources..	External engagement: Our stakeholders’ points of view inform the evolution of our climate-related frameworks, metrics, actions and public policy. Progress in these four pillars is demonstrated throughout the following sections. Across those pillars, our strategy takes into consideration results from scenario planning, near-, medium-, and long-term risks, and ways to address impacts from those risks. An important component of our strategy is the new Plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition, first published in the 2022 Proxy Statement and expanded further in this section. Energy OutlookIn its 2021 World Energy Outlook, the International Energy Agency (IEA) illustrated the following four different energy mix scenarios reflecting changes in total energy demand in 2050 as compared to 2020:.	Stated Policies: Total primary energy demand increases by over 26%..	Announced Pledges: Total energy demand increases by over 14%..	Sustainable Development: Total energy demand declines by around 2%..	Net-Zero Emissions: Total energy demand declines by almost 8%.Demand for natural gas and oil has different outcomes across the IEA scenarios. Demand grows compared to 2020 in the Announced Pledges scenario but declines in the Sustainable Development and Net-Zero Emissions Scenarios. Even in the Net-Zero Scenario, 2050 oil demand remains at 19 MMBBL/day and natural gas at 27 MMBOE/day and, despite a reallocation of capital to renewables, significant investment in upstream natural gas and oil is still required. IEA estimates this to average $495 billion each year from 2020 to 2050 globally in the Announced Pledges scenario and $210 billion per year from 2020 to 2050 in the Net-Zero Emissions Scenario, a total of approximately $14.8 trillion globally and $6.3 trillion respectively for the period 2020 to 2050.Achieving the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario (limiting temperature increase to below 2 degrees Celsius) requires significant progress on several fronts:.	Improving energy efficiency of power generation, transportation and industrial processes..	Reducing emissions from fossil fuels or capturing and storing or utilizing those emissions..	Increasing the amount of non-carbon energy, such as renewables and nuclear power.Changes in the energy system take time, as energy infrastructure components have long asset lives and change would have to go beyond replacing the power generation and distribution systems to include replacing automobile, truck, ship and aircraft fleets or retrofitting them to meet new specifications. Increasing renewable power utilization would also require significant improvement in the daily and seasonal reliability of wind- and solar-powered electricity generation, or a significant improvement in energy storage that would reduce the amount of backup fossil fuel-fired electricity generation needed.The Net-Zero Emissions Scenario is useful data to inform the decisions to be made by policy makers, who have the greatest scope to move the world closer to its climate goals. The assumptions used in the scenario are challenging. For example, as previously mentioned, reducing energy demand by almost 8% from 2020 levels, effectively requires reverting energy demand back to 2010 levels, while supporting 3 billion more people with three times the economic activity. Increasing renewables’ share of the electricity supply to the level assumed in 2050 would require annual capacity additions four times the record that was set in 2020. The electricity market in 2050 is assumed to be 150% greater than the market in 2020, the equivalent of adding an electricity market the size of India every year. Further, of 400 milestones needed to achieve net-zero emissions described in the Net-Zero Emissions Scenario, 85% are demand-side actions requiring government intervention. It will continue to be important for policymakers to address the imperatives of energy security and affordability alongside climate risk.These widely varying factors are the reason scenario planning is important. There is not just one pathway to a low carbon future; there are numerous ways in which government action and technology development could interact with consumer behavior to bring about a low-carbon future. Performance on climate-related risk and opportunity is driven by the strength of strategic planning, including the use of widely varying scenarios, as well as the financial strength and asset flexibility to manage across a range of possibilities.Scenario Planning at ConocoPhillips The scenarios we have developed describe possible pathways leading to a particular outcome. Scenarios are hypothetical constructs and are not meant to be used as predictions of what is likely or forecasts of what we think is going to happen; they should be used to illustrate what factors drive future developments. We use scenarios in our strategic planning process to:.	Gain better understanding of external factors that impact our business to assist in the identification of major risks and opportunities and inform mitigating actions..	Identify leading indicators and trends..	Test the robustness of our strategy across different business environments..	Communicate risks appropriately..	Inform how we position our business, as technologies and markets evolve, to capitalize on opportunities that meet risk and return criteria.Using scenarios enables us to understand a range of risks around potential commodity market prices associated with various GHG reduction scenarios. To assist our capital allocation decisions, we can test our current portfolio of assets and investment opportunities against these future possibilities and identify where strengths and weaknesses may exist.We rarely make any decision based on a single source of information, but use a range of analyses, input and information when developing our strategy. The detail of our scenarios gives insight into the analysis we use to inform our strategic decision making and reinforces to stakeholders and shareholders that we are both preparing for reductions in GHG consistent with the Paris Climate Agreement and developing resilient strategies that reflect the complex and uncertain range of energy futures.We use four main energy transition scenarios in our global energy model: Current Trends, Moderate Transition, Accelerated Transition and Paris Agreement. The four scenarios incorporate a wide range of possible outcomes for energy and carbon emissions. Technology development (both complementary and competing), government policy (focused on both the supply and demand side) and social choices play leading roles in influencing the outcomes in each case. Regional differences were included to reflect areas of the world that may take a different pace or direction. While these scenarios extend to 2050, well beyond our operational planning period, they give insights on trends that could have an implication for near- and medium-term decisions and enable choices on the creation or preservation of future options.Each scenario models the full energy system including oil, natural gas, solar, wind and nuclear, as well as their related GHG emissions and pricing policies. In 2021, near-term adjustments were made to account for actuals, and the modeled energy system has been expanded to include hydrogen and carbon capture, as both technologies appear vital to the energy system. Each of these plausible pathways is designed to stretch our thinking about potential rates of new technology adoption, policy development and consumer behavior. The scenarios describe four pathways out of the myriad that are possible, given the uncertainty surrounding the development of future energy markets out to 2050. They do not intend to describe all possible future outcomes and are not used as a reliable indicator of the actual impact of climate change on ConocoPhillips’ portfolio or business.In addition to using the four scenarios to analyze potential outcomes, we regularly monitor key signposts as we work to track the pace and direction of the energy transition and identify potential leading indicators of change in the demand for hydrocarbons. In this way we aim to establish not just which scenario we are moving toward, but also to identify emerging disruptive scenarios. This analysis is presented to executive management and the Board of Directors to assist in strategic decision making.The thoughtful application of scenarios in strategic planning is core to our ability to navigate future uncertainty and is a practical way of conveying this information in a decision-useful manner. The key to scenario planning is the use of a wide-enough range to characterize uncertainty, rather than trying to correctly guess specific future variables or parameters. Different low-carbon scenarios that depict a wide range of future possibilities help facilitate strategic planning, but are not designed for, or intended to be used as reference scenarios to compare companies. For example, addressing market price uncertainty has led us to significantly change our portfolio, capital flexibility and cost structure over a short period of time. This illustrates how misleading it can be to compare companies based on a static view of a current portfolio; a range of scenarios are possible.Scenario DescriptionsEnergy Intensity of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) – The outcome for global energy-related CO. emissions from our four scenarios is shown in the chart below. The scenarios reflect differing economic activity, technology developments, public policy developments and consumer choices, but in all of our four scenarios, GDP becomes less energy intense as the global economy requires less incremental energy-intensive manufacturing and industrial activity relative to service-oriented activity. “Current Trends” corresponds to an average rate of decline in energy intensity of GDP from 2021 to 2050 of 1.5%, a rate in line with the 2010–2019 era. Alternatively, the Paris Agreement case corresponds to an average rate of decline in energy intensity of 3.0%. For reference, IEA’s Net-Zero pathway corresponds to an annual rate of 3.3% during 2021 to 2050.CURRENT TRENDS SCENARIOThis scenario is built on the assumption that current trends (2010–2019) in energy production and consumption continue. Government policies for carbon emissions remain globally uncoordinated. Technologies evolve at a gradual pace and current modes of transportation and power generation remain the lowest cost, most efficient avenues for energy consumption and generation. Carbon taxes are introduced at a moderate rate in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries, rising to only $30/tonne of CO. equivalent (TeCO.e) in 2050. It is assumed that non-OECD countries have not implemented carbon pricing by 2050 in this scenario.2 Consequently, fossil fuels continue to deliver roughly 80% of global energy needs in 2050, and energy related carbon emissions continue to increase.The global oil market grows by 20% over 2019’s 100 MMB/D level, driven by solid economic growth and a lack of competitive alternatives. Transportation’s share of total oil demand expands from ~60% (2021) to 65% in 2050. The automotive sector continues to evolve gradually, and the global share of electric vehicle sales increases from 1–2% today to 20% in 2050. The global average internal combustion engine efficiency modestly improves by around 15%, and petroleum remains the most prevalent fuel for all modes of transportation. Production from all regions and resource types are developed.The natural gas market expands at a faster rate than oil over the long term. By 2050, natural gas demand is ~75% larger (2021), reaching just under 700 billion cubic feet per day (BCF/D) as growing economies utilize natural gas in all sectors. The volume of natural gas consumed in power generation more than doubles by 2050. The focal point of demand shifts away from North America and Europe toward Asia and the Middle East.MODERATE TRANSITION SCENARIOThis scenario assumes moderate advances in carbon pricing policies and alternative energy technologies, with incremental shifts in consumer preferences for low carbon products. Fossil fuels remain at roughly 75% of the primary energy mix in 2050. Carbon taxes go into effect across OECD countries during the mid-2020s and are $25/TeCO.e in 2030, rising to $60 in 2050. It is assumed that China implements its proposed national carbon pricing policy at 50% of the OECD carbon fee and that no other non-OECD countries implement a carbon pricing policy prior to 2050. Global energy-related carbon emissions stabilize by 2050.Global oil demand plateaus in the late 2030’s at around 110 MMB/D and then declines very slowly. Average internal combustion engine efficiency improves by one-third. Electric vehicle penetration is slow in the early years but accelerates in the 2030s and 2040s, reaching 30% of the passenger auto fleet in 2050 (compared to 0.7% in 2020). Regional policies also influence the outcome for electrification in transportation. Global oil production benefits from technology advances which improve productivity and enable global demand to be satisfied. U.S. crude oil production grows through 2030 then falls as incremental productivity improvements slow and high-quality acreage is exhausted. Russia and OPEC grow to take a larger share of global supply which increases geopolitical risk to supply.The global gas market expands by 50% from 2019 levels, by 2050. The primary driver for natural gas demand growth is power generation. Natural gas consumed in power generation increases from 140 BCF/D in 2018 to 240 in 2050. Improvements in energy storage enable wind and solar to be available throughout the day, increasing their contribution to power generation. As in the Current Trends scenario, global demand shifts east to Asia and the Middle East. Global supplies remain heavily weighted to North America. U.S. shale gas and Permian associated gas drive North American growth until the 2030s, after which Canada leads North America’s production growth.In this scenario, hydrogen and Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS) move to become viable, standalone business lines. Moderate progression toward national net-zero targets increases availability of capital funding which paves the way for these technologies to take hold. CCUS grows to 1.7 gigatonnes captured in 2050, while the total hydrogen market expands to 250 million metric tons in 2050.ACCELERATED TRANSITION SCENARIOThis is a scenario with more aggressive changes in technologies, consumer preferences and government policies relative to Moderate Transition. Technology is vital to limiting growth in energy demand, as the global population and economy expand. Social trends that are prevalent today in specific regions or municipalities spread because technological advances make these choices universally economic. For example, individual auto ownership gives way to shared mobility. Mass transit and ride-sharing are accessible and cost effective for more people in more regions. Consumers shift purchases toward products and services that are viewed as environmentally responsible, and society demands more transparent environmental stewardship from the businesses they patronize. Governments target aggressive policies toward GHG emissions, fossil fuel production and consumption. Carbon pricing goes into effect across OECD countries during the mid-2020s and is $30 per TeCO.e in 2030, rising to $80 in 2050. Again, China implements its proposed carbon pricing policy at 50% of the OECD price. Other non-OECD countries impose a very low $5 per TeCO.e price by 2030.Global oil markets reach a peak by 2028 and remain near that level until tapering more quickly after 2035. The combination of internal combustion engine efficiencies and faster adoption of electric vehicles, which reach a 40% share of the passenger vehicle fleet by 2050, reduces oil demand in the transportation sector. Oil demand from the industrial sector grows for plastics and chemicals.The global natural gas market grows by 25% from 2019 to 2050. Natural gas remains a prominent fuel in electricity generation but starts to yield market share to wind and solar in the latter years of the scenario. By the late 2040s, energy storage technology allows renewables to contribute a larger share of power generation. North America’s gas production remains fairly flat, plateauing in about 2040 before declining.Faster progression toward net-zero targets and higher carbon prices increase capital available to new technologies, but hydrogen and CCUS remain the frontrunners. Captured carbon increases to 2.7 gigatonnes by 2050, and advances in renewables-powered hydrogen technology expand the hydrogen market to around 300 million metric tons.PARIS AGREEMENT SCENARIOThis scenario assumes technology breakthroughs, major social movements to reduce fossil fuel consumption and rapid global policy coordination to price GHG emissions at a level that materially reduces fossil fuel use and emissions. It also assumes that OECD countries and China implement a pricing3 mechanism by 2025 rising from $50/TeCO.e in 2030 to $120 by 2050. Other non-OECD nations follow by imposing prices of $10/TeCO.e in 2030 rising to $60 by 2050. The scenario assumes significant technological advances which reduce battery, wind and solar generation costs, improve fuel efficiencies for internal combustion engines (80% more fuel efficient by 2050), improve energy efficiency in buildings and lighting, and other impacts to energy production, delivery and consumption. Technology and efficiencies allow total energy demand in 2050 to be 25% below 2019’s level with 50% of energy provided by non-fossil fuels.The global oil market peaks in 2023, before significantly declining thereafter. Energy storage improvements lead to EVs achieving parity with internal combustion engine vehicles by the mid-2020s, thus incentivizing climate-conscious consumers to purchase EVs. Consequently, 70% of the passenger automobile fleet is electric in 2050, and transportation sector demand falls to 25% of total oil demand. Oil supply dynamics evolve as most production occurs in OPEC countries and Russia and geopolitics play an even larger role in oil prices and the supply and price of oil.The natural gas market peaks in 2024. Natural gas generates only 8% of global electricity in 2050, while wind and solar grow to produce 60% of electricity in 2050. Global gas demand shifts to emerging markets in Asia, the Middle East, CIS and Africa. Only 26% of global gas demand remains in North America and Europe. The market also becomes more reliant on OPEC and Russia for supply as North American gas output declines by over 58%.In this scenario, countries and companies push for accelerated progression along net-zero pathways and implement supportive policies along with capital funding to progress new technologies. Hydrogen remains a front-runner, with blue (using CCS) and green hydrogen supporting increased petrochemical and industrial activities over the medium term. In the later part of the scenario, electrolysis costs fall sharply, and green hydrogen accelerates along with other new technologies, pushing out blue and grey (Steam Methane Reforming) hydrogen production. Thus, the overall hydrogen market grows to around 360 million metric tons in 2050. CCUS plays a critical role in emissions reduction, expanding to 3.4 gigatonnes by 2050.Our scenarios have a wide range of assumptions regarding technological advances, government policies (e.g., carbon prices) and consumer behaviors leading to a range of oil and natural gas prices. We take this future price uncertainty into account in our strategy by using a fully burdened cost of supply as our primary criteria for capital allocation. Of the more than 20 billion barrels of resources with a cost of supply below $40 per barrel held in our portfolio, the next decade of production can be produced at an average cost of supply below $28 per barrel.The scenarios are designed to address transitional risks. A separate scenario process addresses physical climate-related risk using consultant scenarios based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) modeling.Key Strategic Linkages to our Scenario PlanningOur corporate strategy reflects several findings from our scenario analysis process. We have acted to:.	Use a fully burdened cost of supply, including cost of carbon aligned with our current probability-weighted energy scenario, as an important metric in our project authorization process. In 2021, we had a resource base of over 20 billion barrels of oil equivalent with less than a $40 per barrel cost of supply and an average cost of supply of less than $30 per barrel. Our strategic objective is to provide resilience in lower price environments, with any oil price above our cost of supply generating an after-tax fully burdened rate of return greater than 10%..	Prepare for diverse policy environments by maintaining a less than $40 per barrel of oil equivalent sustaining price that could generate the cash to fund capital expenditure to keep production flat over time and generate competitive returns to shareholders..	Maintain diversification in our portfolio to be able to balance our production and capital expenditures as commodity prices become more volatile..	Provide competitive distributions from cash flows to investors..	Identify and fund emissions reduction projects to reduce the impact of any future regulations, or the introduction of carbon prices or taxes, and help maintain a low life-cycle cost of supply. We have upgraded the use of a marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) in long-range planning to identify the most cost-effective emissions reduction opportunities available to the company globally. These process upgrades have resulted in more efficient collection, recording, sharing and funding of emissions reduction projects..	Introduce a proxy cost of carbon into qualifying project economics to help us be more resilient to climate-related risk in the short- to medium-term and provide the flexibility to remain resilient in the long-term..	Focus near-term technology investments on reducing both our costs and our emissions where economically feasible..	Monitor for potential disruptive technologies that might impact the market for natural gas or oil, enabling us to take advantage of our capital flexibility and reduce our exposure to lower commodity prices at an early point in time..	Focus on the carbon and cost competitive supply of natural gas and oil while continuing to utilize our scenario planning system to monitor and assess additional business opportunities within the evolving energy transition..	Pursue hydrogen production and carbon sequestration as potentially attractive investments in meeting transition demand for low carbon energy..	Monitor global regulatory and legislative developments and engage in development of pragmatic policies aligned with the climate policy principles outlined in our Global Climate Change Position.Near-, Medium- and Long.Term RisksAs described in the Risk Management section, we evaluate and track our climate-related risk through our SD Risk Register and Climate Change Action Plan. Those risks broadly fall into four categories:.	GHG related policy..	Emissions and emissions management..	Climate-related disclosure and reporting..	Physical climate-related impacts.The time horizons we use for climate-related issues are based on the time taken for the risks to manifest themselves, our planning time horizons and the time required to realize the majority of the net present value of our projects.Near-Term RisksOur near-term time horizon is one to five years, during which we can complete short-cycle drilling campaigns and small projects. Our GHG forecasting and financial planning processes are used to determine risks and opportunities that could have a material financial impact for that period. Our near-term climate-related risks are generally government policy-related and managed at the business unit level through policy advocacy and technology to reduce emissions.Regulations to address climate-related risk, including GHG emissions, are a near-term risk for several of our businesses. For example, regulations issued by the Alberta government under the Emissions Management and Climate Resilience Act require any facility existing in 2016, with emissions equal to or greater than 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide or equivalent per year, to reduce its net emissions intensity, with reduction increases over time. The cost of compliance and investment in emissions intensity reduction technologies influence investment decisions for the Canada business unit, where we are purchasing carbon offsets while evaluating and developing technology opportunities to reduce emissions for existing and new facilities. Good examples of technology developments that decrease GHG intensity are our commercialization of non-condensable gas co-injection at our oil sands operations which improves our steam-to-oil ratios by 20-30%, and the piloting of steam additives which has the potential for a 20% improvement to our steam-to-oil ratio.GHG emissions costs, or carbon costs, are another near-term risk in some jurisdictions where we operate. For example, in Norway, we are managing carbon cost risk with specific actions to study operational emissions reduction opportunities and evaluate project economics with the Norwegian carbon fee and European Union CO. emissions costs included.While a price on carbon in the U.S. will increase our costs and decrease demand for our product, we support a well-designed pricing regime on carbon emissions as the most effective and predictable policy action to reduce GHG emissions across the economy. By enacting a legislative requirement for a price on carbon, the U.S. would also maintain the energy advantage it currently has while at the same time building credibility with OECD countries and incentivizing other countries to also adopt a price on carbon. We are members of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a voluntary initiative working to catalyze action towards the successful implementation of carbon pricing around the world. We are a Founding Member of the Climate Leadership Council (CLC), a collaboration of business and environmental interests working to develop a carbon dividend plan for the U.S. The plan has four key pillars: a gradually increasing price on carbon, a carbon dividend, border carbon adjustments and regulatory simplification. Read more about the carbon dividend plan on our website.Medium-Term RisksOur medium-term time horizon is six to 10 years, during which we can complete most major projects and revise our portfolio significantly if required. Our GHG forecasting and financial planning processes are used to determine the risks and opportunities that could have a material financial impact for that period. Medium-term risks take longer to impact our business and may include emerging policy that is not yet fully defined. These risks are managed by business unit planning but, if significant, may also be managed by corporate strategies and company-wide risk assessments.Offset requirements have been identified as both a medium-term risk and as an opportunity for some business units where carbon offsets can be used for compliance with an emissions reduction program.Chronic physical changes are a medium-term risk for some of our operations. Temperature extremes could impact facilities located in Arctic regions if warmer temperatures reduce the length of the ice road season and restrict well and facility construction times. Mitigation measures include pre-packing to extend the start the of the ice road season, and constructing and maintaining gravel roads to be resilient to permafrost thawing.Long-Term RisksOur long-term time horizon is 11 years and beyond. Generally, long-term risks are managed by our scenario analysis and Climate Risk Strategy, as they include long-term government policy, technology trends and consumer preferences that affect supply and demand. They may also include risks that align with long-term physical climate scenarios.We recognize that our GHG intensity will be compared against peers, so we track this as a competitive risk at the corporate level. Investors, the financial sector and other stakeholders compare companies based on climate-related performance, and GHG intensity is a key indicator. For this reason, our GHG intensity target aligns with the long-term time horizon to ensure we manage the risk appropriately. It also demonstrates our goal to be a leader in managing climate-related risk.Both chronic and acute physical climate risks are a long-term risk for our business. In some parts of the U.S. we have identified potential storm severity as a risk for future operations, based on previous storms and flooding. Consensus science suggests that future extreme weather events may become more intense or more frequent, thus potentially adding incremental risk to our operations in coastal regions and areas susceptible to typhoons or hurricanes. We have a crisis management system in place to manage that risk before, during and after a storm event.Risk Response – Climate Change 
Action PlanOur Climate Change Action Plan addresses the significant or high risks from our SD Risk Register and includes milestones over a number of years. Actions within the plan address individual risks identified by our business units or global/regional risks identified by our central corporate staff. For example, both chronic and physical climate-related impacts are more likely to apply to a single business unit, given the specific local nature of the risk and geographical location of our assets. Actions relate to specific business units unless indicated as “global.”“We pride ourselves on our commitment to ESG excellence and leadership. ConocoPhillips will continue to do our part as we fulfill our Triple Mandate of reliably and responsibly meeting energy transition demand, delivering competitive returns on and of capital and achieving our net-zero ambition. This represents our commitment to create long-term value while enhancing climate protection and accelerating our contribution to the energy transition.”— RYAN LANCE, CHAIRMAN AND CEO2	All carbon taxes are in 2021 dollars.3	All carbon taxes are in 2019 dollars.CLIMATE CHANGE ACTION PLANRISKS 2021 MITIGATION ACTIONS AND MILESTONES GHG POLICY Climate change policy, including carbon taxes •	Review global emerging issues with Sustainability and Public Policy Executive Council on a regular basis. •	Work with Climate Leadership Council and API Climate Working Group to develop U.S. carbon tax framework; advocate for a carbon price through the Climate Leadership Council.•	Directly engage governments on evolving climate policy and monitor policy developments.•	Use carbon price in base case long-range planning and forecasting; elevate GHG forecasting guidelines to a company practice.•	Focus on operational efficiency globally to reduce GHG intensity. •	Continue implementation of Climate Risk Strategy including energy transition plan with updated targets.•	Improve GHG data collection efforts and advance MACC emissions reduction projects, plans and pilots and low-carbon ideas.•	Continue integration of BU Climate Risk Strategy and development.•	Consider future renewable energy projects to power our operations where operationally and economically feasible and monitor new opportunities.  GHG offset requirements and carbon capture and storage •	Establish global corporate position and strategy on carbon offsets purchases and carbon capture and storage. •	Expand Low Carbon Technologies organization to explore novel technology and investments. •	Explore implementing CCS technology in project design and planning and identify suitable offset projects. EMISSIONS AND EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT GHG emissions regulations •	Support enactment of cost-effective federal methane regulations on new and existing sources that would preserve a state’s ability to adapt implementation to local conditions.•	Develop U.S. flare reduction plans including revising commercial agreements to incorporate flare reduction incentives. •	Explore new technology solutions and facility improvements to meet methane and flaring reduction targets.•	Continue regulatory advocacy efforts around methane and flaring.•	Work with industry trade groups and task forces to respond to proposed GHG regulations. PHYSICAL CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS Acute and chronic physical risks •	Develop global physical risk assessment guidelines for business units and continue with ongoing review cycle. •	Increase application of mitigation measures (fresh water use minimization) in project design phase and adjust project execution timing based on water availability. Investigate alternative sources for water (e.g. pipelines, desalination, etc.). Monitor stream flow and use forecast exercises to identify potential water availability concerns in upcoming development.•	Continue assessment of risk of permafrost thaw for construction of new infrastructure and implementation of mitigation measures. Investigate effective approaches for monitoring permafrost thaw and thaw degree days. •	Execute emergency response plan exercises, drills and training for wildfire threats. Integrate development of planning with regional forest company’s harvest timeline to enable landscape-scale resource management which could reduce forest fuel near the asset. Addressing Climate-Related Risks with Strategic Planning Business and Strategy Climate-related risks have the potential to impact our business in several ways. Our SD risk management processes identify those risks and assess the potential size, scope and prioritization of each. We have aligned a description of these impacts with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Compliance with policy changes that create a GHG tax, fee, emissions trading scheme or GHG reductions could significantly increase product costs for consumers and reduce demand for natural gas- and oil-derived products. Demand could also be eroded by conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to global climate-related risk, including plans developed in connection with the Paris Agreement. Many governments also provide, or may in the future provide, tax advantages and other subsidies to support the use and development of alternative energy technologies that could impact demand for our products. However, there are also opportunities associated with increased demand for lower-carbon energy sources such as natural gas to displace coal in power generation and in combination with carbon capture and storage in the production of hydrogen for industrial use.Our scenario analysis indicates that as the energy sector transitions, it will be important to be competitive on both cost of supply and GHG emissions intensity. We have adjusted our portfolio to concentrate on lower-cost production and have divested some of our natural gas and oil sands fields with higher emissions intensity. We have also set a GHG emissions intensity reduction target for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.SUPPLY CHAIN AND/OR VALUE CHAINWe engage with suppliers on the environmental and social aspects of their operations through each step of the procurement process, from supplier prequalification through supplier performance evaluation. This includes communicating our expectations and priorities and identifying opportunities for improvement and collaboration related to climate issues, including energy use, GHG management and environmental supply chain risks. We continually work with suppliers to find opportunities for GHG reductions in our operations and engage with them for alignment with our energy transition plan. We engage with suppliers through the bidding process with questions on supplier GHG emissions and their own Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction targets.We also engage through membership in several trade associations, such as IPIECA, that address climate-related issues through working groups and task forces that include downstream businesses as well as suppliers. We continue to monitor climate-related risks and opportunities related to our supply chain and value chain and believe that maintaining a global network of businesses and suppliers will mitigate physical climate-related risks.ADAPTATION AND MITIGATION ACTIVITIESWhile our business operations are designed and operated to accommodate a range of potential climate conditions, significant changes, such as more frequent severe weather in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets are located, could cause increased expenses and impact to our operations. The costs associated with interrupted operations will depend on the duration and severity of any physical event and the damage and remedial work to be carried out. Financial implications could include business interruption, damage or loss of production uptime and delayed access to resources and markets. For example, a three-day shutdown of all U.S. Gulf Coast production would cause 732 MBOED in lost production. It is unlikely all our Gulf Coast area production would be affected, as our operations are located across a wide span of the coast including inland and offshore assets.Business-resiliency planning is a process that helps us prepare to mitigate potential physical risks of a changing climate in a cost-effective manner. For example, in 2021, British Columbia, Canada experienced one of its worst fire seasons on record. The Montney development team has been making a concerted effort to situate pads within existing cut blocks where timber has been cleared to minimize the risk from increased wildfire activity. Similarly, in response to previous years’ increased wildfire activity in Alberta, our Surmont team undertook reactive forest fuel reductions near critical infrastructure. The team also installed a continuous monitoring sensor for particulate matter at our air quality monitoring trailer at Surmont to protect human health. In addition to mitigating fire risk, the Canada BU has also addressed increased surface water flow from high-frequency and short-duration storm events in Surmont with increased on-site training for managing the movement of water from well pads and central processing facilities. This proactive surface water management is critical in preventing on-site erosion from damaging critical infrastructure. In 2021, our Australia Business Unit conducted climate water catchment-level modeling to inform a drought risk assessment to determine future impacts to water supply. Results showed that long-term evaporation and long-term and severe drought duration are projected to increase over the next 30 years in the local area. To mitigate this potential risk, both ConocoPhillips and the local water authority are investigating supplementary water supplies from alternate sources. We will use results from this, and future updates to the risk assessment, to plan for water availability in future operations as we adapt our practices to a changing climate. Climate change is also considered during new project design. In 2019 in our Alaska BU, we updated our Foundational Design Specification to increase the embedment depths for vertical support members and piles to align with predicted soil temperature trends. This revision updates the specification based on temperature trends and geothermal modeling predictions from 2020 through 2070. Use of the Foundational Design Specification continues to date.RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTTechnology will play a major role in addressing GHG emissions, whether through reducing fugitive emissions or lowering the energy intensity of our operations or value chain. One way we incentivized and accelerated new technology development was through our involvement in the Carbon XPRIZE project in Canada, beginning in 2015. Seven of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) member companies, led by ConocoPhillips Canada, partnered with NRG Energy, an integrated power company in the U.S., to back a global competition to research technologies to capture and transform CO. into valuable products. Ten finalist teams competed for $20 million, with the competition concluding in early 2021. Read and view more about the Carbon XPRIZE teams on our website. The two teams that converted the greatest amount of CO. into products with the highest net value while minimizing their environmental footprint were selected as the grand prize winners.Another way we support technology development is through our annual marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) process. The MACC process identifies and prioritizes our emissions reduction opportunities from operations based on the cost per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent abated. This data helps identify projects that might become viable in the future through further research, development and deployment. As a result of this work, we have focused our near-term technology investments on reducing both costs and emissions where feasible, such as improving the steam-to-oil ratio in the oil sands. Part of a new research and development effort is a multilateral well technology pilot, which enables the drilling of multiple lateral sections without the need for additional aboveground capital or additional steam injection, thereby reducing emissions intensity and operating costs.Over the past four years we have spent more than $450 million on research and development, equipment, products and services which have reduced our GHG emissions. Large-scale commercial deployment projects include:.	Eliminating the majority of methane emissions by using air, rather than natural gas, to drive equipment at our Montney development in Canada..	Reducing emissions by electrifying plant and pad equipment in Alaska..	Installing vapor recovery systems to capture methane emissions and avoid flaring in Lower 48.INVESTMENTS WHICH REDUCED GHG EMISSIONS1TECHNOLOGY AREA STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT 2018-2021 INVESTMENTS Energy efficiency Applied research and development $4 million Pilot demonstration $46 million Small-scale commercial deployment $1 million Large-scale commercial deployment $205 million Methane detection and reduction Applied research and development $4 million Pilot demonstration  $2 million Small-scale commercial deployment $13 million Large-scale commercial deployment $31 million Other emissions reductions Applied research and development $2 million Pilot demonstration $8 million Small-scale commercial deployment $3 million Large-scale commercial deployment $137 million 1	Investment figures are estimated.OPERATIONSWe have acted to mitigate our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for many years. Our first Climate Change Action Plan was introduced in 2008. In 2017, we introduced a GHG emissions intensity target to incentivize reductions in our production operations as well as project design, exploration and portfolio decisions. To date, this has resulted in a reduction of both our emissions intensity and our absolute emissions. Most of the reduction projects carried out since 2008 have paid for themselves through increased sales of natural gas. Around two-thirds of the projects relate to the reduced emissions of methane from reducing venting, updating plunger lifts or replacing pneumatic controllers.To continue those reductions, we have set up regional teams in North America, Australia, Southeast Asia and Europe to use the MACC process to identify energy efficiency projects for consideration in the Long-Range Plan. By evaluating our day-to-day decisions regarding flaring, drilling, completions and equipment use we have gained a sharper focus on energy consumption, along with increased revenue, reduced energy costs, reduced emissions and an improved overall cost of supply.Read more about our MACC process and the Net-Zero Roadmap on our website.Financial PlanningWe take climate-related issues into account in our financial planning in several ways. In the short-to-medium term, we use a range of commodity prices derived from our scenario work. In the longer term our scenarios provide insight into the possibilities for future supply, demand and price of key commodities. This helps us understand a range of risk around commodity prices, and the potential price risk associated with various GHG reduction scenarios. History has shown an interdependency between commodity prices and operating and capital costs. In the past, lower commodity prices have driven down operating and capital costs, whereas the opposite has been true when commodity prices have risen. We have aligned a description of the potential impacts on financial planning with the recommendations of the TCFD.OPERATING COSTS AND REVENUESNew or changing climate-related policy can impact our costs, demand for fossil fuels, the cost and availability of capital and exposure to litigation. The long-term impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, will depend on several factors, including:.	Extent and timing of policy..	Implementation detail such as cap-and-trade or an emissions tax or fee system..	GHG reductions required..	Level of carbon price..	Price, availability and allowability of offsets..	Amount and allocation of allowances..	Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services..	Potential physical climate effects, such as increased severe-weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in temperature..	Extent to which increased compliance costs are reflected in the prices of our products and services.The long-term financial impact from GHG regulations is impossible to predict accurately, but we expect the geographical reach of regulations and their associated costs to increase over time. We model such increases and test our portfolio in our long-term transitional scenarios.CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND ALLOCATIONWe test our current portfolio of assets and investment opportunities against the future prices generated from our corporate scenarios and identify where weaknesses may exist, assisting with our capital allocation. As a result of our strategy and scenario work, we have focused capital on lower cost-of-supply resources, reducing our investments in oil sands and exiting deep water while increasing our investments in unconventional oil projects. Following acquisitions in the Permian in 2021, we have dramatically high-graded our portfolio on the basis of both cost of supply and GHG intensity and established capital allocation criteria that ensure investments are directed to resources that best match transition demand.ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTSBusiness development decisions consider the impact to our portfolio from the financial, operational and sustainability perspectives. In our long-range planning process, we run sensitivities on our GHG emissions intensity based on possible acquisitions, divestments and project decisions. We focus on cost of supply to account for lower and more volatile product prices and possible introduction of carbon taxes. In recent years, we have divested assets with higher emissions intensity, such as oil sands and some older gas fields.ACCESS TO CAPITAL In addition to cost of supply and carbon, we also strive to compete more effectively by earning the confidence and trust of the communities in which we operate, as well as our equity and debt holders. We consider how our relative environmental, social and governance performance could affect our standing with investors and the financial sector, including banks and credit-rating agencies. An important priority in our corporate strategy has been to pay down debt and target an “A” credit rating to maintain, facilitate and ensure access to capital through commodity price cycles.CARBON ASSET RISKScenario analysis and our Climate Risk Strategy help build optionality into our strategic plans to reduce the risk of stranded assets. Key elements of our climate-related risk management process include: .	Considering a range of possible future carbon-constraint scenarios..	Developing strategic alternatives to manage shareholder value in a future with uncertain carbon constraints..	Testing strategies and asset portfolios in various scenarios..	Incorporating risk mitigation actions into the Long-Range Plan and Climate Change Action Plan.We have taken action to reduce our cost of supply and are the only oil and natural gas company to transparently disclose the full cost of supply of our resource base. Combined with our belief that we have the lowest sustaining capital required to maintain flat production among our peers, this demonstrates a competitive advantage in reducing carbon asset risk. The cost of supply of our resource base supports our assertion that resources with the lowest cost of supply are most likely to be developed in scenarios with lower demand, such as the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario.All U.S. publicly traded companies must adhere to a consistent set of regulations that enable investors to evaluate and compare investment choices. We fully comply with rules and regulations, including for reporting natural gas and oil reserves. In order to meet the Securities and Exchange Commission requirement that reserve estimates be based on current economic conditions, our reported reserves are determined by applying a carbon tax only in jurisdictions with existing carbon tax requirements. We have also increased our disclosure over the years to offer investors and stakeholders additional insights into the processes and procedures we use to manage climate-related risks, including carbon asset risk.We are one of more than 100 companies participating in The Environmental Partnership, a coalition of natural gas and oil companies focused on accelerating environmental performance improvements from operations across the United States. The partnership prioritizes managing methane emissions and aligns with our focus on emissions reductions and high environmental standards.COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH CARBON LEGISLATIONCLIMATE LEGISLATION 2021 COST OF COMPLIANCE, NET SHARE BEFORE TAX ($USD APPROX) OPERATIONS SUBJECT TO LEGISLATION PERCENT OF 2021 PRODUCTION1 European Emissions Trading Scheme (EUETS) $19 million U.K., Norway 9 U.K. Emissions Trading Scheme (U.K. ETS) $3 million U.K. 0 Norwegian Carbon Fee $35 million Norway 9 Alberta Technology Innovation and Emissions Reduction (TIER) $1 million Canada 5 British Columbia and Alberta Carbon Tax $6 million Canada 6 1	2021 country production over total production; cost of GHG emissions may only apply to some of our assets or to a portion of our emissions over a set baseline. GHG PRICEWe use GHG pricing to navigate GHG regulations, change internal behavior, drive energy efficiency and low-carbon investment, and stress test investments. In 2021, the company used a range of estimated future costs of GHG emissions for internal planning purposes, including an estimate of $60 per tonne CO.e applied beginning in the year 2024 as a sensitivity to evaluate certain future projects and opportunities. We have further developed the methodology by which qualifying projects will include GHG pricing in their project approval economics and long-term planning. The base case for project approval economics and planning will now include either the forecast of existing GHG pricing regulations or our current probability-weighted energy transition scenario for that jurisdiction, depending on which is higher. Where there is no GHG price regulation, we use the current transition scenario for that jurisdiction. We also run two sensitivities:.	With only existing carbon pricing regulations, to reflect near-term cash more accurately..	With a sensitivity of $60 per tonne CO.e, increased from $40 per tonne, to act as a stress test to reduce the risk of stranded assets should climate regulation accelerate.This ensures that both existing and emerging regulatory requirements are considered in our planning and decision making.In accordance with SEC guidelines, the company does not use an estimated market cost of GHG emissions when assessing reserves in jurisdictions without existing GHG regulations. Plan for the Net-Zero 
Energy TransitionIn addition to addressing climate-related risks to our business, strategy, and financial plans, we have also identified an approach to address risks specific to the energy transition. In early 2022, we published our plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition (the “plan”) in our proxy statement.. The plan is built upon the company’s “Triple Mandate,” which is focused on three objectives that are integral to our strategic goals: meet transition pathway demand, deliver competitive returns and achieve our net-zero emissions ambitions. The company’s plan is summarized below, with updates to our prior objectives in response to investor feedback and internal analyses noted. Our plan describes how the company will:.	Build a resilient asset portfolio: Focus on low cost of supply and low GHG intensity resources that meet transition pathway energy demand..	Commit to near-, medium- and long-term targets: Reducing operational (Scope 1 and 2) emissions over which we have ownership and control, with an ambition to become a net-zero company for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2050. These targets include: •	Strengthening our previously announced operational GHG emissions intensity reduction target to 40-50% by 2030 and expanding it to apply to both a gross operated and net equity basis to ensure active engagement in our non-operated investments. •	Meeting a further 10% reduction target for methane emissions intensity by 2025 from our 2019 baseline, building upon the 65% reduction we have made since 2015. •	Aiming to achieve zero routine flaring by 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank initiative’s goal of 2030..	Address end-use emissions: Advocate for a well-designed, economy-wide price on carbon that would help shift consumer demand from high-carbon to low-carbon energy sources. .	Pursue transition opportunities: Evaluate potential investments in emerging energy transition and low carbon technologies. During 2021 our efforts included:•	Establishing a multi-disciplinary Low Carbon Technologies organization to support achievement of our net-zero operational emissions ambition, as well as to identify and evaluate business opportunities that address end-use emissions and early-stage low-carbon technology opportunities that would leverage our existing expertise and adjacencies. •	Allocating $200 million in the 2022 capital budget to advance energy transition activities, the majority of which will address Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction projects across our global operations, with the rest allocated for early-stage low-carbon technology opportunities..	Track the energy transition: Utilize a comprehensive scenario planning process to calibrate and understand alternative energy transition pathways and test the resilience of our corporate strategy to climate risk. .	Maintain capital discipline: Use scenario analysis and a fully burdened cost of supply, including cost of carbon, as the primary basis for capital allocation. Our plan does not include a Scope 3 (end-use) emissions target. A Scope 3 target for an exploration and production company represents a prescribed curtailment of production and a shift of capital away from existing transition demand, whereas our responsibility to shareholders is to strongly compete for that demand. We do so by striving for the lowest cost of supply, lowest GHG intensity production. We are taking separate responsibility for encouraging a shift to low-carbon sources of energy by providing tangible support for carbon pricing, which would encourage changes in the choices made by end users.The plan has been endorsed by the full Board of Directors and is designed to help investors and other stakeholders gain an understanding of the valued role ConocoPhillips intends to play in an orderly energy transition. The plan also supports our aim to be a best-in-class E&P company. Through our ongoing consideration of transition scenarios, the strategic planning process and stakeholder engagement, we expect the plan to continue evolving as the energy transition progresses over time.Our Triple MandateConocoPhillips intends to play a valued role in the energy transition by delivering on three objectives: responsibly meeting transition pathway energy demand, delivering competitive returns on and of capital, and achieving our net-zero emissions ambition. We call this the Triple Mandate, and it represents our commitment to create long-term value for our stakeholders. First, meeting transition pathway energy demand requires a focus on delivering production that will best compete in any transition scenario. This production will be delivered from resources with a competitive cost of supply and low GHG intensity, as well as diversity by market and asset type. Next, in delivering competitive returns, ConocoPhillips has been a leader in shifting the exploration and production sector’s value proposition away from one focused on production toward one focused on returns. Finally, to drive accountability for the emissions that are within our control, we are progressing toward achieving our net-zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions ambition via a continuous pipeline of projects with short-, medium-, and long-term emissions reduction targets.Strategic FlexibilityA robust and flexible corporate strategy will be key to navigating the energy transition. The three key strategy components for an exploration and production company are portfolio, capital allocation and management of uncertainty. We manage uncertainty by focusing on the fundamental characteristics that drive competitive advantage in a commodity business – a low sustaining price, low cost of supply, low decline rates and low capital intensity that drive free cash flow, capital flexibility and a strong balance sheet. Based on our scenario analysis and monitoring of signposts, we decide when we should act and which actions to take.RELIABLE AND RESILIENT RETURNSOur resilience is based on our ability to deliver competitive returns on and of capital. Our solution to prior sector-wide underperformance has been continual improvement to the underlying cost of supply of our portfolio, committing to >30% return of cash from operations to shareholders, balance sheet strength and moderating growth by holding to disciplined reinvestment rates. Rates of return for our E&P projects are well above our weighted average cost of capital (WACC), and also well above current returns for some common types of renewable energy investments. We have communicated to stakeholders a credible 10-year strategic plan intended to generate double-digit returns on capital employed that are competitive with overall market returns.Appreciating that oil and natural gas are projected to remain essential parts of the energy supply mix in coming decades across a broad range of scenarios, ConocoPhillips intends to maintain its key market role through resilience to transition-related risks. We focus on remaining resilient and competitive in any transition scenario by providing low-cost, low-GHG, best-in-class ESG production. On any possible energy transition pathway, the company, our stakeholders and the financial sector must grapple with the questions of transition direction and pace, their trade-offs and how best to manage climate-related risks and opportunities. This emphasizes the importance of maintaining strategic capability to contribute to an orderly transition through scenario-based planning, portfolio resilience, sound financial standing, qualified people and well-developed processes.COST OF SUPPLY Cost of supply is the WTI equivalent price that generates 10% after-tax return on a point-forward and fully burdened basis. In our definition, cost of supply is fully burdened with capital infrastructure, foreign exchange, price-related inflation, G&A and carbon tax (if currently assessed). If no carbon tax exists for the asset, carbon pricing aligned with internal energy scenarios are applied. Cost of supply is the primary metric that we use for capital allocation, and it has the advantage of being independent of price forecasts. Any oil price above the cost of supply will generate an after-tax fully burdened return that is greater than 10%.The cost of supply of our resource base supports our assertion that resources with the lowest cost of supply are most likely to be developed in scenarios with lower demand, such as the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario. As of year-end 2021, we held resources of more than 20 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) with a cost of supply below $40 per barrel WTI and an average cost of supply of approximately $30 per barrel WTI. Over the next decade, we will produce approximately 7 billion barrels of resource with an average cost of supply below $28 per barrel diversified across the regions described below.In recent years we have dramatically high-graded our portfolio and implemented stringent capital allocation criteria that direct investments to resources that will best match transition demand. Over the next 10 years, our focus is on assets that have both a low cost of supply and lower GHG intensity. Importantly, each asset type competes within its unique market (e.g., LNG, oil sands) where they compete on the basis of their relative GHG intensity and cost of supply. Our portfolio of assets compete within their respective markets, meet high ESG performance standards and provide additional resilience through asset and global diversity. Just as the company is focused on developing resources with low cost of supply, we are equally focused on developing low GHG intensity resources as these are the resources most likely to compete in any future energy transition pathway.PORTFOLIO DIVERSIFICATIONThe mix and location of the resources in our portfolio demonstrate flexibility and the ability to adapt to change as we monitor scenarios and global trends. Our short-cycle project times and capital flexibility enable us to redirect capital to the most competitive basins. Our extensive low cost of supply resource base allows us to divest higher cost assets to high-grade our portfolio as our strategy evolves. This applies to both hydrocarbon mix and geographic region. If policy in a country or region significantly impacts cost of supply, we can shift capital to other opportunities. Examples include our presence in the oil sands business in Canada and in North American natural gas. Changing market fundamentals led us to significantly reduce our focus on both, while our portfolio diversity enabled expansion in other areas.CAPITAL AND OPERATING SPENDOur strategy is also made more robust by discipline in capital and operating costs. When oil prices started dropping in 2014, we were able to respond with changes to short- and long-term planning, as well as more cost-effective and efficient operations.We rely on solar power for some operations at the El Jefe well in the Permian Basin.We rely on solar power for some operations at the El Jefe well in the Permian Basin.THE ENERGY TRANSITION CHALLENGEMeeting the central aim of the Paris Agreement to strengthen the response to climate change is a worldwide imperative for which governments and companies alike have adopted net-zero ambitions. The resulting energy transition will be complex, with many possible pathways and uncertainties – more likely an evolution than a near-term step-change. We acknowledge the importance of limiting global average temperature increases and achieving a climate-neutral world by midcentury. ConocoPhillips is applying its strategic capabilities and resources to meet this challenge in an economically viable, accountable and actionable way that balances the interests of our stakeholders. Our goal is to support an orderly transition that matches supply to demand and focuses on returns on and of capital while safely and responsibly delivering affordable energy.4	The Plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition, as published in the 2022 Proxy Statement, can be viewed in full on our website. Sections of the plan have been reorganized to align with TCFD and current reporting structure. Any updates since first publication will be captured in this report.OIL PRICES BY IEA SCENARIO$/BBLSTEPS1 APC2 SDS3 NZE4 US $ 2020 Real in 2020 42 42 42 42 US $ 2020 Real in 2030 77 67 56 35 US $ 2020 Real in 2050 88 64 50 24 1	Stated Energy Policies Scenario2	Announced Pledges Case: Net-zero pledges3	Sustainable Development Scenario: Meet clean air, energy access and climate SDGs4	Net-Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario: Roadmap to 2050.Participating in the Energy Transition – New Low Carbon OpportunitiesIn early 2021 we established, and continue to expand, a multi-disciplinary Low Carbon Technologies organization. Its remit is to develop the corporate Net-Zero Roadmap for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, understand the new energies landscape, and prioritize opportunities for future competitive investment. We are approaching this effort with the same discipline that we approach exploration in our traditional business, keeping seed costs low, leveraging competencies, identifying economically viable opportunities with materiality and flexibility, and only increasing investment once risks are managed and returns are assured.The Low Carbon Technologies organization works across the company’s business units to develop and implement region-specific Net-Zero Roadmaps with detailed, time-bound actions, identify technology solutions for hard-to-abate emissions, pilot new methods to reduce and accelerate emissions reductions, and evaluate newly emerging competitive opportunities. This organization also supported pre-development work in 2021 to evaluate large-scale wind energy opportunities to provide power for our operations in the Permian, North Sea and Bohai Bay. ConocoPhillips recognizes the important role that carbon capture and storage (CCS) and hydrogen could play in decarbonizing the global economy. We intend to apply the company’s disciplined growth approach to development of these new opportunities through clear investment criteria and a focused strategy. We have prioritized opportunities in these technologies as they offer potential for competitive returns and align closely with our technical competencies and global reach. As demonstrated in the figure to the left, we have recently taken actions to advance our positions in both technologies, including offering support to drive innovation.CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGEDevelopment of CCS projects could benefit from our existing technical expertise in subsurface and our track record in the safe development and execution of major projects in the oil and gas industry. We have assembled an internal team of subsurface and surface experts, with support from our Land, Regulatory, Legal, Government Affairs, Commercial, Environmental and Sustainable Development and Stakeholder Relations teams, and are actively engaged in subsurface characterization, business development and land acquisition. In 2021, we evaluated potential CO. storage sites along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast to determine the feasibility of supplying CCS services to industrial emitters. We are also evaluating opportunities to deploy CCS in our own operations. For example, we recently joined the Oil Sands Pathways to Net-Zero Initiative, an alliance of Canada’s top oil sands operators that is working toward achieving net-zero GHG emissions by 2050. HYDROGENOver the last year we have also made early investments in enabling hydrogen technologies and continued our support of academic and industry research conducted to advance decarbonization efforts. Leveraging our global reach, we are evaluating and high-grading hydrogen and ammonia production and marketing opportunities, both domestic and international. As our portfolio of CCS and hydrogen projects continues to mature, we look forward to sharing more details and updates with our stakeholders.OFFSETSWhile achieving our net-zero emissions ambition will primarily be driven by emissions reductions, we recognize that offsets may be required to mitigate some residual hard-to-abate emissions. Given the many entities setting net-zero emissions targets, the market for offsets is anticipated to have strong growth by 2050. After evaluating options and alternatives, we have designed a flexible, fit-for-purpose strategy to develop and invest in voluntary offsets beginning in 2022, helping secure credible lower-cost market entry in anticipation of growing long-term demand. We plan to develop and support our own offset projects and make diversified investments in offset projects or funds. Our focus will be on countries/regions in which we operate or have land holdings. While at present we do not anticipate the need to utilize offsets to meet our medium-term targets, we plan to begin investing now to secure a lower-cost position for the future. We are looking for a variety of project types that will start creating offsets by 2025, including:.	Nature-based: Relating to forestry and land use, wetlands, agricultural improvements, and grasslands or soil enrichment..	Technology-based: Relating to energy efficiency, fuel switching, abandoned well management, waste disposal and fugitive emissions reductions..	Other projects that sustainably meet energy demand, while removing or reducing the GHG emissions from that energy.In addition to these criteria, we emphasize the need for durability of the reductions and leakage minimization, as well as community, conservation, and biodiversity co-benefits that will create and increase commercial value for the projects, even if they are ultimately not needed for our net-zero operational emissions ambition. Read more about the latest low carbon technologies 
on our website.Reflecting the recommended TCFD report structure, the following components of the plan are detailed elsewhere in this report.Reducing Scope 1 and 2 EmissionsTargets
Following through on near-, medium-, and long-term targets. Measurement, Reporting and Verification (MRV)
Advancing MRV efforts of climate actions and GHG data to establish credibility and accountability around our targets.Addressing Scope 3 EmissionsAdvocacy
Articulating the need for demand-side actions and visibly advocating for a well-designed, economy-wide carbon price to address end-use emissions. Supply Chain
Continually working with suppliers to find opportunities for GHG reductions in our operations.We are looking for a variety of carbon offset projects that will start creating offsets by 2025, including nature-based options related to forestry and land use.A Best-in-Class Energy Transition Plan 
for the E&P Sector Our Triple Mandate will drive continued focus and accountability for both returns and resilience, allowing us to play a valued, meaningful role in a managed and orderly energy transition. By meeting future energy transition pathway demand, delivering competitive returns and achieving our net-zero emissions ambition, the company is well positioned to execute this energy transition plan and participate in an emerging low-carbon economy. We believe our plan is adaptable, economically viable, accountable and actionable in any transition energy transition demand pathway. We intend to provide periodic updates on our companywide performance against the plan.Risk ManagementRisk ManagementWe utilize an integrated management system approach to identify, assess, characterize and manage climate-related risks. This system links directly to the ERM process, which includes an annual risk review by executive leadership and the Board of Directors.Assessing Climate-Related Risks The diagram below illustrates how we assess climate-related physical and transition risks for operations, developments and new major projects.To understand long-term risk and mitigation options, we utilize four scenarios as described in the Scenario Planning at ConocoPhillips section of our website. Depending on the deployment of carbon capture and storage and negative emissions technologies beyond 2050, we believe three of the scenarios may be capable of achieving an emissions trajectory consistent with the aims of the Paris Agreement. This scenario approach helps us evaluate distinct outcomes related to the potential timing and intensity of government climate change policy development, the pace of alternative energy technology development and trends in consumer behavior. This information is then used to shape our analysis and consideration of various outcomes for policy, technology and market risk. We periodically review emerging climate-related risks with our Executive Leadership Team as part of our scenario monitoring system. A cross-functional team enters events into a centralized database that is reviewed regularly for indications that risks are changing or developing. We use this “early warning” system to inform our strategies in a timely manner so that we can identify and implement effective mitigation measures. The scenario monitoring system helps us understand the pace and direction of the energy transition. For example, if regulations and technology were moving more quickly than in our scenarios, this would indicate that we might be moving to a 1.5-degree scenario similar to the range identified in the IPCC “1.5 degree” report, and we would take action accordingly. In our resiliency workshops, we use externally produced scenarios that describe the range of possible future physical risk.Annual AssessmentAs part of the annual risk management process mandated by our SD Risk Management Standard, we examine operated assets and major projects against the physical, social and political settings of our operations. Subject matter experts in each business unit (BU) and project identify and describe climate-related risks.Each risk is then assessed using a matrix that evaluates both its likelihood and consequence. Risks rated significant or high are included in the corporate SD Risk Register. In evaluating the consequence level, we consider potential impacts on employee and public safety, sociocultural and economic impacts to stakeholders, environmental impact, and reputational and financial implications. As part of the process, we examine the interdependence of risks and work to identify emerging risks such as new regulatory requirements and emerging GHG pricing regimes.Resiliency Planning Workshops We facilitate resiliency planning workshops within business units to identify and assess the risks and opportunities associated with the physical impacts of changing climate and the potential technology and solutions to mitigate risks and leverage opportunities. These workshops are conducted on a periodic basis to ensure that our operations have access to up-to-date science provided by qualified consultants to inform their engineering and infrastructure decisions. Climate-Related Risk AssessmentA climate-related risk assessment is conducted on any future project development that costs more than $50 million net and is expected to emit more than 25,000 metric tons CO. equivalent (TeCO.e) net to ConocoPhillips during any year of its operational lifespan. This assessment is mandatory for investment approval in our project authorization process. Project teams for qualifying projects are required to assess the potential risks and opportunities associated with GHG emissions, GHG regulation and a physically changing climate based on local jurisdictions and geographies as opposed to using our corporate scenarios. The climate risk assessment guidelines provide a framework for project teams to:.	Forecast operational GHG emissions for the life of the project..	Evaluate climate-related risks and opportunities, including physical and transition risks that apply to the project..	Make decisions on GHG emissions control in project design, including energy efficiency solutions, power source selection, emissions management, carbon capture and storage/utilization, and external compliance options such as the purchase or origination of GHG offsets..	Evaluate the potential cost of GHG emissions in project economics.We assess climate-related risks early in the project engineering stage to better inform our investment decisions and facility design. The ConocoPhillips Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Due Diligence Standard also provides further guidance on accounting for sustainable development issues for new acquisitions, new business ventures, joint ventures and real property transactions.Project AuthorizationOur corporate authorization process requires all qualifying projects to include GHG pricing in their project approval economics. The base case for project approval economics now includes the higher of the forecast of existing regulations and the current transition scenario for that jurisdiction. Where there is no GHG price regulation, we use the current transition scenario for that jurisdiction. We also run two sensitivities:.	With existing carbon pricing regulations, to reflect near-term cash more accurately..	With a sensitivity of $60 per tonne CO.e to act as a stress test to reduce the risk of stranded assets should climate regulation accelerate.This ensures that both existing and emerging regulatory requirements are considered in our planning and decision making.Managing Climate-Related Risks Our climate-related risk management process is designed to drive appropriate action for adapting to a range of possible future scenarios. Through integrated planning and decision-making, we develop mitigation plans for climate-related risk, track performance against our goals and adjust our plans as we learn and conditions evolve.Local risks and opportunities related to our operations and projects are assessed and managed at the BU level, enabling tailored business goals to address the challenges and opportunities unique to each region’s operations. Reporting and overarching climate-related risks, such as GHG target-setting and prioritization of global emissions-abatement projects, are managed at the corporate level.The diagram below shows a simplified process flow of our climate-related risk management process.Our corporate strategy and the embedded Climate Risk Strategy are informed by the output of our corporate scenarios and the risk management system. Examples of impacts on our corporate strategy include:.	Reducing the sustaining price of the company – the equivalent oil price at which we can sustain production and pay our dividend..	Lowering the cost of supply to manage market risk and improve returns..	Maintaining a diversified portfolio of projects and opportunities..	Diversifying our portfolio to include assets with lower decline rates and low capital intensity to drive higher free cash flow yields..	Developing technologies that reduce both costs and emissions..	Pursuing competitive opportunities in CCS and hydrogen..	Monitoring alternative energy technologies.The objective of our Climate Risk Strategy is to manage climate-related risk, optimize opportunities and equip the company to respond to changes in key uncertainties, including government policies around the world, technologies for emissions reduction, alternative energy technologies and changes in consumer trends. The strategy sets out our choices around portfolio composition, emissions reductions, targets and incentives, emissions-related technology development, and our climate-related policy and finance sector engagement.Finally, the ConocoPhillips Long-Range Plan provides the data that underlies our corporate strategy and enables us to test our portfolio of projects against our climate-related risk scenarios, and thus make better-informed strategic decisions.Integrating Climate-Related Risks into ERMClimate-related risks from the corporate SD Risk Register are mapped to key categories in the ERM process. Descriptions of these risks and mitigation measures from the Climate Change Action Plan are shared with ERM risk owners to inform their assessments of risk ranking, corporate actions and mitigations. Each risk owner evaluates and prioritizes risks in their area based on likelihood and consequences, thereby determining the relative significance of climate-related risks in relation to other enterprise risks.The ERM process is a direct input into our strategic planning process. By identifying major cross-cutting risks and trends, we closely link action plan efforts to key performance issues and address and mitigate identified risks. The Board regularly reviews the ERM system and mitigation actions.Required regulatory disclosures on financial reporting and information deemed material and useful for investor decision-making is presented in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. SD Risk Management ProcessThe SD risk management process ensures that a Climate Change Action Plan is developed to track mitigation activities for each climate-related risk included in the corporate SD Risk Register. This plan includes details about our commitments, related responsibilities, resources and milestones. As part of annual updates to the register, the action plan and its effectiveness are evaluated, and decisions are made to continue mitigation measures, add new measures or simply monitor the risk for further developments. The table below lists our key SD risk management streams, their scope and purpose.KEY CONTENT LINKSWe evaluate and track our climate-related risk through our SD Risk Register and Climate Change Action Plan. We use Scenario Planning to understand long-term risk and mitigation options through the energy transition.The Emissions Reduction Targets set out in our Climate Risk Strategy describe our goals to 2050.ClimateRisk ManagementRisk ManagementClimateRisk ManagementSD RISK MANAGEMENT STREAMS SCOPE DESCRIPTION Corporate strategy Corporate/portfolio Defines the company’s direction for exploration and development, including portfolio, capital allocation and cost structure. Climate Risk Strategy Corporate/portfolio Identifies options to reduce and mitigate climate-related risks as policies, markets and technologies develop over time. GHG emissions intensity target Business units and qualifying projects Drives actions, reviews and management of future policy and market risk. Long-Range Plan Corporate/portfolio Forecasts key data for our corporate strategy covering our proposed portfolio development and performance, including production, costs, cash flows and emissions. Marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) Business units Collects a list of GHG emissions reduction projects across our business units and prioritizes them based on cost and emissions abated. SD risk management process Corporate, business units and qualifying projects Records all SD-related risks that are prioritized as significant and high in the SD Risk Register to ensure that the mitigation progress is reported and issues are managed effectively. Climate Change Action Plan Corporate, business units and qualifying projects Records mitigation actions, milestones and progress in managing climate-related risks from the SD Risk Register. Performance Metrics and TargetsKEY CONTENT LINKSThe Performance Metrics section on our website provides the metrics included in this section in tabular format.Our metrics are also linked to key frameworks such as SASB, GRI/IPIECA/UNGP, and TCFD. Performance Metrics and TargetsIn 2020, we adopted a Paris-aligned climate-related risk framework with an ambition to reduce our operational GHG emissions to net-zero by 2050. To that end, we calculate key metrics and use targets to measure and monitor our performance and progress in managing climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management process. These include:.	GHG emissions intensity target..	Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions..	Metrics for methane, flaring and water..	Internal proxy GHG pricing and the financial impact of existing GHG pricing on our businesses across the globe.We believe these metrics and targets are the most useful in managing climate-related risks and opportunities and monitoring performance. Highlights of our 2021 performance compared to 2020 (on a gross operated basis) include:.	Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity declined 22% to 26.9kg CO.e/BOE..	Methane intensity declined 24% to 2.6kg CO.e/BOE..	Flaring intensity declined 8% to 1.81% (total flaring volume as a percent of gas produced).While our intensity metrics show an improvement in the carbon efficiency of our production, our absolute emissions increased to 18.7 million tonnes CO.e, primarily driven by the acquisition of additional Permian assets.We have also committed to near-, medium- and long-term targets for reducing operational (Scope 1 and 2) emissions over which the company has ownership and control. These targets include: .	Achieving our stated ambition to become a net-zero company for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2050..	Strengthening our previously announced operational GHG emissions intensity reduction target to 40-50% by 2030 and expanding it to apply to both a gross operated and net equity basis to ensure active engagement in our non-operated investments. .	Meeting a further 10% reduction target for methane emissions intensity by 2025 from our 2019 baseline, building upon the 65% reduction we have made since 2015. .	Aiming to achieve zero routine flaring by 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank initiative’s goal of 2030.ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsEmissions Reduction Targets and PerformanceGHG emissions management is an expected core competency for our business units. Each BU is required to continuously review its GHG emissions profile and identify opportunities to make design and operating improvements that can reduce our emissions. Potential GHG emissions reduction projects are reviewed within our annual budget planning process and assessed against pre-determined selection criteria, including cost per tonne of CO.e abated. We call this annual exercise our marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) program, described in more detail within this section of the report. All data presented herein is from January 1 to December 31, 2021. Footnotes to our performance metrics outline the scope and methodologies of our data reporting. The minimum boundary for reporting on environmental priorities is assets we operate. Current and updated targets and ambitions are outlined in near-, medium-, and long-term timeframes, followed by examples of emissions reduction projects in our business units. These targets inform internal climate goals at the business level and support innovation on efficiency and emissions reduction, GHG regulatory risk mitigation and climate-related risk management throughout the life cycle of our assets.SCOPE 1 – Direct GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by ConocoPhillips.SCOPE 2 – GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by ConocoPhillips.SCOPE 3 – All other indirect GHG emissions as a result of ConocoPhillips’ activities, from sources not owned or controlled by the company.Read more about GHG Protocol definitions on our website.Performance Metrics and TargetsNear-Term Emissions Reductions 
(By 2025)Our near-term targets have an immediate focus on flaring and methane emissions, which provide the best opportunities to reduce near-term GHG impacts. We have therefore set our 2025 targets as follows:.	Meet an additional 10% methane emissions intensity reduction target by 2025 from a 2019 baseline, adding to the 65% reduction we have achieved since 2015. We are also working with stakeholders on development of sector-wide methane targets that set a comparable standard..	Maintain our commitment to achieve zero routine flaring as part of the World Bank initiative. We aim to achieve this by 2025, five years earlier than the World Bank’s 2030 goal.METHANE Reducing methane emissions, even the small equipment leaks known as fugitive emissions, is a key part of our operations. Leak detection and repair (LDAR) is a work practice used to identify and repair leaking components, including valves, compressors, pumps, tanks and connectors, in order to reduce GHG emissions and increase efficiency. We fix leaks as soon as feasible, with many leaks repaired either the same day or within a few days of being detected. We have been voluntarily conducting pilots of new technologies at numerous facilities to determine effectiveness and scalability of next-generation detection technologies. This has included a wide range of tested technologies from ground-based to aerial, with each providing different strengths for different monitoring applications. The main objective with these technology pilots is to expeditiously identify, investigate and repair leaks associated with malfunctions and abnormal operating conditions, resulting in faster emissions mitigation. We continue to work with technology providers to develop and test technologies and we expect the technology will continue to improve over time. Our methane emissions reductions come from voluntary reduction activities and from portfolio changes. Similar to overall GHG emissions in 2021, absolute methane emissions increased due to the acquisition of additional Permian assets, however our methane intensity declined to 2.6kg CO.e/BOE or 13% from our 2019 baseline, exceeding our current target of 10% reduction by 2025. In 2021, methane emissions totaled 1.8 million tonnes of CO.e and constituted 9.6% of our total GHG emissions.FLARING Flaring is a regulated and permitted process for the controlled release and burning of natural gas during oil and gas exploration, production and processing operations. Flaring is required to safely dispose of flammable gas released during process upsets or other unplanned events and to safely relieve pressure before performing equipment maintenance. Flaring is also used to control and reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds from oil and condensate storage tanks, and to manage emissions at well sites that lack sufficient pipeline infrastructure to capture gas for sale.Setting a target to get to zero routine flaring by 2030, with an ambition to get there by 2025, is a key near-term action within our ambition to become a net-zero company by 2050. While our flaring emissions make up only about 9% of our total GHG emissions, the target will drive continued near-term focus on routine flaring reductions across our assets. Routine flaring is defined as flaring of associated gas that occurs during the normal production of oil in the absence of sufficient facilities to utilize the gas onsite, dispatch it to a market or re-inject it. Flaring for safety reasons, non-routine flaring or flaring gas other than associated gas is not included as part of the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring initiative.In 2021, the total volume of flared gas was 20.5 BCF, an increase of 41% from 2020. In 2021, the total volume of flared gas was 20.5 BCF, an increase of 41% from 2020. The increase was a result of increased flaring in the Permian due to the acquisition of Concho Resources. It was also a result of availability of more accurate data for estimating the volume of gas that is used as assist gas in our Eagle Ford asset. While absolute flaring volumes increased, our flaring. intensity continues to decline, decreasing 4% in 2021. Routine flaring volumes were collected for the first time in 2021. Routine flaring represents only 5% of our total volume of gas flared.ClimatePerformance Metrics and Targets.	Calculated as million cubic feet per million BOE.Performance Metrics and TargetsMedium-Term Emissions Reductions 
(By 2030)We recently strengthened our medium-term GHG emissions intensity reduction target to 40-50% by 2030 from a 2016 baseline and also expanded the target to apply to both a gross operated and net equity basis. The target covers Scope 1 and Scope 2 gross operated and net equity emissions as these are the emissions over which we have the most control. Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and emissions intensity calculations directly measure our climate performance and help us understand climate transition risk. For example, our ability to manage GHG emissions can help us measure resilience to emerging carbon tax regulation.The company has already progressed toward meeting this target over the past several years. Between 2016 and 2021, we achieved a 32% intensity reduction on a gross operated basis through a combination of specific emissions reduction projects and asset changes. Continued capital allocation actions are expected to have a combined impact of lowering GHG emissions intensity by roughly 8-18% as we increase production from assets with low intensity, such as those in the Permian Basin, and achieve reductions from near-term projects. The target includes emissions that are related to production and excludes emissions from our aviation and polar tankers fleets. This may give rise to small differences between the intensity we report for our GHG target purposes and the intensity we report for our annual metrics.In 2021, our total gross operated GHG emissions, in CO. equivalent terms, were approximately 18.7 million tonnes. The acquisition of additional assets in the Permian has contributed to an increase in emissions in 2021. In addition, we implemented voluntary production curtailments across various assets during the 2020 economic downturn, which impacted total emissions.ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsPerformance Metrics and TargetsNET EQUITY AND NON-OPERATED EMISSIONSCompared to our gross operated emissions, our net equity emissions were slightly lower in 2021 as a result of our operating partners’ activities, at 18.3 million tonnes CO.e. However, our net equity intensity is higher at 32.4 kg CO.e/BOE than our gross operated intensity of 26.6 kg CO.e/BOE, showing increased efficiency in our operated assets. About 40% of our net-equity emissions are from non-operated assets. Because we approach net-zero as a shared challenge, we look to influence our joint operating partners’ climate risk strategies and net-zero targets and align our emissions reductions activity. We have initiated a concerted effort to advance this joint approach in our Alaska and Australia business units, opening dialogue on critical emissions reductions with our key operating partners. Long-Term Emissions Reductions 
(By 2050)The long-term pathway to achieving our net-zero emissions ambition by 2050 starts with proven, well-defined actions for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, while also advancing less mature but potentially economically and technically viable low-carbon opportunities. The aggregated near- and medium-term efforts described in previous sections set the foundation for our roadmap to net-zero emissions represented in the Net-Zero Roadmap. The shading on the bars represents the level of maturity today. The first step of the roadmap includes continuing the well-established, identified operational Scope 1 and 2 projects that are currently underway. The identification and implementation of these projects are supported by strong internal process and capabilities. Continuous portfolio high grading is also a mature capability in ConocoPhillips. The bottom two bars of the roadmap show carbon capture opportunities and offsets. A multi-disciplinary Low Carbon Technologies organization, comprised of some of our best technical, financial, business development and commercial talent, is overseeing these channels. Marginal Abatement Cost CurveWe use a marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) process to collect potential GHG emissions reduction projects from our business units, prioritize them based on their cost and reduction volume, and implement the most cost-effective projects. Each year, the executive leadership team determines which projects to fund based on a number of criteria including capital efficiency (i.e. the lowest $/TeCO. equivalent), scalability, and repeatability among a few others. We fund projects that have a break-even cost of up to $60/Te CO.e, as well as projects that anticipate forthcoming regulatory changes. We have allocated $200 million in the 2022 capital budget to energy transition activities, a majority of which will address Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction projects across our global operations selected through this program. The projects sanctioned for 2022, some of which are multi-year projects, could represent a recurring annualized reduction of approximately one million tonnes of CO.e upon completion. These include production efficiency measures, methane and flaring intensity-reduction initiatives and asset electrification projects, specifically:.	Methane: Switch instrumentation from gas-driven to air-driven pneumatics; modify facilities to reduce gas venting..	Flaring: Incorporate vapor recovery units at facilities; recover waste gas for sales..	Electrification and combustion: Reduce combustion needs on drilling and completions; electrify operations and pursue renewable energy sources; conduct basin-wide electrification study in the Permian; evaluate a project to electrify central facilities in a portion of our Eagle Ford operations. .	Operational efficiency: Streamline facilities, tanks and equipment; improve waste heat utilization, insulation and power distribution.For example, through our MACC process, we have progressed the piloting of steam additives in the Canadian oil sands to improve thermal efficiency, reduce GHG emissions intensity and enhance incremental oil production. In the U.S. Lower 48, we have changed the design of some new facilities to include instrument air packages rather than gas-driven devices, reducing methane emissions from those sites. To continue those reductions, we have set up regional teams in North America, Australia, Southeast Asia and Europe to use the MACC process to identify additional energy efficiency projects. Output from the MACC informs our annual budget, long-range plan and technology strategy.Projects below the line are economic and have a negative breakeven cost of carbon. Projects above the line are not economic – the taller the bar, the higher the breakeven cost of carbon. The width of the bar indicates the annual emissions saving that would occur should the project be undertaken – the wider the bar, the greater the emissions saving.Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction activities and MACC projects are described in the following section. Read more about our MACC process and the Net-Zero Roadmap on our website.ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsPerformance Metrics and TargetsScope 1 and 2 Emissions Reduction ActivitiesMETHANE DETECTION IN 
U.S. OPERATIONSConocoPhillips utilizes a variety of leak detection and repair (LDAR) tools throughout our operations to identify and repair methane leaks. First, we conduct LDAR surveys as required by NSPS Subpart OOOOa and other state regulatory frameworks. Second, we utilize various innovative technologies that go above and beyond those required by regulations. These technologies are deployed at selected assets with the intent of evaluating and understanding their limitations and advantages. In addition, ConocoPhillips participates in a variety of voluntary LDAR programs offered through industry organizations, trade associations and joint partnerships. Examples of technologies currently in use are summarized below.Informal InspectionsConocoPhillips personnel visit sites as part of their routine duties or in response to any operational issues at the sites. They identify any anomalous operating conditions that may contribute to audio, visual or olfactory (AVO) indications of potential leaks.Audio Visual Olfactory (AVO) InspectionsWe conduct formal AVO inspections to identify potential leaks at sites where regulatorily required, typically on a weekly basis. On most other sites where not regulatorily required, we perform these inspections periodically on a voluntary basis.Instrument-based Method 21 InspectionsWhere required by regulatory programs, we conduct LDAR inspections pursuant to requirements of U.S. EPA Reference Method 21, using an organic vapor analyzer.Optical Gas Imaging (OGI) Camera InspectionsWe perform periodic inspections at sites using OGI cameras where required by NSPS OOOOa regulations. In addition, at sites not subject to NSPS OOOOa regulations, we conduct periodic OGI inspections on a voluntary basis. In addition to the above LDAR methods either required by or based on regulatory requirements, ConocoPhillips continues to pilot and utilize innovative methods of monitoring, including some airborne and ground-based systems. The pilot programs and limited deployments of innovative technologies discussed below are not used for regulatory purposes.Airborne SystemsWe have piloted several aerial technologies that enable routine monitoring over a larger area and allow for inspection of multiple facilities at a time. Airborne systems are an established way of screening of emissions from an entire facility, a group of facilities or a wider geographic area. Drone-mounted technology has proven effective in detecting and locating the source of leaks due to their low-altitude capabilities; we currently use these on an ad-hoc basis. We have also utilized airplanes with mounted sensors to fly over facilities to detect leaks. If leaks are suspected, operations personnel take action to verify and repair the leak. The airplane sensors can detect smaller leaks, but our experience indicates that their effectiveness at pinpointing exact locations can be diminished in areas where other facilities are in close proximity, like the Permian Basin. ConocoPhillips has worked with Scientific Aviation to fly fixed-wing aircraft carrying detection gear over our Permian assets. We have also contracted with LeakScout to periodically fly helicopters equipped with OGI cameras around select sites. This program has also proven effective in identifying leaks. While many of these airborne technologies are good at detecting leaks, they do require personnel following up with hand-held OGI cameras to identify the exact location of the leaks and the equipment involved, after which we conduct repairs and ensure mitigation was successful.Satellite-based detection technology is another large-scale leak detection option. Although its effectiveness is improving rapidly, it has limitations in areas where facilities are located within close proximity to one another, such as in the Permian. An additional drawback has been the inability to identify small to medium leaks. Recently launched satellites are showing promise in providing better imaging and allowing more frequent monitoring of specific facilities. Although ConocoPhillips has used satellite detection in the Permian, we plan to pause its use until the technology shows further improvement.Additionally, the company has implemented monitoring systems to monitor for leaks on a continuous basis, as described below:Continuous Monitoring Systems: Scientific Aviation (Metal Oxide-based SOOFIE Sensors)ConocoPhillips has worked with Scientific Aviation to develop and test continuous methane monitoring devices at select Lower 48 facilities to further enhance LDAR capabilities. The SOOFIE (Systematic Observations of Facility Intermittent Emissions) sensor is a relatively simple method that incorporates cost-effective metal oxide sensors. Three to six sensors are affixed to poles strategically placed around locations to maximize effectiveness during varying wind conditions. Any elevated methane concentrations picked up by the SOOFIE sensors are integrated into an automated machine learning system that considers details such as equipment location, distance, wind speed and direction to identify the most probable emissions source.Lower 48 and AlaskaSetting a methane emissions intensity target ensures continued focus on methane emissions reductions, including designing new facilities to avoid methane emissions as much as practical. We have evaluated ways to improve well pad and central facility design to reduce GHG emissions, including emissions capture and suppression and installing vapor recovery units. For example, in 2021 we completed a project in the Bakken installing vapor recovery units on several new facility builds, as well as a project in the Permian installing a vapor return line on a central tank battery to reduce emissions from truck loading. We are participating in API’s The Environmental Partnership, a coalition of about 100 natural gas and oil companies working to improve methane emissions management. The program utilizes Bridger Photonics to fly aircraft at a program-determined frequency over industry assets, including those of ConocoPhillips. As part of our commitment, we have focused on two key areas:.	LDAR programs: In 2021, we conducted approximately 7,600 surveys across our assets to detect leaks and quickly repair them. While this is a regulatory requirement in many areas, over 50% of the surveys were done voluntarily. These surveys continue to provide a better understanding of where leaks occur and how we can minimize fugitive emissions..	Eliminating gas-driven pneumatic devices: Many of our greenfield designs at new facilities include devices to use supplied air instead of site gas to reduce natural gas emissions from pneumatics.We continue to test and deploy new methane detection technologies, including continuous monitoring. For example, in Alaska we began a project in 2021 to install fuel flow meters on existing Kuparuk drill site heaters to more accurately calculate emissions.While continuous monitoring technology is proving to work well for expeditiously identifying and mitigating leaks, our reported emissions for the U.S. continue to be based on the EPA-mandated methodology for reporting GHG emissions. CanadaOur new development in Montney was designed to eliminate the majority of methane emissions by utilizing self-generated electricity and electric equipment rather than traditional natural gas driven equipment.ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsPerformance Metrics and TargetsFLARING Lower 48We have reduced flaring by utilizing closed-loop completions, central gas gathering systems, vapor recovery units, directing condensate to sales pipelines and improving uptime through operational excellence (a major focus for all our operating facilities). .	Over 2019 and 2020 we worked with midstream gas gatherer OneOK to expand and optimize their gas processing infrastructure in the Bakken. We also worked to debottleneck our own facilities. In 2021, this work resulted in a 50% reduction in routine flaring compared to 2020, despite a ~40% increase in total gas production. .	We have also implemented production deferral practices when offtake is constrained and we are progressing field-wide deployment of gas capture technologies..	In the Eagle Ford, we began a project in 2021 that uses an optical gas imaging (OGI) camera transmitter to send a feedback signal to the flare blower’s speed controller. This improves combustion of flare gases by allowing for continual air adjustment, ultimately resulting in CO. abatement..	In the Delaware Basin, we have built and operate our own gathering system, which enables more flexibility and connections to multiple third-party processors. We have also developed and implemented facility design changes to reduce or eliminate flaring from tanks..	We use Andium cameras to monitor flares at some sites. These cameras provide visual observation of flares that can be monitored at centralized locations, providing quick notice of any anomalous flaring events.NorwayIn the North Sea, we are reducing our safety flaring by installing a new flare gas re-compressor that will reduce emissions from the flare tower at Ekofisk 2/4 J by more than 90%, or 26,000 tonnes per year. Instead of gas being flared, it will now be sold to the European market.OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY CanadaReducing the GHG emissions intensity of our in situ oil sands operations continues to be a priority for our Canada operations. We are using technology to co-inject non-condensable gas (NCG) with steam to reduce steam requirements and increase production at Surmont. This allows for a reduction in the steam-to-oil ratio (SOR) and consequent reduction in GHG emissions intensity. The technology can be applied to almost any steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) operation, resulting in GHG intensity reductions of approximately 15-35%. Early project results have been shared with Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) Innovation Plus consortia to encourage widespread deployment of the technology throughout Canada’s oil sands. In response to lower oil prices from the COVID-19 pandemic, in 2020 and 2021, the BU developed a new co-injection alternative, “NCG Lite,” to allow for the continued injection of NCG during curtailment without the need for additional infrastructure installation.We are also piloting multilateral well technology including innovative drilling and completion methods and thermal junction technology in existing vertical wellbores to increase production from a single surface location. Thermal junction technology enables the drilling of multiple lateral sections without the need for additional aboveground infrastructure. These wells reduce surface footprint and provide increased bitumen production without additional steam injection, thereby reducing GHG emissions intensity and operating costs per barrel of bitumen. Both technology projects have benefited from financial support provided through Emissions Reduction Alberta (ERA). ERA invests the proceeds from carbon pricing paid by large industrial emitters into Alberta’s Technology Innovation and Emissions Reduction (TIER) regulation to reduce GHGs and strengthen the competitiveness of new and incumbent industries in Alberta. These investments help innovators develop and demonstrate GHG reducing technologies that lower costs, improve competitiveness, and accelerate Alberta’s transformation to a low-carbon economy.Lower 48In the Permian, we began a study to evaluate the possibility of reinjecting produced gas along with injection water by utilizing the existing water injection system. This simultaneous water and gas injection has the potential to avoid gas processing downtime and allow for continuous operation of the asset. Another operational efficiency project in the Permian involves replacing diesel fuel with a battery pack and smart controller on drilling rigs. This aims to reduce the number of generators needed during high transient loads while also matching the number of generators running with the actual load required, reducing total energy usage of the rig.AustraliaAs an early feasibility assessment, the APLNG flashing liquid expander project proposes to install a two-phase flashing liquid expander within the liquefaction section of a single train at APLNG. Installing this expander improves the energy efficiency of the liquefaction process as a train can produce more LNG for the same compression power.ELECTRIFICATION AND ALTERNATIVE POWERLower 48We evaluate opportunities to use power from the grid, waste gas generators or alternative energy such as solar rather than natural gas.After a successful pilot in 2020, we initiated a project in 2021 to utilize lower-carbon alternative fuel sources in the Permian. Rather than relying solely on diesel fuel to power fracking operations, the project aims to use compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas to electrically power hydraulic fracturing (e-frac) fleets. We believe these fleets are a viable technology to lower operational emissions by replacing diesel usage with field gas or CNG while improving productive time by reducing maintenance and generating more usable horsepower. We are also planning to conduct further field testing of e-frac fleets in our Lower 48 operations. They can also be used in combination with diesel in dual-fuel frac fleets to reduce emissions associated with traditional fracking operations. These innovations along with innovations in efficiency, water and safety are also providing significant cost savings and emissions reductions per well. We are also conducting two feasibility studies in the Permian. The first is a solar plant study that aims to determine the feasibility of installing a photovoltaic solar plant to power operations and sell surplus energy to the current electricity provider. The study will also evaluate technical conditions for connection of the solar plant to the existing power grid. The second is an infrastructure and electrification study. The first part of the study aims to find a solution for a dual problem: pipeline constraints for excess natural gas and a lack of water reuse/treatment options. Centralized water handling, including reverse osmosis and desalination, would be powered by in situ natural gas converted to electric compression. If successful, the project would provide an option to reuse produced water, avoid reinjection to saltwater disposal wells, limit natural gas sales at suboptimal prices, and pave the way for field electrification. To further the field electrification component, the second part of the study aims to better understand the long-term load demand for the total basin as well as upgrades that may be required if the basin was to fully electrify. This aspect of the project is especially important as we have a collective need to decarbonize the basin at a more rapid pace. As part of this project, we have engaged with several key Permian operators representing about 60% of Permian Basin production to collaborate on these infrastructure and electrification solutions.ChinaOur operations in Bohai Bay, China are powered by fuel gas from associated natural gas production from developed fields. The asset will increasingly face a fuel gas shortage by the mid-2020s, increasing operating costs due to the need to purchase natural gas at local market rates. The China business unit (BU) is reviewing multiple opportunities to bridge the fuel gas gap, including: .	Building localized offshore wind turbines specific for the asset..	Developing shallow gas fields to increase gas supply to continue powering operations..	Installing transformer station and subsea cables and tying into CNOOC regional offshore power grid that connects to onshore power facilities..	Jointly developing a large offshore wind farm with CNOOC Renewables to support the fulfillment of the BU’s net-zero emissions in the long run.NorwayNorway’s carbon tax system and high-tax regime for oil and gas operations helps improve the economics of investing in electrification solutions. The Norway BU is investigating multiple options to achieve partial electrification in our Ekofisk operations, including:.	Small-scale local offshore wind development (preliminary concept with two 10-14 MW turbines) to replace gas-powered turbines at Ekofisk, achieving about 60,000 tonnes of CO. emissions reductions per year..	Connection to a possible future offshore wind power hub with subsea power cables connected to shore.ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsAn expander project at APLNG aims to improve the energy efficiency of the liquefaction process, allowing a train to produce more LNG for the same compression power.Performance Metrics and TargetsClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsAddressing Scope 3 EmissionsWhile we recognize that end-use emissions must be reduced to meet global climate objectives, we believe that setting a Scope 3 target for a Paris-aligned exploration and production company misplaces the focus on emissions reductions that can only occur in subsequent parts of the value chain and instead represents a prescribed curtailment of production. While a sector-wide reduction in demand for oil and natural gas products is foreseen as the transition progresses, our responsibility to shareholders is to strongly compete to supply that demand. We do so by striving for the lowest cost of supply, lowest GHG intensity production.Although projections from a broad range of energy demand scenarios show a likely decline in oil and natural gas demand over coming decades, they also estimate that trillions of dollars of oil and natural gas investment will still be needed to ensure sufficient production capacity exists to meet even conservative demand projections. Placing a requirement on efficient, ESG-focused, upstream companies like ConocoPhillips to meet a Scope 3 emissions reduction target could have the effect of shifting capital away from responsible operators toward less-accountable producers and jurisdictions. To meet a Scope 3 target, an exploration and production company would need to shift its capital to alternative energy products or curtail production. This capital shift would not necessarily reduce global emissions because it does not impact the oil and gas demand that is predicted across any Paris-aligned transition pathway. Other key considerations have also reinforced our rationale at ConocoPhillips not to set a Scope 3 target. E&P Company versus Integrated CompanyPure play exploration and production companies do not have the opportunities to influence end-use emissions that integrated oil and gas companies hold through their ownership and control over the production and sale of end-use energy products. As an upstream producer, ConocoPhillips does not control how the commodities we sell are converted into different products or ultimately used, providing limited range of viable actions by the company beyond Scope 1 and 2 emissions reductions. Double CountingEnactment of a Scope 3 emissions target would inevitably result in duplication of end-use emissions accounting along the oil and natural gas value chain, making accurate accounting and credible target-setting extremely problematic. For example, the Scope 3 emissions from refining the oil we produce are a refiner’s Scope 1 emissions. The combustion of that oil in the form of an end-use product such as gasoline are also Scope 3 emissions for the producer of the oil, the refiner and the marketer. The combustion of gasoline is also a Scope 1 emission for distribution and transportation companies. Likewise, our Scope 3 emissions from the combustion of natural gas at a power station would be the electricity producer’s Scope 1 emissions and our own Scope 2 emissions for electricity purchased to run our operations. We are following the development of the Science Based Targets Initiative methodology for the oil and gas industry and have responded to their recent net-zero criteria consultation.We believe that the most practical way to avoid double-counting of emissions and overlap of targets is for all companies to align with the Paris Agreement and set targets for their Scope 1 and 2 emissions.Climate Policy to Address End-Use Demand 
and Emissions We have been clear since our first Climate Change Position in 2003 that end-use emissions must be addressed to meet global climate commitments. Climate policies along with advances in technology and consumer choice will ultimately drive demand and end-use emissions. We accept that in the absence of full carbon capture and sequestration, demand for energy must shift toward low-carbon and non-carbon sources, so we take responsibility for encouraging that shift by the most practical and effective means available – our vocal support for carbon pricing that would cause a change in the choices made by end users, detailed in the Public Policy Engagement section. Our constructive advocacy for effective carbon pricing policy began when we became the first U.S. oil and gas company to join the United States Climate Action Partnership in 2007 and continued in 2018 when we joined the Climate Leadership Council as a founding member. It is also reflected in the fact that our main industry associations have now adopted positions on carbon pricing and other climate policy that align with our public positions.REPORTINGWe have reported annually on Scope 3 emissions in our CDP submissions since 2010 to acknowledge the role they play in climate risk assessment. We calculate Scope 3 emissions using the IPIECA 2016 Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) GHG Emissions guidance based on net equity production numbers. We report the four largest categories of Scope 3 emissions that apply to our operations.For oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, Scope 3 emissions fall primarily into the “use of sold products” category. Though we do not control how our total production is ultimately processed into consumer products, we make the conservative assumption that the majority of production is ultimately burned as fuel by end users. We use the API Compendium GHG emissions factors for crude oil and natural gas burned as fuel. This method accounts for all possible GHG emissions that could be associated with end use of our production. Our assumption and method are especially conservative when the “double counting” issues inherent in Scope 3 estimations for an exploration and production company are taken into account.We conservatively calculate the other three categories of Scope 3 emissions by taking our entire volume of crude and natural gas and applying the relevant transportation, distribution and processing emission factors from academic life cycle analyses, including the 2019 National Energy Technology Laboratory study: Life cycle analysis of natural gas extraction and power generation. In 2021, Scope 3 emissions increased in line with overall net production increase.Our role to address Scope 3 emissions and accelerate the energy transition includes several focus areas..	Advocating for policy to address end-use emissions through support of an economywide price on carbon..	Addressing upstream supply chain emissions by engaging with major suppliers on our Climate Risk Strategy..	Evaluating renewable energy into our operations through power purchase agreements or building solar or wind opportunities to support growing market demand of alternative energy..	Investing in new energies and mitigation measures such as carbon capture and storage and hydrogen.“The bulk of emissions occur in end-use. So the most effective and efficient means of reducing global emissions must include mechanisms that can directly impact consumer demand for carbon intensive energy.”— DOMINIC MACKLON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, STRATEGY, SUSTAINABILITY AND TECHNOLOGYPerformance Metrics and TargetsSOURCE ESTIMATED MILLION TONNES CO.e Upstream transportation 4 Downstream transportation 9 Processing of sold product 13 Use of sold product 198 ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsAdditional Climate-Linked Performance AreasEnergy EfficiencyWe continually strive to make our operations more energy efficient. This can provide an environmental benefit through reduced emissions, as well as an economic benefit through lower production costs or greater sales revenue. Through the natural decline of production, as our fields diminish in size, they tend to require either the same, or in some cases, even greater amounts of energy to extract the product and transport it for processing or refining.Total energy consumption in 2021 was 220 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs). Approximately 97% of our consumption was combustion of fuel for our own energy use with the remaining from purchased electricity.Low-Carbon Emitting Products In 2021, we supplied Asian markets with approximately 0.5 trillion cubic feet (or 1.5 billion cubic feet per day) of natural gas and LNG. To put this in perspective, if all the natural gas and LNG we sold to Asia in 2021 had been used to replace coal for electricity generation, GHG emissions would have been reduced by approximately 38 million metric tonnes, more than double the company’s combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the year, based on EPA GHG emissions factors.WaterWe manage water risks and mitigate potential impacts to water resources, taking into account the unique hydrologic, quality, use and ecological settings of each basin or offshore marine area. Water risks are evolving globally in response to cumulative effects of human water demand, physical effects of climate change and changing priorities and expectations of governments, investors and society. Water-related operational, reputational and regulatory risks associated with fresh water use, water stress, offshore produced water discharges and onshore produced water disposal could affect our business. Read more about how we manage our water risks on our website. We measure and report on the volume of fresh water and non-fresh water withdrawn from local water sources and the volume of produced water that is reused, recycled, disposed or discharged after treatment. This data is used to estimate our water intensity and exposure to water stress. We also collect water forecast data for our Long-Range Plan which enables us to test our portfolio of projects against our water risks to make better-informed strategic decisions.The 2021 fresh water consumption intensity for our unconventional assets in the U.S. (Eagle Ford, Delaware, Midland and Bakken) and in Canada (Montney) was 0.08 bbl/BOE EUR. The 2021 fresh water consumption intensity for our conventional (Alaska, Canada Surmont, LNG and Indonesia) and offshore assets (Norway) was 0.03 bbl/BOE. Read more about our water metrics on our website.We use the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas to assess our portfolio exposure to water stress. Our Anadarko, Lost Cabin Gas Plant,. Permian Midland Basin and Alaska Kuparuk assets are located in basins with high or extremely high baseline water stress and accounted for 17% of our total fresh water withdrawal and 20% of our total fresh water consumption in 2021. Fresh water accounts for about 12% of source water used in the Midland Basin and is also used for domestic purposes in staff camps, operational activities that require wash water, and processing and drilling (e.g., for water-based drilling mud) where fresh water use is required.Measurement, Reporting 
and VerificationMeasurement, reporting and verification of our climate efforts and GHG data is critical for establishing credibility and accountability around our targets. We have traditionally used third-party verification for external, independent, limited assurance of our GHG metrics. We also perform reasonable assurance at select operated assets where it is required by country-level regulation. Each of our BUs is responsible for quantifying emissions and reporting the information to our corporate center for compilation and internal quality assurance. Our GHG emissions measurement methodologies use the rules, emission factors and thresholds for regulatory emissions reporting with the following amendments: We use a reporting threshold of 25,000 tonnes of CO.e per year for an asset and/or emission source category unless the regulatory reporting threshold is lower. In our corporate reporting system, we include GHG emissions based on direct sources of emissions (Scope 1 emissions) and indirect sources of emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2 emissions).The method of data collection at each individual source can range from continuous emissions monitoring to emissions estimations. Our estimating approaches meet applicable regulatory reporting requirements or industry guidance, as appropriate. The quality of estimating methodologies, measurements and calculations is assessed internally by our corporate Environmental Assurance group. We also report GHG emissions on an equity basis. GHG emissions from non-operated assets are included for affiliated companies and joint ventures in which ConocoPhillips owns greater than or equal to 20% working interest or when our share of GHG emissions (based on working interest) is greater than or equal to 25,000 tonnes of CO.e per year.Reporting to authorities and regulators is also the responsibility of BUs and we report our operated emissions in the following regions, countries and provinces in accordance with regulation:.	Australia: The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGER Act) and the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination 2008..	European Union: EU Emissions Trading System, Monitoring and Reporting Regulation Council Directive 2003/87/EC, as amended by Council Directive 2009/29/EC..	Norway: Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Act of 17 December 2004..	United Kingdom: UK Emissions Trading Scheme established through the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme of 2020..	Alberta, Canada: Emissions Management and Climate Resilience Act: Specified Gas Reporting Regulation, Alberta Regulation 251/2004..	British Columbia, Canada: Greenhouse Gas Industrial Reporting and Control Act: Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting Regulation, British Columbia Reg. 249/2015..	Indonesia: Minister of Environment Regulation No. 12 of 2012 regarding Guideline for the Emission Load Calculation for Oil and Gas Industry Activities..	United States: 40 CFR 98 Subparts C, MM, PP, UU, W, and Y – Stationary Combustion Sources; Suppliers of CO.; Suppliers of Petroleum Products, Injection of CO.; Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems; Petroleum Refineries.The verification and assurance process for 2021 data consisted of independent third-party limited assurance of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions, including assurance of methane emissions, GHG intensity, methane intensity, flaring volumes and energy use. For the 2021 reporting year, we have also expanded our assurance scope beyond quantitative metrics to include governance and climate-related disclosures. We also conduct limited assurance on non-GHG data every three years.To continuously improve processes and controls for our ESG disclosures, we are conducting an internal audit in 2022 under the direction of our Board of Directors’ Audit and Finance Committee. With the assistance of independent consultants, we are further reviewing our internal processes and controls, and evaluating methods to continuously improve the quality, consistency and transparency of our GHG data. In 2022, we commenced internal corporate audits and assessments against our Environmental Performance Metrics Reporting Practice, and we are improving our overall assurance for GHG data.The company is also closely engaged with the Human Resources and Compensation Committee to ensure our emissions reduction and climate-related goals are reflected in our employee and executive compensation programs.See our most recent ERM CVS Assurance Statement and read more about our internal quality assurance and third-party verification on our website.Performance Metrics and TargetsWe also report our GHG performance annually through CDP. The annual CDP survey collects a wide range of information concerning corporate efforts to manage climate change issues effectively and drive emissions reductions. It includes an emphasis on governance, strategy, actions and reporting to try to provide a complete view of companies’ performance for comparison. It also provides a view of sector performance. ConocoPhillips has participated in the survey since 2003. Our most recent CDP submission can be found in the 2021 CDP document on our website..	During 2021, the company completed the sale of the Lost Cabin Gas Plant.ClimatePerformance Metrics and TargetsExternal Collaboration and EngagementExternal Collaboration and 
EngagementExternal engagement is important to understanding the issues and challenges relating to climate and the evolution of policy development. Current actions include:.	Developing methane and shale development communications..	Taking part in global legislation and regulation development..	Engaging with stakeholders, including investors, on climate-related risks.Supporting Industry DialogueWe actively work with different organizations and associations around the world to enhance our understanding of the issues and trends facing our industry and company. The benefits we receive from trade and industry associations range from best practice sharing to technical standard setting and issue advocacy. We do not always agree with all positions taken by the organizations that we work with. For example, we may not always agree with the positions they take on climate change or regulatory reform. In these cases, we make our views known and seek to influence their policy positions. We have strong governance around our association activities and annually report on trade association memberships with dues more than $50,000.We are members or sponsors of a number of external groups that support our efforts to manage climate-related risks. Further, we work with our trade associations to ensure alignment with our climate change position.The American Petroleum Institute (API) Climate Committee addresses climate change issues affecting the U.S. oil and natural gas industry. The group oversees the development of API’s Climate Position, Climate Policy Principles and industry initiatives. The group developed the recent Climate Action Framework, a combination of policies, innovation and industry initiatives to reduce emissions from energy production, transportation and use by society. We are active in many API committees that can also involve or address climate-related issues, and we work to contribute our perspective in alignment with our positions and actions.The American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC) Climate Change Group addresses climate change issues affecting the U.S. exploration and production sector of the oil and natural gas industry. The group has helped to develop AXPC’s climate policy and principles, its ESG Metrics Framework and Template, and its position on methane regulations.IPIECA established its.Climate Change Working Group in 1988. Since then, the group has monitored climate science and policy discussions, engaging with international governmental bodies and other stakeholders. It is not an advocacy body and does not engage in lobbying on climate or other issues. In 2021, IPIECA clarified its purpose on providing best practice guidance on GHG emissions monitoring, reporting and management to improve industry performance. ConocoPhillips is aligned with IPIECA on its effort to bring together members of industry to knowledge share on GHG reduction efforts.IPIECA participates in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and provides IPIECA members with reliable and timely information about these and other international processes dealing with climate change.We are sponsors of the MIT – Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change program which supports efforts to:.	Improve knowledge of interactions among human and natural Earth systems, with a focus on climate and energy, and of the forces that drive global change..	Prepare quantitative analyses of global change risk and its social and environmental consequences..	Provide independent assessments of potential responses to global risks, through emissions mitigation and anticipatory adaptation, contributing to improved understanding of these issues among other analysis groups, policymaking communities and the public..	Augment the pool of people needed for work in this area by the education of graduate and undergraduate students in relevant disciplines of economic and Earth science analysis and methods of policy assessment.An interdisciplinary team of natural scientists, social scientists and policy analysts supports this mission, with their efforts coordinated through the maintenance and application of a set of analytical frameworks that integrate the various components of global system change and potential policy response..IHS Markit, now part of S&P global, hosts forums where member companies can discuss global climate change and clean energy research and its implications for policy. They provide a wide range of research products to ensure that members are up to date with current developments around the world.Additionally, we have worked with the following groups:.	International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP)..	U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development (USBCSD)..	Socially responsible investors (SRIs)..	Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).Our engagement with investors has focused on climate-related risks in many one-on-one meetings and periodic conferences, such as with the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility. We have also engaged on climate-related issues and sustainability risks with institutions such as Moody’s, Fitch and S&P. Other groups we have joined or in which we are participating include:.	World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030: Initiative that aims to bring together governments, oil and gas sector and development institutions to address flaring..	E&P Net-Zero Principles Roundtable: Facilitated by Ceres, a small representative collection of financial sector, E&P oil and gas sector and NGOs, seeking to define what it means to be a Paris-aligned exploration and production company..	Net-Zero Business Alliance: Initiative from the Bipartisan Policy Center to bring together business leaders that represent an affirmative and pragmatic voice in the climate solutions debate and to work with governments to advance an aggressive climate strategy that is grounded in engineering, commercial and economic realities. .	Net-Zero Company Benchmark: Engaging with Climate Action 100+ on their assessment of our energy transition progress..	Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA): Group of oil sands producers, of which we are a founding member, focused on accelerating the pace of improvement in environmental performance in Canada’s oil sands through collaborative action and innovation..	Oil Sands Pathways to Net-Zero Initiative: Alliance of Canada’s top oil sands operators working toward achieving net-zero GHG emissions by 2050..	International Emissions Trading Association (IETA): Non.profit business organization created in 1999 to establish a functional international framework for trading in GHG emissions reductions. .	Climate Leadership Council (CLC): International policy institute to promote a carbon dividends framework in the U.S. .	Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC): Global voluntary partnership to share and expand the evidence base for effective carbon pricing policies. ClimateExternal Collaboration and EngagementPublic Policy EngagementPublic Policy EngagementConocoPhillips supports well-designed climate policy that is practical, equitable and cost-effective in reducing GHG emissions. We support the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit the rise of global average temperatures well below 2 degrees Celsius which is reflected in our Paris-aligned ambition to be a net-zero operational emissions company by 2050. Proactive EngagementClimate-related policy action can support an orderly transition to a low-carbon economy, facilitate the development of innovative technology and reduce the overall risks associated with climate. We have been actively engaged in climate-related discussions with policy makers and stakeholders since our first global climate change position was published in 2003. Our approach to public policy engagement on climate change has evolved. However, we remain consistent in our view that market-based solutions at national and global levels, rather than a patchwork of less efficient regulatory approaches, will be most effective in reducing GHG emissions.Among our efforts, ConocoPhillips is a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council (CLC), an international policy institute founded in collaboration with business and environmental interests to promote a carbon dividends framework in the U.S. as the most cost-effective, equitable and politically viable climate solution. Participation in the CLC provides an opportunity for ongoing dialogue about carbon pricing and framing the issues in alignment with our principles. We are also a member of Americans for Carbon Dividends (AFCD), the education and advocacy branch of the CLC, which focuses on progressing the bipartisan Baker-Shultz Carbon Dividends Plan. Our executive leadership team consistently engages with members of Congress and the Administration to express support for that plan. In 2021, ConocoPhillips was accepted as a Private Sector Partner within the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a global voluntary partnership run by the World Bank to share and expand the evidence base for effective carbon pricing policies. Participation in the CPLC further demonstrates our commitment to carbon pricing and is complementary to our engagement with the CLC.We have also demonstrated strong engagement with major trade associations to advance climate policy positions that include support for a market-based approach to reduce GHG emissions. To this end, we have shown successful leadership that has yielded positive results and progress within the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Business Roundtable (BRT), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and others. Our advocacy further addresses methane and flaring regulation, clean fuel or power standards, and sector-specific regulations based on carbon-intensity benchmarks. Publicly communicating our governance processes and the depth of our advocacy efforts is a crucial component of our outreach in addressing stakeholder concerns.Most trade organizations we participate in have climate change positions aligned to ours. Where they do not, we have continued to offer our viewpoint and attempt to work with them to better align their position with ours. For example, we have worked to influence API, BRT, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other organizations to support the direct federal regulation of methane. In addition to actively participating in trade organization position updates, we have also voted against or abstained from supporting specific actions requested by a trade organization if their positions were not aligned with ours. We have also decided not to renew some memberships because of misalignment on a number of policy topics, one of which is climate change.Effective PolicyClimate change is a global issue which requires global solutions. Economy-wide governmental GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors. Effective climate change policy requires a number of elements:Integrates energy and climate policy: Climate change policy and energy policy should be coordinated to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy and avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs. This must create a level competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries and encourage efficient use of energy.Promotes innovation: Climate change policy should promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development and match the pace at which new technology can be developed and deployed.Demonstrates real GHG reductions: It should result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric concentrations and foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate.Provides economic certainty: It should provide long-term certainty for investment decisions and avoid undue harm to the economy.Methane PolicyIn the absence of a carbon price in the U.S., the economy-wide direct regulation of methane would be effective. We support well-formulated federal regulation of methane emissions from oil and gas exploration and production if that regulation:.	Encourages early adopters and voluntary efforts..	Incorporates cost-effective innovations in technology..	Supports appropriate state-level regulations.Climate Change Public PolicyWe believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with the following principles:.	Recognize that climate change is a global issue which requires global solutions. Economy-wide governmental GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors..	Result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric concentrations..	Coordinate with energy policy to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy..	Utilize market-based mechanisms rather than technology mandates..	Create a level, competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries..	Avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs..	Provide long-term certainty for investment decisions..	Promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development..	Match the pace at which new technology can be developed and deployed..	Encourage efficient use of energy..	Foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate..	Avoid undue harm to the economy.Carbon PricingDemand-side emissions reduction efforts are required for climate goals to be achieved, because supply-side constraints alone would be ineffective in reducing global emissions. ConocoPhillips believes a well-designed pricing regime on carbon emissions is the most effective tool to reduce GHG emissions across the global economy. A revenue-neutral carbon tax that is transparent, predictable and cost-effective to administer would be an effective policy option. It should result in some relief via the elimination of other laws and regulations aimed at reducing or controlling carbon and other GHG emissions. It is also the best way to regulate methane..Carbon pricing policy should support the implementation of currently economic emissions reduction projects and provide support for innovation to encourage the development of currently uneconomic projects. A price on carbon would also provide a stable and predictable market signal that would impact investment flows and end-user choices in a manner that minimizes adverse local economic and social impacts of an energy transition. We advocate for carbon pricing directly through engagement with government legislators and regulators in all jurisdictions in which we operate, and indirectly via collaboration with trade associations that are aligned with our strategy. Read more about our position on carbon pricing on our website.We are a Founding Member of the Climate Leadership Council (CLC), an international policy institute founded in collaboration with business and environmental interests to promote a carbon dividends framework as the most cost-effective, equitable and politically-viable climate solution in the U.S. Participation in the CLC provides another opportunity for ongoing dialogue about carbon pricing and framing the issues in alignment with our principles. We also belong to and fund Americans for Carbon Dividends (AFCD), the education and advocacy branch of the CLC. We support and are advocating for a carbon price contingent upon four pillars: a gradually increasing carbon price, carbon dividends for all Americans, border carbon adjustments and regulatory simplification.We have been actively engaged in climate-related discussions with policy makers and stakeholders since our first global climate change position was published in 2003. Since then, we have developed Climate Change Action Plans, set an emissions intensity target, integrated carbon restricted scenarios into our strategic planning process and published carbon tax principles.Global Principles for Country-Specific Carbon Tax LegislationA well-designed carbon tax or other legislative proposal to fix and impose a price on carbon dioxide or other GHGs should meet the following principles: .	Economy-wide: A carbon tax designed to fix and impose a price should apply as broadly across the economy as administratively practicable..	Non-discriminatory: GHG emissions alone should form the basis of taxation. A carbon tax should not “pick winners and losers” among industries or emissions sources or discriminate in providing subsidies to energy sources. .	Uniform: A carbon tax should apply to all GHG emissions at the same rate on a “units of carbon dioxide equivalent” basis using the IPCC standard 100-year global warming potential..	Transparent: To most efficiently incentivize changes to consumer behavior, a carbon tax should be imposed at the point in the value chain which is as close as administratively practicable to the point and timing of the emission. If a point is chosen further upstream, a system of credits or other mechanisms should be designed to eliminate (or prevent) taxation of emissions applicable to taxable products sequestered downstream of the point of taxation and to those used as feedstocks for the manufacture of products in which GHGs are stored..	Avoid double taxation: A federal carbon tax should preempt state, provincial and local carbon taxes and renewable production tax credits..	Provide regulatory relief: A federal carbon tax should replace all environmental laws and regulations that are intended to reduce or control carbon and other GHG emissions. .	Predictable: The application of a carbon tax and the tax rate may be adjustable when necessary, but such adjustments should be infrequent and should be limited to those designed to achieve the broader environmental goal of the tax legislation..	Cost-effective administration: Existing channels of tax collection and emissions reporting systems should be used if feasible. Where actual emissions cannot be measured, best efforts based upon sound science should be used as an estimate..	Globally competitive: A country-specific carbon tax rate should be set in accordance with existing taxation channels and emissions reporting systems and be adjusted to ensure global competitiveness. Depending on the point of taxation chosen, carbon tax legislation should include a border adjustment mechanism, or other attributes designed to mitigate competitive disadvantages to host country industry when competing in global markets. .	Revenue recycling: A carbon tax should be revenue-neutral and used in such a way as to minimize economic impact..	Compliance flexibility: A federal carbon tax should include multiple options for compliance, including offset credits from a broad range of jurisdictions, cash payments or flexible compliance frequency. History of EngagementOur approach to public policy engagement on climate change has evolved. However, we remain consistent in our view that market-based solutions at national and global levels, rather than a patchwork of less effective regulatory approaches, are most likely to be effective in reducing GHG emissions. Shortly after the merger of Conoco and Phillips Petroleum in 2003, we published our first global climate change position. Since then, we have consistently used our Sustainability Report to detail our commitments, priorities and actions. We have also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (now CDP) questionnaire since 2003.Historical EngagementIn 2004, we described actions that we would be taking to address climate change, including: .	Assessing data..	Developing objectives to reduce GHG emissions..	Improving operational efficiency..	Developing climate change considerations for project planning and approval processes..	Engaging in discussions on climate change through the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (now IPIECA)..	Joining the International Emissions Trading Association (IETA).In 2005, we began trading in the European Union ETS.Through our membership in the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP) beginning in 2007, we actively participated in efforts to design an effective legislative approach.. In 2008, we adopted and published our first Climate Change Action Plan to systematically address climate change risk. In June 2009, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (HR2454) (Waxman-Markey) bill passed the House of Representatives. Although the USCAP Blueprint for Legislative Action was considered influential in the design of the legislation, we had serious concerns about some of the detailed elements in the bill. Following passage of the House bill, our focus turned to addressing issues of concern in the Senate version of the legislation. In order to intensify our company’s focus and resources on addressing the key issues, including the important role that natural gas can play in reducing U.S. GHG emissions, we announced in February 2010 that the company would not be renewing our membership in USCAP.Through this more direct engagement, we were successful in helping to develop draft legislation that incorporated a more equitable approach to energy sectors while maintaining environmental effectiveness. We issued a statement regarding the draft legislation introduced in the Senate in May 2010.Since 2010, we’ve continued to work toward approaches that are practical and effective, including active participation in dialogue with trade associations like the American Petroleum Institute (API), industry partners and the government to advocate smart policy solutions.In 2021, we made the decision to rejoin IETA to further our advocacy for market solutions to the climate challenge. IETA is a non-profit business organization created in 1999 to establish a functional international framework for trading in GHG emissions reductions. IETA members seek to develop an emissions trading regime that results in real and verifiable GHG emissions reductions, while balancing economic efficiency with environmental integrity and social equity. IETA is a global carbon policy organization, and they support carbon offset trading systems. Their membership includes leading international companies from across the carbon trading cycle. IETA have a seat on the Task Force for Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets (TSVCM).Examples of Regulatory Engagement Collaborating with a broad range of stakeholders on effective climate change policy and GHG emissions solutions is key to solving the climate change challenge. In 2014, we publicly supported the Gas Capture Plan in North Dakota, now required, which took a pro-active approach to flare gas reduction..We entered into agreements with pipeline companies to ensure that required gathering infrastructure was available when needed in order to reduce emissions. In 2016, we supported the.U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Onshore Order 1, electronic filings, as the proposed changes reduced work and errors and sped up response time for both industry and the government. In 2016, the BLM proposed a series of Onshore Orders..After careful review, ConocoPhillips opposed Onshore Order 9, the proposed Venting and Flaring rule, based on the conclusion that the BLM was overreaching their authority and the proposal created a duplication of federal authority with EPA. Our comments to the BLM included suggestions to remove many of the duplicative requirements. While we opposed many of the requirements in Onshore Order 9, we did suggest some changes to certain proposed requirements. For example, we agreed that the limits for royalty-free flaring should be changed and gave recommendations for the limits.. Directly and through our trades we have worked to advance the development and deployment of carbon capture, utilization and storage to achieve a cleaner energy profile and improve U.S. economic security. In 2018, Congress passed the Furthering Carbon Capture, Utilization, Technology, Underground Storage, and Reduced Emissions Act to enhance the 45Q tax credit to further incentivize carbon capture and storage technology deployment in the United States. The primary issue with the 45Q tax credit is the interpretation of what constitutes secure geological storage (SGS). In particular, we support the adoption of a commercially reasonable ISO standard to demonstrate secure geological storage in the context of captured carbon dioxide that gets sequestered underground for enhanced oil recovery projects. The standard should establish criteria for transparency and assurance that carbon dioxide removal is achieved. We also support self-verification of compliance with the ISO standard given that our tax officer would attest to satisfying the requirements of 45Q under penalties of perjury.Recent Legislative Engagement In 2019, we worked within the broad coalition of Climate Leadership Council (CLC) members to better define details of the overarching implementation plan. That included work on topics such as carbon price escalation rates, points of taxation, regulatory backstop provisions, high energy-cost region challenges and a border carbon adjustment. While the policy work continues with CLC members, the results of that engagement are reflected in the more detailed CLC plan released in early 2020. We also engaged with members of Congress directly and through Americans for Carbon Dividends. This included reviewing several proposed climate bills and continuing to offer technical feedback on those bills to elected representatives and their staff. The company remains engaged with representatives from both sides of the political spectrum.In 2022, ConocoPhillips Joined the Oil Sands Pathways to Net-Zero alliance, which includes Canadian Natural Resources, Cenovus Energy, Imperial, MEG Energy and Suncor Energy. Together this group represents the companies operating approximately 95% of Canada’s oil sands production. The goal of the alliance is to achieve net-zero GHG emissions from oil sands operations by 2050 to help Canada meet its climate goals, including the country’s Paris Agreement commitments and 2050 net-zero aspirations. ConocoPhillips is partnering with the founding members of the Pathways Alliance and governments to accelerate efforts to bring about meaningful change.Association EngagementMany trade organizations we participate in have climate change positions aligned to ours. Where they do not, we have continued to offer our viewpoint and attempt to work with them to better align their position with ours. For example, we’ve worked to influence the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Business Roundtable (BRT) and other organizations to support the direct federal regulation of methane. In addition to actively participating in trade organization position updates, we have also voted against or abstained from supporting specific actions requested by a trade organization if their positions were not aligned with ours. We have also decided not to renew some memberships because of misalignment on a number of policy topics, one of which is climate change. For more information about our governance and major trade associations please see Political Support Policies and Procedures on our website.With our history of constructive engagement related to the issue of end-use emissions, we continue to devote significant time and effort engaging and advocating for a well-designed federal price on carbon, including within our trade associations. We believe a price on carbon is the most effective, equitable method to reduce GHG emissions, including methane, across the economy. To advance this position, ConocoPhillips joined the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) in 2019 as a Founding Member along with the CLC’s advocacy organization, Americans for Carbon Dividends (AFCD), which is focused on progressing the Baker-Shultz Carbon Dividends plan; since then, our Executive Leadership Team and Government Affairs staff have participated in well over 100 bipartisan meetings with members of Congress and the Administration. Our consistent, strong engagement with our major trade associations, including the American Petroleum Institute, the Business Roundtable and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, has influenced their climate policy positions to include support for a market-based approach to GHG emissions. In 2021, ConocoPhillips was accepted as a Private Sector Partner within the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a global voluntary partnership run by the World Bank to share and expand the evidence base for effective carbon pricing policies. Participation in the CPLC further demonstrates our commitment to carbon pricing and is complementary to our engagement with the Climate Leadership Council.As part of our routine review of trade association membership, the company evaluates how trade organization policy positions align with those expressed by ConocoPhillips, including: .	Paris Agreement: The company’s GHG emissions reduction targets and actions are consistent with the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit the rise of global temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius. In measuring alignment, we considered policies which support the goals of the Paris Agreement as aligned with our own..	Carbon Pricing: A well-designed pricing regime on carbon emissions is the most effective tool to reduce GHG emissions across the global economy. Carbon pricing policy should support the implementation of currently economic emissions reduction projects and provide support for R&D to encourage the development technology for currently uneconomic projects. A revenue-neutral carbon tax that is transparent, predictable and cost-effective to administer would be an effective policy option. It should result in some relief via the elimination of other laws and regulations aimed at reducing or controlling carbon and other GHG emissions. In measuring alignment, we considered policies which support a market-based mechanism to reduce GHG emissions across the economy as aligned with our own..	Addressing Methane Emissions: The most effective tool for emissions reductions across the economy would be a well-designed federal pricing regime on carbon emissions. In the absence of a carbon pricing policy, we support enactment of cost-effective federal methane regulations on new and existing sources that would preserve a state’s ability to adapt implementation to local conditions. In measuring alignment, we considered policies which support direct regulation of methane as aligned with our own. ClimatePublic Policy EngagementPublic Policy EngagementClimatePublic Policy EngagementPublic Policy EngagementClimatePublic Policy EngagementASSOCIATION ENGAGEMENT TABLEASSOCIATION PARIS AGREEMENT CARBON PRICING ADDRESSING METHANE EMISSIONS American Petroleum Institute (API) Aligned Aligned Aligned U.S. Chamber of Commerce (Chamber) Some misalignments Aligned Aligned Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP)  Aligned Aligned Aligned Natural Gas Supply Association (NGSA) Some misalignments Aligned Some misalignments International Oil & Gas Producers Association (IOGP) Aligned Aligned Aligned Business Roundtable (BRT) Aligned Aligned Some misalignments National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)  Aligned No position Some misalignments American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC) Some misalignments No position Aligned SpotlightSPOTLIGHTOptimizing Operations to Reduce Emissions in Canada’s Oil SandsA pilot project in Canada’s oil sands is testing the use of steam additives to optimize the steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) process. The effort aims to reduce steam-oil ratio (SOR) and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity and initial results from the effort are promising, decreasing SOR while increasing oil production.“This steam additives pilot is one incremental technology that will help us optimize the SAGD process by reducing the steam-oil ratio,” noted Javier Sanchez, Supervisor, Technology, ConocoPhillips Canada. “The effort is helping us build a pathway to net-zero.”OPTIMIZING PRODUCTIONDuring SAGD, additives are co-injected with steam, where they do their work at the edge of the steam chamber (condensation layer), increasing the emulsification of oil in water and reducing its viscosity. This improves fluid drainage and oil recovery per unit of steam injected, lowering both SOR and the amount of energy used for production. Depending on the type of energy source (electric or natural gas), this translates into a lower carbon footprint per barrel of oil as well as a lower water recirculation rate, which minimizes the use of fresh water. The additives are easy to handle and do not adversely affect the reservoir formation. They do not damage equipment and are only minimally impactful to separation, water treatment and recycling operations.“The technology study began in 2017 with a lot of collaboration between people in Houston and Calgary who were all trying to develop technology that would enhance our SAGD process,” said Julian Ortiz, Supervisor, Strategy & Planning, ConocoPhillips Canada. A joint industry project was formed with the goal of screening a variety of commercially available additives. Lab testing began in early 2017, followed by facility design and construction in 2020. Three ConocoPhillips business units and 16 teams in Canada participated in the process.The steam additives pilot phase began in early 2021 and is expected to last up to 24 months. If successful, it has the potential to reduce SOR and GHG emissions intensity by 15-35% in the pilot area. The effort is funded through the Government of Alberta (Alberta Innovates and Emissions Reduction Alberta), Surmont joint venture funding and ConocoPhillips marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) funding. “This has truly been multi-disciplinary work; we have seen a lot of collaboration,” Ortiz added.ClimateSpotlightThe steam additives pilot phase has the potential to reduce SOR and GHG emissions intensity by 15.35% in the pilot area.A well pad at Surmont.SpotlightSPOTLIGHTThe Net-Zero Roadmap: Implementing our AmbitionAddressing the energy transition is one of the most important issues for our company. ConocoPhillips intends to play a valued role in the energy transition by executing three objectives: meeting energy transition pathway demand, delivering competitive returns on and of capital and achieving our net-zero emissions ambition. We call this the Triple Mandate, and it represents our commitment to create long-term value for our stakeholders.We were the first U.S.-based oil and gas company to adopt a Paris-aligned climate-risk strategy with an ambition to become a net-zero company for operational (Scope 1 and 2) emissions by 2050.NET-ZERO ROADMAPThough this work is just beginning, the Net-Zero Roadmap will be the primary mechanism for how our planning translates to action and prioritizes near-term Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction efforts by identifying and executing viable abatement options. The roadmap details how we intend to fulfill our longer-term commitments through planning, fostering technological advancements and partnering with peers and external stakeholders to explore pilot projects that could abate challenging operational emissions.Each of our operating business units is developing a roadmap to describe strategies and plans. When rolled up, the roadmaps will inform our technology development, operations and engineering teams, along with our development staff and project timing, while allowing us to forecast and prioritize for the needs of the future.The Net-Zero Roadmaps will also:.	Empower each business unit to progress initiatives specific to its needs..	Leverage the marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) process to prioritize projects..	Promote collaboration between business units on projects which are scalable or transferable..	Enable design changes to new facilities to reduce emissions..	Prioritize pilot projects and tests of emerging technologies to address our most significant needs..	Enhance the tools and processes we use to prioritize, execute and track our emissions reduction efforts.“Delivering our net-zero ambition is a key part of the company’s energy transition plan,” said Warwick King, vice president, Low Carbon Technologies. “The Net-Zero Roadmaps will be a vital tool to help identify projects that will reduce and eliminate operational GHG emissions.” Read more about our Net-Zero Roadmap on our website.USING THE MACC TO IDENTIFY 
PROJECTS An essential element of our Net-Zero Roadmap is the MACC, a process to prioritize the most impactful emissions reduction projects. To drive accountability for the emissions that are within our control, the MACC provides a continuous pipeline of projects with short-, medium-, and long-term emissions reduction targets. During our annual budget planning process, potential GHG emissions reductions projects are reviewed and ranked. The MACC plots the breakeven cost of CO.e reduction considering capital cost, operating costs and the potential increased revenue for each project against the cumulative GHG emissions that can be reduced. Project funding is based on a number of criteria including:.	Cost: Cost per metric ton of CO.e abated (i.e. the lowest $/metric tons of CO. equivalent)..	Sustainable Reduction: Reduces emissions permanently..	Scalability: Can be scaled-up to provide additional emissions reductions..	Technology Readiness: Systems and processes proven to reduce emissions by the forecasted amount..	Repeatability: Can be replicated in other business units.We fund projects that have a break-even cost of up to $60/metric tons of CO.e, as well as projects that anticipate forthcoming regulatory changes. Approximately 70 projects were selected for funding in 2021 to begin execution in 2022. Of the projects ready to implement, the majority are in the U.S. Lower 48 and are related to venting and flaring.“There is no one project or solution that will help us transition to a lower-carbon economy. It will require many different efforts, a lot of innovation, and collaboration across different industries, that will yield reductions in emissions. The MACC process and our Net-Zero Roadmap will help us to plan how we can do our part at ConocoPhillips,” noted Mark Hutcherson, Director, Low Carbon Projects & Technology.Once a project is approved, the business unit has the accountability to deliver the project. These include production efficiency measures, methane and flaring intensity-reduction initiatives and asset electrification projects, to name a few. Specific examples include:.	Operational efficiency: Ensuring operational controls are put in place to monitor emissions. Streamlining facilities, tanks and equipment; improving waste heat utilization, insulation and power distribution; deployment of optimized artificial lift strategies..	Methane: Implementing robust leak detection programs to ensure integrity of our system. Switching instrumentation from gas-driven to air-driven pneumatics; modifying facilities to reduce emergency gas venting..	Flaring: Production curtailment to avoid unnecessary flaring during process upset conditions; incorporating vapor recovery units at facilities; recovering gas for sales..	Electrification and combustion: Reducing combustion needs on drilling and completions; electrifying operations and pursuing renewable energy sources; conducting basin-wide electrification study in the Permian; evaluating a project to electrify central facilities in a portion of our Eagle Ford operations.The chart to the left shows potential projects and pilots that are expected to be implemented in 2022. Projects below the axis are economic even without a cost of carbon. Projects above the axis assume a cost of carbon to achieve a breakeven net present value – the taller the bar, the higher the breakeven cost of carbon. The width of the bar indicates a best estimate of the annual emissions reduction should the project be undertaken. The MACC process was designed to facilitate corporate and business unit collaboration, enable global visibility on projects and establish a discretionary funding mechanism managed by the ConocoPhillips Executive Leadership Team (ELT) for emissions reduction opportunities across the company. Project examples include:.	Australia – Battery Energy Storage System (BESS)
The Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) facility on Curtis Island, Queensland, Australia is progressing a BESS to function as power backup in case of electricity generator failure. Currently APLNG is powered by a number of Gas Turbine Generators (GTGs) with one spare GTG, which is running in reserve in the event another fails. A BESS would replace the spare GTG and act as the reserve electricity generator. This could result in a reduction of fuel gas required of at least 300 terajoules per year and is anticipated to abate over 16,000 metric tons of GHG emissions per year..	Gulf Coast – H2S Scavenger Centralization
In our Gulf Coast business unit, a project is underway to remove the need for pneumatic-powered scavenger injection pumps at each well pad through the installation of scavenger towers at each central facility location. The project could reduce emissions by around 11,250 metric tons per year. .	Norway – Ekofisk Local Wind Power Project
ConocoPhillips Norway has committed to a detailed study of an offshore wind project to power operations at the Ekofisk complex in the North Sea. If the study proves viable, first power could occur as early as 2026, with two 11-megawatt offshore wind turbines that would feed power to the Ekofisk complex, reducing GHG emissions by approximately 60,000 metric tons per year. .	Permian – Expanding Continuous Methane Monitoring
The Permian business unit has expanded its continuous methane detection capabilities as part of its “layers of protection” strategy for emissions identification and mitigation. To date, the pilot project has deployed over 15 AI-enabled camera systems and over 1,000 fixed methane sensors for methane detection at our highest exposure facilities.