Letter to StakeholdersOur approach to sustainable development integrates prin.ciples, commitments, positions, action plans, performance indicators, engagement, results and reporting.We recognize that long-term success in our industry demands strong health, safety, environmental and social performance. We take pride in our accomplishments, but never stop looking for ways to improve. The energy landscape has changed dramatically in just a short period of time. It is difficult to know with any certainty what prices will be in the future. So we are focused on the things we can control while positioning our company for sustained success, even in a lower price world. We have built our company upon a foundation of accountability and performance. We set commitments and deliver on them.Our efforts are anchored by action plans for:• Biodiversity• Water • Climate change• Stakeholder engagement• Human rightsOur plans include objectives related to understanding our footprint, managing projects and operations, addressing risk and opportunity, and engaging externally. And our report includes details about our objectives, commitments and performance against these plans. Externally, we are recog.nized for the completeness of our approach and progress on these priorities. For the eighth year in a row, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America recognized us for our sustainability efforts.In the water-scarce region of the Red Hills in New Mexico our scientists and engineers designed a water management solution that used more than 300,000 barrels of non-fresh or recycled produced water to complete wells in 2014. In addi.tion to saving fresh water, using 100% recycled produced water also minimized truck traffic in the region. We continue to work to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emis.sions in our operations and to integrate climate change-
related activities and goals into our business planning. Since 2009 we have reduced or avoided GHG emissions by 3 to 4% year-on-year while growing our business. In order to increase our focus on emission reductions, we have set an overall company GHG emission reduction target of 3 to 5% against our business-as-usual forecast for 2015.We have refocused our charitable investments primarily on two signature programs—one focused on global water and biodiversity stewardship and another that is focused on mathematics education for middle and high school students.Our commitment to sustainable development provides the foundation for our actions, which concentrate on conduct.ing business to promote economic growth, a healthy envi.ronment and vibrant communities, now and into the future.Sincerely, Ryan M. LanceChairman and Chief Executive OfficerScopeOur report describes how we do business, shares our sustainable development approach and action plans, and details our successes and challenges globally and by topic, with asset and community examples. Our reporting is informed by external reporting standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative and IPIECA standards, an internal sys.tems-based approach, and insights from key stakeholders as to “materiality” and significance from their perspective. Tables that cross-reference our content to GRI and IPIECA are included. Our business units also engage with stakeholders about sus.tainability performance and provide formal reports associ.ated with local regulatory processes. Several business units, including Alaska, Australia, and Canada have published local sustainable development reports. We have received external recognition of our performance and reporting on sustainability. We have been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, which lists North America’s leading, sustainability-driven companies annually since 2007. We have also achieved strong ratings from CDP, as more fully described in the Climate Change section of our report. For more information about our performance or reporting, contact SDteam@conocophillips.comReporting StatementsSafe Harbor StatementCAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVI.SIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created thereby. You can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements relating to ConocoPhillips’ operations are based on management’s expectations, estimates and projections about ConocoPhillips and the petroleum industry in general on the date the presentations are given. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Further, certain forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. There.fore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in such forward-looking statements.Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially include, but are not limited to, potential failures or delays in achieving expected reserve or production levels from existing and future oil and gas developments due to operating hazards, drilling risks and the inherent uncertainties in predicting reserves and reservoir performance; unsuccessful exploratory drilling activities or the inability to obtain access to exploratory acreage; unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating explo.ration and production facilities; lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids, bitumen and LNG; inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for drilling and/or development, construction of LNG terminals or regasification facilities; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance; failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future exploration and production and LNG development; potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, extraordinary weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks; international monetary conditions and exchange controls; substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations; liability for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations, under environmental regulations; liability resulting from litigation; general domestic and international economic and political developments, including armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG or natural gas liquids pricing, regulation or taxation; other political, economic or diplomatic developments; and international monetary fluctuations; changes in tax and other laws, regula.tions (including alternative energy mandates), or royalty rules applicable to our business; limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets; delays in, or our inability to implement, our asset disposition plan; inability to obtain economical financing for development, construction or modification of facilities and general corporate purposes; and the operation and financing of our joint ventures.Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include other economic, busi.ness, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting ConocoPhillips’ business generally as set forth in ConocoPhillips’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). ConocoPhillips is under no obligation (and expressly disclaims any such obligation) to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Transparency and CollaborationWe believe it is our responsibility to seek to understand and be understood by our stakeholders – a diverse group of individuals and organizations who can impact or be impacted by our business. We work to accomplish this by maintaining open communication through both formal and informal engagement processes, and providing accessibility to information concerning our business practices. Our prin.ciples of stakeholder engagement inform our approach.As we develop plans and report results, we consider stake.holder feedback, questions, and insight in a variety of ways. Stakeholders shown in this diagram all play a role in inform.ing our approach, priorities, plans, actions and reporting. We listen and learn through individual and group engagement, receive questions from our website and other sources, and analyze our performance based on external ratings and best practices from our industry and other industries. We use this process to assess stakeholders’ perspectives of the priority and “materiality” of issues and information to include in the report. Internal training and awareness is built through active engagement with Networks of Excellence, Issue Working Groups, Discussion Forums and Leadership Teams, as described under Sustainable Development Governance. These governance and best practice structures reach more than 900 leaders and practitioners.External organizations are important for best practice sharing and learning as well. Our approach leads to enhanced issue understanding through work with industry associations and stakeholder forums and dialogue with socially responsible investors. Some of the key organizations that we collaborate with to advance our sustainable devel.opment work are included in this diagram with links to the relevant part of their websites. About Our ReportOur Sustainability ApproachLiving by Our PrinciplesWe are accountable for our actions and monitor per.formance so we can adjust as needed for continuous improvement.Our CommitmentsOur sustainable development approach integrates princi.ples, commitments, positions, action plans, performance indicators, engagement results and reporting. We seek continuous improvement and skills development in each of these management system elements and report our results. In support of ongoing dialogue with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, we developed 10 energy principles to guide development of positions on specific public policy issues including environmental issues such as climate change. And our Global Onshore Well Management Principles guide how we protect and respect people and the environment. We take these principles seriously, and we welcome your comments on them.  Vision & ValuesWe commit to exemplify our SPIRIT Values - Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork. PoliciesCode of Business Ethics & Conduct (View Here) Health, Safety and Environment Policy (View Here) Political Support Policy and ProceduresCustomers, community groups, political organizations and others regularly approach us to support civic and political activities. Management and the ConocoPhillips Board of Directors encourage involvement in activities that advance the company’s goals and improve the communities where we work and live. OverviewA number of local, state and federal laws exist that govern corporate involvement in activities of a political or public policy nature. These statutes contain numerous prohibitions and detailed reporting and record-keeping requirements. They also contain enforcement provisions that carry civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. Employees may be asked to participate in activities that fall under the jurisdic.tion of one or more of these statutes. The policies and guidelines below have been approved by the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors and are intended to help ensure corporate compliance with these laws and regulations. With respect to political contributions, all such contributions will promote only the interests of ConocoPhillips, and not the personal political preferences of its company officers and executives. These policies and guidelines deal primarily with U.S. domestic political activity, and are not intended to cover the many global political, legal and business issues that apply to U.S. corporations and their international affiliates. Other countries’ rules and U.S. rules, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, are covered under other policies. Additionally, the policies and guidelines below only apply to situations where employees are asked to act on behalf of Conoco.Phillips and do not apply to personal activities employees choose to fund or pursue at their own cost and on their own time. In addition to undergoing a voluntary, internal assurance audit of its corporate political expenditures each year, 
ConocoPhillips assesses its political policies on a regular basis and in light of changes in federal, state and local lob.bying and campaign finance laws and regulations. For the period May 1, 2012– December 31, 2014, we adhered to our own code for corporate political spending. Gifts to Elected Officials, Regulators and Government EmployeesFederal law prohibits registered federal lobbyists and those entities that employ federal lobbyists (such as ConocoPhillips) from providing gifts or anything of value to Members of Congress or Congressional staffers. This includes appreciation gifts, items for display in his or her office, as well as tickets to sporting or other events. Of particular note, it also includes meals and lodging. While the rules provide for selected exceptions, great care is required to ensure compliance. Separate and similarly strict gift rules apply to the Executive Branch of the federal government. Additionally, states and localities have various types of gift rules, with some states such as California having very strict gift prohibitions and reporting requirements. Any gift to an elected official or government employee made on behalf of ConocoPhillips must comply with the applicable gift ban rules and receive prior approval from Government Affairs. Lobbying & Grassroots Activities – Government ContactsFederal, state and local statutes govern corporate lobbying activities. These statutes require activities and expenses associated with working legislative and regulatory issues be reported regularly and in prescribed ways. Contacts with officials and other efforts to influence government action, including permitting or licensing of company operations, may constitute lobbying activities under various state and local laws. While the Federal Lobbying Disclosure Act exempts infre.quent contacts with federal lawmakers, advance consul.tation with Government Affairs is essential to confirm the ground rules for these discussions and proper reporting. Consultation with Government Affairs is also required for contacts with state and local policymakers. This is especially important given the wide variation in rules from state to state and locality to locality. Additionally, ConocoPhillips employees should refrain from the following activities at the state or federal level without prior internal consultation and approval. • Testifying before a legislative or regulatory body. • Agreeing to share in the costs of retaining a firm or individ.ual to work a regulatory or a legislative issue. • Agreeing to join an association or coalition whose purpose is to influence a regulatory or legislative issue. • Lending ConocoPhillips’ name to any effort to endorse or oppose a pending legislative or regulatory issue. Grassroots ActivitiesGrassroots activities are designed to supplement lobby.ing efforts, influencing officials to take favorable action on legislation important to the company. When appropriate, we will initiate calls to action targeted to our employees, which typically include the development and distribution of information and mobilization to contact policymakers or elected officials. In the same way, ConocoPhillips may expand grassroots activity and/or calls to action to include the general public, as deemed necessary on a case-by-case basis. All grassroots activities are based on collaboration between appropriate Government Affairs and business unit personnel. Lobbying-related Activities – Trade Association MembershipWe actively engage with trade associations at the national, state and local levels and encourage our employees to rep.resent the interests of the company and the communities in which we operate through participation in committees and/or leadership roles in these associations. While not the primary motivation for joining or maintaining membership in any trade association, many such organizations actively engage in lobbying. Employees who serve on trade associ.ation committees that are advocating legislation or regu.lation must work closely with Government Affairs, affected business units and Legal to develop appropriate positions and ensure compliance with any possible lobbying disclo.sure requirements. With respect to trade association contributions, our primary purpose in joining groups such as the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the American Petroleum Institute is not for political purposes, nor does the Company agree with all positions taken by trade and industry associations on issues. In fact, we publicly acknowledge that we do take contrary positions from time to time. The greater benefits we receive from trade and industry association memberships are the general business, technical and industry standard-setting expertise that these organizations provide. Through participation in trade associ.ations involved in lobbying, we seek to champion legislative solutions that are practical, economical, environmentally responsible, non-partisan and in the best interests of the company. We also annually report on trade association memberships with dues in excess of $50,000. Independent ExpendituresFor ConocoPhillips purposes, independent expenditures are defined as those funds given or expended to directly support or defeat a candidate, without collaboration of the candidate. Our policy is not to make independent expenditures. However, if a compelling business purpose exists, an exception to this policy may be granted with the consent of Government Affairs, business unit personnel and Legal. Approval of the Public Policy Committee is also required. For the period May 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2014, no contributions to independent expenditures were made by ConocoPhillips. Certain trade associations incur independent expenditures and we have engaged in discussions with certain stakehold.ers who have expressed concern about this trade associa.tion practice. As with prior reporting periods, ConocoPhillips continued to stipulate that none of our national trade association dues be applied to independent expenditures focused on the election or defeat of any federal candidates for the period May 1, 2012 – Dec. 31, 2014. Issue AdvocacyFor our business purposes, issue advocacy is the support of a pro-energy and/or pro-business position regarding a ballot initiative to be voted on by the people. Issue advo.cacy may also include support of an initiative that would defeat anti-energy and/or anti-business measures. Actions typically include development and distribution/broad.casting of information either jointly or solely, and may include signature gathering on initiative petitions which the company has expressly supported. We will be active in such issues, provided there is a compelling business rationale; an agreement to participate among the affected business units and Government Affairs personnel and management; and where there is distribution/broadcasting of information, sig.nificant ConocoPhillips and/or energy industry involvement, input and approval of the message development and the tactics taken in the initiative process. Political Contributions Federal Political Campaign ContributionsFederal laws strictly forbid the giving or use of corporate funds for candidates campaigning for federal office, such as Congress. These laws apply to actual candidate campaigns and to solicitations from third parties, such as external political action committees, whose purpose is to help elect federal candidates. ConocoPhillips is authorized under law to establish an employee political action committee (PAC) and fund its cost of administration. Consistent with approval of the Public Policy Committee, Spirit PAC has been formed to facilitate contribution of employee funds to federal candidates as well as state and local candidates. See list of contributions made by Spirit PAC from July 1, 2013 – Dec. 31, 2014. This information is provided as an 18-month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. The Spirit PAC Board of Directors has established in its operating guidelines the following nonexclusive criteria for selecting candidates to support: • The integrity and character of the candidate; • The candidate’s holding of a leadership or policy position in his party or on a standing legislative committee, or the likelihood of the candidate’s attaining such position in the future; • The candidate’s position and/or voting record on issues affecting the relationship of business and government and on economic and social questions of importance; • The candidate’s relationship with or representation of an operating facility or company operations; • The nature and strength of the candidate’s opposition in primary or general elections; or • Other sources of financial assistance available to the candidate. In addition, the Spirit PAC Board of Directors primarily con.centrates on contributions that go direct to candidates for office, generally avoiding: • Independent expenditures in support of or opposition to a candidate; • Out-of-election-cycle contributions; • Contributions to presidential campaigns; • Contributions to leadership PACs; • Contributions to political parties; and • Large contributions to trade association PACs. State & Local Political Campaign ContributionsIndividual state and local laws govern contributions to candidates running for election to state and local offices. The Public Policy Committee has authorized a strict process for the justification, approval and reporting of any corporate political contributions made in states that permit corporate contributions. The Public Policy Committee also sets a bi-
annual budget for such corporate contributions in the U.S. and Canada. The guidelines for determining whether a corporate polit.ical contribution should be made to a candidate are the same as the political action committee guidelines above, including those contributions to be avoided. The responsibility to approve and administer contribu.tion requests has been delegated to the corporate officer responsible for government affairs or his or her designee. Accordingly, the Vice President, Federal & State Government Affairs, and Legal must approve all requests for U.S. state and local contributions. The Vice President of ConocoPhillips Canada responsible for Government Affairs and Legal must approve all Canadian requests. Information on corporate political contributions is provided as an 18-month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. The Spirit PAC Board of Directors may elect to make state and local contributions in states where corporate contribu.tions are not allowed subject to applicable laws and PAC operating guidelines. Contributions to Other Political Action CommitteesMany industry and special interest groups have created their own political action committees to elect candidates to office. State and national petroleum marketing associ.ations, for example, have created PACs and are soliciting members and suppliers. Corporate contributions to these external PACs are strictly prohibited under ConocoPhillips policy if the contributions are intended to be used to fund candidates or their election campaigns. This includes the expensing of any costs for events such as golf and fishing tournaments, hunts, dinners, silent auctions and other types of activities used by these PACs to raise funds. Corporate contributions to fund administrative costs of certain external PACs may be permitted if allowed under applicable law, if doing so advances company goals, and if approved by Government Affairs and Legal.Candidate Fundraising Events and Other Related RequestsCandidates and their supporters hold social activities as political fundraisers. Recognizing federal and many state laws impose restrictions, corporate funds for these activities require prior review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. We occasionally contribute to ballot initiatives, get out the vote activities and partisan organizations such as the Democratic and Republican governors associations. These, too, require review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. This information is provided as an 18-month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. Contributions to Political PartiesContributions to national parties by a corporation are illegal. Any such requests should be forwarded to Government Affairs given the potential for changes in the law and the need to monitor such requests. Contributions to state parties remain legal, but subject to varying limitations and reporting requirements depending on the state. All requests require Government Affairs and Legal review and approval. Party ConventionsConocoPhillips may elect to participate in state or federal political party conventions. Although corporate contribu.tions to political parties at the national level are prohibited by law, corporations may make contributions to the pres.idential conventions held by the parties through the host committees. Any such contribution requires the review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. Global Substance Abuse Policy (View Here)PositionsSustainable Development PositionSustainable Development is about conducting our business to promote economic growth, a healthy environment and vibrant communities, now and into the future. We believe that this approach will enable us to deliver long-term value and satisfaction to our shareholders and our stakeholders. Sustainable Development is fully aligned with our vision, to be the E&P company of choice for all stakeholders by pio.neering a new standard of excellence, and our SPIRIT Values.Our FocusTo deliver on our commitments, we will prioritize issues, establish plans for action with clear goals and monitor our performance. In addition, we will develop the following company-wide competencies to successfully promote sus.tainable development: • Integration – Clearly and completely integrate economic, social and environmental considerations into strategic planning, decision-making and operating processes. • Stakeholder Engagement – Engage our stakeholders to understand their diverse and evolving expectations and incorporate that understanding into our strategies. • Life Cycle Management – Manage the full life-cycle impacts of our operations, assets, and products. • Knowledge Management – Share our successes and fail.ures to learn from our experiences. • Innovation – Create a culture that brings new, innova.tive thinking to the challenges of our evolving business environment. Our Expectations Through delivering on our commitments to sustainable development, we will be the best company to have as a supplier, investment, employer, partner and neighbor. Biodiversity PositionWe will implement mitigation planning processes aimed at reducing the effects of our activities on the environment and conserving biodiversity. We will address biodiversity conservation as part of investment appraisal, and during the planning and development of major capital projects, by conducting environmental impact analyses, collecting key environmental data and implementing mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and assure results. Our FocusWe are continuously building our knowledge about the ecosystems in which we work and have completed an internal study to benchmark our performance compared to other extractive-industry companies. To increase internal awareness about biodiversity, a knowledge-sharing intranet site is actively used to foster employee collaboration within ConocoPhillips in the areas of biodiversity and ecosystems. We have conducted industry benchmarking to explore better ways to collect and manage our biodiversity data. We are using a range of technologies, from improved animal tagging to streamlined databases. Employees are encour.aged to ask questions about challenges they encounter in this area, and to share project ideas for technology develop.ment in the area of ecosystems and land use. Our biodiversity focus will include the following elements: • Integration of biodiversity conservation principles in our business management systems, considering all stages of the asset life cycle.• Development of Biodiversity Action Plans for projects located in areas of high conservation value. • Use of widely available and effective planning tools such as those developed by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Energy and Biodiversity Initiative, and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) to facilitate biodiversity conservation. • Adoption of a landscape-scale perspective which pro.motes habitat integrity and connectivity over a broader area than just our facility sites as important issues in land use decision-making. • Consideration of targeted opportunities for habitat improvement, including projects for rehabilitation. The use of biodiversity offsets will be considered when appropriate. • Collaboration with key stakeholders to increase capacity for biodiversity protection, internally and in related institu.tions and communities. • Linkage of biodiversity protection with GHG emissions reductions, where both goals can be met through inte.grated planning and action. Our ExpectationsWe follow widely accepted guidelines from the IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) in our approach to biodiversity conservation. As a member of the IPIECA biodiversity working group, we work to develop tools and materials to help companies across our industry enhance their biodiversity conservation activities. As a founding member of the OGP’s Sound and Marine Life program, we support continued research to increase scientific knowledge on the possible impact that sound produced by offshore exploration and production has on marine mammals, fish, turtles, seabirds, invertebrates and other marine life. In the fulfillment of our business strategy, we will serve as a positive example of how natural resource development can occur in harmony with society’s need to conserve biodiversity. Climate Change PositionWe recognize that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate. Our FocusWhile uncertainties remain, we continue to manage GHG emissions in our operations and integrate climate change related activities and goals into our business planning. Our corporate action plan focuses on the following areas: • Understanding our GHG footprint • Reducing our GHG emissions • Evaluating climate change related risks • Leveraging technology innovation to explore new busi.ness opportunities • Engaging externally in support of practical, sustainable climate change solutions • Reviewing progress and updating business unit climate change management plans Our approach to climate change is designed to advance the company’s vision to be the exploration and production company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence. Climate Change Public PolicyWe believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with the following principles: • Recognize that climate change is a global issue which requires global solutions – economy-wide governmen.tal GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors • Result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric con.centrations at safe levels • Coordinate with energy policy to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy • Utilize market-based mechanisms rather than technology mandates • Create a level, competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries • Avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs • Provide long-term certainty for investment decisions • Promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development • Match the pace at which new technology can be devel.oped and deployed • Encourage efficient use of energy • Foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate • Avoid undue harm to the economy. Building balanced energy policies is challenging, and we recognize that no one has all the answers. As economies around the world continue to develop, fossil fuels will play an important role in meeting the growing global demand for energy. Meeting the challenge of taking action on climate change while providing adequate, affordable supplies of reliable energy will require financial invest.ments, skilled people, technical innovation and responsible stewardship from policy makers, energy producers and consumers. We are committed to doing our part. Human Rights PositionGovernments have the primary responsibility for protecting human rights and we believe business has a constructive role to play to advance respect for human rights throughout the world as do non-government organizations (NGOs) and other representative groups in civil society. We recognize the dignity of all human beings and our core values embrace these inalienable rights for all people to live their lives free from social, political, or economic discrimina.tion or abuse. Our Focus & ExpectationsWe will conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the International Labour Organi.zation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our intent regarding human rights is also reflected in our Purpose and Values and in our business ethics policy and health, safety and environmental policy. These policies address how we conduct our business with respect for people and the environment, accountability and respon.sibility to communities, and ethical and trustworthy rela.tionships with our stakeholders. We will maintain ongoing discussion with government, NGO and other business stakeholders through our participation in the Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security. The company’s approach to engagement with indigenous communities, in locations where they are an important stakeholder group for our operations, is consistent with the principles of the International Labour Organization Convention 169, concern.ing Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Economic Transparency & Reporting PositionWe participate in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which seeks to ensure that natural resource wealth is an engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction. Our Focus & ExpectationsWe remain actively involved in the EITI process and imple.mentation in participating countries where we operate. Currently, three participating countries where we operate have achieved full EITI compliance – Timor-Leste, Nigeria and Norway. Of the countries that have committed to EITI principles, and therefore are considered candidates for EITI membership, we have resource interests in 2: Indonesia and Kazakhstan. Of the EITI compliant or committed countries, only our investments in Indonesia, Nigeria and Norway involve production. We currently cooperate with these gov.ernments in their EITI validation efforts. When we have assets in new countries, we will work to promote transparency and accountability with those governments. EITI requires the public reporting of payments to govern.ments. Such reporting requirements take into account host-country laws and the terms of contracts under which such revenues are accrued. HIV/AIDS PositionWe recognize that HIV/AIDS is a global pandemic result.ing in the death of over 3 million people every year, with potential to grow unless concerted action is taken to check the spread of the disease. There remains a significant stigma associated with this disease, which limits willingness of infected individuals to seek effective diagnosis, which frequently results in social and workplace discrimination. There are now treatments available which make HIV/AIDS a manageable chronic illness for those infected with this disease to live normal and productive lives. Yet economic and technical limitations in much of the developing world have created disparities between developed and develop.ing countries, in their ability to effectively manage spread of the disease and treatment of infected individuals. Our Focus & ExpectationsTo the extent that HIV/AIDS affects the health of our employees and their dependents and represents a signifi.cant public health risk where our employees live and work we will work to identify, use and otherwise support com.munity-based resources and programs that recognize and seek to mitigate the social stigma and adverse impact of HIV/AIDS, emphasize preventive education and provide early intervention and long-term treatment. Diversity & Inclusion PolicyWe strive to represent and reflect the global communities in which we live and work. To deliver superior performance, we create an environment of inclusion that respects the contributions and differences of every individual (employ.ees, contract workers, suppliers and business partners). Wherever possible, we use these differences to drive competitive business advantage, personal growth and, ultimately, create business success. Our FocusAs we pursue opportunities in a dynamic marketplace, we value motivated people who set the standard of excellence by: • Living our SPIRIT Values. • Demonstrating a proactive attitude and being culturally capable of doing business globally. • Using creativity and a variety of approaches to capture opportunities. • Inspiring and supporting others to reach new heights. Our ExpectationsOur pledge to diversity is a global commitment that reaches across the entire company. Our leadership team, manag.ers and supervisors are accountable for developing and progressing our global inclusion initiatives. Additionally, employees and contractors are responsible for playing a key role in ensuring that their personal behaviors create an inclusive work environment. As a company, we continue to measure our progress toward becoming representative and reflective of the communities in which we live and work. Renewable Energy PositionIn alignment with our mission to power civilization, and consistent with our positions on sustainable development and climate change, we are evaluating and supporting development of technologies for renewable energy. We are leveraging our expertise, intellectual property and physical assets in pursuit of economically viable, renewable energy business opportunities. Our Focus We continue to develop technology options with the potential to enable or complement renewable energy use. Investments in technology development will be disciplined and commensurate with the likely returns, market size, timing of development and technology risk inherent in renewable energy projects. Our criteria for business invest.ment include: • Business Leveraged. Renewable energy opportunities that complement our existing processes will be prioritized. • Competency and Asset Leveraged. We plan to focus our efforts on renewable technologies that directly leverage our experience in energy development and markets. • Ongoing Awareness. We plan to continue to evaluate renewable energy technologies to proactively identify new opportunities and to understand the economic drivers, strengths and weaknesses of the alternative technologies available. • Sustainable Solutions. We remain open to developing and using renewable energy as a component of our portfolio of energy offerings, as and when these technol.ogies can be deployed in a sustainable manner for our stakeholders. Our Expectations Our work will assist in the development of viable, sustain.able and environmentally responsible energy for existing and future customers. For more information, see Technol.ogy Ventures. Water Sustainability PositionAs a responsible global energy company committed to sustainable development, we recognize that fresh water is an essential natural resource for communities, businesses, and ecosystems. Global population growth will increase demand for fresh water and all users – domestic, agriculture, and industry – will need to effectively manage supplies to meet demands. Our Focus & ExpectationsWe produce and utilize water in our operations. And we are committed to the development of water management practices that conserve and protect fresh water resources and enhance the efficiency of water utilization at our facil.ities. We will assess, measure and monitor our fresh water usage, and based on these assessments we will manage our consumption and strive to reduce the potential impact to the environment from wastewater disposal. Our initial focus for implementation can be broken down into 4 broad categories: • Focusing on priority assets and developing evaluation and mitigation tools. • Sharing best-practice water management systems at a local level. • Developing and implementing technologies to reduce the environmental impact of our water footprint. • Delivering on sustainable development public commitment.Accountability and GovernanceEach of our various businesses are responsible for integrat.ing sustainability issues into day-to-day operations, project development and decision-making, and are held account.able through an annual performance management process. Members of senior management have final responsibility for: • Developing corporate strategy • Developing and reporting company performance • Assisting the businesses with implementation of sustainability Sustainable Development GovernanceSustainable Development Governance includes direction and oversight from the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). The Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors over.sees our positions on public policy issues, including climate change and on matters that may impact the company’s rep.utation as a responsible corporate citizen, including sustain.able development performance and reporting. The committee makes recommendations to the board, and monitors compliance with the company’s programs and practices regarding health, safety and environmental protection, including climate change, water and biodiversity management; business operations in sensitive countries; government relations and political contributions; human rights and social issues; corporate philanthropy; and cor.porate advertising. It also approves the budget for political and charitable contributions, and monitors compliance with these plans. The committee, currently comprised of three indepen.dent directors, convenes at least quarterly and is regularly updated on sustainable development issues. ELT Champions – Five executive leadership team members serve as champions for key aspects of our approach to sustainability. They provide direction advice, oversight and leadership for our progress. HSE and SD Leadership Teams – These teams involve key global leaders and provide consultation on the sustainable development focus areas and action plans. Sustainable Development Team – Within corporate planning, which includes long-range planning and strategy, the company’s Sustainable Development group mission is to provide regular reports to the businesses and executive leadership as to the company’s risks, opportunities, commit.ments and performance in sustainable development. Within this corporate team, directors are responsible for key topics in sustainability including: • Water• Climate Change• Biodiversity• Stakeholder Issues• Modeling and Life Cycle AnalysisOur governance and implementation success rely on active engagement by Issue Working Groups • Issue Discussion Forums • NoEs Performance and CompensationExecutive Compensation – Three of the four components of executive compensation are performance based: the Variable Cash Incentive Program (VCIP), the Stock Option Program and the Performance Share Program (PSP). Awards under these programs are determined by company per.formance measured against several criteria, including the development and implementation of strategic plans to enhance our operating and financial position. The strategic planning process includes consideration of climate change and sustainable development risks and opportunities. Employee Compensation – Incentivized performance indicators vary among different corporate, business and functional units, and include, but are not limited to: Health, Safety and Environmental Performance – We set very high operations excellence standards for protecting and respecting people and the environment. Therefore, we incorporate metrics of health, safety and environmental per.formance in our annual incentive compensation program. Employee Non-Monetary Rewards – The ConocoPhillips SPIRIT award is given to employees who have delivered out.standing work to advance our SPIRIT Values (Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation, Teamwork). Non-Employee Monetary Rewards – The St Andrews Prize for the Environment is an initiative by the University of St Andrews in Scotland and ConocoPhillips. The prize recog.nizes significant contributions to environmental conser.vation, and since its launch in 1998, has attracted entries from more than 50 countries each year on diverse topics including: • Sustainable development in Madagascar • Urban regeneration • Recycling, health and water issues • Renewable energySubmissions for the annual prize are assessed by a panel of eminent trustees representing science, industry and gov.ernment with the award going to the project the trustees consider displays the best combination of good science, economic realism and political acceptability. Integration of Sustainability into 
Business ProcessesSustainable development requirements are integrated into the key business planning processes for the company: • New Country Entry • Long Range Plan • Project Development Authorization • Management System and the Health Safety and Environ.ment Management System Additionally, corporate, business unit and functional SD action plans provide specific focus on climate change, water, biodiversity and stakeholder issues. This creates a complete system of continuous improvement (Plan, Do, Assess, Adjust) for new ventures, exploration, projects and assets at all life cycle stages.  We incorporate sustainability into our supply chain and engage with our suppliers on sustainable development and social responsibility. We also set expectations for suppliers. New Country EntryA new-venture project team must ensure that the identi.fied risks and constraints are understood, documented and addressed in order for the project to obtain approval. Before starting a venture in a new country, we take several steps to assess the potential sustainability and business risks. Once an opportunity is identified and a request for approval is drafted, a new-country entry risk report is prepared. A preliminary due-diligence assessment is conducted to identify significant risks, including social and environmental concerns, and define how they will be managed. The new country entry request is then reviewed by the business unit leadership and the CEO. In some cases, such as areas at high risk of political instability, consultation with the board of directors would take place. If we are entering into a joint venture, we use these assessments during negotia.tions with potential co-venturers to outline the risks iden.tified, clearly state our expectations on environmental and social-issue performance, and discuss how the venture will manage these concerns. The majority of ConocoPhillips’ oil and natural gas reserves and production are within Organization of Economic Coop.eration and Development (OECD) nations. Some of the world’s most resource-rich areas, however, are in countries that pose risks associated with political insta.bility, inadequate rule of law or corruption. Consequently, ConocoPhillips has adopted comprehensive enterprise risk management tools to evaluate and manage these types of risks. Before entering a new country – or for other new developments, when warranted by the geopolitical environ.ment – the company assesses the political risk of a potential investment. The company has developed internal guidelines to help employees comply with policies related to business activi.ties in sensitive countries, and applicable government regu.lations in areas subject to U.S. or international sanctions. We also perform due diligence on acquisitions or divest.ments of businesses or properties, new business ventures, incorporated and unincorporated joint-venture agreements, and initiations and terminations of property leases or subleases. This process is designed to ensure that past, present and potential HSE liabilities and any social issues are clearly identified, understood and documented, with our sustainable development positions addressed prior to major business transactions. This due-diligence standard applies to ConocoPhillips and its global subsidiaries, and we strive to influence all affiliated companies and joint ventures to conduct due diligence prior to undertaking binding busi.ness transactions. Following completion of the due-diligence assessment, a corporate HSE non-objection request that also addresses social issues is required for all major business transactions. The non-objection letter provides documentation that past, present and potential HSE liabilities have been adequately identified and assessed for the particular transaction, and that the liability risks are or can be satisfactorily mitigated. See Integrating Sustainability for more information.Sustainable Development Strategies and Action PlansOur world is challenged by complex environmental, social and economic issues and increasing stakeholder expecta.tions. We implemented a comprehensive company-wide action planning process designed to prompt appropriate action for adapting to a range of possible future scenarios as we work to: • Understand our footprint• Manage projects and operations• Evaluate risks and opportunities• Engage externally• Build capacityOur action plans address key aspects of issues, assign clear accountability, and drive goal setting and engagement. Our business units also create action plans to define spe.cific goals and targets to address priorities of the business, stakeholders and assets in that region. Each action plan includes specific detailed actions with clear accountabilities and timetables. We consider a range of insights on the external context when evaluating appropriate actions to take on key sus.tainability issues in our businesses and functions. As issues mature, the company develops strategies and specific action plans to address them. The planning process is designed to prompt appropriate action for adapting to a range of possible future scenarios. Work on an issue may begin with improving our under.standing of the issue, developing measurements of key data, or assessing risks and opportunities, for example. Our action plans address key aspects of issues, assign clear accountability, and drive goal setting and engagement.  Our forward-looking goals and commitments on key issues are contained in the action plans. Our action plan frame.work takes a complete management system approach to driving performance. Project DevelopmentProject guidelines and program approvals provide standard techniques to analyze and develop viable projects and com.municate value and risks effectively. They are intended to work in concert with specific functional and management processes to deliver projects that consistently outperform industry average. The Capital Project Management System applies to all Project Development and Procurement personnel through.out the phases of any project and is a foundational element of how we execute projects that are safe, transparent, pre.dictable and competitive. Within the Capital Project Management System there is a Sustainable Development Standard. The standard refers to the criteria for using the Sustainable Development Scorecard and risk assessments for climate change, water, and biodiversity, as well as the social performance plan requirement. Our teams use a simple but thorough method of assessing whether potential risks and uncertainties have been fully addressed and resolved via the Sustainable Development Scorecard. All project teams are encouraged to use the scorecard, and its use is mandatory for capital projects that require approval by our board of directors. Such projects are not funded until this evaluation has been completed.  A complete scorecard provides a visual summary and encourages project teams to take a life cycle perspective by considering issues that will become relevant during the operational and eventual decommissioning phases at project onset. Issues are discussed and logged into our risk tracking system for management throughout the project develop.ment process. The process also enables the project team to set objectives for sustainability in each phase of the project. Two additional important processes are associated with the scorecard: a social and environmental impact assessment, and a formal stakeholder engagement plan. These provide: •	Baseline understanding of the existing social dynamics and environmental considerations within a location prior to our involvement •	Help identifying important issues and potential effects that should be considered •	Opportunity for continued learning as the project progresses. Health, Safety, Environmental and Social IntegrationWe assess how our activities might impact communities and ecosystems, evaluating potential impact and how issues can be avoided or mitigated. We begin our investiga.tion with the host country’s legal requirements and sup.plement these as needed with our own HSE standards and sustainable development requirements. Please see the HSE/SD Tools for the Asset Life Cycle table on the top of page 21.HSE Management System The HSE management system helps ensure that business activities are conducted in a safe, healthy, and environmen.tally and socially responsible manner, aimed at preventing incidents, injuries, occupational illnesses, pollution and damage to assets. It enables people and communities to thrive, which helps keep our business healthy. We believe all incidents are preventable and that HSE con.siderations must be embedded into every task and business decision. HSE Management Systems are assessed annually using a common tool to guide continuous improvement and ultimately achieve the highest standards of excellence. Our environmental strategy framework (ESF) provides an implementation structure to help us continue to drive the company toward a culture of environmental excellence. It focuses on key environmental issues and governance mechanisms that are critical to maintaining high levels of environmental performance.Business unitsAll of our business units periodically review their manage.ment systems against corporate standards and are respon.sible for integrating sustainability issues into day-to-day operations, project development and decision-making. They analyze current status, identify areas for potential improvement, and then implement key activities to reduce risk and further enhance HSE performance. They are held accountable through an annual performance assessment. OperationsOnce a project is ready for operations, it is the asset manag.er’s responsibility to direct asset sustainable development performance in accordance with the HSE management system and other company sustainability programs. Audits carried out by corporate and business unit staff assures these expectations are met. Audit topics include: •	Health, Safety and Environment Policy•	Management System and Audits•	Safety & Health•	Performance DataLife Cycle Assessment (LCA) By assessing project emissions, natural resource usage, and social footprint, we can understand project, asset and product performance, their footprint relative to other oil and gas projects, and their impacts relative to competing energy sources through a Life Cycle Assessment. Training and Awareness Our approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools and we are committed to successfully incorporating sustainability in business decision making. We focus on integrating sustainable development commitments into business planning and processes to broaden awareness and skill development. We’ve adapted and applied train.ing materials developed by IPIECA and other best practice groups, and rolled out training to new hires, key functions and leaders. Additionally, we are active in IPIECA best prac.tice groups to develop training and guidance material. Click here to return to Table of ContentsGoals, Objectives, and Results for Each Action PlanClimate ChangeAction PlanUnderstanding FootprintManaging Operations and ProjectsManaging Risks and OpportunitiesEngaging ExternallyStakeholder IssuesAction PlanUnderstanding FootprintManaging Operations and ProjectsManaging Risks and OpportunitiesEngaging ExternallyWaterAction PlanUnderstanding FootprintManaging Operations and ProjectsManaging Risks and OpportunitiesEngaging ExternallyBiodiversityAction PlanUnderstanding FootprintManaging Operations and ProjectsManaging Risks and OpportunitiesEngaging ExternallyConocoPhillips Sustainability Scorecard1. Transparent and accountable
Stakeholder Engagement
Performance Metrics
Reporting Mechanisms2. Operate to highest safety standard
Safety Issue Identification
Safety Issue Mitigation3. Reduce environmental footprint
Impact Identification
Management Planning
Biodiversity Assessment
Water Assessment
Climate Change Assessment4. Benefit communities
Social Impacts
Community Benefits
Human Rights
Indigenous Communities5. Invest in Workforce
Labor Issue Identification/Mitigation
Workforce Development, Training and Well-being6. Energy and material efficiency
Energy Efficiency
Material Efficiency and Waste Mini.mization7. Work ethically
External Ethical Environment
Ethical Performance8. Ensure long-term financial viability
Energy Strategic Alignment
Potential Long-Term Risk
Life Cycle ManagementRisk/Uncertainty CategoryMediumLowHigh