SocialSocialWe are committed to respectfully engaging with local stakeholders – those who impact or may be impacted by our business – to understand their values and interests, reduce the impact of our operations and proposed projects, and contribute to economic opportunities. We seek early and frequent engagement with our stakeholders to build trust, garner respect and develop mutually beneficial relationships. Where there are opportunities to bring stakeholders together, we work with multi-stakeholder groups. For each project, we engage with our stakeholders to understand their values and interests, learn their expectations and incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions.In addition to people in the communities near our operations, we engage with government representatives, nongovernmental organizations, academic institutions, industry associations and the financial sector. We also participate in multi-stakeholder forums to gain diverse and valuable perspectives as we continuously work to improve our sustainable development programs and initiatives. Learn more about our broad range of stakeholders.A ConocoPhillips Stakeholder Relations team member talks with landowners in the Eagle Ford.2021 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS›	Contributed $52.9 million in global social investments.›	Developed and began implementation for a Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan to continue to strengthen relationships with Indigenous Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples in Australia.›	Solidify relationships with Indigenous Peoples in Canada through Values and Interest Assessment (VIA) Process.SocialCreating Shared ValueCreating Shared ValueWe address the social or community aspects related to our operations and projects at the business unit (BU) level.Governance and StrategyWe have a comprehensive governance framework that extends from the Board of Directors, through executive and senior management to the working levels in each BU. 
Read more about our sustainable development governance structure on our website.Risk Assessment Social risks at the community level could result from potential project, operational and cumulative impacts to community safety, human rights, infrastructure, services, land use, environmental quality (air and water quality), cultural heritage, managing expectations for local business opportunities and employment. Risks could impact our business through project delays, business interruption, policy or regulatory costs, reputational damage, increased cost of capital or reduced demand for our products. Social risks for our asset portfolio are related to: .	Community opposition based on negative social and/or environmental impacts, including cumulative impacts. .	Community expectations of economic benefits, such as local hiring and local content. .	Public policy that restricts access to, or development of, natural gas and oil resources. .	Investor and financial sector expectations about environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and reporting. .	Negative public sentiment. By understanding the social, economic, political and environmental factors affecting stakeholders, we can identify and monitor emerging social trends, better manage social impacts and reputational risks associated with our operations and contribute to social value. Our stakeholder identification process is a key component of social risk assessment. Each business unit is responsible for identifying stakeholders to understand their perspectives and concerns. The relationships of stakeholders and their priorities are considered to identify any potential points of collaboration or conflict. We then develop an engagement plan to address concerns and maintain our focus on developing mutually beneficial relationships. By having open dialogue, we identify and address the potential impacts associated with our operations. This is done through our integrated sustainable development (SD) risk management process where existing and planned exploration and production and major projects are examined against the physical, social and political settings of our operations. Social assessments consider: .	Impacts to community, including human rights, 
rights of Indigenous Peoples, labor rights, security, public health, political and economic issues. .	Stakeholder priorities. .	Stakeholder opposition to company activities. .	Risks and impacts related to supplier and contractor activities. .	Cumulative effects of company and/or industry activities. Each business unit manages its own social risks, priorities and regulatory requirements, enabling tailored, region-specific business goals to address unique challenges and opportunities. To support our business units in operationalizing our Stakeholder Engagement Principles, we provide Social Performance Guidance with recommended internal processes and external engagement to understand and address stakeholder priorities.Risk and Mitigation Actions Social risks rated significant or high are included in the corporate SD Risk Register. The 2021 Risk Register includes two social categories: infrastructure and local intervention. Mitigation actions and milestones address the potential impacts and risks to stakeholders. Risks that are no longer ranked significant or high due to the effectiveness of mitigation actions continue to be tracked, as are risks that have been identified as low or medium to ensure those risks do not increase. We strive to make a significant difference in the communities where we live and operate.Creating Shared ValueConocoPhillips employees volunteer at Kids’ Meals in Houston.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PRINCIPLES SOCIAL PERFORMANCE GUIDANCE •	Proactively identify and seek out stakeholders.•	Include stakeholders in the design and implementation of the engagement process.•	Listen to understand stakeholders’ interests, concerns and culture.•	Communicate openly.•	Seek solutions that create mutually beneficial relationships and build long-term value for both the company and our stakeholders.•	Follow through on our commitments and stand accountable for the results, both internally and externally. •	Community Engagement: Identifying our stakeholders and how they may impact or be impacted by company activities.•	Human Rights: Assessing potential risks to stakeholders’ human rights, incorporating risks into planning and providing a grievance mechanism to remedy realized impacts.•	Indigenous Peoples: Consulting with Indigenous stakeholders to understand their culture, identify their priorities and work together to address them.•	Security and Human Rights: Implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.•	Community and Social Investment: Aligning investments with community needs and company strategy. PRIORITY RISKS 2021 MITIGATION ACTIONS Delayed or restricted access to pipeline infrastructure results in constrained market access and/or production limits. •	Continue to educate, build awareness and explore solutions to market access challenges with senior political and government officials as well as industry partners.•	Continue to collaborate with internal subject matter experts to identify and address emerging issues related to market access and develop appropriate government and stakeholder engagement advocacy and engagement plans. Project delays, business interruptions and damage to reputation due to local actions regarding economic benefits or environmental effects, including cumulative impacts.  •	Conduct stakeholder forums to solicit stakeholder feedback.•	Incorporate stakeholder feedback into project designs and operations plans.•	Negotiate community management plan with local stakeholders and regulators.•	Identify additional opportunities to bring benefits to the community from company operations. Working with CommunitiesBy taking a personal approach with communities, we are able to build strong relationships and an environment of transparency, courtesy and trust. This allows us to better manage potential risks and impacts to local stakeholders and our business while supporting mutually beneficial relationships and creating long term value.In 2021, we continued with our Social and Stakeholder Engagement Issues Working Group (IWG) quarterly calls. The IWG seeks to provide a platform for knowledge sharing on best practices, as well as to track emerging topics and monitor the progress of the different business units regarding their engagement with communities and other key stakeholders.We identified Just Transition as an emerging issue becoming increasingly important to stakeholders. The Paris Agreement notes the imperatives of a Just Transition of the workforce and the creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined development priorities. To better understand the implications in the context of our path to net-zero, we created a multidisciplinary task force.Listening and Integrating Stakeholder Input into Business DecisionsAs we gain further understanding about stakeholders’ values, priorities and concerns, we seek to integrate their input into our plans and operations. Through inclusive and transparent engagement, we work with stakeholders to find mutually beneficial solutions that address the impacts of our operations on their communities.ALASKAIn Alaska, we have frequent engagements with communities located closest to our operations from community meetings, open houses, and reports to state and local organizations. For our proposed Willow project in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A), there has been extensive public involvement including more than 40 days of public comment and 13 in-person public meetings in Anchorage, Fairbanks, Nuiqsut, Utqiagvik, Atqasuk, and Anaktuvuk Pass since the Environmental Impact Statement process commenced in 2018.In response to comments and feedback collected from our stakeholders about our proposed Willow project, a proposed offshore gravel island was eliminated, and a land-based ice road module transportation route was adopted. Speed limits and road width have been reduced to minimize potential caribou impacts. An important focus of our engagement was facilitating and improving subsistence access including: .	Full access to all new Willow roads for nearby residents. .	Proposed new boat ramps to improve subsistence access to key rivers. .	Proposed subsistence road ramps and pullouts every 2-3 miles to improve hunter access from new roads. For the past decade, we’ve met regularly with subsistence representatives from areas near our operations to discuss planned helicopter and small aircraft operations as well as locations of hunting and gathering activities to ensure our operations don’t interfere with the subsistence lifestyle of our neighbors. Those virtual discussions led us to postpone all flights for a week during caribou migration at the request of Nuiqsut Village representatives. Read more about how we manage helicopter traffic near our operations on our website. We also have robust environmental study programs at existing operations that include: .	Air quality monitoring stations. .	Caribou, bird and fish surveys; hydrology studies. .	Lake water quality and recharge monitoring. .	Subsistence hunting studies. .	Tundra rehabilitation. Extensive environmental baseline studies are conducted in all potential areas of new operations. New projects are subject to rigorous permitting and public review processes. AUSTRALIAWe worked with Reconciliation Australia to develop a Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). Based around the core pillars of relationships, respect and opportunities, our RAP provides tangible actions and meaningful steps to advance reconciliation in Australia with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, increasing economic equity and supporting First Nations self-determination. Our RAP guides us to strategically set reconciliation commitments in line with our business objectives and was formally endorsed by Reconciliation Australia in late 2021. CANADAIn Canada, Indigenous Peoples (who consist of First Nations, Métis and Inuit) have legally protected rights within their traditional territories. Due to the close proximity of Indigenous communities to our Canadian operations, we have developed a values and interest assessment (VIA) process to guide our relationships with those communities to create positive, sustainable outcomes. The VIA process starts with our External Relations team building relationships through authentic, collaborative dialogue with members of the community. Next, we work with the community to create a shared vision and to discuss ways we can work together. The third stage centers around planning and focuses on collaboratively prioritizing ideas and creating structures and processes for working together. The ideas are turned into a shared action plan to be implemented and assessed. The VIA process can result in formal agreements with interested Indigenous communities in close proximity to large developments. Such agreements formalize the respectful relationship between our company and the community by focusing on creating shared value and addressing the specific promises, obligations and benefits for both parties, and, like many agreements, is confidential. Agreements typically include a process to understand and address concerns and opportunities about our activities as well as language committing both parties to work toward mutually beneficial relationships. In Northeast British Columbia, we continue to work with local communities as we develop our Montney project. We have a “life of project” Relationship Agreement with the Halfway River First Nation (HRFN) that supports collaborative processes around community engagement and contracting. HRFN and ConocoPhillips worked together in 2021 to broaden our existing pre-engagement approach. This included planning, review and discussion of surface pad site area (SPA) options to be used during the 3-to-4-year development of the project. A review of possible options within the Montney acreage was overlaid with HRFN’s Land Information System, improving awareness for both parties. This exercise provided an opportunity to build HRFN knowledge and values into the overall development plan, both in the short and long term. As the process funneled toward project-specific sites, pre-engagement continued to be key, including joint field review and discussion. We strive to follow a similar process with other key Indigenous stakeholders. Building and Strengthening Local Economies and CommunitiesHelping improve the quality of life in the communities where we live and work is a fundamental value for ConocoPhillips and our employees. We prioritize working with stakeholders to identify and support programs, and identify opportunities to publicly leverage our role as a corporate citizen that will make a real difference in communities.ALASKAFifty percent of federal revenue from NPR-A is available to communities impacted by oil and gas development through a mitigation grant program. As a community impacted by development in the area, Nuiqsut is eligible to receive funding for community projects from this program. We have partnered with the City of Nuiqsut, the Native Village of Nuiqsut and the Kuukpik Corporation to create the Nuiqsut Community Development Foundation, a nonprofit focused on building capacity in the community to access grants by providing services for project planning, grant writing and administration and project execution. As a result of this increased capacity, the city has received a significant increase in grants for projects and operations in the village during the past few years. AUSTRALIA Since 2011, we have financially supported a range of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander-oriented community investment initiatives. Program support is weighted towards education and training programs, many of which are tailored to specific local area requirements. For the Indigenous Pathways Traineeship Program, we collaborated to create job opportunities in the natural gas industry for Gladstone locals identifying as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. The program has run annually since early 2020 and provides two Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander trainees the opportunity to develop practical skills, through learning hands-on from experienced LNG professionals and in a classroom environment. The training counts towards a Certificate II in Engineering Production upon completion.CANADAFor more than two decades, we have worked with Indigenous-owned businesses near our oil sands operation to develop local capacity. The Surmont project is in proximity to three First Nations communities and four Métis organizations with whom ConocoPhillips regularly engages for business opportunities, a priority expressed by community leadership. The Cooperation and Mutual Benefits Agreement (CMBA) with Fort McMurray First Nation (FMFN) directs FMFN and ConocoPhillips to identify mutual areas of interest and benefit, and build trust, respect, and a formal commitment to a stronger relationship. Regarding business interests, the two parties meet regularly to discuss: .	Local contracting capacity, capabilities and opportunities. .	Shared goals for local business benefits. .	Opportunities to support FMFN community values and vision. At our Montney development, we launched an effort to promote the inclusion of Indigenous vendors at all stages of the supply chain to support a healthy contracting relationship with Indigenous communities near our operations. We established business working groups with both HRFN and Blueberry River First Nation and continue to discuss shared goals and values, share contracting outlooks, and provide feedback on existing contractors and/or bid processes to support Indigenous vendors in building their capacity and developing their businesses. These efforts have increased economic participation in ConocoPhillips activities by Indigenous vendors. INDONESIAIn the first quarter of 2022, the company completed the sale of assets in Indonesia. During our period of operation in Indonesia, we worked with stakeholders to support economic development through capacity-building and contracting opportunities for local businesses.We helped establish a Rubber Farmers Group in 2002 in collaboration with the local rubber research institution, Sembawa, to improve the quality and quantity of latex production as well as the marketing capabilities of farmers. Approximately 1,200 restored acres of a rubber plantation have been managed by more than 700 farmers and two local latex marketing groups from the villages near our former operations in the Musi Banyuasin Regency of Indonesia’s South Sumatra province. To help expand their businesses, each group received items including latex processing machinery and rubber band production equipment. They also participated in sales, marketing and basic accounting training to promote self-sufficiency after ConocoPhillips’ 2022 divestment. Additionally, our economic empowerment efforts in Indonesia continued to facilitate small business development training and capital support for 150 local entrepreneurs that helped them sustain their businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic.Since 2002, we had sponsored a scholarship program that provided financial assistance to local university students and elementary and high school teachers to obtain undergraduate degrees. More than 6,150 students from villages near our operations in the Musi Banyuasin regency have received support. The program has also helped recipients develop their social and entrepreneurial skills, which they can then apply to helping other members of their communities. MALAYSIAOur ongoing partnership with MyKasih, through the ‘Love My School’ program, supports children from underprivileged and low-income households. The program aims to help students from disadvantaged families by providing schoolbooks and stationery from the school bookstore, as well as food and drinks from the school canteen. Around 330 underprivileged students from six primary schools in Sabah and Sarawak are provided this assistance via a student smartcard annually. We have also awarded scholarships to Geology students from University Malaya (UM) and Petroleum Engineering students from University Technology Malaysia (UTM) since 2006. U.S. LOWER 48. Supporting youth and workforce development in local communities is a priority for ConocoPhillips. In 2021, we established the ConocoPhillips Career Technical Education Scholarship Program, providing $135,000 in scholarships for 40 students pursuing select associate degrees in Texas, New Mexico and North Dakota. In Texas’s Eagle Ford, ConocoPhillips also awarded ConocoPhillips Legacy Scholarships to seven Karnes County high school seniors, totaling $35,000. To date, ConocoPhillips has awarded $260,000 to students in the Eagle Ford. .. ConocoPhillips also donated $100,000 to support the Bakken Area Skills Center in McKenzie County, ND. Through collaborative partnerships with secondary education and post-secondary education/training and local employers, the center will provide career and technical education and training to high school students and incumbent workers throughout the Bakken region.We are a member of the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), a coalition of 16 energy companies working to address current and future challenges associated with oil and gas development. In 2021, we also partnered with Permian Basin Regional Planning Commission (PBRPC) and other local charities to support local health, safety and education initiatives.Health initiatives: .	Launched the Texas Tech Family Residency Initiative expanding Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Family Medicine & Mental Health Fellowship Residency to address the shortage of health care workers in the Permian Basin. Collaborated with West Texas Counseling & Guidance to expand mental health services in the Permian Basin, specifically Lea and Eddy counties, New Mexico. .	Donated masks, gloves and other personal protective equipment to Manor Park, a continuing care retirement community in Midland, to help protect residents during the COVID-19 pandemic. .	Launched the Texas Tech Physician Assistant Program Initiative to expand Midland teaching and lab facilities, increase student capacity, rotate students among rural Permian hospitals and encourage medical careers. Safety initiatives: .	Partnered with the Permian Basin Regional Planning Commission (PBRPC) to improve road safety and reduce the number of traffic-related injuries and deaths in the Permian Basin by funding a 10-year cell tower lease agreement project in Orla, Texas. ConocoPhillips provided $123,000 for constructing the tower, which will support the PBRPC’s 9-1-1 Emergency Department and bring radio operability to first responders in the rural Delaware Basin. .	Partnered with the Permian Road Safety Coalition (PRSC) to provide emergency first responders in 22 counties in Texas and New Mexico with life-saving equipment kits. .	Funded the construction of a new building for the Northeast Midland Volunteer Fire Department to better serve the surrounding Midland areas.... .	Provided funding for life-saving ballistic vests for officers of the Midland County Sheriff’s Office. Education initiatives: .	Partnered with the University of Texas Permian Basin (UTPB) in collaboration with the UTeach Institute and local school districts to develop a 4.5-year implementation program addressing STEM teacher shortage while enhancing the preparedness of STEM teachers by UTPB. The program allows students to earn both a STEM degree and teaching certification without additional time or cost. .	Kicked off the Catalyst Initiative working to expand Permian Basin high school and community training programs. The program aims to identify high-demand occupations in the energy industry and align those occupations with education and training opportunities in the Permian Basin. .	Supported the Texas A&M Engineering Academy Program at Midland College to support student efforts to obtain bachelor’s degrees in engineering. The Texas Workforce Commission expects a 25% growth in engineering jobs statewide over the next decade.Read more about how we are supporting community safety in the Permian Basin on our website.GloballyWe support charities near our operations by funding programs that support education, civic and social services, arts, health and the environment.ENGAGING EMPLOYEESOur employees strive to improve the quality of life in the communities where we live and work..	Despite a challenging year with employees continuing to work from home due to the pandemic, ConocoPhillips Canada staff volunteered 893 hours on a range of activities in 2021, including making lunches for kids through Brown Bagging for Calgary’s Kids, planting trees and cleaning our river and pathways with the City of Calgary and wrapping gifts for families in need with Dreams Take Flight..	In Eagle Ford, employees volunteered nearly 250 hours to serve local nonprofits including the Floresville Lions Club, Bulldog Education Foundation and Yoakum Rotary Foundation..	With our Bakken operations close to Little Missouri State Park, each year our employees volunteer in the spring to prepare the campground facilities and riding trails for tourist season..	In New Mexico, employees distributed food to community members in need through the United Way and cleaned up trash and public spaces with the City of Carlsbad and Bureau of Land Management. .	In Australia, employees rolled up their sleeves to help clean up the beaches with Reef Clean and Clean Up Australia. Read more about some of our efforts around the globe on our website.VALUES AND INTEREST ASSESSMENT (VIA) PROCESS2021 marked ConocoPhillips China's 15th year of commitment to the Light and Love School. The school provides equal access to education for underprivileged children by focusing on academic and cognitive development. Photography by ZHOU KunGlobal GivingGlobal Giving2021 continued to be a difficult year for communities responding to the challenges of a global pandemic. To help, ConocoPhillips continued COVID-19 relief support by donating personal protective equipment (PPE) to local charities in Houston, Bartlesville, and Midland. We also contributed $200,000 to Oxygen for Indonesia to procure life-saving oxygen generating machines for local area hospitals. But the pandemic wasn’t the only disaster our communities faced during the year. When a severe winter storm hit Texas and Oklahoma, knocking out power to more than 4 million people, we contributed nearly $600,000 to local charities including the American Red Cross and the United Way to help provide temporary warming shelters and assistance to those in need. We also contributed $500,000 to four United Way organizations in southeastern Louisiana to help residents impacted by the devastating category 4 Hurricane Ida.In the U.S. we launched a new diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) initiative to address the systemic barriers encountered by students of color from low-income communities on their path to well-paying jobs. Partnering with a number of organizations with expertise in college preparation, vocational training, internships/externships, mentoring and scholarships, our efforts focus on helping students bridge the gap from high school graduation to obtaining a successful career.Our cash contributions supported two strategic cause areas – species and habitat conservation (global) and math education (Houston), local contributions, university relations and employee giving programs. In addition to cash contributions, the company invested $19.3 million in other social investments, including $1.7 million of in-kind donations which largely consisted of gifting research lab equipment to seven universities.Input and insight from business units are overlaid by uniform, global processes and policies to provide:.	Due diligence scrutiny of potential partners..	Consistent project selection criteria and focus wherever we operate..	Appropriate audits and document retention..	Tracking and assessment of performance metrics and impact.The global charitable investment budget is reviewed annually by the Executive Leadership Team and approved by the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee of the Board.Alignment with UN SDGsThe United Nations General Assembly has adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set the global agenda for equitable, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic development. Our core business of delivering energy to the world contributes directly to:Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.Many of our business and community investment activities support other goals related to education, poverty and good health. Our 2021 global charitable investments supported several SDGs.We are working with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, on the role the oil and gas industry can most effectively play to support the achievement of the globally endorsed framework of the SDGs. We continue to monitor the goals as they move to international and national implementation.Signature ProgramsSignature programs help unify our global giving around relevant themes and make our charitable investments program significantly more impactful. 2021 provided opportunities to further our global signature program and conservation efforts. We continued our support of seven Migratory Bird Joint Ventures and the JV8 Central Grasslands Initiative. Representing over 63 federal, state, provincial, nonprofit, and industry conservation partners, the JV8 is working together to stem grassland losses and negative impacts to migratory birds across the breeding, migration and wintering habitats in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. Read more about our conservation efforts on our website. Our Houston Signature Program continued its focus on student enrichment and math education. Partnering with the Houston Texans, the TORO’s Math Drills educational video series reached more than 150,000 third- and fourth-grade students in 588 schools in 18 states. Since the program’s inception in 2017, nearly half a million students have been positively impacted. Local Community GivingIn communities across the globe, our taxes and investments contribute to economic growth, and we also work to determine ways to be good neighbors. This includes working with community members and partners to meaningfully and measurably contribute to each community’s unique needs by identifying and addressing areas of local concern through charitable investments and volunteerism in support of education, health and safety, the environment, the arts, civic and social services, and disaster relief.With our recent expansion into the Permian, we significantly increased our 2021 investment in this region. This funding supported a number of social services and education initiatives. Investments included support for the West Texas Food Bank (WTFB) campus expansion which will help address the needs from the rapidly growing population. In 2021, WTFB distributed 11 million pounds of food to 50,000 individuals across 19 West Texas counties. Funded education initiatives included support of the Bynum School for children with disabilities, Midland Independent School District Education Foundation and Midland College student scholarships.Education remains an important focus for our charitable giving. In Alaska, we supported the Alaska Native Science & Engineering Program (ANSEP) efforts to place Alaska Natives in science and engineering on a career path to leadership. We also donated $1.5 million in high-tech equipment to seven universities including Prairie View A&M, Colorado School of Mines and Texas Tech University following the decommissioning of our Bartlesville Research Center.Employee Giving ProgramsOur employees make our communities stronger. We are proud to support their generous involvement in local charitable activities through employee giving programs that include United Way campaigns, matching gift contributions and volunteer grants. In 2021, $5.1 million in combined employee, retiree and company matching gift contributions was donated to more than 2,000 charities around the world. These donations supported a number of local needs ranging from local education programs to disaster relief and social services organizations.A 2021 Math Teacher of the Month winner.126ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2021SocialGlobal GivingGlobal GivingWe help advance the conservation and understanding of migratory birds, including on-going work with the Smithsonian Migratory Bird Center. By placing tracking devices on birds, researchers gain insight into the phenomenon of bird migration, ecology and conservation.SocialGlobal GivingEmployees volunteer at the West Texas Food Bank.129ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2021Human RightsHuman RightsConocoPhillips is committed to respecting human rights. We recognize the dignity of all human beings and our core values embrace these inalienable rights: for all people to live their lives free from social, political or economic discrimination or abuse. Our approach is consistent with the human rights philosophies expressed in the following global frameworks:.	Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).	United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.	International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.	Voluntary Principles on Security and Human RightsThis includes the core labor standards related to nondiscrimination, freedom of association, right to collective bargaining, and avoiding the use of forced or child labor. We perform high-level human rights risk assessments on our global operations to identify countries for deeper evaluation of potential human rights issues. Key areas considered include:.	Security and human rights.	Land rights and relocation.	Land use.	Indigenous Peoples issues and rights.	Company and supplier labor standards.	Access to water.	Cultural heritage.	Vulnerable groupsOur intent regarding human rights is also reflected in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and our health, safety and environment policy and supplier expectations set the standards of behavior and human rights commitments for our people, as well as contractors, suppliers and others who perform work for ConocoPhillips. Read our updated Human Rights Position on our website.Business units assess and manage human rights risks. If our operations identify potential human rights concerns, engagement plans and specific actions to manage and mitigate that risk are developed through engagement with the community or other stakeholders. Where appropriate, business units communicate and engage communities and their representatives on how to contact the company and how to address any concerns or grievances. In addition, all interested stakeholders may access the ConocoPhillips Ethics Helpline to report a potential violation of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which is publicly available on our website.Respecting Indigenous PeoplesWe recognize and respect the choice of Indigenous communities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships to the land. Wherever our operations neighbor with Indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to seek mutually beneficial solutions and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring. Areas where we explore or operate near these communities include the United States, Canada and Australia. Our engagement with Indigenous communities in those locations is consistent with the principles of the International Labour Organization Convention 169 concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Our relationships are governed by national laws of the countries in which we are working, our social performance guidance, our own positions on sustainable development and human rights, and our core SPIRIT Values of Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork. When engaging with Indigenous stakeholders, we seek first to understand their social values, cultures and traditions, as well as their expectations and preferences for dialogue and dispute resolution. Our consultations consider traditional land use information and community interests, goals and perspectives on environmental, social and economic topics. We engage with Indigenous communities at the regional, local and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional governments, community associations, local leaders and community residents. Our stakeholder engagement professionals work closely with our asset and operations teams to guide discussions and facilitate cooperation with Indigenous Peoples to address potential operational impacts on the community. Wherever we engage with Indigenous communities, we pursue opportunities to support economic development consistent with Indigenous communities’ cultures and community development plans. In some cases, the engagement and consultation may be guided by a formal agreement with the Indigenous community. We seek to honor and understand the culture of Indigenous communities near our operations so that we know how to properly demonstrate respect in our relationships. Some of our larger business units provide cultural awareness training. In many cases, our stakeholder engagement leaders and business leaders will educate themselves through mentors in the Indigenous community or through the help of local experts. Read more about our work with local Indigenous communities on our website.Human Rights Training and AwarenessConocoPhillips continues to offer a human rights training course which incorporates IPIECA's guidance on human rights training and includes a module on security and human rights. The training has been rolled out globally via a computer.based module to our stakeholder engagement practitioners and other operations staff and management as appropriate based on location.We continue to support the IPIECA social responsibility and human rights working group, and incorporate IPIECA guidance into our own training and practices.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human RightsWe drive collective action to address security and human rights issues through engagement with government, NGO and other business stakeholders in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). We have been a member of the VPSHR initiative since its inception in 2000. Our social performance guidance directs our VPSHR implementation and our annual report to the VPSHR details our current practices as well as provides updates for previous years.We continue to conduct regular VPSHR training of security providers in priority countries for security and human rights issues. Security personnel and community engagement practitioners, including contractors, complete corporate human rights training on the VPSHR on an annual basis. All contract security organizations are required to provide VPSHR training to their employees and comply with the principles. Training is also provided for the ConocoPhillips workforce as part of the onboarding process when relevant to working in field locations.SocialHuman RightsMembers of the ConocoPhillips Canada Stakeholder Engagement team discuss reclamation progress at our Surmont site with Fort McMurray 468 First Nation Elders.SpotlightSocialFirst responders demonstrate equipment used to pry open car doors after accidents. Photo courtesy of Permian Strategic Partnership.SPOTLIGHTSupporting Safer Communities in the Permian BasinEmergency response workers in Texas’ remote Permian Basin – many of whom are volunteers – may have to travel up to an hour to reach an incident. These first responders are also often working with limited infrastructure and resources. Increased activity from energy production and economic development in the region has increased traffic on area roads, adding to the challenge. One staggering statistic – only 2% of Texas' population is in the Permian Basin, but 11% of traffic fatalities in the state occur on roads in the area.With the 2021 acquisitions of Concho Resources and Shell’s Permian position, ConocoPhillips expanded our position in the Permian Basin. We now hold approximately 1 million net acres across the Delaware and Midland Basins, making us one of the largest operators in the area.“When we talked to a variety of stakeholders in the Permian Basin, one of the things we repeatedly heard was community safety is a primary concern. So, addressing that concern has quickly become one of our top priorities,” said Scott Kidwell, ConocoPhillips vice president, State Government Affairs, Stakeholder Relations and Permian Surface.One element of this commitment to improving community safety was partnering with the Permian Basin Regional Planning Commission (PBRPC) to fund a 10-year cell tower lease agreement project in Orla, Texas. “When you are dealing with life-and-death situations, the ability to communicate is critical. This tower will connect multiple response agencies and allow them to better serve community members in their most vulnerable moments,” added Chloe Desjardins, advisor, Permian Stakeholder Relations. The company provided $123,000 for constructing the tower, which will support the PBRPC’s 9-1-1 Emergency Department and bring radio operability to first responders in the rural Delaware Basin. People in the area can experience extremely unreliable cellular connectivity, a challenge that is amplified during emergencies.“We take our role in the community very seriously,” said ConocoPhillips’ Permian President Jack Harper. “We are grateful for the work local organizations do every day to address the specific needs of west Texas, southeast New Mexico and the surrounding areas.”LIFE-SAVING EQUIPMENTAccidents in rural areas pose multiple challenges and first responders often do not have the best equipment to quickly address emergency situations. We partnered with the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), Permian Road Safety Coalition (PRSC) and industry peers to provide a $1.1 million donation to the “First Responder Life-Saving Equipment Initiative.” This will provide life-saving equipment for first responders in 22 counties across west Texas and southeast New Mexico. Funds were used for emergency equipment such as battery-powered “jaws of life” to free people trapped in vehicles, fire extinguishers, mobile lighting tools and rescue helicopter landing zone kits. First responders also received gloves, face shields, gas detection meters and calibration tools. Each set of emergency response equipment is valued at approximately $20,000. “This collaborative effort will ultimately save lives, and we are proud to help provide critical tools to our first responders that will enable their on-scene response in the most remote areas of the Permian Basin,” said Vanessa Rawlins, a PRSC Board Chair and ConocoPhillips Lower 48 HSE Manager.The partnership with PSP expands an initial PRSC investment of more than $250,000 in donated equipment that began in early 2020. The PSP is a coalition of energy companies working together to improve the quality of life in the region through education, road safety, healthcare, housing and workforce development. ConocoPhillips has been involved with the PSP since its creation in 2018.Additionally, in 2021 we donated more than $100,000 to support area Crime Stoppers efforts, local law enforcement and professional and volunteer fire departments.“Giving to rural first responders is important to us – they typically don’t receive a lot of funding but they’re responding to a lot of road accidents, helping people in critical situations. And in those moments, being able to communicate or having advanced equipment can literally mean the difference between life and death,” said ConocoPhillips’ Josh Viets, vice president, Delaware Basin.MENTAL HEALTH SERVICESCommunity safety can also be imperiled as a result of citizens experiencing mental health-related episodes. Since access to mental health care can be challenging in rural areas, the PSP recently announced a healthcare initiative aimed at improving access to resources. The over $3 million initiative with West Texas Counseling & Guidance will expand mental health services, with a focus on Lea and Eddy counties in southeast New Mexico and Howard County in Texas.“This partnership is not only expanding access to mental health care, especially in our rural counties, but it is also building a pipeline of home-grown providers, who will be more likely to stay in the Permian Basin and serve our communities,” said Tracee Bentley, CEO of PSP.SocialSpotlightIn 2021 we donated more than $100,000 to support area Crime Stoppers efforts, local law enforcement and professional and volunteer fire departments.SpotlightSocialSPOTLIGHTFostering Inclusion in AustraliaCreating communities that are fair, inclusive, culturally sensitive, safe and supportive of all citizens requires dedication and participation from both residents and business leaders. For ConocoPhillips Australia, this includes a commitment to ensuring opportunities are created for Indigenous Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples, businesses and organizations. In 2021, the team developed and obtained endorsement of a Reflect Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), a strategic document that includes a commitment as well as practical actions that will drive the organization’s contribution to reconciliation both internally and in communities. The formal, published document is endorsed by Reconciliation Australia and is designed to strengthen relationships between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples and non-Indigenous Peoples.“As a global energy company, ConocoPhillips has a history of engagement with First Nations communities, including those in the United States, Canada and Australia. We strive to recognize the dignity of all human beings and foster an environment of inclusion that respects individual contribution and differences,” said Khoa Dao, President, ConocoPhillips Australia.The goal of the RAP framework is to guide the company as we work to positively contribute to race relations in Australia. ConocoPhillips Australia recognizes the enduring and unique connection to land and waters that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples have, and we celebrate their ongoing contributions to Australia’s political, economic and social landscapes. Through the implementation of the RAP, we are seeking to develop a deeper understanding of their cultures, histories and contributions. Additionally, the framework will help us measure and formalize our commitment and bring credibility to our intentions and actions to support diversity and inclusion. We also hope to remove systems and processes that create participation barriers, promote engagement and create opportunities. Reconciliation Australia defines the process through five critical dimensions: .	Race relations.	Equality and equity.	Institutional integrity.	Unity .	Historical acceptance These form a holistic and comprehensive RAP Framework, consisting of a governance structure supported by three pillars:.	Relationships: Working to improve and enhance the relationships between the broader Australia community and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. For ConocoPhillips, this includes communicating our commitment to reconciliation and engaging and educating employees during Reconciliation Week celebrations..	Respect: Increasing the understanding of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, rights and experiences. At ConocoPhillips, this means ensuring all employees undertake cultural awareness training and implementing and adhering to cultural protocols..	Opportunities: Seeking to address the gaps between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples and other Australians. ConocoPhillips’ spheres of influence include employment, supply chain and community.Since 2016, ConocoPhillips Australia has engaged a Traditional Owner consultant to deliver a day-long Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultural awareness training to our workforce. Over 200 employees and contractors have attended. ConocoPhillips Australia also participates in National Reconciliation Week activities and NAIDOC Week celebrations. This includes company-wide communications and awareness campaigns, and sponsorship and attendance at community-organized events. Local Elders have visited our workplace to speak with employees and share information about their culture and heritage.“Over the last decade our business has worked to ensure that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples and businesses participate in our workforce and supply chain,” said Fiona McLeod, General Manager Government and External Affairs for ConocoPhillips Australia. “We have also supported community investment initiatives that align with local community objectives.”Since 2011, ConocoPhillips Australia has financially supported a range of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander-oriented community investment initiatives. Program support is weighted toward education and training programs, many of which are tailored to specific local area requirements. For the Indigenous Pathways Traineeship Program, ConocoPhillips Australia collaborated to create job opportunities in the natural gas industry for Gladstone locals identifying as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. The program has run annually since early 2020 and provides two Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander trainees the opportunity to develop practical skills, through learning hands-on from experienced LNG professionals and in a classroom environment. The training counts toward a Certificate II in Engineering Production upon completion.In 2019, ConocoPhillips Australia joined the Yalari scholarship program, which provides Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children from rural communities across Australia the opportunity to receive a full boarding school scholarship for their entire secondary education. Efforts included a six-year commitment to support the high school education of a female Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander student. Through a public/private partnership with the Queensland Department of Environment and Science, ConocoPhillips Australia is also supporting the Queensland Indigenous Land and Sea Ranger Program in Central Queensland. Through the program, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land and Sea Rangers deliver negotiated work plans that reflect Traditional Owner, local community, and Queensland Government priorities. Activities include a wide range of conservation services including cultural burns, feral animal and pest plant control, soil conservation, cultural heritage site protection and biodiversity monitoring. The company developed the Buraligim Weiber program in partnership with the Central Queensland University to focus on improving reading and math skills in young Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children. It introduces STEM concepts at a junior level through activities that surround culture, community and the environment. ConocoPhillips Australia has supported PREQIP, a program operated by Education Queensland Industry Partnerships (EQIP) since 2011. Open to year 10 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students, the program promotes student engagement while developing employability skills and raising awareness of potential pathways through further study or a senior EQIP program.“Our business in Australia is relatively young; however, we are taking meaningful steps in pursuing opportunities to support economic development consistent with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities’ cultural values and community development plans. We are only at the start of our journey, and it will require commitment and courage from all of us to achieve a truly reconciled future,” Dao said.SocialSpotlight“TOGETHER WE BELIEVE. TOGETHER WE BELONG.” Artwork by Wakka Wakka artist, David WilliamsThis artwork tells the story of ConocoPhillips’ reconciliation journey and its formal commitment to mapping a path to supporting and contributing to a reconciled Australia through its Reconciliation Action Plan. Read the full artwork story in the Reconciliation Action Plan.