LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS At ConocoPhillips, we consider sustainable development essential to our mission of supplying the energy that powers modern life. This 2012 Sustainable Development Report describes in detail our company’s sustainability progress and challenges, as well as our comprehensive action plans. This is our first report on sustainable development since the mid.2012 transformation of ConocoPhillips through the spin.off of our downstream assets. The repositioning made us the world’s largest independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company, based on production and proved reserves. With renewed focus on our core skills and business, we will focus just as intently on our responsibilities. Measurable Progress For ConocoPhillips, sustainable development is about conducting our business to promote economic growth, a healthy environment and vibrant communities, now and into the future. The past year featured several key achievements in our sustainability efforts. For example, we: . Formulated, published and began reporting on the ConocoPhillips Global Onshore Well Operating Principles. These practices direct our environmental and social actions throughout resource development, from initial site selection through final restoration. They include steps we take to ensure safe and environmentally sound drilling and completion operations, including hydraulic fracturing; . Reduced or prevented greenhouse gas emissions from select operations by approximately one million metric tons through numerous energy and process efficiency projects; . Integrated sustainable development more clearly into our Health, Safety and Environment Management System to drive ongoing progress in performance as well as consistency in our approach; . Conducted biodiversity risk assessments at all of our major operated assets around the globe; . Held an interactive best.practices workshop for more than 100 ConocoPhillips sustainable development practitioners worldwide, covering successes and challenges on social and environmental issues; and . Launched an innovative learning module to promote employee awareness, understanding and discussion of sustainability issues, as well as incorporation of sustainable development considerations into daily decision making. 2012 Performance ConocoPhillips was honored in 2012 for our sustainable development success. We were named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by Corporate Responsibility Magazine, included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the sixth consecutive year, and achieved improvement in our environmental disclosure and performance score from the Carbon Disclosure Project. New Reporting Format We have reconfigured this Sustainable Development Report to provide more information and to make it more easily accessible for readers. Our report is organized in six sections: Common Questions, Our Approach, Environment, Safety & Health, People & Society, and Reporting. Common Questions addresses topics people ask us about most such as climate change, community engagement and hydraulic fracturing, among others. Please revisit this section periodically for updates on important energy issues. Our Approach describes how we integrate sustainable development into all parts of the company, with attention to overall governance and accountability. In turn, the Environment, and People & Society sections are more tightly focused on commitments, performance indicators and results. They describe our actions on key topics including climate change, water, biodiversity, human rights and stakeholder engagement. For those seeking more specific information and metrics, we added an index feature to the Reporting section that links to topics outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative. This section now tracks only Exploration and Production performance data, reflecting the repositioning of our company; and we’ve restated data from prior years in the same way. Our 2012 metrics have been finalized and posted since mid.2013. More to Come The new ConocoPhillips combines our legacy strengths with the focus and culture of an independent company. Our SPIRIT Values (Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork) guide our actions globally and provide the foundation for our commitment to sustainable development. ConocoPhillips is committed to ongoing engagement. We strive to communicate transparently with stakeholders about our sustainable development approach and focus areas, as well as our successes and challenges. We trust that this report delivers on that aspiration, and we look forward to your comments. Living By Our Principles ConocoPhillips’ approach to sustainable development stems from our fundamental intent to prosper as a business and to meet the energy needs of present and future generations. In doing so, we also will create value and improve living standards for our stakeholders. Our Commitments Our sustainable development approach integrates principles, commitments, positions, action plans, performance indicators, engagement results and reporting. We seek continuous improvement and skills development in each of these management system elements. That’s what leads to measurable results for social, economic and environmental performance. Our mission is to power civilization. Energy plays a foundational role in enabling global economic development and human progress. Many sources will be needed to meet global energy demand, and this fact underscores the importance of a balanced energy policy approach. In support of ongoing dialogue with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, ConocoPhillips developed 10 energy principles to guide development of positions on specific public policy issues including environmental issues such as climate change. We invite you to read and share your thoughts on these principles. We also recognize that there are environmental and social implications, and that emphasizing responsible development is important. That’s why we created the ConocoPhillips Global Onshore Well Management Principles to guide how we protect and respect people and the environment. We take these principles seriously, and we welcome your comments on them. Our Sustainable Development Commitments Our Vision Our vision is to be the E&P company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence. Our SPIRIT Values consist of Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork.  Our vision and values are essential building blocks in the continued success of ConocoPhillips. We further define and uphold our values through the following policies and positions. Policies Key ConocoPhillips operating policies include: . Code of Business Ethics and Conduct . Health, Safety and Environmental Policy . Political Support Policy and Procedures . Political Contributions . Substance Abuse Policy Code of Business Ethics and Conduct The history of ConocoPhillips includes a long.standing commitment to conduct all business activities with the highest ethical standards. Our SPIRIT values lay out what we expect from ourselves and each other, as well as our commitment to integrity. In today’s business environment, living our values is critical for our continued success in the global marketplace. Our Code forms the foundation of our compliance and ethics program and guides us in our day.to.day work. It explains ConocoPhillips’ standards as well as our legal and ethical responsibilities, and it provides concrete guidance for the behaviors expected of us. You can read the complete Code of Business Ethics and Conduct at ConocoPhillips.com.investor.Corporate Governance. Health, Safety and Environmental Policy ConocoPhillips is committed to protecting the health and safety of everybody who plays a part in our operations, lives in the communities in which we operate or uses our products. Wherever we operate, we will conduct our business with respect and care for both the local and global environment and systematically manage risks to drive sustainable business growth. We will not be satisfied until we succeed in eliminating all injuries, occupational illnesses, unsafe practices and incidents of environmental harm from our activities. Our Plan ... To meet our commitment, ConocoPhillips will: • Demonstrate visible and active leadership that engages employees and service providers and manage health, safety and environmental (HSE) performance as a line responsibility with clear authorities and accountabilities. • Ensure that all employees and contractors understand that working safely is a condition of employment, and that they are each responsible for their own safety and the safety of those around them. • Maintain "stop work policies" that establish the responsibility and authority for all employees and contractors to stop work they believe to be unsafe. • Manage all projects, products and processes through their life.cycles in a way that protects safety and health and minimizes impacts on the environment. • Provide employees with the capabilities, knowledge and resources necessary to instill personal ownership and motivation to achieve HSE excellence. • Provide relevant safety and health information to contractors and require them to provide proper training for the safe, environmentally sound performance of their work. • Measure, audit and publicly report HSE performance and maintain open dialogue with stakeholder groups and with communities where we operate. • Comply with applicable regulations and laws. • Work with both governments and stakeholders where we operate to develop regulations and standards that improve the safety and health of people and the environment. • Maintain a secure work environment to protect ourselves, our contractors and the Company's assets from risks of injury, property loss or damage resulting from hostile acts. • Communicate our commitment to this policy to our subsidiaries, affiliates, contractors and governments worldwide and seek their support. Our Expectations ... Through implementation of this policy, ConocoPhillips seeks to earn the public's trust and to be recognized as the leader in HSE performance. Political Support Policy and Procedures Customers, community groups, political organizations and others regularly approach ConocoPhillips to support civic and political activities. Management and the ConocoPhillips Board of Directors encourage involvement in activities that advance the company’s goals and improve the communities where we work and live. Overview A number of local, state and federal laws exist that govern corporate involvement in activities of a political or public policy nature. These statutes contain numerous prohibitions and detailed reporting and record.keeping requirements. They also contain enforcement provisions that carry civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. Employees may be asked to participate in activities that fall under the jurisdiction of one or more of these statutes. The policies and guidelines below have been approved by the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors and are intended to help ensure corporate compliance with these laws and regulations. With respect to political contributions, all such contributions will promote only the interests of ConocoPhillips, and not the personal political preferences of its company officers and executives. These policies and guidelines deal primarily with U.S. domestic political activity, and are not intended to cover the many global political, legal and business issues that apply to U.S. corporations and their international affiliates. Other countries' rules and U.S. rules, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, are covered under other policies. Additionally, the policies and guidelines below only apply to situations where employees are asked to act on behalf of ConocoPhillips and do not apply to personal activities employees choose to fund or pursue at their own cost and on their own time. In addition to undergoing a voluntary, internal assurance audit of its corporate political expenditures each year, ConocoPhillips assesses its political policies on a regular basis and in light of changes in federal, state and local lobbying and campaign finance laws and regulations. For the period May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013 ConocoPhillips has adhered to its own code for corporate political spending. Gifts to Elected Officials, Regulators and Government Employees Federal law prohibits registered federal lobbyists and those entities that employ federal lobbyists (such as ConocoPhillips) from providing gifts or anything of value to Members of Congress or Congressional staffers. This includes appreciation gifts, items for display in his or her office, as well as tickets to sporting or other events. Of particular note, it also includes meals and lodging. While the rules provide for selected exceptions, great care is required to ensure compliance. Separate and similarly strict gift rules apply to the Executive Branch of the federal government. Additionally, states and localities have various types of gift rules, with some states such as California having very strict gift prohibitions and reporting requirements. Any gift to an elected official or government employee made on behalf of ConocoPhillips must comply with the applicable gift ban rules and receive prior approval from Government Affairs. Lobbying & Grassroots Activities ..Government Contacts Federal, state and local statutes govern corporate lobbying activities. These statutes require activities and expenses associated with working legislative and regulatory issues be reported regularly and in prescribed ways. Contacts with officials and other efforts to influence government action, including permitting or licensing of company operations, may constitute lobbying activities under various state and local laws. While the Federal Lobbying Disclosure Act exempts infrequent contacts with federal lawmakers, advance consultation with Government Affairs is essential to confirm the ground rules for these discussions and proper reporting. Consultation with Government Affairs is also required for contacts with state and local officials. This is especially important given the wide variation in rules from state to state and locality to locality. Additionally, ConocoPhillips employees should refrain from the following activities at the state or federal level without prior internal consultation and approval. . Testifying before a legislative or regulatory body. . Agreeing to share in the costs of retaining a firm or individual to work a regulatory or a legislative issue. . Agreeing to join an association or coalition whose purpose is to influence a regulatory or legislative issue. . Lending ConocoPhillips’ name to any effort to endorse or oppose a pending legislative or regulatory issue. Grassroots Activities Grassroots activities are designed to supplement lobbying efforts in influencing officials to take favorable action on legislation important to the company. When appropriate, ConocoPhillips will initiate calls to action targeted to our employees, which typically include the development and distribution of information and mobilization to contact policymakers or elected officials. In the same way, ConocoPhillips may expand its grassroots activity and/or calls to action to include the general public, as deemed necessary on a case.by.case basis. All grassroots activities are based on collaboration between appropriate Government Affairs and business unit personnel. Lobbying.related Activities ..Trade Association Membership ConocoPhillips actively engages with trade associations at the national, state and local levels. We encourage our employees to represent the interests of the company and the communities in which we operate through participation in committees and/or leadership roles in these associations. While not the primary motivation for joining or maintaining membership in any trade association, many actively engage in lobbying. Employees who serve on trade association committees that are advocating legislation or regulation must work closely with Government Affairs, affected business units and Legal to develop appropriate positions and ensure compliance with any possible lobbying disclosure requirements. Through participation in trade associations involved in lobbying, ConocoPhillips seeks to champion legislative solutions that are practical, economical, environmentally responsible, non.partisan and in the best interests of the company. We feel it is important to be actively engaged with these organizations so our positions on key issues to the company can be expressed. We recognize that among trade association members there can be viable viewpoints that differ from ours. When this occurs, we seek to work with the association membership to promote reasonable compromise on major initiatives affecting the company and its stakeholders. See U.S. trade associations to which ConocoPhillips paid more than $50,000 in annual dues for the year 2013. The report will be updated at the end of 2014 to reflect the current year’s trade association memberships. Independent Expenditures For ConocoPhillips purposes, independent expenditures are defined as those funds given or expended to directly support or defeat a candidate, without collaboration of the candidate. ConocoPhillips’ policy is to not make independent expenditures itself. However, if a compelling business purpose exists, an exception to this policy may be granted with the consent of Government Affairs, business unit personnel and Legal. Approval of the Public Policy Committee is also required. For the period May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013, no contributions to independent expenditures were made by ConocoPhillips. Certain trade associations in which the company maintains membership elect to incur independent expenditures. We have engaged in discussions with certain stakeholders who have expressed concern about this trade association practice. As with prior reporting periods, ConocoPhillips again stipulated that none of our national trade association dues be applied to independent expenditures focused on the election or defeat of any federal candidates for the period May 1, 2012 – June 30, 2013. Issue Advocacy For ConocoPhillips business purposes, issue advocacy is the support of a pro.energy and/or pro.business position regarding a ballot initiative to be voted on by the people. Issue advocacy may also include support of an initiative that would defeat anti.energy and/or anti.business measures. Actions typically include development and distribution/broadcasting of information either jointly or solely, and may include signature gathering on initiative petitions which the company has expressly supported. ConocoPhillips will be active in such issues, provided there is a compelling ConocoPhillips business rationale; an agreement to participate among the affected business units and Government Affairs personnel and management; and where there is distribution/broadcasting of information, significant ConocoPhillips and/or energy industry involvement, input and approval of the message development and the tactics taken in the initiative process. Political Contributions Federal Political Campaign Contributions Federal laws strictly forbid the giving or use of corporate funds for candidates campaigning for federal office, such as Congress. These laws apply to actual candidate campaigns and to solicitations from third parties, such as external political action committees, whose purpose is to help elect federal candidates. ConocoPhillips is authorized under law to establish an employee political action committee (PAC) and fund its cost of administration. Consistent with approval of the Public Policy Committee, Spirit PAC has been formed to facilitate contribution of employee funds to federal candidates as well as state and local candidates. See list of contributions made by Spirit PAC from May 1, 2012 – December 31, 2013. Going forward, this information will be provided as an 18.month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. The Spirit PAC Board of Directors has established in its operating guidelines the following nonexclusive criteria for selecting candidates to support: . The integrity and character of the candidate; . The candidate’s holding of a leadership or policy position in his party or on a standing legislative committee, or the likelihood of the candidate’s attaining such position in the future; . The candidate’s position and/or voting record on issues affecting the relationship of business and government and on economic and social questions of importance; . The candidate’s relationship with or representation of an operating facility or company operations; . The nature and strength of the candidate’s opposition in primary or general elections; or . Other sources of financial assistance available to the candidate. In addition, the Spirit PAC Board of Directors primarily concentrates on contributions that go direct to candidates for office, generally avoiding: . Independent expenditures in support of or opposition to a candidate; . Out.of.election.cycle contributions; . Contributions to Presidential campaigns; . Contributions to leadership PACs; . Contributions to political parties; and . Large contributions to trade association PACs. State & Local Political Campaign Contributions Individual state and local laws govern contributions to candidates running for election to state and local offices. The Public Policy Committee has authorized a strict process for the justification, approval and reporting of any corporate political contributions made in states that permit corporate contributions. The Public Policy Committee also sets a bi.annual budget for such corporate contributions in the U.S. and Canada. The guidelines for determining whether a corporate political contribution should be made to a candidate are the same as the political action committee guidelines above, including those contributions to be avoided. The responsibility to approve and administer contribution requests has been delegated to the corporate officer responsible for government affairs or his or her designee. Accordingly, the Vice President, Federal & State Government Affairs, and Legal must approve all requests for U.S. state and local contributions. The Vice President of ConocoPhillips Canada responsible for Government Affairs and Legal must approve all Canadian requests. See list of corporate political contributions made from May 1, 2012 .December 31, 2013. Going forward, this information will be provided as an 18.month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. The Spirit PAC Board of Directors may elect to make state and local contributions in states where corporate contributions are not allowed subject to applicable laws and PAC operating guidelines. Contributions to Other Political Action Committees Many industry and special interest groups have created their own political action committees to elect candidates to office. State and national petroleum marketing associations, for example, have created PACs and are soliciting members and suppliers. Corporate contributions to these external PACs are strictly prohibited under ConocoPhillips policy if the contributions are intended to be used to fund candidates or their election campaigns. This includes the expensing of any costs for events such as golf and fishing tournaments, hunts, dinners, silent auctions and other types of activities used by these PACs to raise funds. Corporate contributions to fund administrative costs of certain external PACs may be permitted if allowed under applicable law, if doing so advances company goals, and if approved by Government Affairs and Legal. Candidate Fundraising Events and Other Related Requests Candidates and their supporters hold social activities as political fundraisers. Recognizing federal and many state laws impose restrictions, corporate funds for these activities require prior review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. ConocoPhillips does, from time to time, contribute to ballot initiatives, get out the vote activities and partisan organizations such as the Democratic and Republican governors associations. These, too, require review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. See list of contributions made from May 1, 2002 .December 31, 2013. Going forward, this information will be provided as an 18.month rolling archive, inclusive of the current report. Contributions to Political Parties Contributions to national parties by a corporation are illegal. Any such requests should be forwarded to Government Affairs given the potential for changes in the law and the need to monitor such requests. Contributions to state parties remain legal, but subject to varying limitations and reporting requirements depending on the state. All requests require Government Affairs and Legal review and approval. Party Conventions ConocoPhillips may elect to participate in state or federal political party conventions. Although corporate contributions to political parties at the national level are prohibited by law, corporations may make contributions to the presidential conventions held by the parties through the host committees. Any such contribution requires the review and approval of Government Affairs and Legal. Substance Abuse Policy At ConocoPhillips, our objective is to create and maintain an operating environment free of substance abuse. We believe that substance abuse increases the potential for accidents, absenteeism, substandard performance, and poor employee morale and health, as well as damage to the company's reputation. The company has zero tolerance for violations of this Policy and the employment of even first time offenders will be terminated in accordance with relevant law. To enforce this Policy, ConocoPhillips will: • Implement a substance abuse testing program that subjects employees to random drug and alcohol screening. • Require pre.employment drug testing of job applicants, and drug and alcohol testing of employees for reasonable suspicion/cause, post.accident situations, rehabilitation follow.up, and to verify return.to.duty eligibility post.rehabilitation. • Ensure that all employees are aware that this Policy covers improper use of prescription medications, as well as abuse of alcohol, illegal drugs and other substances that may alter an individual's mood, perception, coordination, response, performance or judgment. • Provide relevant training to raise employee awareness of substance abuse issues and the onsequences for violation of this Policy. • Provide employees who voluntarily disclose their substance abuse problems with opportunities for rehabilitation, where adequate facilities are available and it is feasible to do so. • Offer internal or external resources, where available, to answer employees' questions regarding the potential work.related impact of over.the.counter or prescription medications. • Communicate our commitment to this Policy to our employees, contractors, and visitors and engage their support for creating and maintaining an environment that is free of substance abuse. In those circumstances where government regulations, laws, or local practices impact the implementation of this Policy, business unit leadership will develop and implement a country.specific Substance Abuse Policy that conforms to local requirements, after which the local policy will be included as an addendum to this Policy. Applicants and employees will adhere to the Substance Abuse Policy addendum relevant to their country. We believe that the successful implementation of this Global Substance Abuse Policy will help ensure a continued safe, healthy and productive work environment. 