Safety & HealthOur Safety CommitmentIt is our collective goal to eliminate all injuries, occupational illnesses, unsafe practices and incidents of environmental harm from our activities. We believe that our work is never so urgent or important that we cannot take the time to do it safely and in an environmentally responsible manner. Our SPIRIT Values – Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork – inspire our actions and confirm that safety is core to how we operate. Our Life Saving Rules guide the behavior of employees and contractors working on our global operations.Operating SafelyTogether, we work toward the goal of zero injuries, illnesses and incidents. Developing a strong culture of safety and delivering superior safety performance is achieved by having dedicated and engaged leadership working with a committed and skilled workforce. Working safely is a condition of employment, and each employee and con.tract worker has the right to stop any job they believe to be unsafe. Our improvement in safety performance has resulted in significantly fewer people being injured, but we cannot rest on that success. In 2014, the company continued to implement the 8 Life Saving Rules, which are designed to reduce risks during crit.ical activities. In one year the rules have helped reduce the company’s serious incident rate by 35%. Work is ongoing to continue improving processes and training in an effort to drive incidents out of the business. The rules provide an added measure of protection and strengthen our existing HSE Management System, and they also serve to guide the behavior of employees and contractors working across our global operations. Used with our Safe Work Cycle, the 8 Life Saving Rules are independently assured and verified on the job for all critical work tasks. We are accountable for our actions and are always looking to continually improve. We recognize that a near miss could have resulted in personal injury, property damage, fire, process upset, spill, release or other failures. If a potential hazard is identified through a near miss or other hazard analysis, we believe reporting the problem is not enough; we implement corrective actions to address the root cause in order to eliminate recurrence. We also have a strong focus on sharing incident learnings broadly across our operations in an effort to eliminate repeat incidents. Safety leadership is a key responsibility of line management. Employee participation is a key component to our safety efforts and can be evidenced through work in various safety committees, behavioral based safety observation programs and industry forums. Company-sponsored safety summits bring together management from around the world to discuss our safety programs and commitment. We also use internal and industry case studies to share knowledge. Through the implementation of HSE Management Systems, our businesses identify and eliminate work hazards and risks. The process builds on the principle that all incidents are pre.ventable and that HSE considerations must be embedded into every task and business decision. HSE Management Systems are assessed annually using the company Operations Excellence process, an integrated systematic and collaborative approach, to guide continuous improvement and ultimately achieve the highest standards of excellence. Each year, all business units review their man.agement systems against corporate HSE standards using the HSE section of the Operations Excellence assessment tool. They analyze current status, identify areas for potential improvement, and then implement key activities to reduce risk and further enhance HSE performance.Contractor Selection and OversightOur Contractor Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Stan.dard provides corporate HSE requirements for the compa.ny’s contracting process. This process allows HSE risks to be identified and quantified using the ConocoPhillips Risk Matrix, and any contractor assignments that could include “high and significant risks” require full implementation of the Contractor HSE Standard. A Pre-Qualification Assessment is conducted to prescreen potential contractors, which includes a review of contrac.tor-supplied information. Documentation provided by the contractor is assessed against our standards and industry standards. The HSE portion of the overall contractor evalua.tion process is based on a combination of trailing indicators such as injury rates and the completeness and functionality of the contractor’s HSE management system. Oversight of contractor performance is accomplished through the various assessment steps of the ConocoPhillips HSE Management System. The ConocoPhillips business owner of the contracted work will have in place a two-level HSE audit system (local assessments and business unit audits) as well as a variety of key performance indicators and monitoring activities that allow the ConocoPhillips staff to review the contractor’s performance levels against require.ments and expectations. OSHA VPPWe support the Occupational Safety and Health Administra.tion’s (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), which dis.tinguishes work sites that achieve exemplary occupational safety and health standards. Many of our operations have achieved VPP Star recognition in recent years including: Alaska •	Beluga Gas Field•	Kuparuk Oil Field•	Tyonek Gas Production Platform•	Alpine Oil Field•	Anchorage Office TowerOklahoma •	Bartlesville Offices•	Technical CenterTexas •	Houston Headquarters•	Lower 48 Offices•	Bossier Asset•	San Juan Gas Plant•	South Texas AssetGovernance and Management SystemsThe ConocoPhillips Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy is our foundational HSE document. A component of this policy, the HSE Management System Standard, provides corporate expectations for each individual business unit’s HSE Management System and is the primary tool that our business units use to execute the contents and commit.ments contained within the company’s HSE policy. The HSE Management System adheres to a continuous improvement life cycle and includes key elements such as risk assessment, incident and near miss reporting and investigation, on-site job safety analysis, HSE training, audits, and annual review and goal setting. Through the execution of the HSE Management System Standard, a variety of deliverables are generated by each business. Some of these include investigation reports of “high and significant risk” incidents, audit findings and HSE Compliance Verification Reports. A monthly report high.lighting HSE performance is electronically communicated via the company intranet, which is accessible to all employ.ees. Both the ConocoPhillips ELT and Public Policy Com.mittee of the company’s Board of Directors receive regular updates of key HSE issues, events and performance from the vice president of HSE. We maintain a multi-tiered risk based HSE audit program encompassing regulatory and management system compli.ance audits at both the corporate and business unit levels. Our program also includes external insurance risk assess.ments. We also commission independent, limited assurance audits of our corporate level processes for collating and reporting aggregated HSE data presented in ConocoPhillips’ Sustainable Development report. Integrated into our HSE Management System Standard is the requirement to assess all risks and mitigate them appropriately. We use an array of techniques and tools to perform appropriate risk assessments, including using the ConocoPhillips Risk Matrix Model to perform qualitative or semi-quantitative assessments, and using quantitative risk assessments where necessary for increased levels of complexity. SAFETY & HEALTHSAFETY & HEALTHOperations ExcellenceOperations Excellence (OE) is a systematic and collaborative approach to enabling safe, reliable and efficient operations. It provides the tools to identify and turn opportunities into realized improvements. The approach recognizes the operational and business challenges inherent in our global business. OE’s methodology is aimed at striking the optimal balance between the discipline gained from structured global processes and the quick decision making and personal ownership derived from an experienced-based organization.Operations Excellence provides the platform for the reten.tion and sharing of corporate knowledge that is critical to our future success. It establishes a common language and approach that drives consistency in performance across the company.Vision•	Be an industry leader in Health, Safety and Environment and Asset and Operating Integrity.•	Deliver on long-range plan commitments.•	Achieve an aspirational target of 95% or greater direct operating efficiency.MissionTo improve operational performance and deliver a sustain.able competitive advantage.ObjectivesOE is an essential component of the company’s continuous improvement efforts to:•	Reduce risk: A comprehensive risk management process can prevent the occurrence and mitigate the conse.quences of major incidents. Leadership and Management; Planning and Scheduling; Human Performance; Asset and Operating Integrity (including Process Safety); Health, Safety and Environment (HSE); and Maintenance and Reli.ability programs contribute to the prevention of serious incidents. The OE systems are designed to minimize the potential for HSE impacts and maximize operating reliability.•	Improve base production: On any given day, we produce more than a million barrels of oil equivalent production per day from existing sources, so even small improvement in production can significantly impact the company’s bottom line.•	Ensure operability: It is essential that projects come on stream and perform as premised in the basis of design. For this reason, it is critical that learning from operations is fed back into project design and construction. In order to achieve these objectives, ConocoPhillips has devel.oped a systematic approach to delivering sustainable improvements.Process SafetyWe invest significant resources and provide focused atten.tion to continually improve our process safety culture and performance across the entire company. Process safety refers to the control of process hazards in a facility with the potential to impact people, property or the environment. This includes the prevention, control and mitigation of unintentional releases of hazardous material or energy from primary containment.The foundation of our successful process safety manage.ment program is promoting employee participation. Our employees:•	Have defined safety roles and responsibilities at all levels.•	Serve as employee representatives on joint health and safety committees.•	Participate in analyses that identify process hazards together with their control and mitigation measures or barriers.•	Provide operator input and exhibit ownership of process startup/shutdown procedures and emergency procedures.•	Participate in safety qualification and training programs.•	Are empowered with the right and responsibility to stop unsafe work.•	Perform work permitting and pre-job hazard analysis.•	Participate in safety, technical and procedural reviews, incident investigations, audits and emergency response teams.Process safety performance is continuously tracked to monitor strengths and assess opportunities for improve.ment across key business areas. This monitoring includes a strong emphasis on process safety auditing to validate and support metric data. We have adopted additional process safety metrics across key business sectors beginning in 2011 based on the American Petroleum Institute (API) Recom.mended Practice (RP) 754 “Process Safety Performance Indicators for Refining and Petrochemical Industries,” and on the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) “Asset Integrity – Key Performance Indicators.” These metrics are intended to provide management with additional tools to evaluate the effectiveness of our risk control barriers in preventing or mitigating unplanned losses of containment. Analysis of metric results helps direct specific improvement measures, which may include changes in engineering design, operating and maintenance procedures, and training opportunities.SAFETY & HEALTHEmergency PreparednessPreventing spills or incidents through good project plan.ning, design, implementation and leadership is our primary objective. However, if a spill or other unplanned event occurs, we have plans and processes in place to ensure we can respond effectively. We also conduct thorough inves.tigations of all significant incidents to understand the root cause, share lessons learned and prevent future incidents. Our company utilizes best practices for spill response on an international basis. We design our programs to meet robust compliance requirements and where feasible apply these standards internationally and in alignment with host-coun.try requirements. In some areas our internal preparedness requirements and programs exceed local compliance requirements. We work with organizations such as the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and International Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) to encourage regulators to support international cooperation, including bringing outside resources into specific locations to improve local spill response capabilities. Because we place great value on having trained and capable emergency responders, our company conducts oil spill exercises and drills each year for our U.S. operations in compliance with the requirements of the Oil Pollution Act and adopts many of those concepts for our international operations. We also adopt best practices identified from operations outside the U.S. As part of our emergency preparedness program, ConocoPhillips conducted 3 major response exercises on 3 continents in 2014. About 1,000 people participated in these large-scale exercises, including the ConocoPhillips Global Incident Management Assist Team (GMAT). These drills often included participation by third-party experts, oil spill response organizations and government emergency response agencies. To complement the 3 major exercises, the GMAT also partici.pated in specialized training during the year. In addition to general response topics, this training dedicated several days to oil spill response strategies and tactics. The 125 GMAT participants had the opportunity to work side by side with an international oil spill response company and local regula.tors, sharing industry best practices and honing skills. In 2015 the GMAT will continue preparedness efforts with a dedicated training program plus three major exercises performed in the company’s three major operating regions around the globe. We also utilize the National Oil Spill Response Research and Renewable Energy Test Facility (Ohmsett) in New Jersey for spill response training. This facility is operated by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), and provides full-scale oil spill response equipment testing, research and training. SAFETY & HEALTHOffshore Incident Prevention 
and ResponseOur focus and investments in offshore safety and environ.mental protection are best summarized in 3 primary areas: •	Prevention – to reduce the risk of an incident from occurring.•	Containment – to reduce the footprint and impact of an incident and maximize the response capability.•	Response – to mitigate incident damage rapidly and effectively.Incident PreventionSafety and accident prevention are core focus areas in our exploration, production and drilling businesses and are integral parts of all types of our operations. We invest significant resources on prevention – training of personnel, selecting the right contractors and executing our opera.tions in a manner that maintains safety and environmental stewardship. In drilling operations, prevention begins with proper well design and carries forward into the daily drilling work exe.cution. We use a well design methodology which meets or exceeds the requirements in all countries where we operate. We have well control, casing design, drilling fluid and cementing, and directional drilling and wellbore surveying standards, which are the building blocks we use to ensure a safe well design. Additionally, we have several processes embedded into our operating management system to help prevent a drilling accident from occurring. These processes include inspection, testing and maintenance of all safety critical elements of an asset (including wells), placement of precautionary safety critical elements to respond to certain scenarios, well integrity assurance and intervention to help ensure reliability of the well envelope, and detailed planned maintenance programs to ensure asset integrity. The majority of our research and development funding in offshore drilling focuses on increasing efficiency without compromising safety. Some of this funding is leveraged in joint industry projects in association with multiple opera.tors and contractors. While our company does not directly design and build rigs, we devote considerable financial resources to drive improvements in the drilling indus.try through our contracting and construction oversight strategies. We actively seek to identify and partner with those compa.nies that have the safest equipment and best safety records through our Contractor HSE Standard. In our U.S. onshore rig fleet, we are contracting with innovative, safety-focused drilling companies for newly built, high-tech rigs equipped with fully automated pipe handling equipment. This equip.ment reduces the human-machine interaction which results in many of the injuries associated with drilling operations. We also provide oversight during construction activities. We were also one of the first companies to develop a Design Safety Case applied in the Gulf of Mexico. The company used this compilation of design information and studies to ensure our Magnolia facility was designed safely. Although a regulatory requirement in U.K. North Sea opera.tions since 1991, safety cases have not been required in the Gulf of Mexico. The safety case for Magnolia identified the accident hazards that could occur in an offshore facility, including process safety or well control incidents. Since then, we have devel.oped and implemented a global Safety Case Standard that requires the development of a safety case for all Cono.coPhillips offshore facilities. Spill ContainmentWe recognize that industry oil spill response capabilities should be continuously improved, particularly in the case of subsea wells. We are participating with the industry in developing new spill response strategies and/or equipment improvements that will materially increase our ability to capture leaking oil at its source at the sea floor, stage equip.ment in locations where it might be needed, and engage in advanced and ongoing research and development. We are one of the four founding companies of Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC), an independent, not-for-profit company formed to provide better response and containment capability in the Gulf of Mexico. MWCC’s interim well capping and containment system improved the indus.try’s ability to respond to a deepwater well control incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Now supported by 10 members, MWCC has advanced this capability by constructing a more robust expanded con.tainment system. This system further increases capacity to capture, contain and process oil and gas from a well control incident if the well cannot be capped. The expanded system is now available to MWCC’s members and expands on the existing system’s overall capabilities to respond to a loss of subsea well control. As MWCC’s members look for new and deeper sources of oil, the company is committed to progressing technology that keeps pace with its members’ needs. Deepwater conditions vary around the globe, resulting in specific regional needs for oil spill containment and response solutions. That’s why we also helped found the Subsea Well Response Project (SWRP). This joint initiative sponsored by nine major oil and gas companies has delivered 4 capping stacks, 2 well intervention and subsea dispersant injection toolkits, and aligned with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) to warehouse and maintain this equipment in four shore bases strategically located around the globe. Similar to MWCC, OSRL is a UK-based nonprofit organization. With global shore bases for the new capping systems completed in 2013, SWRP is developing a subsea well containment system that is being delivered to OSRL and industry in 2015. These systems enhance the industry’s capacity to respond to subsea well-control incidents globally. Industry ResponseIn response to the Gulf of Mexico incident, the oil and gas industry, with the assistance of the American Petroleum Institute (API), assembled 3 joint industry task forces (JITF) to focus on critical areas of Gulf of Mexico offshore activity.These groups provided more than 50 recommendations including quicker and more effective methods for capping an uncontrolled well, improvements to subsea dispersant application and monitoring, in-situ burning, shoreline pro.tection and cleanup and other response operations, and a new well construction interfacing document that offshore operators and drilling contractors can employ to integrate all aspects of safety management systems. We actively partici.pate on each of these JITFs. In addition to participating in the JITF, we actively partici.pated in the Global Industry Response Group (GIRG), which formulated recommendations similar to the API effort on a global level. GIRG’s 3 key focus areas addressed incident pre.vention by forming a wells expert committee, on-water oil spill response through joint industry programs, and subsea well response which established the SWRP. We also partici.pate in other industry groups such as: •	API Emergency Preparedness and Response Sub-Commit.tee, and API Oil-Rail Emergency Response Work Group. •	IPIECA’s Industry Technical Advisory Committee (ITAC), Oil Spill Working Group (OSWG) and Global Initiatives. •	IOGP’s Oil Spill Response and Arctic Response Joint Indus.try Projects (JIPs). •	Oil and Gas U.K. Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group (OSPRAG) and European Issues Subgroup. •	Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Committee, which provided industry guidelines on how to calculate worse-case discharge volumes in response to a Bureau of Ocean Energy Management directive. •	Natural Resource Damage Assessment (NRDA), which pro.vides a collaborative forum for stakeholders to share views concerning the environmental impact of oil spills. •	Joint Assessment Teams (West Coast, Alaska, Gulf of Mexico), which provide forums for industry and natural resource trustees to share information on environmental impacts of oil spills and strategize on cooperatively con.ducting NRDAs.Through our continued participation in the various national and international industry groups, we benefit from oppor.tunities to evaluate new technologies and equipment that maximize recovery and minimize waste during spill response. We also remain committed to collaborating with government regulators, operators and industry to advance the state of the art in both equipment and procedural aspects of spill response and deepwater drilling operations. As additional guidance and regulations are put in place, we will incorpo.rate them into our procedures, policies, and oil spill response plans. We will continue to review our internal policies and procedures with all global locations to ensure the safety of our operations. Through these efforts, we will contribute to improving safety not only for our operations, but for the entire industry. SAFETY & HEALTHSAFETY & HEALTHOccupational Health and Industrial 
HygieneThe goal of our Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene team is to protect the health of workers and the neighbor.ing community through the identification, evaluation and control of potential workplace exposures. Each business unit develops and implements an Exposure Assessment Plan that identifies potential chemical and non-chemical exposures, and implements controls to prevent worker or community exposures. Health assessments are conducted to ensure that control measures are protecting the health of potentially exposed workers. Workers receive training in both personal and process safety as Safety and People are key components of our SPIRIT Values.SAFETY & HEALTHSecurityAlthough security risks can never be fully eliminated, we believe they can be effectively managed. We have taken comprehensive steps and invested heavily to address poten.tial threats to our operations around the world. Through systematic security audits by specially trained personnel, we continuously monitor and assess our compliance globally with security regulations, company security policies and the potential for malicious action and implement a variety of preventive measures to provide for the safety and security of our personnel and operations. As an operator of critical infrastructure in many challenging locations worldwide, we work closely with governmental agencies, nongovernmental organizations, our peers and local communities on initiatives to identify, prevent and mitigate potential terrorist attacks and other threats to company personnel and facilities. Our facilities are compli.ant with the: •	Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards •	Maritime Transportation Security Act •	Hazmat Transportation Security requirements •	International Ship and Port Facility Security Code •	U.S. Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism standards •	Maritime Transport and Facilities Security Regulations (Australia) •	All other applicable governmental security requirements We maintain a Tier Three status in the Customs-Trade Part.nership Against Terrorism program by demonstrating effec.tive security that exceeds the minimum program criteria. Our program examines categories of company procedures intended to maintain the integrity and security of the international supply chain. This effort is conducted through on-site visits and procedural reviews by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials who assess the overall effective.ness of our security processes. We remain an active, participating member of the Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC), with the ConocoPhillips Chief Security Officer presently fulfilling the private sector co-chair position. We are also a founding member and leadership board member of the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC). Additional security programs and initiatives include: •	Security vulnerability assessments •	Journey management •	Contraband searches •	Due diligence investigations •	Threat analysis •	Workplace violence prevention •	Emergency evacuations •	External investigations •	Information protection •	Facility security plan development •	Security training •	Site access control and monitoring •	Technical counter surveillance •	Personnel protection •	Special events security SAFETY & HEALTHSafety Data SheetsSafety data sheets provide procedures for handling or working with substances in a safe manner. They provide valuable information about the chemical makeup of toxic substances, as well as how to store and properly dispose of toxic substances. 