LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERSConocoPhillips recognizes how important it is to deliver reliable and affordable energy to the world, but that we also have to do so in a sustainable way. We agree with expert analyses that show natural gas and oil will remain an important part of the evolving energy mix for decades to come. Our commitment is to demonstrate leadership in the production of these resources by being competitive both financially and with our environmental and social performance. A critical part of our leadership includes engaging with stakeholders — employees, partners, shareholders and communities near our operations — to address climate-related risks and other environmental and social interests.We have a clear and effective sustainable development governance structure that extends from our board of directors and Executive Leadership to our field operations. Our management system approach supports this structure with policies, standards and practices to assess environmental and social risks and incorporate them into our planning and decision.making. As we continue to transparently report our performance, we will also engage on the development of effective reporting frameworks on climate and sustainability-related business risks.We use a range of carbon-constrained scenarios to evaluate the future, while we continue to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations. In 2017, we took an important step to reflect this priority by announcing a target to reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 5–15 percent by 2030. This target is consistent with our commitment to demonstrating sustainable development leadership.This report explains our strategic approach to assessing and managing environmental and social business risks and details 2017 performance across our operations. Our SPIRIT Values, approach to sustainable development, and dedicated people will position our company for future success and ensure that we remain a good environmental steward and trusted member of communities across the globe.Chairman and CEO Ryan LanceAbout ConocoPhillipsAlaska“Understanding the ecosystems in which we operate is critical to designing and operating facilities that have the least impact on the environment.” Environmental Studies Coordinator Robyn McGheeHouston“Announcing a long-term GHG emissions intensity target is part of our plan to competitively address climate-related business risk.” Climate Change Director Malcolm FawcettHouston“The knowledge we acquire from each produced water recycling project and lessons learned from piloting innovative technologies from our global production labs have accelerated development of fit-for-purpose solutions for reducing business risks and addressing local community concerns around water usage, treatment and disposal.” Water Processing and Staff Engineer Ramesh SharmaProductionEmployees1,37711,400Thousandbarrels of oil 
equivalent per dayGHG EmissionsSafety20.60.16Million Tonnes CO.eTotal
Recordable RateCanada“Instead of just funding efforts, we have been actively engaged in working with the community to help them put processes in place to enable program sustainability beyond our financial contributions.” Senior Stakeholder Engagement Coordinator Chantale CampbellIndonesia“It’s important that we recognize and respect the culture of the communities where we work. When we understand communities’ priorities and concerns, and they understand the work we do, we can incorporate their input into our planning to reduce the potential for negative impacts on the community and our business.” Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Adjie SuryaningratAustralia“We spent years meeting with communities, including fishermen, who may be impacted by our operations, working to understand and address their concerns.” Barossa Project Director
Pat DinanExplorationProductionHeadquartersExploration and ProductionCapital ExpendituresTotal Spend with SuppliersDividends Paid$7.41$1.3$4.6BillionBillionBillionOperating ResponsiblyBy applying a systematic approach to identifying, evaluating and managing risks across our operations, ESG performance is integrated
with our business planning.OUR APPROACHOur ApproachOutstanding people, strong leadership and effective governance are key foundations for our business opera.tions. The value of our company lies in responsibly and competitively accessing, developing and producing natural gas and oil to help meet growing global energy demands.Our values are exemplified by performance as a safe and responsible community member, environmental steward and employer. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance is important to company success and a key component of our long-range planning process. Engagement and transparent reporting and disclosure of how we minimize and mitigate risks associated with our operations is a key concern of our stakeholders and a top business priority.Sustainability governanceWe have clear and effective governance structures in place throughout the company that are supported by policies, standards, practices and guidelines. Our corpo.rate governance oversight structure includes the board of directors and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and is outlined on our website. The Public Policy Committee of the board of directors, currently comprised of independent directors, oversees our positions on public policy issues, including climate change, and evaluates and monitors social, political, operational, technical and environmental trends and risks that could affect the company’s business activities and performance. The committee makes recommendations to the board and monitors compliance with the compa.ny’s programs and practices regarding health and safety protection and environmental performance, including climate change, water and biodiversity management; business operations in sensitive countries; government relations and political contributions; human rights and social issues; and corporate philanthropy. It also approves the budget for political and charitable contributions, and monitors compliance with these plans. The committee convenes at least quarterly and is comprehensively updated on sustainable development (SD) perfor.mance at least annually.We have ELT champions for key issues in sustainabil.ity: overall implementation, stakeholder engagement, human rights, climate change, water and biodiversity. Strategic planning, goalsetting, implementation perfor.mance, and reporting are reviewed by the Sustainable Development Leadership Team (SDLT), Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team (HSELT), and stake.holder engagement leaders comprised of senior func.tional and operational leaders from across the business. There is a steering committee of internal environmental experts that advise the HSELT on key issues in more detail and depth.Our shareholder resolution process provides investors the opportunity to raise ESG concerns with our leadership. While we take those concerns seriously and respect the right for shareholders to file resolutions, we find it is most productive to engage when an issue is identified and shared early.Managing sustainability riskOur system of company-wide standards, practices and guidelines ensures comprehensive risk management of the environmental and social aspects of our operations in support of corporate objectives. Through integrated planning and decision-making, we identify and priori.tize SD risk, develop mitigation plans, track performance against our goals, and adjust our plans as we learn and conditions evolve. Depending on the risk, this is managed at a corporate level or local business unit (BU) level. Existing production and planned exploration activities are examined against the physical, social and political settings of our operations to assess potential risks. Our Sustainable Development Risk Management Practice is a mandatory, auditable process that guides sustainability-
related risk management and integrates a risk register into operating plans. BUs and major projects are required to conduct regular assessments to identify significant risks and document and track mitigations for inclusion in company-wide action plans. Key risks are categorized based on potential consequence and likelihood to deter.mine the relative priority of the risk. Action plans addressing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, stakeholder engagement, water and biodiversity have been part of our risk management process since 2009. Actions focus on improved performance that responsi.bly addresses long-term risk. The action plans include details about our commitments, related responsibilities, resources and milestones that are annually tracked and reported. Our SD risk register and action plans are used to track performance and guide goal-setting.Local environmental and stakeholder matters related to our operations and projects are assessed and managed at the BU level, enabling each BU to tailor region-specific action plans to address the unique challenges and opportunities of their operations. Additionally, other local concerns may influence the potential importance of these environmental and stakeholder matters includ.ing long-term risks and cumulative impacts. Examples of these concerns are water management and land-use agreements with indigenous peoples. Other risks and opportunities are assessed and managed at the corporate level, including many climate-related risks outlined in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) final report along with other emerging frameworks such as the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We manage these risks through our climate change strategy and engage.ment with key stakeholders, including investors and the financial sector. By identifying major, cross-cutting risks and trends, we can closely link action plan efforts to focus on key performance issues and address identi.fied risks. This also creates a link to the company-wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system which, like significant SD risk and mitigation actions, is shared at the board level. Business ethicsOur reputation and integrity depend on each employee, officer, director, and those working on our behalf maintaining personal responsibility for ethical business conduct.Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, along with our SPIRIT Values, provides clear direction to all employees, contractors and suppliers about how to behave ethically and in accordance with our policies and standards. The code covers a range of topics, including business ethics, human rights, anti-trust, anti-corruption, gifts and enter.tainment, and political involvement. Our Global Compliance and Ethics team, led by our Chief Compliance Officer, helps ensure regulatory adherence and prevents potential risks and liabilities. This team sets the expectations and tone for an ethical work environ.ment. We provide web-based training periodically to all employees and require annual confirmation of com.pliance with the code. We encourage employees and contractors to ask questions and seek guidance about ethical concerns and to understand their responsibility to report actual or suspected misconduct. We have several confidential reporting mechanisms for employ.ees, contractors, shareholders and the general public. To create an environment where we can report suspected violations without fear, our company does not tolerate retaliation of any kind. In 2017, we received guidance requests from employees and stakeholders across all our businesses, investigated concerns, and took appropriate action. Depending on the scale and type of concern, issues are elevated to provide appropriate management level oversight. Learn more about our approach to
business ethics and conduct.Prioritizing reporting topics Our sustainability reporting focuses on the ESG issues that matter to our business and our stakeholders. To select content for our 2017 sustainability reporting, we used a process involving: Identification: Through our risk assessment process as well as meetings and discussions with key stakeholders, we identified and gained an understanding of important topics. We also received feedback on our 2016 report and considered international reporting guidelines and rating agency survey questions. Prioritization: Subject matter experts from key functions in our organization then provided further insight and prioritized topics based on level of interest or concern to key stakeholders and strategic importance to the company. We validated these priorities in our ongoing engagements with external stakeholders. Final prioritization: Topics with the highest priority are included in the annual sustainability report. Foundational information with additional details is also on the website. Our annual report and financial reporting also include environmental and social risks when they reach a “material” level as defined by regulatory requirements. Information about issues deemed material to our investors may be found in our Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. In 2017, we included energy efficiency as a priority issue and reframed our water priorities to include produced water disposal.OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR APPROACHSustainable development risk managementAdjust, innovate and continually improveCorporate/company-wideSD risksBusiness unit
SD risksTrack and
assess actionsSD risk register
including risk rankingCommunicate to SDLT, HSELT, executive leadership team, board of directorsAction plansClimate, water, biodiversity, stakeholder engagementOPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR APPROACHPriority reporting topicsEnvironmental	PageGHG emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13Methane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14Energy efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16Carbon asset risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16Carbon policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17Water sourcing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19Produced water disposal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21Sensitive environments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24SocialStakeholder engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41Community impacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41Local content . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43Human rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44Indigenous peoples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50GovernanceGovernance process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5Business ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6Transparency and corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6Workforce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8Safety and health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33Learn more about our stakeholder priorities and engagement.WORKFORCEWorkforcePriority issuesWorkforceHuman rightsSafety and healthOur employees drive our success. From learning and development opportunities to our wellness programs, we invest in our employees to strengthen our organization.At year-end 2017, we had 11,400 employees in 17 coun.tries. This reflects a 14 percent decrease from 2016, driven primarily by asset dispositions. Diversity and inclusionOur workforce is made up of talented people from differ.ent backgrounds and experiences that reflect the global communities in which we live and work. Diversity and inclusion are foundational to our SPIRIT Values. We believe each person is accountable for creating and sustaining an inclusive environment. We actively monitor diversity on a global basis, including representation of women in leadership roles. Forty percent of our board of directors, 26 percent of our employees and 21 percent of our leaders are women. Ongoing education and training reinforce the impor.tance of inclusion at all levels of our organization. All employees have access to resources, including uncon.scious bias training, and can participate in multiple employee networks. Our senior leaders develop, share and track progress on inclusion action plans. Many locations create their own programs, such as inclusion workshops and discussion groups in Alaska, supervisor sessions in Indonesia and leadership training in the U.K. These are in addition to the company-wide training avail.able to all employees.In 2017, the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index recognized us for our commitment to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender equality in the workplace. We are one of five oil and gas companies earning a 100 percent score and the only independent energy company to receive the recognition.Employee networksOur 11 global employee networks support our diverse workforce. In 2017, more than 5,000 employees partici.pated in various chapters across several countries. Open to all employees, these groups provide personal and pro.fessional development opportunities, coordinate com.munity and volunteer projects, and enable employees to share their views on critical topics. All networks increased their membership during 2017. One of the most active groups, the Women’s Network, expanded to include a chapter in Indonesia. 2017 was a milestone year for several networks. It marked the 30th anniversary of our Black Employee Network. As our first network, this group laid the foundation for future networks. The Houston Hispanic Network celebrated 25 years of meaningful contributions to the company and the community. Over the years, it has provided a platform to showcase members’ different backgrounds, talents and perspectives. One of our newest networks, the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Allies Network, celebrated its fifth anniversary in 2017. The network supports equality of opportunity and expe.rience while providing a forum where employees can engage and develop.Learning and developmentInvesting in our employees helps to maximize our company’s performance. Our employees have access to ongoing learning opportunities and challenging work assignments so they can realize their individual potential. We attract, develop and retain employees through a combination of on-the-job learning, formal training, and feedback and mentoring.In 2017, our employees completed more than 268,700 hours of virtual and in-person training. Many of our business units also hosted development months to promote continuous learning. More than 6,300 corpo.rate, Lower 48 and Alaska employees participated in 129 development sessions to enhance their business acumen and expand their skillsets. Twenty-four of these were taught on Alaska’s North Slope. Supervisors have an important role to help drive employee development and performance. In 2017, we launched a frontline supervisor development curric.ulum to enhance our leaders’ ability to engage and develop their employees. Global courses focus on proactive communication, employee development, and building trust. Our 17 Talent Management Teams (TMTs) review employee development and career progression by skills and location. Each TMT includes senior representatives from business units and corporate organizations. These representatives are the interface between leaders, supervisors and employees. In 2017, our petrotechnical TMTs developed a toolkit that provides resources for supervisors and employees to use in career development conversations. The toolkit offers illustrative examples of technical and supervisory roles available for career pro.gression as well as role definitions and descriptions.Benefits and wellnessWe understand the many responsibilities our employees have outside the workplace. Our benefits are tailored by country to meet individual and family needs. Many of our locations offer flexible work schedules, enabling employees to take days off for working addi.tional time each day. Working parents across the globe have a variety of options to help them balance family and work responsibilities. We updated our U.S. parental leave policy in 2017 to provide fathers, birth mothers, adoptive parents and partners with two weeks of 100 percent paid leave following birth or adoption. This change also extends to birth mothers who already receive maternity leave, allowing them to now have up to 10 weeks of 100 percent paid leave.  Our wellness programs promote physical wellbeing by focusing on preventive care, regular exercise, good nutrition and effectively managing chronic diseases. Global employees take part in our Know Your Numbers campaign, which includes biometric screenings to assess indicators that may point to serious conditions.Many of our locations offer programs to support mental wellbeing. At our Surmont facilities in Canada, employ.ees can participate in resiliency sessions, where they talk openly about mental health. All employees and families have access to our Employee Assistance Program, which provides no-cost counseling to help navigate through various life events. Special sessions were available after Hurricane Harvey in Texas to help employees manage the emotional impact and remain resilient in the months following the disaster.OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WORKFORCECelebrating at the BEN 30th Anniversary GalaGlobal employee networks Asian American Network Black Employee NetworkDiversity NetworkGlobal Support Staff NetworkHispanic NetworkLesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Allies NetworkNative American NetworkNew Hire NetworkParents NetworkPatriot NetworkWomen’s NetworkOPERATING RESPONSIBLY WORKFORCE“Over the last 30 years, I’ve seen first-hand the benefits our networks provide. They help new employees transition from college to the business world, allow us to hear different perspectives both in and outside of the company, and push each of us with personal and professional development opportunities.”.Commercial Senior Analyst Ron JulunMembers of our Australia-West Women’s Network volunteered with Food Rescue to help pack, sort and distribute food boxes to people in need in Western Australia.OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WORKFORCEOther resourcesSPIRIT ValuesDiversity & InclusionCode of Business Ethics and
ConductIn 2017, we implemented a U.S. parental leave benefit to provide fathers, birth mothers, adoptive parents and partners up to two weeks of 100 percent paid leave following the birth or adoption of their child.94%of our Malaysia employees participated in our Know Your Numbers health campaign. 100%of our Qatar employees participated in our global Energy in Action! challenge, a friendly competition that promotes physical activity. 77%of U.S. employees participated in our Health Improvement Incentive Program and collectively lost more than 2,500 pounds. 