PEOPLE & SOCIETY  Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan Overview:   The 2014 - 2016 Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan brings together work streams on stakeholder and community engagement, social issues and human rights. While the Company has been strongly focused on these areas for many years, the goal of the Action Plan is to foster continuous improvement, consistency and alignment as we further operationalize our Human Rights Position and Stakeholder Engagement Principles.   Adapting the structure used for the Climate Change, Water and Biodiversity Action Plans, the Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan solidifies and articulates key areas for continued and future strategic action. The Plan involves all of the major businesses, as well as new ventures and supporting corporate functions, such as Sustainable Development, Health, Safety & Environment, Investor Relations & Communications, Supply Chain, Technology & Projects, Public Policy, and Government Affairs.   Context for Action:  Stakeholder Engagement Principles  Due to the size and scale of our company, as well as the nature of our business, ConocoPhillips stakeholders have unique and evolving expectations. We proactively engage with them to learn their expectations of us, and then incorporate what we learn into our business plans and actions. This process fosters an environment of trust and mutual respect. Through work with industry associations, participation in multi-sector forums, and dialogue with socially responsible investors, we’re gaining diverse and valuable perspectives as we continuously improve our sustainable development programs and initiatives.  ConocoPhillips' stakeholder engagement activities are an integral part of our sustainable development commitments. Our major businesses have engagement strategies which vary according to the nature of the local community. In dispersed communities, we identify key stakeholders and engage with them face-to-face to ensure that our activities are understood and that we consider their feedback. In regions where there are opportunities to bring local stakeholders together, we work with multi-stakeholder groups in a similar way.   This approach is embedded in our SPIRIT Value of Integrity, which states that we are ethical and trustworthy in our relationships with stakeholders. Expanding on the value of Integrity, our Principles for Stakeholder Engagement:   • Proactively identify and seek out key stakeholders early in the business endeavor. • Include these key stakeholders in the design and implementation of the engagement process. • Listen in order to understand stakeholders’ interests, concerns and culture.  • Communicate openly. • Seek solutions that create mutually beneficial business and engagement approaches that also build long-term value for both the company and our stakeholders. • Follow through on our commitments and stand accountable for the results, both internally and externally.   Stakeholder engagement is also integral to how we go about implementing or “operationalizing” our commitment to human rights. From business unit engagement strategies, and peer-to-peer best practice sharing, to participation in investor and industry forums, our approach to engaging stakeholders reinforces and advances our human rights work.  Human Rights Position  The ConocoPhillips position statement on human rights includes our intent to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The position also states our commitment to participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.   Governments have the primary responsibility for protecting human rights. ConocoPhillips believes business has a constructive role to play to advance respect for human rights throughout the world as do Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and other representative groups in civil society.   We recognize the dignity of all human beings and our core values embrace these inalienable rights for all people to live their lives free from social, political, or economic discrimination or abuse.    Our Focus & Expectations  ConocoPhillips will conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.   Our intent regarding human rights is also reflected in our Purpose and Values and in our business ethics policy and health, safety and environmental policy. These policies address how we conduct our business with respect for people and the environment, accountability and responsibility to communities, and ethical and trustworthy relationships with our stakeholders. We will maintain ongoing discussion with government, NGO and other business stakeholders through our participation in the Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security. The company’s approach to engagement with indigenous communities, in locations where they are an important stakeholder group for our operations, is consistent with the principles of the International Labour Organization Convention 169, concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.            Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan:   In each of these focus areas, business units and functions have committed to specific actions.  The full plan includes over 75 actions across the company with clear accountability to drive performance goals. Deliverables from the 2014-2016 Action Plan include continuous improvement plans and goals including:  • Implement new Company guidance in conducting issue and stakeholder mapping and planning for new ventures  • Implement stakeholder relationship management software to enhance and refine stakeholder and issue mapping  • Develop social issues performance indicators, expanding on existing implementation indicators (based on implementation management systems) • Continue regular dialog with socially responsible investors and civil society on key sustainability  issues and identify emerging topics for further dialog  • Launch updated computer based human rights training for stakeholder engagement, social issues and sustainability practitioners across the company  • Launch updated sustainable sourcing tools and training to key procurement professionals across the company  • Building on current Lower 48 stakeholder engagement plans, develop several asset specific integrated stakeholder engagement plans for Lower 48 • Continue stakeholder engagement plan for Alaska citizens with a focus on the North Slope and continue to maintain relationships with Chukchi villages  • Advance stakeholder engagment efforts for Alaska LNG project   • Complete and implement Community Engagement Framework designed to deepen engagement and collaboration with local communities in Canada, including aboriginal communities   • Develop enhanced and expanded aboriginal awareness training for Canada  • Roll out Sustainable Development awareness training for offshore assets in the United Kingdom  • Complete and implement indigenous content and engagement strategy in Eastern Australia in consultation with Port Curtis Coral Coast Traditional Owners regarding participation, capacity and capability development • Develop and implement a Stakeholder Management Plan for Australia Business Unit East including transition from project construction to operations • Expand stakeholder engagement with Timor-Leste by demonstrating our commitment to achieve an increase in local content   Performance:  While our Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan is new, our work on Stakeholder Engagement and Human Rights has produced meaningful results over the past several years. Some highlights include:  • Development and implementation of stakeholder engagement plans for all operating businesses, and key operated exploration programs  • Development and external reporting of implementation management systems indicators for stakeholder and community engagement, indigenous communities and human rights • Regular annual reporting on implementation of our security and human rights program and activities  • Strengthening of company guidance on social issues and stakeholder engagement in our Health, Safety & Environment Due Diligence process   • Incorporation of Stakeholder Engagement module into HSE core curriculum required for all HSE professionals  • Creation of new company guidance on stakeholder engagement preparation and planning for exploration and new ventures  • Implementation of human rights training for key project and operational leaders and practitioners utilizing our customized training built from the 2008 IPIECA training tool kit • Integration of international frameworks on the rights of indigenous peoples into our Human Rights Position and related business unit assessments • Establishment of ongoing engagement program with socially responsible investors and members of civil society • Ongoing execution of functional excellence through the Stakeholder Engagement Network of Excellence and Stakeholder Engagement Working Group comprised of practitioners and leaders from across the company   For additional information on our performance, please see the People & Society section of this report, as well as several regional sustainability reports for details of our business unit activities and results on social issues.   We look forward to sharing key results of the 2014-2016 Stakeholder Engagement Action Plan in future reports.   Implementation Management Systems:  Further details on our approach to implementation can be accessed from the following links, which provide a concise view of the business practices, processes and tools we use to implement our Human Rights Position and Stakeholder Engagement Principles. These practices also reinforce our commitments to Benefit Communities, Work Ethically, and Be Transparent and Accountable. For additional detail on the processes and tools noted in these sections, see Integration of Sustainability into Business Processes.  Human Rights:  http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/respecting-human-rights/Pages/default.aspx   Security & Human Rights:  http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/respecting-human-rights/Pages/voluntary-principles-on-security-and-human-rights.aspx   Community & Social Investment:  http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/benefiting-people/Pages/default.aspx   Engaging with Communities:   http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/engaging-stakeholders/engaging-with-communities/Pages/default.aspx   Indigenous Communities:  http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/engaging-stakeholders/indigenous-peoples/Pages/management-systems.aspx  Working with Suppliers:  http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/working-with-our-suppliers/Pages/default.aspx    Respecting Human Rights The ConocoPhillips position statement on human rights includes our intent to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.  Embedding Human Rights Into Business Processes Section link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/respecting-human-rights/Pages/default.aspx   The ConocoPhillips position statement on human rights includes our intent to conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The position also states our commitment to participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. In addition, the company’s approach to implementing our human rights position incorporates key elements of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.   Management Systems This table provides a concise view of the business practices, processes and tools we use to implement our human rights position. For additional detail on the processes and tools noted in the table see the section on Integration of Sustainability into Business Processes. Human Rights Due Diligence  Focus Area  Management Systems  Impact Assessment  • The company has performed a high-level human rights risk assessment (by country) of its global operations using externally provided human rights risk assessment tools to identify countries of focus for deeper level evaluation of potential human rights issues. Key areas include: security and human rights; land use/relocation; indigenous issues and rights; company and supplier labor standards; access to water; and vulnerable groups. • Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) assess human rights issues where appropriate. • Sustainable Development Scorecards are completed for capital projects including an analysis of human rights issues, and are updated through project phases. • The New Country Entry process evaluates human rights issues and risks. • Human rights risks are identified as part of corporate authorization guidelines for new ventures. • Business unit Stakeholder Engagement and Social Performance plans incorporate assessment of human rights issues, as appropriate.  Integration  • Human rights issues are incorporated into Capital Projects and HSE management systems (using a “Plan, Do, Assess, Adjust” approach). • Human rights issues are incorporated into the HSE Due Diligence Standard guidance. • Business units and functions collaborate on human rights due diligence processes and share best practices through working groups and Networks of Excellence. • Business unit, asset or project Stakeholder Engagement plans incorporate an assessment of human rights issues as appropriate, and project Social Performance plans also address such issues as appropriate. Where business units maintain separate social performance plans, human rights issues are also addressed.  Tracking (Issues, Actions)  • Human rights issues are tracked at business unit, asset or project level and communicated internally as appropriate based on human rights risks identified at a country level. • Potential human rights risks or issues are identified and evaluated periodically through business unit, asset or project level risk assessments. • Community concerns or grievances related to company activities or human rights are tracked at business unit, asset or project level as appropriate, including responses and resolutions. Mechanisms include community or stakeholder  relations contact points at the business unit level, and ConocoPhillips Ethics hotline and email address.  Communication & Training  • Our Human Rights position and its implementation are communicated internally and externally. • Training and guidance on human rights concepts, company approach to due diligence and implementation resources are provided to identified leaders and practitioners and made available to all employees through the company’s intranet and “Networks of Excellence.”  Grievance Mechanisms   • Where appropriate, business units, assets or projects have communicated with and engaged communities and their representatives on how to contact the company, and how to address any concerns or grievances. In addition, all interested stakeholders may access the ConocoPhillips Ethics Helpline to report a potential violation of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which is publicly available on our website. • Stakeholder relations staff is in close contact with communities and engage in regular two-way dialogue. • Stakeholder relations staff has a process in place to respond to concerns or grievances in a timely manner. • Mitigation measures are informed by issues or concerns identified through engagement with communities or other stakeholders. • Incident management and tracking systems incorporate elements to capture incidents or “near misses” related to the safety and security of company personnel and directly impacted communities.   Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is integral to how we go about implementing or “operationalizing” our commitment to human rights. From business unit engagement strategies, and peer-to-peer best practice sharing, to participation in investor and industry forums, our approach to engaging stakeholders reinforces and advances our human rights work. Indigenous Communities We recognize and respect the choice of indigenous communities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships with the land. Wherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring.   Training and Awareness Our approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools. We’ve adapted and applied a human rights tool kit developed by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), and rolled out training to new employees, key functions and leaders. We’ve also focused our Stakeholder Engagement Network of practitioners on further integration of sustainable development commitments into business planning and processes. Human Rights Training and Awareness  ConocoPhillips adapted the training tool kit developed by IPIECA and incorporated a human rights module into our sustainable development training materials. Functional areas that have participated in these education sessions include business development, major projects, project risk and review, and leadership development, as well as the sustainable development coordinators for our Exploration and Production business units. Our human rights position also is incorporated into a sustainable development training module for new hires. We continue to support the IPIECA social responsibility working group and human rights project. As an example, the social responsibility working group held a pilot workshop to encourage companies to use IPIECA's suite of social responsibility guidance tools, including the Human Rights Training Toolkit.  ConocoPhillips led the task force that developed the workshop and then hosted the event. The company will continue to participate in IPIECA’s broader work on human rights due diligence and grievance mechanisms, including learning programs, and the development of guidance materials that can be applied within ConocoPhillips.  Labor Issues As outlined in our human rights position, ConocoPhillips has committed to conduct its business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, which includes the core labor standards related to non-discrimination, freedom of association, and avoiding the use of forced or child labor.  Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights ConocoPhillips has been a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights initiative since its inception in 2000. As a participating company, ConocoPhillips is committed to supporting and promoting the Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights in its operations. This commitment is aligned with our company’s human rights position and our related implementation activities.  Our annual report to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights details our current practices as well as provides updates for the year 2012.  Security and Human Rights Management Systems  This table provides a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to security and human rights.  Security & Human Rights  Focus Area  Management Systems  Risk Assessments  • The company has performed a high-level security & human rights risk assessment of its global operations using externally provided human rights risk assessment tools to identify countries of focus for our security and human rights efforts. • The New Country Entry process evaluates security & human rights issues and risks. • Security & human rights risks are identified as part of authorization guidelines for new ventures.  Contracts with Security Providers  • The company has conducted research related to security providers with proven good track records on human rights. • Contracts with security providers contain language pertaining to the contractors’ responsibilities regarding security & human rights.  Training for Security Providers  • Contractors are provided with training on security & human rights and related responsibilities and expectations.  Stakeholder Outreach  • The company participates in outreach with key stakeholders on security & human rights as appropriate; may include national, regional or local governmental organizations, public security forces, non-governmental organizations or local civil society, communities and/or other companies in the region.  For additional detail on the processes and tools noted in the table, see the section on Integration of Sustainability into Business Processes in the "Our Approach" section.  California Transparency in Supply ChainsConocoPhillips recognizes that slavery and human trafficking are crimes under state, federal and international laws. We also recognize slavery and human trafficking likely exist in every country, including the United States, and the State of California. ConocoPhillips is committed to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010. Read more about California’s Transparency in Supply Chains.  Economic Transparency & Reporting Section Link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/respecting-human-rights/Pages/economic-transparency-and-reporting.aspx  ConocoPhillips endorses transparency in the extractive industries. We are also a participating member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which seeks to ensure that natural resource wealth is an engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction. See our Economic Transparency & Reporting Position. We remain actively involved in the EITI process and implementation in participating countries in which we operate. Currently, three participating countries where we operate have achieved full EITI compliance – Timor-Leste, Nigeria and Norway. We also have operations in Indonesia, which has committed to EITI principles, and is considered a candidate for EITI membership. We currently cooperate with the Indonesian government in its EITI validation efforts. ConocoPhillips is also engaged in exploration activities in Azerbaijan and Senegal, EITI compliant and candidate countries, respectively. When we have assets in new countries, we will work to promote transparency and accountability with those governments.  Please note that in 2013 ConocoPhillips completed the transaction for the sale of its 8.4 percent interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement (Kashagan) located in Kazakhstan. Additionally, ConocoPhillips entered into an agreement to sell its Nigerian business in 2012. The proposed sale, which is subject to approvals, is expected to close in 2014.  EITI requires the public reporting of payments to governments. (See related information on the Dodd-Frank Act.) Such reporting requirements take into account host-country laws and the terms of contracts under which such revenues are accrued. Further information on EITI-compliant countries or the EITI-committed countries where we have production can be found below.  Timor-Leste  As the largest extractive-industry investor in Timor-Leste and operator of the major Bayu-Undan natural gas production project, ConocoPhillips took an active leadership role in helping Timor-Leste move toward and reach its goal of EITI validation. Timor-Leste achieved its goal of being an EITI-compliant country in July 2010 and is now one of 18 EITI-compliant countries. This achievement is the result of years of cooperation within the EITI multi-stakeholder working group, comprising representatives from government, civil society and industry.  From the early stages of Timor-Leste’s extractive industries, associated revenues have been made publicly available via quarterly and annual Petroleum Fund reports, prepared in accordance with EITI criteria and published by the Timor-Leste Banking and Payments Authority and the Ministry of Finance. In addition to complying with statutory obligations regarding payment and reporting of taxes and royalties, ConocoPhillips provides details of Timor-Leste tax payments to the independent auditors of the Petroleum Fund to assist in the verification of payments made to the fund and public reporting of this information. The country’s most recent EITI Reports covering 2010 and 2011 were published in December 2012. The Timor Leste EITI Multi Stakeholder Group (MSG) has commenced discussions and preparations for the 2012 and 2013 EITI Reports, to be conducted in line with the new EITI Standard.  Nigeria  The EITI Board designated Nigeria as EITI-compliant in March 2011. Nigeria was accepted as an EITI candidate country in September 2007 and submitted its final validation report to the EITI Board in June 2010. The country published EITI audit reports for 2009, 2010 and 2011 in January 2013.  In 2007, the Nigeria EITI (NEITI) was established by law to promote transparency principles. Per this law, NEITI is governed by the National Stakeholders Working Group (NSWG), which is comprised of government, civil society, and community and industry representatives. The law gives the NSWG the authority to develop policies and standards to be applied by NEITI and provides for audits to start the process. These continuing audits provide information to the NSWG in its role as the governing body for NEITI. The audits produce detailed data on payments of the Petroleum Profits Tax (PPT) and physical volumes of production/throughput. As a part of the process, auditors review company financial statements and PPT returns, along with additional information necessary for reconciliation. ConocoPhillips has participated fully in these audits and will continue to do so.  Please note that ConocoPhillips entered into an agreement to sell its Nigerian business in 2012. The proposed sale, which is subject to approvals, is expected to close in 2014.  Norway  Norway was accepted by the EITI Board as EITI-compliant in March 2011. Norway will request to be revalidated in 2016. Norway was accepted as an EITI candidate country in February 2009 and became the 25th implementing country.  In July 2009, Norway formalized its multi-stakeholder group, passed EITI regulation into law, and began its first report. All extractive companies, including ConocoPhillips, and relevant governmental agencies operating in Norway were required to report all of their tax, license and royalty payments and receipts by August 2009. The first Norwegian EITI report was published in January 2010, and a 2011 report has also been filed. Norway published its 2012 EITI Report in December 2013.   Indonesia  Indonesia announced its desire to become an EITI candidate country in 2009 and was designated as such by the EITI board in October 2010. ConocoPhillips has taken an active role in Indonesia’s effort to achieve EITI-compliant status.   The first EITI Report covering 2009 was published in May 2013. Indonesia completed validation in July 2013, and in October 2013, the EITI Board concluded that Indonesia has made meaningful progress in implementing the EITI. The Indonesia EITI Multi Stakeholder Group (MSG) is currently working on the 2010 and 2011 EITI Reports which are expected to be published by June 2014. The national secretariat publishes regular EITI newsletters providing an overview of progress on their website. Community and Social Investment  Section Link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/benefiting-people/Pages/default.aspx As one of the world’s largest independent exploration and production companies, ConocoPhillips is proud to be involved in the communities where we operate. We contribute to the well-being of these communities through charitable giving, volunteerism, and civic leadership. In 2013, our charitable cash contributions totaled approximately $50 million, and we provided assistance ranging from disaster relief after flooding and fires in North America, to working with the Norwegian People’s Aid to remove land mines in Angola. For the eighth consecutive year, the ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservation program focused on protecting, restoring and improving the habitats of migratory birds. The company also continued its focus on education, providing assistance to organizations globally, like the Spark Engineering Camp in Australia. Finally, the company participated in nine United Way campaigns around the world, raising more than $8.6 million in employee, retiree and company contributions. Management Systems The indicators below provide a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to community and social investment. Community & Social Investment  • Alignment with Company Focus  • The company has a strategic focus for charitable giving and community investment including key focus areas.  • Project Sustainability  • The company’s approach to selecting projects or programs and managing giving and social investment promotes project/program sustainability and “self-sustaining models.”  • Needs Assessments  • Business units, assets or projects seek to understand needs and assets of local communities to inform social investment plans.  • Community Benefit  • The company strives to understand or measure results of charitable giving and social investment.  • Company Volunteerism  • The company has a comprehensive employee volunteer program in place.  • Company Cash and In-Kind Giving  • The company has programs for in-kind and cash contributions.   The company’s global charitable investments focus is on five key areas:  • Education • Health and Safety • Natural Resources • Arts, Civic and Social Services • Disaster Relief At the business unit level, our social investment initiatives reinforce our community engagement efforts in locations where we are active. We seek to understand community needs, as well as community assets. Our business units seek to support projects or initiatives that can help to fill needs where appropriate, or help communities to build on their own assets where those opportunities exist. We also believe that programs and projects that can be sustained over the longer term and that have multiple avenues for funding have the best chance for success. For this reason, our approach to community and social investment promotes project and program sustainability and “self-sustaining” models. For more information on the projects and programs we support, visit Community Investment. Positive Economic Impacts Our global operations contribute substantially to social and economic development in the communities in which we operate. For example, our direct economic contributions during 2012 included:  • Jobs – ConocoPhillips employed approximately 16,900 employees around the world.  • Taxes – Our operations generated $11.5 billion in income and other tax revenue to governments. • Shareholder dividends – ConocoPhillips common stock yielded $3.3 billion in cash dividends.  • Capital investments – ConocoPhillips reinvested $14.2 billion in capital expenditures and investments to find new energy supplies.  • Payments to various vendors and suppliers for products and services:  o $7.4 billion for production, operating and exploration expenses o $1.1 billion for selling, general and administrative expenses Note: Taxes, capital investments and payments represent amounts for continuing operations only.  Engaging Stakeholders  Key Stakeholders  Employees – We initiate dialogue with our employees and seek their input in our day-to-day activities. In addition, we offer numerous opportunities for employees to provide their thoughts on the company, including opinion surveys, town hall meetings and one-on-one employee development discussions. We routinely conduct an employee opinion survey, which typically yields a high employee participation rate. The information gathered through such surveys helps management address issues that are important to employees, including safety, environmental preservation, and employee compensation and retention.  Shareholders – We communicate financial and operating performance with our shareholders through company reports and Securities and Exchange Commission filings, annual shareholders meetings, quarterly earnings releases and conference calls, and presentations to securities analysts. Further, we make Internet links to these events and other information available on our website. Our annual proxy statement provides a full listing of formal requests filed by shareholders, and we maintain a process for shareholders and interested parties to communicate with the board of directors. We also engage with investors on a range of sustainable development topics through ongoing dialogue, meetings, conferences and discussion forums.  Governments – We engage with local, state or provincial, and federal governments in the key areas of public policy and regulatory oversight that affect existing and future company operations and business. In certain circumstances, we work with governing bodies and regulatory agencies and engage in proactive exchanges of information. Major areas of interest for government stakeholders are taxation, environmental and economic issues. ConocoPhillips endorses the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, which seeks to ensure that revenues paid to governments by companies working in resource-rich countries contribute to sustainable development and poverty reduction. Read further information on our economic transparency statement.  Communities – Wherever we operate, our major projects and business units engage with local communities in a variety of ways, including consultations on specific projects, public forums and community investments. The company has various organized groups and programs that engage the community to discuss issues and concerns. Although specific areas of interest for communities can vary widely, recurring themes include the availability of employment and other economic opportunities, local environmental issues such as air and water impacts, emergency response procedures, and the company’s contribution to local social investment. Customers, suppliers and contractors – The most common avenue for communicating with these stakeholders is our secure extranet site where business partners can access financial information, interactive processes and fuel-purchasing procedures. In addition, they also can contact us through the ConocoPhillips website by submitting email questions and feedback. To maintain and strengthen relationships with long-term customers and suppliers, the company initiates frequent conversations, correspondence and meetings. As an example, our regular and informative interactions with suppliers cover topics such as our long-term needs, on-site performance expectations and our position and requirements concerning diversity, ethics and other sustainability issues.  As with our employees, we believe safety is the most important issue in our work with contract workers. We address this in our operations by working with contractors on various comprehensive safety training and educational programs. Other organizations - We connect with various stakeholders and industry peers through active involvement in several sustainability-related partnerships. Visit the Reporting and Transparency section to learn more.  We continuously review our approach to engaging corporate-level stakeholders and identify additional activities that may provide better opportunities to communicate with key stakeholders. Engaging with Communities  Our strategies to fulfill our stakeholder engagement principles vary according to the nature of the local communities. In dispersed communities, we typically identify key stakeholders and work with them one-on-one. When our assets are near concentrated populations, we join or create collaborative forums to connect with multiple stakeholders. We also work with stakeholders on the local and state or provincial levels. Management Systems The table below provides a concise view of the business practices that support our commitment to community engagement and our Stakeholder Engagement Principles. For additional detail on the processes and tools noted in the table see the section on Integration of Sustainability into Business Process in the “Our Approach” section.  Community Engagement  • Focus Area  • Management Systems  • Engagement Planning  • Community engagement and consultation is incorporated into business unit, asset or project stakeholder engagement plans. Plans include an assessment of key issues and community needs or assets where appropriate.   • Social Mapping  • Business units, assets or projects may perform social or stakeholder mapping as part of Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) or as stand-alone assessments as appropriate. This is evaluated on a case-by-case basis.  • Impact Assessments  • ESIAs assess community impacts, and include mitigation measures for community impacts. • As part of ESIAs, communities are engaged regarding potential issues and concerns, as well as preferred mitigation measures.  • Addressing Community Concerns  • Business units, assets or projects communicate with and engage communities and their representatives on how to contact the company and best ways for them to raise any concerns. • Community relations staff are in close contact with communities and engage in regular two-way dialogue.  • Community relations staff has process in place to surface, track and respond to concerns or grievances in a timely manner and to develop appropriate mitigation measures.    Alaska  Section link:   http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/engaging-stakeholders/engaging-with-communities/Pages/alaska.aspx ConocoPhillips is Alaska’s largest oil producer and has been a leader in helping to improve the quality of life in the communities where we live and work. Employees in Alaska contribute on average 6,000 hours each year serving non-profit organizations and represent the industry on many multi-stakeholder boards. Since 2000, the company has given more than $100 million to hundreds of Alaska-based nonprofits across the state, funding programs that support education, social services, the arts, civic and youth groups, and the environment.    We also actively consult with North Slope communities to help protect their subsistence resources and to share information about current and planned operations. Through our involvement with local residents, we support community projects and provide economic opportunities, while minimizing impacts from operations on local residents and the environment. Environmental baseline studies are conducted in all potential areas of new operations as well as conducting detailed monitoring of existing operations. And new projects are subject to some of the most rigorous permitting and public review processes in the nation.   We respect the rich culture of Alaska Native peoples and work diligently to build inclusive, honest and respectful relationships with our stakeholders, particularly with our neighbors who live nearest our operations. We support community projects and provide economic opportunities while minimizing impacts from operations on local residents and the environment. We meet frequently with North Slope community leaders and residents to get feedback on our operations and gather local and traditional knowledge to help protect their subsistence resources and to share information about current and planned operations. For example, we consult with the subsistence hunters in the village of Nuiqsut by meeting at least twice a year with the Kuukpikmuit Subsistence Oversight Board and employing Subsistence Representatives to monitor our ice road activities each winter.  We also consult with the NPR-A BLM Subsistence Advisory Board and marine mammal co-management groups such as the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission and input is incorporated where possible in project operations.   We have robust environmental study programs at existing operations that include air monitoring stations; caribou, bird and fish surveys; hydrology studies; lake water quality and recharge monitoring; subsistence hunting studies; and tundra rehabilitation. Extensive environmental baseline studies are conducted in all potential areas of new operations. New projects are subject to some of the most rigorous permitting and public review processes in the nation.    U.S. Lower 48 Section link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/engaging-stakeholders/engaging-with-communities/Pages/lower48.aspx   "Stakeholder Engagement early and often" has been the mantra for the Eagle Ford Stakeholder Relations team, resulting in productive working relationships with local communities. In 2013, Stakeholder Relations met with over 1,000 landowners by hosting open houses and information sessions. This team also developed close relationships with county judges, local officials and emergency response coordinators, and supported and participated in local festivals, fairs and events in key counties where we operate.   Eagle Ford stakeholder engagement is managed through customized meetings and individual attention to stakeholders. We believe a more personal approach creates an environment of transparency and courtesy when working with stakeholders. We hired a local resident and community leader to provide real-time feedback on community issues and to assist with understanding local community needs. We work with the Department of Public Safety to address increased volume of trucks and traffic in the rural communities near our operations. We also collaborate with other operators in the area to manage priority issues in the communities. Indonesia Section link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/engaging-stakeholders/engaging-with-communities/Pages/indonesia.aspx  Regular stakeholder engagement with local communities has contributed to improving relationships and building community support in the areas in which we operate. We have developed partnerships with regional universities and local business associations where, together with the community, we have developed environmental strategies incorporating local practices. In 2009-2012 we conducted major safety campaigns involving various aspects of our operations. These campaigns were designed to increase public safety awareness around our river barging, pipeline right-of-ways and offshore platforms. We also conducted public safety campaigns in local communities, schools and with neighboring companies on pedestrian, driving and motorcycle safety.  Through this program, we reinforce our company’s safe operations and promote the sustainability of local stakeholders’ quality of life. Economic Transparency & Reporting Section Link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/respecting-human-rights/Pages/economic-transparency-and-reporting.aspx  ConocoPhillips endorses transparency in the extractive industries. We are also a participating member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which seeks to ensure that natural resource wealth is an engine for sustainable economic growth that contributes to sustainable development and poverty reduction. See our Economic Transparency & Reporting Position. We remain actively involved in the EITI process and implementation in participating countries in which we operate. Currently, three participating countries where we operate have achieved full EITI compliance – Timor-Leste, Nigeria and Norway. We also have operations in Indonesia, which has committed to EITI principles, and is considered a candidate for EITI membership. We currently cooperate with the Indonesian government in its EITI validation efforts. ConocoPhillips is also engaged in exploration activities in Azerbaijan and Senegal, EITI compliant and candidate countries, respectively. When we have assets in new countries, we will work to promote transparency and accountability with those governments.  Please note that in 2013 ConocoPhillips completed the transaction for the sale of its 8.4 percent interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement (Kashagan) located in Kazakhstan. Additionally, ConocoPhillips entered into an agreement to sell its Nigerian business in 2012. The proposed sale, which is subject to approvals, is expected to close in 2014. EITI requires the public reporting of payments to governments. (See related information on the Dodd-Frank Act.) Such reporting requirements take into account host-country laws and the terms of contracts under which such revenues are accrued. Further information on EITI-compliant countries or the EITI-committed countries where we have production can be found below. Timor-Leste  As the largest extractive-industry investor in Timor-Leste and operator of the major Bayu-Undan natural gas production project, ConocoPhillips took an active leadership role in helping Timor-Leste move toward and reach its goal of EITI validation. Timor-Leste achieved its goal of being an EITI-compliant country in July 2010 and is now one of 18 EITI-compliant countries. This achievement is the result of years of cooperation within the EITI multi-stakeholder working group, comprising representatives from government, civil society and industry. From the early stages of Timor-Leste’s extractive industries, associated revenues have been made publicly available via quarterly and annual Petroleum Fund reports, prepared in accordance with EITI criteria and published by the Timor-Leste Banking and Payments Authority and the Ministry of Finance. In addition to complying with statutory obligations regarding payment and reporting of taxes and royalties, ConocoPhillips provides details of Timor-Leste tax payments to the independent auditors of the Petroleum Fund to assist in the verification of payments made to the fund and public reporting of this information. The country’s most recent EITI Reports covering 2010 and 2011 were published in December 2012. The Timor Leste EITI Multi Stakeholder Group (MSG) has commenced discussions and preparations for the 2012 and 2013 EITI Reports, to be conducted in line with the new EITI Standard. Nigeria  The EITI Board designated Nigeria as EITI-compliant in March 2011. Nigeria was accepted as an EITI candidate country in September 2007 and submitted its final validation report to the EITI Board in June 2010. The country published EITI audit reports for 2009, 2010 and 2011 in January 2013.  In 2007, the Nigeria EITI (NEITI) was established by law to promote transparency principles. Per this law, NEITI is governed by the National Stakeholders Working Group (NSWG), which is comprised of government, civil society, and community and industry representatives. The law gives the NSWG the authority to develop policies and standards to be applied by NEITI and provides for audits to start the process. These continuing audits provide information to the NSWG in its role as the governing body for NEITI. The audits produce detailed data on payments of the Petroleum Profits Tax (PPT) and physical volumes of production/throughput. As a part of the process, auditors review company financial statements and PPT returns, along with additional information necessary for reconciliation. ConocoPhillips has participated fully in these audits and will continue to do so.  Please note that ConocoPhillips entered into an agreement to sell its Nigerian business in 2012. The proposed sale, which is subject to approvals, is expected to close in 2014. Norway  Norway was accepted by the EITI Board as EITI-compliant in March 2011. Norway will request to be revalidated in 2016. Norway was accepted as an EITI candidate country in February 2009 and became the 25th implementing country. In July 2009, Norway formalized its multi-stakeholder group, passed EITI regulation into law, and began its first report. All extractive companies, including ConocoPhillips, and relevant governmental agencies operating in Norway were required to report all of their tax, license and royalty payments and receipts by August 2009. The first Norwegian EITI report was published in January 2010, and a 2011 report has also been filed. Norway published its 2012 EITI Report in December 2013.  Indonesia  Indonesia announced its desire to become an EITI candidate country in 2009 and was designated as such by the EITI board in October 2010. ConocoPhillips has taken an active role in Indonesia’s effort to achieve EITI-compliant status.  The first EITI Report covering 2009 was published in May 2013. Indonesia completed validation in July 2013, and in October 2013, the EITI Board concluded that Indonesia has made meaningful progress in implementing the EITI. The Indonesia EITI Multi Stakeholder Group (MSG) is currently working on the 2010 and 2011 EITI Reports which are expected to be published by June 2014. The national secretariat publishes regular EITI newsletters providing an overview of progress on their website. Stakeholder Engagement Network In 2004, ConocoPhillips established an internal Stakeholder Engagement Network to enable employees, who have a wealth of different experiences, to learn from each other and share their insights into working with our stakeholders and implementing our sustainable development commitments. The network offers an online discussion forum. Participants can seek advice from their peers and access a library of member-posted examples of stakeholder engagement in action. The library also offers tools from external resources. In 2011, the company updated the Stakeholder Engagement Network charter and articulated a business case with specific goals. The Stakeholder Engagement Network provides an opportunity for the company and stakeholder engagement and social issues practitioners to:  • Continuously improve integration of stakeholder engagement principles, sustainable development commitments, and our human rights position into business planning and processes.  • Collaborate on the development of strategies and approaches to stakeholder engagement, social issues and human rights. • Share best practices and tools to enhance quality and consistency of stakeholder engagement and raise awareness of links between local and global issues and stakeholders. • Evaluate and update stakeholder engagement, social issues and human rights tools and procedures.  • Enhance the professional development of practitioners.  • Enable non–stakeholder engagement professionals in their engagements with communities and other external stakeholders. Indigenous Peoples  Indigenous Communities We recognize and respect the choice of indigenous communities to live as distinct peoples, with their own cultures and relationships to the land. Wherever our operations neighbor with indigenous communities, we seek to partner and engage with them to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring. Areas where we explore or operate near these communities include the United States, Canada, Australia, Indonesia and Russia. Our approach to such relationships is governed by national laws of the countries in which we are working, our own positions on sustainable development and human rights, and our core SPIRIT Values. In addition, there are several internationally recognized codes of conduct that outline the measures that should be taken to ensure respect for the rights of indigenous peoples. We strive to ensure that our actions meet the spirit of those codes, which cover company activity, engagement and consultation with indigenous groups, minimizing impact from resource development, identifying socioeconomic development opportunities, and respecting the local environment and culture. For example, the Canadian Constitution recognizes and affirms the existing Aboriginal and treaty rights of Aboriginal peoples in Canada. The Crown is obligated to consult with Aboriginal peoples in good faith. Before an oil and gas project can proceed on Crown land, the Crown must determine, through consultation, whether the project has the potential to impact existing Aboriginal and treaty rights. The Crown must also determine how to balance the broader societal benefits of the project, with the potential impacts to Aboriginal and treaty rights.  In practice, the Crown often delegates the duty to consult to industry. The balance and understanding of Aboriginal and treaty rights, and the Crown’s fiduciary obligations, continue to be tested and defined through court decisions. As these issues are debated and challenged in court, the role of industry continues to evolve and be redefined. Ongoing devolution, the gradual transfer of authority from the federal to Aboriginal governments and unsettled land claims add further complexity.  Management Systems Focus Area  Management Systems  • Consultation & Agreement  • Business units, assets or projects identify indigenous groups for consultation on company activities that may impact them. Participatory methods of engagement are sought wherever possible including capacity building of indigenous communities to engage in a participatory manner. • Business units, assets or projects have plans in place to meet governmental requirements regarding consultation or formal agreement with indigenous communities, including recognized community leaders. • Business units, assets or projects conduct pre-engagement analyses to understand indigenous communities in areas of our activities, including their culture, decision-making structures, and methods of communication. • Business units, assets or projects develop plans that support culturally respectful consultation and engagement. • Indigenous communities are involved in the design of engagement and consultation. • Where governmental frameworks or requirements do not exist or are not clear as to requirements of companies to engage, consult or enter into formal agreements with indigenous communities, the company has put in place mechanisms for understanding indigenous group dynamics, traditional land use and preferences for engagement and consultation.  • Land Use Issues  • Business units, assets or projects have identified indigenous groups that may have a traditional claim to land where the company operates.  • Engagement and consultation plans address land claims or issues where appropriate. • Business units, assets or projects are prepared to address indigenous community concerns where appropriate, including making adjustments to plans in order to avoid interference with local livelihoods and traditional land use. Where appropriate, consultation with indigenous communities is conducted to determine what mitigation efforts will be most effective.  • Relocation  • If there is relocation related to company activities, roles and responsibilities of the government and the company are understood. • Should the company decide to move forward with a project or activity for which the government requires relocation, business units, assets or projects would meet related legal and regulatory requirements including consultation, agreement and/or compensation. Where applicable, these plans would consider non-financial impacts (e.g., cultural heritage of indigenous communities).   • Economic Development  • Business units, assets or projects identify opportunities to support economic development opportunities consistent with indigenous communities’ culture and community development plans.  • Environmental Conservation  • Business units, assets or projects carry out staff awareness raising efforts related to the value of natural resources to indigenous communities. • Business unit, asset or project plans include assessment of environmental impacts, and mitigation plans to offset or address environmental impacts affecting indigenous communities. • The company provides support for conservation initiatives.  • Cultural Heritage  • Business units, assets or projects understand the impacts of activities on cultural heritage. Mitigation measures are identified and implemented as appropriate. • Company personnel involved in indigenous relations receive cultural heritage awareness training. • Business units, assets or projects provide support for cultural heritage programs or projects as appropriate consistent with social investment plans.   Engagement and Consultation  Engagement and ConsultationWhen engaging with indigenous peoples, we seek first to understand their social hierarchy, culture and traditions, as well as their priorities, expectations and preferences for dialogue. We engage with indigenous communities at the regional, local and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional governments, community associations, and local leaders. These meetings provide an opportunity to share information on our plans, seek local input and learn the views of our neighbors before we undertake activities that could impact their community. For example, during the previous seismic program in Peru (2010-2012), communication prior to, during and after preparation of environmental impact assessments was crucial to the success we experienced with local groups there. We held required government-sponsored workshops in previously agreed-upon venues and used audiovisual aids to enhance our communications. We also filmed these early meetings so that we could assess our communication efforts and verify compliance. Additionally in Peru, we employed several people with ancestry and communication methods similar to these local groups. Thus, we were able to ascertain when members of communities were sufficiently prepared to assess and make informed decisions prior to signing the social license required to start our operations. And, based on analysis of social baseline cognitive maps developed from information gathered at these meetings, we identified and were able to avoid areas of the Tigre River used by the native people for traditional practices. In support of ConocoPhillips’ long-term interest in assets in the western Canadian Arctic, we continue working to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships with the communities near our assets in the Mackenzie Delta/Beaufort Sea region of Canada’s Northwest Territories. Our approach has been strongly influenced by aspects of the local culture, which is consensus-based and values established relationships among people. Examples of how we adapt our actions to better meet local expectations include: • Joint meetings held with local officials and the general public that allowed for open and inclusive dialogue. Participation of Calgary-based employees in Beaufort Delta’s community events. • Community investment that is based on community priorities. • Using multi-disciplinary consultation teams to answer various technical questions from concerned citizens during meetings. Further, we believe that we share a responsibility to support a skilled local work force, and indeed will benefit from doing so. This responsibility includes providing business opportunities to local individuals and companies and taking actions to preserve local culture. These actions reflect our corporate commitment to positively impact communities, and will contribute to a sustainable approach in developing Arctic resources. Minimizing Impact of Resource DevelopmentThe health, safety, environmental and social assessments that we conduct in association with new development projects, coupled with the input we gain from dialogue with indigenous groups themselves, help us identify any potential impacts our project may have on an indigenous community. As part of our impact assessment and dialogue process, we partner with representatives chosen by the potentially impacted indigenous communities in order to identify strategies that we should avoid or actions we can take to mitigate negative impacts. We seek to document the agreements we reach with indigenous communities regarding the impact of our activities and mitigation strategies. This documentation takes the form that best fits the local process and the indigenous community’s desire for engagement. For example, the documentation may be part of a permit proceeding or a separate Memorandum of Understanding with representatives chosen by the indigenous community. It also may summarize discussions held during our consultations with the indigenous community. The documentation can then be shared with the community’s chosen representatives to ensure mutual understanding about the agreement. Socioeconomic Development OpportunitiesIn all indigenous communities in which we operate, we seek opportunities for our presence to inspire socioeconomic development. Therefore, we partner with representatives chosen by the community to help identify programs that best fit local needs. We seek opportunities for members of the community to develop skills and become part of the project’s work force or supply chain. We also strive to help address social needs that can facilitate the community’s own development. It is important to ConocoPhillips that any efforts we work on together be owned by the community, and to help build capacity for the community members to take charge of their own future. With these goals in mind, we team with our business partners to evaluate ahead of time the challenges of implementing socioeconomic development programs and how we can improve the likelihood of their success. In these discussions, we seek to respect the community’s interest as to the balance they wish to achieve between maintaining their traditions and culture and participating in a cash-based economy. During our interactions, we learn lessons that help us improve our methodologies and communications. For instance, in Peru, communities in the direct area of influence of our blocks generally received compensation based on the respective total impact to the community as determined by the regulatory environmental impact assessment process. In the past, such financial resources have not been as successful as desired in encouraging sustainable development in these communities, as a majority of communities tend to distribute the compensation funds among its individual families. However, a unique experience transpired in the native community of Nuevo Canaan, the only community to invest in an optimal manner. The community chose to collectively purchase an outboard engine to help with transportation during medical emergencies, a photovoltaic-powered satellite television to help them learn about the world outside their society, and a satellite telephone system that is expected to generate other business opportunities. This is a great example of our how compensation based on community customs generated positive returns the broader community. Turning to Indonesia, we have successfully supported economic development opportunities for individuals in South Sumatera, Jambi and Riau Islands provinces. These include rubber plantation programs for local farmers and development programs in the fisheries industry. The development of small businesses and cooperatives has had a long-term positive impact on the local community. In the Riau province, we initiated the existence of mobile libraries that make rounds to public places such as schools, markets, and health centers, and have become for many, “the local library.” We also have participated in community programs that provide basic necessities for citizens such as electricity, clean water and sanitation. In Alaska, the 14-mile Nuiqsut Natural Gas Pipeline provides Nuiqsut residents with clean-burning natural gas to heat their homes. ConocoPhillips and its co-venturer in the Alpine field supply the pipeline with up to one million cubic feet of natural gas per day from the Alpine field as part of its land-use agreement with Kuukpik, the Nuiqsut Native Village Corporation. ConocoPhillips provides the gas to the community at no charge. The move to natural gas from heating oil dramatically lowers heating costs for the approximately 125 home owners in Nuiqsut while reducing the community’s ongoing GHG emissions and improving the overall health conditions related to air quality. The North Slope Borough financed the $10 million pipeline project. Indigenous Communities and EnvironmentWe recognize the special relationship indigenous people have with the land and natural environment. Further, we respect their unique knowledge in managing their local environment and conserving biodiversity. While assessing the impact of our operations, we actively seek to learn from the traditional knowledge of indigenous communities as we work with them to develop mitigation strategies to any potential environmental impacts.  In support of our Alaska Chukchi Sea environmental ecological study program, local indigenous subsistence hunters work side by side with western scientists as protected species observers providing traditional knowledge on the behaviors of marine mammals as well as ice and weather conditions. They also serve as Inupiat communicators working closely with the crews to avoid conflicts with subsistence activities. Also in Alaska, we provide financial support for community based traditional knowledge projects that seek to gather traditional knowledge to assist communities and industry with decision making and planning.  Additionally, we collaborate with the University of St. Andrews on the annual St. Andrews Prize for the Environment, which recognizes significant contributions to environmental conservation. Since its launch in 1998, it has attracted entries from more than 50 countries each year on diverse topics, including sustainable development in the Amazon rainforest, urban regeneration, recycling, health and water issues, and renewable energy. Indigenous Communities and CultureThe unique and long-standing culture of each indigenous group is a vital part of their community. We seek to honor those cultures by taking steps to learn about indigenous societies so that we know how to properly demonstrate respect in our relationships. Some of our larger businesses have cultural awareness training that is required at all levels of the organization. In many cases, our stakeholder engagement leaders and business leaders will educate themselves through mentors in the indigenous community or through the help of local experts. One example is ConocoPhillips’ participation in the Aseniwuche Winewak Nation (AWN) Cultural Camp in Canada. This camp is hosted by AWN leaders, elders and community members and is designed to increase understanding between industry and aboriginal peoples in whose traditional territories we work. Typically the camp is held for three days, during which participants listen to community leaders and elders speak about their relationship with the land and the cultural values by which they are guided. In Peru, our dialogue with the people of the indigenous communities was facilitated by the respect we showed their culture, world view and spirituality, property, possessions and customs. As a result, we were able to carry out both phases of exploration in our previous blocks as a welcomed guest in these communities based on frequent engagement and a solid relationship.     Working with Suppliers  Supply Chain Sustainability Section link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/working-with-our-suppliers/Pages/sustainable-procurement.aspx  The supply chain function contributes to the company’s sustainable development commitments by integrating Environmental, Social, and Governance (E,S, G) issues into our processes and procedures. This incorporates sustainability thinking into strategic sourcing, category management, supplier collaboration, our requisition-to-pay process, contracts, systems, and material management programs. We have developed Supplier Expectations, and communicated our position with internal stakeholders and with suppliers.  We have identified E, S, G questions to be used in bids and performance indicators, and will continue to enhance processes to identify and manage risks and foster supplier inclusion to increase productivity and efficiency within the supply chain.  US Supplier Diversity Section link: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/people-society/working-with-our-suppliers/Pages/supplier-diversity.aspx  In our US Operations, we do business with diverse companies and continue to give them access to business opportunities through our Supplier Diversity Program. This approach attracts very competitive suppliers, stimulates local economic development, and creates long-lasting social and economic benefits to our stakeholder communities. Through our Supplier Diversity program we actively participate in certifying and developing diverse and small local businesses in the United States.  We are active corporate members, with board representation, of the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and their affiliates in the regions where we operate.   If your company is categorized as a minority-owned, woman-owned or small business and you are interested in doing business with ConocoPhillips in the United States, feel free to register by submitting a supplier profile form.      