Public Policy EngagementWe believe that over the monthsand years ahead, governments Ñfederal, state/provincial and local Ñwill continue to act on climate-related risks. To succeed in a low-carbon economy, we must play aconstructive role in public policydialogue to devise practical,equitable and cost-e.ectiveapproaches to reduce greenhousegas (GHG) emissions and addressclimate-related risks. Our Climate Change Positionoutlines our principles of e.ectiveclimate change policy. Theseprinciples continue to guide our engagement on climate change policy in the United States, Canada, Europe,Australia and other countries in which we operate.  We work with trade associations, industry peers and other keystakeholders to develop and use best practices and in e.orts to align the policymaking process with our positionsand principles. Carbon Pricing PolicyWe believe:The Paris Agreement and public opinion trends will yet lead governments around the world to regulate and priceGHG emissions more stringently, and that our interests are best served by proactively engaging on climate-related policy. Climate-related policy action can support an orderly transition to a low-carbon economy, facilitate thedevelopment of carbon capture, use and storage, and reduce the overall risks associated with climate change. The most e.ective tool to reduce greenhouse gases across the economy is a well-designed price on carbonemissions. A revenue-neutral carbon tax that is transparent, predictable and cost e.ective to administer would be ane.ective policy option. Any carbon pricing mechanism should result in some relief via the elimination of other laws and regulationsaimed at reducing or controlling carbon and other GHG emissions. Any proposed tax should be revenue-neutral and used in such a way as to minimize economic impact.   The best way to regulate methane is through a price on carbon.  In the absence of that carbon price in the U.S., the economy-wide direct regulation of methane would bee.ective. We support well-formulated federal regulation of methane emissions from oil and gas exploration andproduction if that regulation:Encourages early adopters and voluntary e.orts.DRILLINGRECYCLEPRODUCEDWATER TREATMENTSOURCEWATER DISPOSALSTORAGE TRANSPORTSTORAGE TRANSPORTHYDRAULIC FRACTURINGHYDRAULIC FRACTURINGassess water quality prior to discharge to municipal systems, at each stormwater discharge point, and inside andoutside the discharge mixing zone in the receiving environment. Read more about our water management atAPLNG.  Oil SandsIn Canada, our Surmont oil sands operation uses recycled produced water, freshwater from low-quality groundwatersources and non-freshwater from brackish groundwater sources to create steam. Our freshwater sources have beendeemed by regulators as not high-quality freshwater due to low water quality, lack of connection to shallow aquifers,lack of local water stress and lack of use by local communities. Water management priorities for Surmont includeproduced water recycling and reducing freshwater use intensity. As a founding member of COSIA we are committedto the in-situ oil sands performance goal to reduce freshwater use intensity by 50%, from a 2012 benchmark, by2022. To date, the freshwater use intensity has been reduced by about 44% collectively by COSIA companies.OshoreWater management priorities for our Norway o.shore operations are treatment and water quality of dischargedproduced water. Norway operations treat produced water prior to discharge from o.shore platforms in accordancewith local regulations. No freshwater is used for o.shore operations, except for domestic purposes. Freshwater isused at the Teesside terminal, which receives natural gas, oil or natural gas liquids (NGL) from Norway o.shore .elds.Norway is our largest user of non-fresh water (seawater) for drilling and for EOR.  Our Norway operations surpassed their 2019 performance goal for oil in water concentration in produced waterdischarges of less than 10 mg/L. The 2019 value of 6.9 mg/L is more than four times lower than the regulatory limitof 30 mg/L. Potential impacts from produced water being discharged into the sea have been studied for more than20 years, including in situ water column monitoring. Based on current knowledge, the environmental risk ofdischarging produced water is very low.NotesFreshwater Consumption IntensityWe measure and track the freshwater consumption intensity for our unconventional, conventional and o.shoreassets. The 2019 freshwater consumption intensity for our unconventional assets in the U.S. (Eagle Ford, Delawareand Bakken) and in Canada (Montney) is 0.22 bbl/BOE EUR. This is a 20% reduction compared to 2018 due toramping up of produced water recycling in Delaware and the increased use of non-fresh groundwater sources in theEagle Ford.   The 2019 freshwater consumption intensity for our conventional (Alaska, Canada Surmont, U.S.Permian, LNG and Indonesia) and o.shore assets (Norway) is 0.05 bbl/BOE. The conventional/o.shore waterintensity remains relatively unchanged.  Freshwater Withdrawn in Regions with High Baseline WaterStressWe use the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas (Aqueduct tool) to assess our portfolio exposure to waterstress. The Aqueduct tool, also used by the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), measures the ratio oftotal water withdrawals to available renewable surface and groundwater supplies. Our Anadarko, Lost Cabin GasPlant, Niobrara, Permian Basin Central Platform and Alaska Kuparuk assets are located in basins with high orextremely high baseline water stress and accounted for 8.4% of our total freshwater withdrawal in 2019.  Regulatory de.nitions of freshwater can range from less than 1,000 to less than 4,000 milligrams per liter totaldissolved solids (TDS). Non-freshwater includes brackish/saline groundwater with ranges between 2,000 to more than 10,000 milligramsper liter TDS and seawater with about 35,000 milligrams per liter TDS. Produced water ranges from less than 10,000 to more than 300,000 milligrams per liter TDS. The sale of Niobrara assets was completed in 2020. Calculated using RS Energy Group data for the average volume of freshwater (bbl) divided by the averageestimated ultimate recovery (EUR, BOE) as of March 31, 2020. Intensity value may change as EUR data is updated. Calculated using the average volume of freshwater (bbl) divided by the average annual production (BOE).561234 56We contribute to the well-being of the communities in which we operate through charitable giving, employeevolunteerism and civic leadership. We believe the most e.ective charitable investments are made through strategicrelationships with organizations dedicated to serving our communities, day in and day out.We contribute to the well-being of the communities in which we operate through charitable giving, employeevolunteerism and civic leadership. We believe the most e.ective charitable investments are made through strategicrelationships with organizations dedicated to serving our communities, day in and day out.Our global giving budget is balanced across our signature programs, local contributions and employee programs.The budget is approved annually by the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors.Input and insight from business units are overlaid by uniform, global processes and policies to provide:Due diligence scrutiny of potential partners.Consistent project selection criteria and focus wherever we operate.Appropriate audits and document retention.Tracking and assessment of performance metrics and impact.Signature ProgramsSignature programs help unify our global giving around relevant themes and make our charitable investmentsprogram signi.cantly more impactful. Species and habitat preservation remain a primary focus of our global biodiversity signature program. In 2019, inpartnership with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), the ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservationprogram hit a milestone goal. Program investments since 2005 have resulted in conservation of more than 300,000acres of critical .sh and wildlife habitat. E.orts to better understand, track and protect animal migration e.ortsGlobal GivingHigher Education Ñ $2.3Health & Safety Ñ $1.5Social Services Ñ $3.9Arts Ñ $2.7Civic Ñ $7.0Local contributions Ñ $17.4Disaster relief Ñ $0.2University relations Ñ $6.5Signature programs Ñ $10.7Water and Biodiversity Ñ $5.8STEM Education Ñ $4.9Employee giving programs Ñ $9.1United Way Ñ $3.2Other Programs Ñ $5.9$43.92019 Global Charitable Investments Spend by Giving Pillar and Cause AreaIn Millions