Chairman and CEO Ryan LanceA Message from our Chairman and CEO2020 brought never-before-seen challenges to our industry and the world.The global COVID-19 pandemic resulted in personal, family and communityloss and distress and fueled an economic recession that impacted individualsand businesses. ConocoPhillips responded quickly at the outset of the crisis byestablishing multiple safeguards to protect workforce health, curtailing globalproduction, managing capital to preserve financial strength and maintainingour focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG) excellence and safeoperations.In late 2020, we acquired Concho Resources Inc. in a transaction that closed inJanuary 2021. We are now working to integrate Concho’s ESG programs withours and will report the integrated company’s performance in our 2021sustainability report.Stakeholder expectations to deliver both stronger financial returns and ESGand climate-related performance also continued to rise. These expectationsalong with our own commitments frame a triple mandate of sustainablymeeting global energy demand by investing in the lowest-cost resources,generating competitive financial performance and achieving a net-zerogreenhouse gas emissions ambition.Sustainability is core to ConocoPhillips and we see ESG excellence as a strategic principle. We have long recognized theimportance of leading on sustainability issues including climate change and we continue to address climate-related risk andopportunity. Building on previous operational GHG emissions reduction targets, we became the first U.S.- based oil and gascompany to adopt a Paris-aligned climate-risk strategy framework. Our commitment includes:Net-zero ambition for operational (scope 1 and 2) emissions by 2050 with active advocacy for a price on carbon to address end-use (scope 3) emissions.35–45% reduction target for operational emissions intensity by 2030.Zero Routine Flaring by 2030, with an ambition to get there by 2025.10% reduction target for methane emissions intensity by 2025, in addition to the 65% reductions we have made since 2015.Adding continuous methane monitoring devices to our operations with a focus on the larger Lower 48 facilities.ESG performance in executive and employee compensation programs.Combined with our focus on developing the lowest cost of supply resources, we believe this is an effective way for our company tosustainably contribute to society’s transition to a lower-carbon economy.ESG leadership also includes operating responsibly to safeguard the environment and create shared value for society. Our effortsencompass management of water use, protecting ecosystems and reducing community impacts related to operations, amongothers. For example, in the U.S. Permian and Canadian Montney areas we recycle produced water to reduce local fresh waterwithdrawals, the amount of produced water injected for disposal and the number of truck trips required to transport water. Weutilize a mitigation hierarchy to manage risks and operational impacts to biologically or culturally significant areas, and in the U.S.,under our proactive conservation strategy, we voluntarily conserve and restore biodiversity and habitats near our operations. Wecontribute to the wellbeing of the communities in which our employees live and work by creating jobs, investing in educationaland training programs to develop talent and utilizing local suppliers and service providers. All help build long-term communitysustainability.During 2020 we saw a renewed focus on social movements to promote race and gender equality, with notable examples such asBlack Lives Matter and the #metoo movement. Within our company, we viewed these events as catalysts to enhance our diversityand inclusion progress.ConocoPhillipsChairman and CEO Message   |Chairman and CEO Message   |Board Message   |SPOTLIGHTCoping with COVID-19Policies and PositionsPOLICIESCode of Business Ethics and Conduct (PDF)Health, Safety and Environment Policy Political Support Policies & ProceduresPrinciples of Environmental JusticeSupply Chain PolicyPolitical ContributionsSubstance Abuse Policy Supplier ExpectationsGlobal Tax PolicyPOSITIONSSustainable DevelopmentClimate ChangeWater SustainabilityHuman RightsBiodiversityDiversity & InclusionEconomic Transparency & ReportingRenewable EnergyHIV/AIDS ConocoPhillipsLearning and DevelopmentCompensation, Benefits and Wellness“In October 2020 we became the first U.S.-based oil and gas company to adopt a Paris-aligned climate risk strategy. Our objective is the sustainable success of our business through the energy transition.”— CHAIRMAN AND CEO RYAN LANCEResiliency Planning WorkshopsWe facilitate resiliency planning workshops in key BUs toidentify and assess the risks and opportunities associated withthe physical impacts of changing climate and the potentialtechnology and solutions to mitigate risks and take advantageof opportunities. These workshops are conducted on a periodicbasis to ensure that our operations have access to the most up-to-date science provided by qualified consultants to inform theirengineering and infrastructure decisions. Workshops were notconducted in 2020 due to COVID-19 restrictions.Climate-Related Risk AssessmentA climate-related risk assessment is conducted on any futureproject development that costs more than $50 million net and isexpected to emit more than 25,000 metric tonnes CO. equivalent(CO.e) net to ConocoPhillips during any year of its lifespan. This assessment is mandatory for investment approval. Project teams for qualifying projects are required to assess the potential risks and opportunities associated with GHG emissions, GHG regulation and a physically changing climate based on local jurisdictions and geographies as opposed to using our corporate scenarios. The climate risk assessment guidelines provide a framework for project teams to:Forecast GHG emissions for the life of the project.Evaluate climate-related risks and opportunities, including physical and transition risks that apply to the project.Make decisions on GHG emissions control in project design, including energy efficiency solutions, power source selection,emissions management, carbon capture and storage/utilization, and external compliance options such as the purchase ororigination of GHG offsets.Evaluate the potential cost of GHG emissions in project economics.We assess climate-related risks early in the project engineering stage to better inform our investment decisions and facility design.The ConocoPhillips Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Due Diligence Standard also provides further guidance on accountingfor sustainable development issues for new acquisitions, new business ventures, joint ventures and real property transactions. Project AuthorizationOur corporate authorization process requires all qualifying projects to include GHG pricing in their project approval economics.The base case for project approval economics now includes the higher of the forecast of existing regulations and the currenttransition scenario for that jurisdiction. Where there is no GHG price regulation, we use the current transition scenario for thatjurisdiction. We also run two sensitivities:With only existing carbon pricing regulations, to reflect near-term cash more accurately.With a sensitivity of $60 per tonne COe to act as a stress test to reduce the risk of stranded assets should climate regulationaccelerate.This ensures that both existing and emerging regulatory requirements are considered in our planning and decision-making.