ENVIRONMENT Lifecycle Thinking  Energy enables global economic development and human progress. Yet, it is not always clear how best to protect the environment, conserve resources and operate compatibly with neighbors while delivering the energy needed to realize these benefits. Energy companies, including ConocoPhillips, deal with these issues on a daily basis. How can companies make the best choices for the environment and communities? ConocoPhillips believes in using a systematic approach to understand these often complex issues. One tool in this approach is Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology – a tool to quantify environmental impacts and natural resource usage from project conception to completion. Having full understanding of project lifecycle impacts allows planners to make more informed decisions regarding the environment and natural resource use. It also allows comparisons between alternative approaches and competing technologies. To conduct an LCA, a company must, • Define the LCA goal, scope and boundaries. • Develop an inventory of all products, resources and emissions entering or leaving the boundaries. • Assess the benefits and impacts of products, resources and emissions leaving the boundaries. • Interpret the results. For instance, LCAs consistently find that electric power production from natural gas produces half the greenhouse gas emissions of coal when comparing total emissions across the entire life cycle, including fuel production, transportation and transformation into electric power.1 But how does liquefied natural gas (LNG) compare with coal? Applying systematic LCA methodology, the U. S. Department of Energy Technology Lab finds that LNG can provide a similar greenhouse gas reduction benefit relative to coal (up to a 45% reduction).2 LCA methodology provides important information to company planners so that potential impacts to the environment, natural resources and communities are considered as part of ongoing operating decisions. By taking this systematic lifecycle approach, ConocoPhillips can better understand and manage our environmental footprint.   1 U. S. DOE, NETL (2011), Deutsche Bank/Worldwatch Institute (2011), IHS CERA (2011), University of Maryland (2011) 2 U. S. DOE NETL, (2010)   Biodiversity  POD 1- ACTION PLAN  Pod 1a- Overview  Biological diversity, or biodiversity, is a term used to capture the concept of the world’s biological richness and variability. Biodiversity includes all populations and species of plants, animals and microbes that occur in nature, and the interactions within and between these populations that contribute to ecosystem function. Ecosystem functions provide essential services that support human needs such as food, shelter, clothing, medicines and fuel. Biodiversity can also have recreational, cultural, spiritual and aesthetic values. Biodiversity is critical in maintaining ecosystem health and human well-being. Protecting plant and animal species and ecosystems where we operate is an essential component of our health, safety, and environmental commitment. In the company’s biodiversity position, we make a number of specific commitments designed to conserve biodiversity as part of our commitment to systematically reduce the effects of our activities on the environment. Pod 1b- Context for Action  In support of our biodiversity position ConocoPhillips implements planning processes aimed at reducing or mitigating the effects of our activities on the environment and conserving biodiversity. We address biodiversity conservation as part of due diligence and other business processes. During the planning and development of major capital projects, we conduct environmental impact analyses, collecting key environmental data and implement mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and assure results.   We are continuously building our knowledge about the ecosystems in which we work and completed an internal study a few years ago to benchmark our performance compared to other extractive-industry companies and establish our baseline.   To increase internal awareness about biodiversity, a knowledge-sharing intranet site was created for ConocoPhillips employees. We conducted industry benchmarking to explore better ways to collect and manage our biodiversity data, including improved animal tagging and streamlined databases for key regions. Employees are encouraged to ask questions about challenges they encounter and to share project ideas for technology development in the area of ecosystems and land use. The intranet site also provides such resources as reference to global conferences and contacts to benefit its members.  We have been working on the quality and completeness of assessing, measuring, and monitoring our biodiversity risks at our operated assets.  Building on earlier work we have updated our Biodiversity Action Plan to address actions from 2014-2016.  The objectives and actions we will take are described in the Biodiversity Action Plan.   Pod 1c- Action Plan  Since releasing our public position on biodiversity we have continued to improve our understanding of our performance in biodiversity by undertaking peer comparisons and cataloging current challenges and activities. Our corporate biodiversity strategy focuses on implementing mitigation planning processes that conserve biodiversity for existing and future operations.   Some examples of the more than 25 deliverables from the 2014-2016 Action Plan are below which represent a mix on continuous improvement ideas and forward looking objectives including:   • Pilot test options for a biodiversity offsets program in Canada • Update Environmental Sensitivity Index Mapping for Indonesia offshore & onshore operations  • Continue to strengthen the Integration of biodiversity conservation principles in our business management systems • Completing  a marine environmental baseline studies program for key offshore  field development • Evaluate pilot testing  of biodiversity data sharing program in Alaska  Pod 1d- Performance In 2012 and early 2013, all major operated assets completed a business risk assessment for biodiversity. As an initial input into the assessment, our assets were plotted in the Conservation International biodiversity hot spots mapping layer of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association's (IPIECA) Global Water Tool for Oil and Gas and PROTEUS UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC).    Using the Global Reporting Initiative (a well-known sustainable development reporting guideline), IPIECA practices and internal expertise, we developed an internal risk framework to evaluate our assets. This framework provided a consistent methodology and common tool for evaluating risks. The process looked at a number of international, national and local risk elements and created a categorization of risks for the asset. The guidance and methods in the tool allowed us to get a relative risk for each operated asset. After completing the assessment, the business unit developed appropriate follow up action plans, which are now under review.    These internal assessments complement the other engagement we do in the area of biodiversity. Through our various programs and activities, we cooperate with local and international non-government organizations (NGOs) and government agencies and communities in conserving and protecting biodiversity and ecosystems services in the regions where we work. Through relationships with experts, we improved our ability to recognize and manage sensitive environments, avoid them where possible, or reduce impacts to a minimum in areas that we cannot avoid. We use local experts to monitor and advise our activities in proximity to such sensitive areas.   Pod 1e- Implementation Indicators  Our global businesses follow specific, well-defined processes that help manage sustainability issues as we begin a new venture, from the initial phases of identifying a potential opportunity through project development and operations. We are committed to the development of biodiversity management practices that conserve and protect biodiversity and ecosystems services and enhance the efficiency of our assets.  Starting in 2013, the biodiversity risk assessment framework that was developed for screening risks at assets will be integrated into the Sustainable Development scorecard. This tool provided a broad perspective on our risks around biodiversity and ecosystem services for our assets globally, helped further identify important issues and potential effects that should be considered, and allows for continued learning as the project progresses.  Examples of the work done can be seen in the Engaging Externally section.  Pod 2- BIODIVERSITY SUSTAINABILITY POSITION  ConocoPhillips will implement mitigation planning processes aimed at reducing the effects of our activities on the environment and conserving biodiversity. We will address biodiversity conservation as part of investment appraisal, and during the planning and development of major capital projects, by conducting environmental impact analyses, collecting key environmental data and implementing mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and assure results   Pod 3- UNDERSTANDING FOOTPRINT  We work closely with land owners and government authorities to manage our operations in a way that protects wildlife and ecosystems. Our planning processes incorporate studies on local wildlife and natural resources to identify potential impacts from our operations. We use the data to make necessary modifications, such as locating well pads and facilities outside nesting habitats, adhering to timing restrictions and reclaiming land by planting vegetation that provides forage for animals and birds. Reseeding with native plants during our land restoration work gives us the opportunity to make a positive change that will improve the landscape for generations to come.  • http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/reporting/reporting-statements/Pages/ernst-young-letter-of-assurance.aspx  Pod 4- MANAGING OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS  ConocoPhillips is dedicated to helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible and sustainable way. That means protecting people and communities, plants, wildlife and our land, air and water. To accomplish this, we follow a set of principles that guide our decision-making every day, at all of our sites around the world. ConocoPhillips applies technology and designs facilities to reduce its land impact and works diligently to restore former production sites in an environmentally responsible manner.  For more information, visit Power in Cooperation.  Taking Steps to Reduce Footprint Each major operated asset is required to complete a biodiversity risk assessment and develop a biodiversity action plan. These plans are designed to address the local risks identified. These plans may include monitoring, plans for engagement, or specific technology plans and are aimed at helping each asset appropriately manage the issue within the local context. Some examples of our business unit water management planning and actions may be found in the Canadian oil sands and in our Eagle Ford shale development work.  Technology  Over the last few decades, the use of horizontal and directional well drilling technologies has allowed us to access resources deep underground with less disturbance to land. this increases options to  drill multiple wells from a single drilling pad which reduces the equipment, roadways and pipelines needed to complete a project.  Our Alaska operations have reduced well pad significantly over time.  In the Eagle Ford area of Texas, we routinely place up to five wells on a single well pad that occupies only 12 acres of land, roughly half the acreage traditionally required for separate well pads.  Drilling multiple wells from one pad also minimizes the amount of time we are actively developing an area because we don’t have to move the drilling rig.  Oil Sands {hyperlink: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/common-questions/Pages/can-oil-sands-be-developed-responsibly.aspx ) We work to minimize impact on the region’s water and diverse ecosystems during the production of bitumen using a method called steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD).  A SAGD well injects steam into the reservoir to soften the bitumen and allow gravity to drain it into a producing well. The oil is then brought to the surface for further processing and sale. Since the facility is designed to recycle most of the water used, the SAGD technology allows us to minimize water use, energy intensity, air emissions, land footprint and waste generation. The SAGD process reduces disturbance of the surface, as it does not require surface mining or mined tailings ponds. Instead, SAGD uses a series of well pairs to extract bitumen. To reduce the land footprint of this equipment, our Technology group is working to increase horizontal well lengths and find alternative pad configurations, accessing more resource from less surface land.  Land disturbance is minimized through careful planning and implementation of best practices. Reclamation of disturbed sites is implemented through our Faster Forests program, which accelerates the reforestation of boreal forest through the planting of a suitable mix of native trees and shrubs. Habitat Restoration In many cases, where environmental monitoring or restorations comprise our action plans, we involve members of the local communities. For example, Potter Marsh, located within the Anchorage Wildlife Coastal Refuge, is one of ConocoPhillips’ signature SPIRIT of Conservation programs in Alaska. Recent project activities include habitat enhancement for migratory birds and fish, increased public access to wildlife resources, and educational outreach. ConocoPhillips has invested more than $2 million in Potter Marsh and has worked collaboratively with regulatory agencies and environmental non-profit organizations to advance the project.  Pod 5- MANAGING RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES  We follow widely accepted guidelines from IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) in our approach to biodiversity conservation. As a member of the IPIECA Biodiversity and Ecosystems Services Working Group, we develop tools and materials to help companies across our industry enhance their biodiversity conservation activities. As a founding member of the OGP's Sound and Marine Life Joint Industry Project, we support continued research to increase scientific knowledge on the possible impact that sound produced by offshore exploration and production has on marine mammals, fish, turtles, seabirds, invertebrates and other marine life.  We are also members of the OGP and are on the management committee for this organization. OGP companies, share information and develop guidance on safety, the environment, governance, fiscal transparency and corporate social responsibility. Additionally, we serve on the OGP Environment Committee.  Overview  Our global businesses follow specific, well-defined processes that help manage sustainability issues as we begin a new venture, from the initial phases of identifying a potential opportunity through project development and operations. We are committed to the development of Biodiversity management practices that conserve and protect resources and enhance the efficiency of land utilization at our facilities. Our oil sands development, Onshore Operating Principles, and natural gas operations offer examples of this commitment. Training and Awareness Our approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools. ConocoPhillips led the development of the IPIECA Global Water Tool which includes one of several potential biodiversity risk evaluation maps. We have adapted and applied the tools developed by these organizations through integration into our processes and training for key functions and leaders. We’ve also focused our Biodiversity Issues Working Group and biodiversity networks on further integration of sustainable development tools and commitments into business planning and work processes.  A biodiversity training module has been incorporated into HSE training. Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Assessments We systematically conduct assessments to identify how our business practices might affect communities and ecosystems in areas where project development is planned. Water assessments are included in this process as described in more detail in Our Approach under Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Assessments.  Biodiversity issues are included in our high level processes and where warranted by specific risk assessments. At the asset level, we continue to strengthen the consistency in implementation.  Biodiversity Risk Reviews In 2012 and early 2013, all major operated assets completed a business risk assessment for biodiversity. As an initial input into the assessment, our assets were plotted in the Conservation International biodiversity hot spots mapping layer of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association's (IPIECA) Global Water Tool for Oil and Gas and PROTEUS UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC).  Using the Global Reporting Initiative (a well-known sustainable development reporting guideline), IPIECA practices and internal expertise, we developed an internal risk framework to evaluate our assets. This framework provided a consistent methodology and common tool for evaluating risks. The process looked at a number of international, national and local risk elements and created a categorization of risks for the asset. The guidance and methods in the tool allowed us to get a relative risk for each operated asset. After completing the assessment, the business unit developed appropriate follow up action plans, which are now under review. These internal assessments complement the other engagement we do in the area of biodiversity. Through our various programs and activities, we cooperate with local and international non-government organizations (NGOs) and government agencies and communities in conserving and protecting biodiversity and ecosystems services in the regions where we work. Through relationships with experts, we improved our ability to recognize and manage sensitive environments, avoid them where possible, or reduce impacts to a minimum in areas that we cannot avoid. We use local experts to monitor and advise our activities in proximity to such sensitive areas.  Conservation Agreements Partnering with state government and industry peers over the past four years, ConocoPhillips has helped lead an unprecedented voluntary conservation effort to protect the habitat of the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard on federal lands in Texas and New Mexico. In 2012, we were part of an industry commitment of nearly 1 million acres to help the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service protect habitat for the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard in southeastern New Mexico. As a result, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service determined in June 2012 that the lizard does not need protection under the Endangered Species Act. "The voluntary conservation efforts of Texas and New Mexico oil and gas operators, private landowners and other stakeholders show that we don't have to choose between energy development and the protection of our land and wildlife. We can do both," said Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar when he announced the decision.  Marine Environments We carefully manage our marine water discharges. Our tanker operations, which typically move Alaskan crude to U.S. west coast refineries, are certified under the Washington Department of Ecology's Exceptional Compliance Program (ECOPRO). ECOPRO, a voluntary program for tankers and tank barges, recognizes operator commitment to environmental stewardship through compliance with standards exceeding regulatory requirements. Our fleet operations also comply with new vessel water discharge regulations. As part of the company’s emergency preparedness program, the company conducts drills in both land and marine environments. Additional information about those drills and our emergency response plans can be reviewed under Emergency Preparedness or Offshore Incident Prevention and Response Capabilities. Alaska's Cook Inlet   We believe it is important to balance our presence with responsible conservation measures to protect biodiversity. This requires dialogue between environmentalists, industry, government and other interested parties.   ConocoPhillips has long recognized that our ability to safely develop oil and gas resources in Alaska, particularly in Cook Inlet, is inextricably linked to the ability of all resource developers to minimize the environmental impacts and protect the subsistence way of life for native peoples. For more than 40 years, ConocoPhillips has successfully developed and produced gas in Cook Inlet waters occupied by the beluga whale.   The Cook Inlet beluga whale is currently listed as endangered under the Endangered Species Act and depleted under the Marine Mammal Protection Act. It is therefore afforded a high level of protection by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) as the agency works with industry, native subsistence hunters and others to conserve and ultimately recover the species to sustainable population levels. Understanding the reasons behind the beluga whale population decline is important to the industry and other stakeholders.   ConocoPhillips is a longstanding supporter of beluga whale conservation, management and research in Alaska. We support the conduct of sound science to assist with decisions on the management of marine mammals, not only for the continuation and growth of the population, but also to allow for future harvests by local Native hunters who rely on these animals as part of their subsistence diet. Pod 6- ENGAGING EXTERNALLY  Community engagement is integral to how we go about implementing or “operationalizing” our commitment to managing developments and addressing sustainable development issues, including biodiversity. Business unit engagement strategies, peer to peer best practice sharing, participation in industry forums, developing or implementing advances in technology and operating processes all enhance our ability to continue to responsibly develop hydrocarbons. For additional details, please see Shale Development. We recognize the special relationship local communities and indigenous people have with the land and natural environment. Furthermore, we respect their unique knowledge in managing their local environment and conserving biodiversity. While assessing the potential impact of our operations, we actively seek to learn from the traditional knowledge held by indigenous communities as we work with them to develop mitigation strategies to any potential environmental or socioeconomic impacts. We collaborate with the University of St. Andrews on the annual St. Andrews Prize for the Environment, which recognizes significant contributions to environmental conservation. Since its launch in 1998, the St. Andrews Prize has attracted entries from more than 50 countries each year on diverse topics, including sustainable development in the Amazon rainforest, urban regeneration, recycling, health and water issues, and renewable energy.  Additionally, ConocoPhillips has an annual grant process that awards grants to grad students doing avian research in Alaska. The Angus Gavin Migratory Bird Research Fund is named after our first ecologist in residence. SPIRIT of Conservation One of ConocoPhillips' environmental interests is conserving the natural habitat of migratory birds, an objective that has been among the company's philanthropic priorities since the 1970s. In 2005, ConocoPhillips founded the SPIRIT of Conservation Migratory Bird Program, an outgrowth of the company's long-working relationship with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF). The program strives to protect, restore and improve the natural systems and habitats upon which migratory birds depend for survival, and to benefit declining bird species.   Through its first 8 years, 55 grants have been awarded to 30 conservation groups in 12 states and 5 countries. Nearly 100,000 acres of priority bird habitats have been protected and restored. ConocoPhillips' cumulative contribution of $3.2 million has been leveraged by NFWF at better than 5:1, for a total on-the-ground impact of over $16 million.  Gulf Coast Bird Observatory In 1993, ConocoPhillips helped form a unique alliance of two conservation groups, three federal and state agencies and two petroleum companies to expand and improve habitat at High Island, Texas. Located approximately 60 miles south of Houston, High Island is one of the most important resting places for neotropical bird species as they migrate to the United States each year from Central and South America. Through the efforts of ConocoPhillips employees and corporate funding, the Gulf Coast Bird Observatory (GCBO) was created. It has expanded into a network of protected habitats across the Gulf Coast from Florida to Mexico.  The GCBO works to protect birds, habitat and birding areas along the Gulf of Mexico from the Florida Keys to the Yucatan Peninsula. Since 1993, ConocoPhillips has served as an annual sponsor for GCBO, donating nearly $500,000.  ConocoPhillips is involved in creating the partnerships necessary to acquire and maintain other GCBO sites throughout the Gulf Coast.  One of the four Houston Audubon Society's sanctuaries on High Island is the S.E. Gast Red Bay Sanctuary, named in honor of a retired ConocoPhillips employee who has been instrumental in the habitat improvement and public education at High Island.  Playa Lakes Joint Venture Established in 1989, the Playa Lakes Joint Venture (PLJV) was the seventh habitat joint venture to implement the goals of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. This public-private partnership is committed to the conservation of playa basins, saline lakes, marshes, riparian areas and associated watersheds through cooperative efforts with landowners. ConocoPhillips has been the lead corporate participant in the PLJV since its inception, providing in-kind support, employee expertise and has contributed over $2.2 million to projects. Playa Lakes Joint Venture and its partners have restored, enhanced or protected over 1.4 million acres of land within the western great plains.   Grants and partnerships with state and federal agencies, conservation organizations, corporations, communities and individuals have enhanced, restored or protected more than 100,000 acres of habitat.   The Playa Lakes Joint Venture takes in more than 50,000 wetlands known as "playas" across the western High Plains of the United States. There are more than 80,000 playas and they range in size from less than 1 acre to more than 100 acres.  Houston Audubon Society ConocoPhillips is a corporate supporter of the National Audubon Society. Founded in 1905, the organization is named for John James Audubon, a well-known bird expert, explorer and wildlife artist. The Society’s mission is to preserve and restore natural ecosystems, focusing on birds, other wildlife and their habitats for the benefit of humanity and the earth’s biological diversity. The organization’s national network of community-based nature centers and chapters, scientific and educational programs and advocacy on behalf of all sustaining important bird populations, engage millions of people of all ages and backgrounds in positive emulation experiences.   ConocoPhillips also is a corporate supporter of the Texas Audubon Society. Both as a corporation and through Gulf area employees, ConocoPhillips is an active participant in the work of Houston Audubon Society (HAS). HAS became one of the first environmental organizations in Houston in 1969. With nearly 4,700 members from 13 counties along the Upper Texas Coast, HAS is one of the largest Audubon chapters in the nation. In 1983, HAS purchased acreage at High Island in Galveston County, and more recently purchased Horseshoe Marsh on Bolivar Peninsula. These properties and significant additional acreage, including Smith Oaks, provide critical stopover habitat for thousands of neotropical songbirds that migrate along the Gulf of Mexico flyway from Latin America to breeding grounds in North America.   HAS’s sanctuary system includes nearly 3,000 acres and is still growing.  HAS programs include the High Island Initiative and the Gulf Coast Initiative, which have brought together advocacy groups, governmental agencies and corporations to establish the Gulf Coast Bird Observatory. More than 16,000 children and adults benefit from HAS education programs.  Wildlife Habitat Council Several projects taking place on ConocoPhillips’ properties indicate the enthusiasm and interest of employees in protecting and improving habitat for birds, as well as other wildlife. These projects are being carried out under the rigorous land management guidelines of the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), a nonprofit organization that helps landowners manage their properties in an ecologically sensitive manner for the benefit of wildlife.  ConocoPhillips’ sites participate in each level of WHC programming from habitat enhancement and environmental education to nest monitoring and community outreach. Each year, ConocoPhillips is proudly represented in WHC’s Corporate Homes for Wildlife Calendar, showcasing a particular site with a photo and brief description showing the great work being done on corporate land to enhance critical wildlife habitat. ConocoPhillips has the following WHC projects currently under way at company locations in Bartlesville, Oklahoma:  • The Hillside Wildlife Habitat Enhancement Area has been certified for habitat since 1991.  • The Eliza Creek Habitat Enhancement Project has been certified for habitat since 1999.  Wetland Foundation ConocoPhillips sponsors the America's WETLAND Foundation (AWF) established in Louisiana, and working throughout the Gulf region, was founded in 2002 in response to a comprehensive coastal study calling on the need to alert the nation to the devastating loss of Louisiana's coastal wetlands and how their loss impacts the rest of the nation.     For more information about AWF, visit their website at http://www.americaswetland.com  Water  POD 1- ACTION PLAN  Pod 1a- Overview  Our Water Sustainability Position states our commitment to developing management practices that conserve and protect freshwater resources and enhance the efficiency of water usage at our facilities. Results of our first companywide Water Action Plan (2009-2013) include indicators of implementation and data about our water use.  Our updated Action Plan (2014-2018) includes a diagram illustrating our comprehensive objectives for business practices, process integration, tool use and other actions to drive continuous improvement in our water performance. Successful water issues management includes conserving and protecting freshwater, optimizing water processing options in our operations, and addressing responsible operations in marine environments.  Our commitment to developing management practices that conserve and protect freshwater resources while optimizing the efficiency of water usage at our facilities guides our company’s strategic approach.  In addition to managing freshwater, the company is exploring ways to use non-fresh sources of water ranging from using brackish water to recycling produced water and recycling municipal wastewater. This type of water can pose difficult challenges and potential additional costs to the business, but are important considerations for innovation and for local aspects of water use.  Building awareness, skills, and sustainable and economical practices at a local level is crucial to our commitment to successful water management.   In addition, we carefully manage our marine water discharges.  Pod 1b- Context for Action  Almost half the world’s population is projected to be living under severe water stress by 2030. Projected population growth will increase demand for water – for personal use, sanitation, manufacturing, energy production and food production.  Possible impacts from climate change, including rising sea levels, declining water storage in the form of snow, glaciers and ice caps, and increasing droughts and floods, may impact water supplies. In addition, many of the proposed methods for producing low carbon and renewable energies are water intensive and their increased use could further increase competition for freshwater.  Although water is an important issue globally, the impacts on freshwater supply and water quality can be very local in nature. ConocoPhillips takes action to manage water in an environmentally sound and socially responsible manner, while cost-effectively addressing the short-term and long-term water related risks to our businesses.  Our first companywide Water Action Plan (2009-2013) was developed with the following priorities to understand the complete picture of our actions on water: • Meet our public commitment to conserve, protect, measure and monitor freshwater usage.  • Focus water assessment on assets that have the greatest impact. • Identify and develop opportunities linked to successful water management systems at a local level, and then share this knowledge with other assets.  • Develop, evaluate and implement technologies to reduce the environmental impact of the company’s freshwater footprint.  • Utilize the company’s Research and Development resources including the Global Water Sustainability Center to drive technology advances.  We have been working on the quality and completeness of assessing, measuring, and monitoring our freshwater usage at our operated assets.  Building on this earlier work, and following the spinoff of COP’s downstream assets in 2012, we have now updated our Water Action Plan to address actions from 2014-2018.  The objectives and actions we will take are described in the Water Action Plan.  Pod 1c- Action Plan  Building on our previous work, an updated corporate water Action Plan was developed.  This water Action Plan covers the four year period from 2014 to 2018 and targets advancing water knowledge and sharing information and best practices within the company.  The Action Plan groups the work into five focus areas shown in the Action Plan diagram.  In each of these focus areas, business units and functions have committed to specific actions.  The recently updated 2014-2018 Water Action Plan describes over 25 actions across the company in sufficient detail to drive clear accountability and performance including: • Further develop company guidance on baseline groundwater assessment • Implement water management plans and reduce fresh water use by 250,000 BBL through recycling of produced water and/or non-potable water for hydraulic fracture stimulation in our Permian assets in 2014 • Collaborate to set joint-industry water reduction targets for oil sands and contribute Surmont  1 and 2 data for aggregated reporting of industry performance • Finalize and implement a water technology strategy including the piloting of alternative water use pilots • Evaluate supply chain opportunities related to water sourcing, transportation, and disposal • Expand asset water data collection and metrics to understand data trends better, identify opportunities to optimize fresh and non-freshwater use, and provide additional insight into technical needs for the assets.  2013 was the first year for expanded data collection.  The increased data granularity can improve our internal awareness and support more targeted solutions. • Further integrate water into our long range planning process to allow us to assess possible risk scenarios. Pod 1d- Performance Highlights of our past performance results for the 2009-2013 Water Action Plan include:   • Completed water risk assessments at 100% of major operated assets to identify potential risks, using tools developed for more standardized risk evaluation.  ConocoPhillips was one of the drivers behind the consortiums which developed the IPIECA Global Water Tool {link] and the GEMI Local Water Tool {link}.   • Include water use and conservation considerations in operational optimization. The assessments highlighted ongoing development of technology and operational optimizations being done in the businesses.  One example is a 45% reduction in water use for well completions in our Eagle Ford assets which reduced costs, truck traffic and conserved water.   • Invest in technology for water:  One example is an investments in Salt Works Technology {http://www.conocophillips.com/what-we-do/innovating/technology-ventures/Pages/venture-capital.aspx}  More detailed reporting on results of our first Water Action Plan (2008-2013) are found in the Water Results and Integration Table in the 2013 Sustainable Development Report.  Pod 1e- Implementation Indicators  Some performance results related to increasing quality and consistency in implementation of water actions and integration of water into key company processes.  One important step has been to focus on water risk assessments and action plans for our major operated assets.  All major operated assets have completed a water risk assessment and water action plan.  • Implement water risk evaluation tools: results include use of the tools to better assess risks and options for mitigation in key assets.  Information from this work has been shared with regulators and other stakeholders.  Asset examples:  o Surmont 1 Oil Sands o Indonesia o North America • Complete Business Unit Water Action Plans.  o Canadian Oil Sands,  o Eagleford Shale Development • Connect contributions to important global water issues (link to water for people and charitable contributions pages).  Examples:  o Colorado School of Mines Water-Energy Education, Science and Technology (WE2ST) Center o Water for People o USBCSD Water Synergy Project o China By-Product Synergy Project including water supply conservation   Pod 2- WATER SUSTAINABILITY POSITION  http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/our-approach/living-by-our-principles/positions/Pages/water-sustainability.aspx Pod 3- UNDERSTANDING FOOTPRINT  Understanding our water footprint includes measuring our water use and performance related to conservation and reuse.  In addition to the results shared in the Performance and Implementation Indicators sections, our performance data on water can be viewed here:   • http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/reporting/performance-data/Pages/default.aspx#WATER • http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/reporting/reporting-statements/Pages/ernst-young-letter-of-assurance.aspx Pod 4- MANAGING OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS  Taking Steps to Reduce Water  Natural gas development outperforms many energy sources in using water efficiently. ConocoPhillips is committed to the continuous improvement of its operations in all areas where the quality and availability of this precious resource are involved. We focus on groundwater protection, proper handling of recovered fluids, minimizing the use of freshwater, and evaluating alternatives to fresh water use including saline water sources and recycling. Some examples of our work to preserve and protect water can been read below and more about the advantages of natural gas can be read on Power in Cooperation   In the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico, ConocoPhillips has reused 1.9 million gallons of water this year – the equivalent of a sheet of water 12 inches high spanning five acres. “This is very important in the desert southwest,” says Paul Marken, completions supervisor. “It means less freshwater is diverted from potential agricultural and municipal uses.”  This pilot project, which includes 10 wells, reuses the produced water that routinely flows from a well along with oil and natural gas. The water is separated and then trucked to a filtration site, where trace amounts of oil, solid carbonates, and other substances are removed. The filtered water is then hauled to a new well, located nearby, where it is reused for hydraulic fracturing. In our Canada oil sands operations we have installed a pipeline to transfer and reuse waste water and produced water from a pilot facility.  This reused water reduced the amount of local groundwater we used in 2013 by 64 million gallons. We also founded the Eagle Ford Water Consortium, a group of oil and natural gas producers that meets regularly to share information about water use planning and to interact with local and state regulators. Using our own research findings and technological advances within the industry, we continually strive to reduce and conserve the water we use in hydraulic fracturing. In the Eagle Ford, we have reduced our water usage by up to 45 percent by modifying the composition of our fracturing fluid. This change was first implemented in early 2011 and is now applied to our new Eagle Ford wells. Technology  ConocoPhillips has a long history of strong technology.  In water, many of our technology efforts are focused on scale, oil sands and water preservation.  We use the company’s Research and Development resources including the Global Water Sustainability Center to drive technology advances.  Oil Sands {hyperlink: http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/common-questions/Pages/can-oil-sands-be-developed-responsibly.aspx ) We work to minimize impact on the region’s water and diverse ecosystems during the production of bitumen using a method called steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD).  A SAGD well injects steam into the reservoir to soften the bitumen and allow gravity to drain it into a producing well. The oil is then brought to the surface for further processing and sale. The facility is designed to recycle between 80 and 90% of the produced water for steam generation.  Water is an integral part of the SAGD process.  Most of the water used in the process is reused water. To obtain the make-up water needed for the process, ConocoPhillips SAGD operations draw from a series of deep underground sources, targeting water that is unfit for human consumption and unsuitable for agricultural or livestock purposes. We are continuing to research improved recovery processes that may reduce overall SAGD water demand. ConocoPhillips has approved an enhanced Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage (e-SAGD) pilot project to learn whether water demand and energy consumption can be further reduced by injecting a combination of light hydrocarbons and steam into a bitumen formation. If successful, e-SAGD effectively reduces both water usage and emissions. We are also researching improvements to water processing facilities and steam generation systems with our dedicated technology development professionals and participation in an alliance of oil sands producers focused on environmental improvement. You can learn more about the alliance by visiting COSIA. Our Technology group is currently testing potential advances in boiler design. These prototype systems target a combination of water treatment and steam generation, which may be able to significantly reduce the footprint for SAGD surface facilities, while also reducing water consumption. Produced Water  Over the past few years, the original action plan delivered on identifying potential risks and developing tools to identify potential mitigation options.   Each of our major assets underwent a water risk assessment over the past 5 years identifying risks and opportunities for both fresh and produced water.   As part of the work to minimize the use of fresh water  or economically  reuse produced water, our business units continue to innovate.  Two examples of that are:   • A 45% reduction in water for Eagle Ford completions represents advances in using non-fresh and produced water along with a reduction in fresh water demands. • San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico, ConocoPhillips has reused 1.9 million gallons of water this year Pod 5- MANAGING RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES  Overview  Our global businesses follow specific, well-defined processes that help manage sustainability issues as we begin a new venture, from the initial phases of identifying a potential opportunity through project development and operations. We are committed to the development of water management practices that conserve and protect freshwater resources and enhance the efficiency of water utilization at our facilities. Our oil sands development, Onshore Operating Principles, and natural gas operations offer examples of this commitment. Training and Awareness Our approach encompasses a broad range of activities and tools. ConocoPhillips led the development of the IPIECA Global Water Tool and the GEMI Local Water Tool and we continue to promote their use externally for industry awareness. Internally, we have adapted and applied the tools in our processes and training for key functions and leaders. Our Water Issues Working Group and water networks are key to awareness and knowledge sharing on water along with further integration of sustainable development tools and commitments into business planning and work processes.  Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Assessments We systematically conduct assessments to identify how our business practices might affect communities and ecosystems in areas where project development is planned. Water assessments are included in this process as described in more detail in Our Approach under Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Assessments.  At the asset level, we continue to strengthen the consistency in implementation.  Knowledge sharing Business units and functions collaborate on water knowledge, processes and the sharing of best practices through the Water Issue Working Group and an internal Networks of Excellence. Water Risk Assessments  When evaluating water risks, ConocoPhillips starts at a high level with an enterprise-wide search for issues around the world. Using the IPIECA Global Water Tool and other internal expertise to screen for risks, we then take a deeper look at potential water risks or opportunities using tools such as the GEMI Local Water Tool. Each operated asset was required to complete a water risk assessment and, if needed, develop a water action plan. These plans are designed to address the local risks identified. These plans may include monitoring, plans for engagement, or specific technology plans and are aimed at helping each asset appropriately manage the issue within the local context. Some examples of our business unit water management planning and actions may be found in the Canadian oil sands and in our Eagle Ford shale development work.  ConocoPhillips was the first company to pilot the GEMI Local Water Tool at the Surmont I Oil Sands development in Canada. It was used to evaluate risks even though the operation is not located in a water short or scarce region. Indonesia also used the tool to evaluate risks at our operated assets. Both of these pilot projects and the actions taken to explore alternative sources have been shared with regulators and other stakeholders.  Marine Water Management  We carefully manage our marine water discharges. Our tanker operations, which typically move Alaskan crude to U.S. west coast refineries, are certified under the Washington Department of Ecology's Exceptional Compliance Program (ECOPRO). ECOPRO, a voluntary program for tankers and tank barges, recognizes operator commitment to environmental stewardship through compliance with standards exceeding regulatory requirements. Our fleet operations also comply with new vessel water discharge regulations. As part of the company’s emergency preparedness program, the company conducts drills in both land and marine environments. Additional information about those drills and our emergency response plans can be reviewed under Emergency Preparedness or Offshore Incident Prevention and Response Capabilities. Attention to offshore safety and environmental performance is also important for our offshore drilling and production operations.   ConocoPhillips uses a well design methodology which meets or exceeds the requirements in all countries where we operate. We have well control, casing design, drilling fluid and cementing, and directional drilling and wellbore surveying standards which are the building blocks we use to ensure a safe well design.   Global Water Sustainability Center  The Global Water Sustainability Center ConocoPhillips’ Global Water Sustainability Center (GWSC) opened in early 2010 in the Qatar Science & Technology Park at Education City, Doha, Qatar, with the mission of examining methods to treat and reuse byproduct water from oil production operations, and conducting other projects relating to industrial and municipal water sustainability. The close proximity of the Qatar Foundation’s Education City provides opportunities for collaboration with top scientists who have access to facilities and to employ graduates from world-class universities. The GWSC technical programs focus on various desalination processes, in addition to removal of heavy metals and hydrocarbons. It also evaluates cost-effective ways to recycle municipal water for irrigation purposes. Increased emphasis is directed toward advanced technologies, with particular emphasis placed on membrane processes. In addition to research at the center a key goal of the GWSC is to increase awareness of the importance of water conservation within Qatar. The GWSC visitor center includes interactive, hands-on exhibits to educate local school children and other visitors about water conservation. The facility also hosts workshops on key issues for water-scarce regions, such as water conservation and municipal water recycling.  Pod 6- ENGAGING EXTERNALLY  Community engagement is integral to how we go about implementing or “operationalizing” our commitment to managing developments and addressing sustainable development issues, including water. Business unit engagement strategies, peer to peer best practice sharing, participation in industry forums, developing or implementing advances in technology and operating processes all enhance our ability to continue to responsibly develop hydrocarbons. For additional details, please see Shale Development.  While the individual assets work on the local focus, the company continues to look at how we can help address some of the larger global and societal water issues such as the lack of access to clean water and sanitation. These are difficult global challenges and require holistic water stewardship. We are not able to solve them alone, but ConocoPhillips’s is committed to doing our part.  We contribute to Water for People which seeks to alleviate a lack of clean water and the community water conservation efforts such as the USBCSD Water Synergy Project and China BCSD Water Synergy Project.    In addition, research and educational initiatives undertaken at the Colorado School of Mines WE2ST Center will benefit not only unconventional energy producers and water-reliant industrial stakeholders, but also the general public.”  More information on ConocoPhillips contributions to water and other sustainable development issues is shared In Communities.  Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Good environmental stewardship includes setting standards for waste management, decommissioning and minimization. We seek to identify new and better ways to diminish our environmental footprint and social impacts by becoming more efficient in the workplace and in the communities in which we operate.  Waste Management Our approach to waste management is based on a simple set of priorities – first, eliminate waste where possible; then reuse, recover and recycle it; and finally as a last resort, dispose of it safely. We have a global Waste Management Standard that requires all operations to evaluate the waste they generate and the suitability of the waste facilities they use.  ConocoPhillips’ businesses can use only commercial waste contractors that meet company standards for operational integrity, have environmental protection measures in place, implement monitoring and institutional controls, and comply with relevant regulations.  The Waste Management Standard also requires businesses to develop comprehensive management plans for company-owned or -operated waste units. The standard applies to all operations worldwide. In ventures where we are not the operator or hold a minority interest, we strive to influence our co-venturers to implement similar programs. In the United States and Canada, for example, ConocoPhillips developed a commercial waste management program to track waste disposal activity and compiled a list of company-approved commercial waste management facilities. We inspect potential new waste sites and periodically audit the sites that we choose to utilize. Preference is given to contractors who provide cost-effective responsible alternatives to landfill disposal. But if this is not an option, we select sites that comply with strict environmental standards.  Around the world, we manage the disposal of surplus or obsolete electronic equipment in a process known as e-cycling. As part of this process, we negotiate contracts with vendors for the remarketing and recycling of electronic equipment, such as computers, televisions, microwave ovens, copiers, fax machines and telephones that no longer have value to ConocoPhillips, but may have value for others. In many locations, we have partnered with our recycling contractor to provide similar services for the public, using company locations as collection points. In addition, our employees help their local communities collect household waste and recyclable material that cannot be disposed of in regular household garbage. Decommissioning We aim to manage all projects, products and processes throughout their life cycles in a way that safeguards public safety and health and minimizes environmental impact. In doing so, we strive to find new uses for obsolete or redundant assets. ConocoPhillips continues working at a steady pace to remove decommissioned structures in the Ekofisk area of the North Sea. Under the approved plan, the company removed seven platforms between 2009 and 2012. Two more platforms were removed in 2013 and are being disposed in 2014. For all platform installations removed through this project since 2009, the recovery rate (i.e., the combined reuse and recycling rate) of disposed structure materials exceeds 97 percent, excluding hazardous waste.  Ekofisk I steel jacket-based platforms are being removed and disposed onshore in an environmentally responsible manner. The landed structures are dismantled, sorted and processed in a facility fully equipped and licensed to handle hazardous materials.  Waste Management Data Our goal is to manage materials and waste efficiently. More information is available in Performance Data.     Climate Change  Climate Change Position  ConocoPhillips recognizes that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate.  Our Focus  While uncertainties remain, we continue to manage greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and to integrate climate change-related activities and goals into our business planning. Our corporate action plan focuses on the following areas:  • Understanding our GHG footprint.  • Reducing our GHG emissions.  • Evaluating climate change-related risks.  • Leveraging technology innovation to explore new business opportunities.  • Engaging externally in support of practical, sustainable climate change solutions.  • Reviewing progress and updating business unit climate change management plans.  Our approach to climate change is designed to advance the company’s vision to be the exploration and production company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence.  Climate Change Public Policy  We believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with the following principles:  Recognize that climate change is a global issue which requires global solutions – economy-wide governmental GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors.  • Result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric concentrations at safe levels.  • Coordinate with energy policy to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy.  • Utilize market-based mechanisms rather than technology mandates.  • Create a level competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries.  • Avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs.  • Provide long-term certainty for investment decisions.  • Promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development.  • Match the pace at which new technology can be developed and deployed.  • Encourage efficient use of energy.  • Foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate.  • Avoid undue harm to the economy.  Building balanced energy policies is challenging, and we recognize that no one has all the answers. As economies around the world continue to develop, fossil fuels will play an important role in meeting the growing global demand for energy. Meeting the challenge of taking action on climate change while providing adequate, affordable supplies of reliable energy will require financial investments, skilled people, technical innovation and responsible stewardship from policy makers, energy producers and consumers.  ConocoPhillips is committed to doing our part.  Renewable Energy Position  In alignment with our mission to power civilization, and consistent with our positions on sustainable development and climate change, ConocoPhillips is evaluating and developing technologies for renewable energy. We are leveraging our expertise, intellectual property and physical assets in pursuit of economically viable, renewable energy business opportunities.  Our Focus  We continue to develop technology options with the potential to enable or complement renewable energy use.   Investments in technology development will be disciplined and commensurate with the likely returns, market size, timing of development and technology risk inherent in renewable energy projects. Our criteria for business investment include:   Business Leveraged. Renewable energy opportunities that complement our existing processes will be prioritized.  Competency and Asset Leveraged. We plan to focus our efforts on renewable technologies that directly leverage our experience in energy development and markets.  Ongoing Awareness. We plan to continue to evaluate renewable energy technologies to proactively identify new opportunities and to understand the economic drivers, strengths and weaknesses of the alternative technologies available.  Sustainable Solutions. We remain open to developing and using renewable energy as a component of our portfolio of energy offerings, as and when these technologies can be deployed in a sustainable manner for our stakeholders.  Our Expectations  Our work will assist in the development of viable, sustainable and environmentally responsible energy for existing and future customers. For more information, go to ConocoPhillips.com.What we do.Creating Innovative Solutions. Technology Ventures.   Climate Change  At ConocoPhillips, everything we do centers on our mission to power civilization. We recognize that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gas (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate. We are continuing to manage GHG emissions in our operations and to integrate climate change related activities and goals into our business planning. Our commitment to sustainable development provides the foundation for our actions, which focus on conducting business to promote economic growth, a healthy environment and vibrant communities, now and into the future. Global Climate Change Position  ConocoPhillips recognizes that human activity, including the burning of fossil fuels, is contributing to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere that can lead to adverse changes in global climate.  Our Focus  While uncertainties remain, we continue to manage greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and to integrate climate change related activities and goals into our business planning. Our corporate action plan focuses on the following areas:  • Understanding our GHG footprint.  • Reducing our GHG emissions.  • Evaluating climate change-related risks.  • Leveraging technology innovation to explore new business opportunities.  • Engaging externally in support of practical, sustainable climate change solutions.  • Reviewing progress and updating business unit climate change management plans.   Our approach to climate change is designed to advance the company’s vision to be the exploration and production company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence.   Climate Change Public Policy  We believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with the following principles:   Recognize that climate change is a global issue which requires global solutions – economy-wide governmental GHG management frameworks should be linked to binding international agreements comprising the major GHG contributors.  Result in the stabilization of global GHG atmospheric concentrations at safe levels.  Coordinate with energy policy to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy.  Utilize market-based mechanisms rather than technology mandates. Create a level competitive playing field among energy sources and between countries.  Avoid overlapping or duplicating existing energy and climate change programs.  Provide long-term certainty for investment decisions.  Promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development.  Match the pace at which new technology can be developed and deployed . Encourage efficient use of energy.  Foster resiliency to the impacts of a changing climate.  Avoid undue harm to the economy.   Building balanced energy policies is challenging, and we recognize that no one has all the answers. As economies around the world continue to develop, fossil fuels will play an important role in meeting the growing global demand for energy. Meeting the challenge of taking action on climate change while providing adequate, affordable supplies of reliable energy will require financial investments, skilled people, technical innovation and responsible stewardship from policy makers, energy producers and consumers.   ConocoPhillips is committed to doing our part.  Action Plan The ConocoPhillips approach to climate change is designed to advance the company's mission and values to power civilization, and vision to be the E&P company of choice for all stakeholders by pioneering a new standard of excellence.  Overview The objective of our climate change strategy is to prepare the company to succeed in a world challenged to reduce GHG emissions. In support of this objective, we have implemented a comprehensive corporate climate change action planning process. This process addresses our long-term effort to manage the rate of growth of GHG emissions from our operations while growing our business. The planning process also prompts appropriate action on adapting to a range of possible changes to the physical conditions in areas where we do business.   Our action plan {link to Action Plan page below} , performance section {link to Performance section} and management system implementation section {link to Management System Implementation} highlight some key business results, as well as business practices, processes and tools we use to implement our Global Climate Change Position{link to Global Climate Change Position}.  Context for Action ConocoPhillips considers a range of insights on the external context as we evaluate and plan appropriate actions to  address climate change issues in our different businesses and functions.  Examples of the external context we consider include:    Government actions on reporting and regulating greenhouse gas emissions.  Globally, some governments are taking action on reporting and regulating greenhouse gas emissions – Australia, some Canadian Provinces, the European Union and the United States through the Clean Air Act.   However, there is uncertainty about which governments will act, and the timing, type and range of actions that governments may take. Listening to stakeholders.  Some stakeholders are concerned about the impact of fossil fuel production and use on greenhouse gas emissions.   Understanding Investor concerns.  Some investors have questions about the impact of increasing regulation and legislation on the company’s returns, valuation and business outlook. Seeking to understand a range of possible global climate scenarios and the implications the scenarios could have for physical and financial risks and opportunities for the company.   Action Plan The first Climate Change Action Plan spanned our commitments and actions from 2008 through 2013.  Our results are reported under the heading ‘Performance’. {Link to Performance Section}  In 2013 we began to create the next plan by engaging with functional groups and business units around the world. The new Action Plan is built on the foundation provided by the first plan, where the focus included building capacity within the company to manage the risks of climate change, reducing emissions and engaging externally. The second plan is constructed of four main focus areas:  Understanding Footprint – mapping and measuring our emissions and improving the accuracy and consistency of recording and reporting. Managing Operations and Projects – Assessing and implementing emissions reductions where it makes sense to do so, focusing our efforts on priority areas , including: Monitoring, developing and implementing new technologies e.g. in Canadian Oil Sands.  Building capability to trade greenhouse gas offsets and allowances. Prioritizing and implementing greenhouse gas emission reduction projects especially in the areas of flare reduction, methane emission reduction and energy efficiency. Evaluating mechanisms, including targets, to drive performance.  Managing Risk and Opportunity Exposure – Scanning for emerging issues and preparing the company to address climate change risks and opportunities, including goals to:  Plan for business resiliency in key assets where pilot workshops have been held. Review climate change plans for our non-operated assets. Plan against a background of increasing political, regulatory and legislative uncertainty with regard to climate change. Maintain our business unit climate change plans including updates in all assets by 2016. Addressing stakeholder questions and concerns including methane emissions studies and carbon asset risk. Engaging Externally – Communicating our position on climate change issues, both corporately and within external organizations; and addressing the potential impact to our business, including: Engagement with diverse stakeholders to understand their views and share our perspective. Communications about methane emissions and shale oil and gas development. Global monitoring and engaging in the development of climate change regulation and legislation. Engaging with trade associations, including those who may have differing policy or technical views, or different priorities from our own.   The second Climate Change Action Plan comprises 73 specific detailed actions which are being implemented across the company.    Each segment listed under the four focus areas has a number of detailed actions beneath it.  Examples of a detailed action listed under a segment of each focus area is provided in the table below.  In future reports we will continue to provide additional detail with regard to each segment.  The comprehensive Corporate Climate Change Action Plan is refreshed annually as part of the company's long-range planning process. During the planning process, we assess risks and opportunities against several criteria, including commodity price forecasts, GHG price forecasts, and the company's climate change and sustainable development position statements.  Performance The 2008-2013 Climate Change Action Plan contained a total of 27 actions addressing equipping for a low-emission world, reducing our emissions, new business opportunities and engaging externally. Our performance against each of the action items is described below:    Positions, talking points and advocacy plans created to ensure consistency and alignment across the company when developing Public Policy communications on climate change issues.    Employees engaged and encouraged to reduce GHG emissions at the office and in the home through educational events organized across the company.    Human Resource requirements assessed and Business Units staffed appropriately to handle the goals of the Climate Change Action Plan.  Actions now integrated into business processes and carried out routinely:  Integrated the maintenance of company-wide GHG emissions inventories and forecasting into our annual Long Range Planning exercise.    Integrated climate change issues into our contracting strategy.    Integrated Climate Change Assessments into the risk analysis for all major projects to be able to ensure that policy and resiliency considerations are addressed in project development.    Integrated low carbon scenarios into the Strategic Portfolio Management process.    Developed annual GHG price forecasts for company-wide for use in Long Range Planning and Project Evaluation.    Progress on the Climate Change Action Plan has been reported to senior management on a half-yearly basis.  Action Deferred:  Develop a corporate Emissions Management Information System – our businesses in Europe, Canada, Australia and the United States have developed their own individual Emission Management Information Systems to meet their respective country’s reporting requirements. The development of a single company-wide system predicated on a global international trading system has been deferred.    Reducing our Emissions  Actions Completed:  Fit-for-purpose GHG management goals have been set by business units in their Climate Change Management Plans.    A number of Carbon Capture and Storage projects (described below) were evaluated and brought to sanction decision. Lost Cabin Gas Plant in Wyoming is now capturing and selling approximately 700,000 metric tons each year of CO2 for use in enhanced oil recovery that would otherwise have been vented to atmosphere.  Actions now integrated into business processes and carried out routinely:  New technologies and processes are being pursued to reduce the carbon intensity of production from our oil sands operations.    Approximately 1,000,000 metric tons of CO2(e) emissions were reduced or avoided by implementing emission reduction projects in 2012 bringing the total from 2009 to 2012 up to 3.6 MM metric tons, an average of 0.9 MM metric tons (approximately 3%) per year.    Business units are taking action to identify and carry out methane flaring and reduction projects as part of the Long Range Planning process.    A ranked list of internal GHG reduction projects with volumes and cost has been integrated in the company’s Long Range Planning process.  New Business Opportunities  Actions completed:  Strategies developed in major GHG markets to optimize GHG offsets and allowances.    Evaluated our portfolio and progressed 3 business opportunities for Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) through early project development phases – at a site in Texas; at a site in Kentucky where we received air permits, and successfully drilled and tested a CO2 injection well; and at a site in the UK with storage of CO2 in depleted offshore natural gas reservoirs. Decisions made not to pursue these projects due to less competitive commodity prices, scale, funding and economics. Learned much about the technical, regulatory and economic challenges that face CCS. Continue to monitor CCS developments and opportunities.    Energy Technology Ventures joint venture created and funds low-carbon business opportunities. For more information about Energy Technology Ventures and our investments please visit the website: http://www.energytechnologyventures.com/    Engaging Externally  Actions completed:  Engaged with key industry associations, advocacy groups and directly with government agencies to participate in the discussion and development of effective climate policy.    Engaged in the development of climate change regulations in Europe, Canada, Australia and the United States.    Joined the MIT Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change to engage in the research and development of effective science-based policy.  Actions now integrated into business processes and carried out routinely:  Continually upgrading climate change related disclosures to make more consistent, holistic and informative to engage stakeholders including investors in our climate change related activities.   Management System Implementation      Understanding Footprint  Greenhouse Gas Metrics  Details of our Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Natural Gas Flaring performance and Energy Efficiency can be found under Performance Data.   External Reporting and Verification   Each of our business units is responsible for quantifying its emissions and reporting the information to the Corporate HSE group for compilation and internal verification. Reporting to authorities and/or regulators is the responsibility of the individual business units. The method at each individual source ranges from continuous emissions monitoring to emissions estimations. Estimating approaches meet applicable regulatory reporting requirements or industry guidance, as appropriate. The quality of estimating methodologies, measurements and calculations are audited on a routine schedule by our Corporate HSE Auditing team. External Reporting/Verification of GHG Emissions The majority of ConocoPhillips large stationary sources of GHG emissions around the world report annual GHG emissions to state/provincial or national governments.  For those not listed below, verification/assurance is addressed through a framework of internal HSE audits with periodic external review of processes and/or data (http://www.conocophillips.com/sustainable-development/reporting/reporting-statements/Pages/ernst-young-letter-of-assurance.aspx) United States ConocoPhillips began reporting GHG emissions to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency with effect from 1st January 2010. The EPA will assess data quality through the use of selective audits. Australia The Australia Business Unit participates in the federallymandated National Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reporting System (NGERS), which began in 2009. The federal legislation has a process for conducting or mandating external auditing but this is only triggered for cause, such as if a corporation is suspected of not meeting reporting obligations. ConocoPhillips activities have not triggered this auditing procedure.   Publicly available data is published in a single list for all reporters of Australian GHGs at Australian GHG data. Canada Environment Canada publicly posts GHG emissions information for Canadian facilities greater than 50,000 metric tons of CO2e. The agency does not require third-party verification of emissions reported to the federal government. However, the information reported by the facility should be verifiable. Respondents are required to keep copies of the requested information, together with any calculation, measurements and other data on which the information is based, at the related facility or at that facility’s parent company located in Canada. This information must be retained for at least three years from the date the reporting requirements came into force. The government of Alberta requires third-party verification of GHG emissions from regulated facilities. The verification report from the ConocoPhillips-operated Elmsworth Gas Plant is available from Alberta Environment upon request. Norway The verified emission report is provided in Norwegian for ConocoPhillips Norway assets and may be found at Norwegian GHG Data - Ekofisk. Some information in English is available at Norwegian GHG data in English. Ekofisk Eldfisk Tor Embla Europe Data for all installations in the EU ETS is in the public domain, and a web reference to one source of the publicly available information (The European Commission’s Environment site) is at European GHG data.  {http://ec.europa.eu/environment/ets/napYearInformation.do?registryCode=GB&periodCode=1&periodYear=2012&languageCode=en&registryCodeLookup=United+Kingdom&installationAllowance=283334999&periodCodeLookup=First+Commitment+Period&periodYear=2012&napInstallation.installationIdentifier=102&napInstallation.installationName=&search=Search&currentSortSettings=&resultList.currentPageNumber=1&resultList.currentPageNumber=1 The page opens at our Seal Sands facility in the UK code 102. Our other facilities in the UK can be found by entering the following codes: 10; 24; 25; 28; 29; 30 & 361.}  Estimating Future Process Emissions As is the case with financial metrics, ConocoPhillips does not publish its long-term forecast of GHG emissions, but we do include emissions in our forward planning activities within the company. GHG emissions from our operations are likely to increase as we grow our long-term oil and gas production, so   the Action Plans include focus on reductions and technologies which could reduce GHG absolute emissions and/or intensity. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organization that acts as an intermediary between shareholders and corporations on all climate change related issues, providing primary climate change data from the world’s largest corporations to the global market place. The annual CDP survey collects a wide range of information concerning corporate efforts to manage climate change issues. ConocoPhillips has participated in the survey since 2004. For more information visit the CDP website. Our most recent CDP submission can be found in the 2013 Carbon Disclosure Project document.     Managing Operations and Projects  Taking Steps to Reduce GHG Emissions  In 2012, ConocoPhillips businesses worldwide completed numerous projects to improve energy efficiency, recover product and reduce GHG emissions. Examples include: • Use of closed loop gas handling systems for well completion and service. • Plunger lift optimization and controller upgrades.  • Compressor and gas plant optimization.  • Combustion engine fuel delivery optimization. • Pneumatic controller replacement. • Small-scale solar for remote power. • Flare reductions. These projects are estimated to have reduced or avoided one million tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2012. It is important to note that emission reductions resulting from some projects, for example reduced methane venting during well completions, occur only at the time that the activity takes place, whereas others will continue to deliver energy efficiency and GHG reduction benefits for a number of years into the future. The list above does not represent a complete inventory of ConocoPhillips GHG reduction activities and the resulting emission reductions have not all been third-party verified.  Oil Sands GHG Intensity ConocoPhillips recognizes that there are questions about GHG emissions from oil sands production. Industry has successfully reduced the GHG intensity per barrel of oil sands crude produced by 26 percent since 1990. To capture both economic and environmental benefits, the Company continues to work to reduce per-barrel GHG intensity. We are investigating technologies focused on running our facilities more efficiently, using less energy, and reducing greenhouse gas and other air emissions. We are also designing plans for improved heat integration and testing an enhanced oil production technology, both aimed at maximizing fuel efficiency while reducing air emissions associated with steam generation. The research and development groups at our global and Canadian Headquarters spent over $41 million on oil sands technology development in 2010. We increased this funding to $70 million in 2011. For the 2009 – 2013 commitment period we spent a total of approximately $300 million. We are evaluating technologies that address environmental performance including: Flow distribution control – using steam to extract bitumen more efficiently, this technology can reduce our operations’ greenhouse gas emission and water use intensities by up to 10 percent. It can also potentially reduce the overall land footprint of our well pads by one third. Gas turbine once-through steam generator – switching from the grid coal-fired electricity generation to natural gas would reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions by up to 15% and reduce our NOx emissions by up to 25%. It can also reduce many of the land disturbances associated with power corridors and local substations. Enhanced steam-assisted gravity drainage has the potential to reduce our greenhouse gas emission intensity and water consumption intensity by up to one third.  Flare Reduction  From 2003 to 2008, ConocoPhillips made significant progress reducing the volume of gas flared at our facilities. Flaring is the safety practice of burning off excess gases that might otherwise pose a hazard and that cannot be recovered for export to consumers, used as fuel within the field, or cost-effectively re-injected into the producing formation.   From 2008 to 2010, we experienced an upward trend in the volume of natural gas that is flared mainly as a result of operating in areas of the world with insufficient infrastructure to transport natural gas to a market.  A new pipeline which came online in Asia Pacific during 2012 has helped to reduce current flaring volumes and intensity to below 2008 levels. Goals addressing flaring and venting have been adopted by business units in their Climate Change Action Plans.     Voluntary GHG reduction Targets Approximately 90% of ConocoPhillips facilities are covered by GHG-related reporting and/or permitting requirements, and 40% of the Company's facilities operate in countries with specific GHG emission reduction targets, including emission control legislation or regulation in Australia, Canada, Europe and the United States. For example, the Specified Gas Emitters Regulation (SGER) in Alberta, Canada requires large facilities to reduce facility emissions intensity by 12% after eight years of commercial operation. ConocoPhillips is on track to meet the emission reduction targets before the compliance deadline.  ConocoPhillips continues to demonstrate its commitment to addressing climate change by taking action to reduce its GHG emissions, through implementing GHG emissions reduction plans at the operational level, complying with existing regulatory GHG targets, investing in lower-carbon energy and through active participation in efforts to develop sound government policy for GHG regulation.  In support of our commitment, the company implements a corporate-wide Climate Change Action Plan that requires business units and major assets to develop and maintain climate change management plans. Each plan includes GHG emission measurements and forecast, identification of key risks and opportunities, and business appropriate goals and metrics.  The company will continue to report progress on its plans, emissions data, emission reduction results, investments, and policy engagement as part of its regular updates to the Sustainable Development Report.  The report is updated annually with consideration of feedback from stakeholders. ConocoPhillips chooses to drive GHG emission reductions using the company's Climate Change Action Plan rather than an overall voluntary corporate target.  The company also reports progress through organizations such as CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), which assesses companies on both their actions and disclosure related to GHG emissions and climate change related activities.  ConocoPhillips was placed in performance band ‘B’ with a disclosure score of 83 out of 100 for its 2013 CDP response, reflecting positive performance and disclosure. In its response, ConocoPhillips discusses its approach to GHG emissions reduction targets.  ConocoPhillips drives GHG emissions reductions through its Climate Change Action Plan, rather than an overall voluntary corporate emissions target.      Technology to manage our emissions ConocoPhillips undertakes research and development on technologies that reduce the environmental footprint of activities that extract and consume oil and gas, through a mix of internal technology development, investment in start-up companies, and partnerships with academic institutions and key suppliers.  For example, ConocoPhillips has invested in Skyonic, a Texas-based company, backed by venture capital. Skyonic is developing technology to capture CO2 from industrial waste gases and mineralize it into carbonates and bicarbonates, chemical by-products with commercial value.  Skyonic’s technology is intended to be retrofitted to existing industrial plants, and does no need the underground sequestration of carbon dioxide.   We also have a significant number of technologies that have already reduced our oil sands footprint, or have the potential to do so in the future. Our Canadian Surmont 1 2008 to 2013 project operating efficiency initiative has reduced our steam to oil ratio by more than 17%, which has directly reduced our fuel usage and greenhouse gas intensity by a proportional amount. We have implemented and are testing technologies that target oil sands greenhouse gas intensity reductions of 30%.  Examples of such technologies are: Gas Turbine-Once Through Steam Generators (GT-OTSG), enhanced Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (eSAGD), use of Vacuum Insulated Tubing, and the use of Flow Control Devices (FCDs). In addition, ConocoPhillips is a member of the Canadian Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). COSIA consists of 13 oil companies comprising 90 percent of all oil sands production.  The COSIA participants have shared knowledge and experience of more than 190 technologies to address GHG emissions.  Two ConocoPhillips technologies were chose as leading technologies to reduce greenhouse gases: the Gas Turbine-Once Through Steam Generator (GT-OTSG) and Vacuum Insulated Tubing technologies.  These are highlighted at http://www.cosia.ca/greenhouse_gases.  Furthermore, ConocoPhillips has over 20 patents and patents pending related to greenhouse gas reductions in oil sands production applications.  In South Texas, ConocoPhillips has, since 2013, been piloting the use of natural gas to supplement or replace diesel fuel utilized to provide power for drilling rigs and hydraulic fracturing completion operations.  As of March 2014, five wells and over 200 hydraulic fracturing stages had been powered using natural gas, thereby eliminating over 190,000 gallons of diesel for rig and completion equipment power.  While more work needs to be done to prove the potential environmental and economic benefits associated with this type of fuel substitution, ConocoPhillips is hopeful that results from these experiments will allow us to expand the use of abundant natural gas within the United States and other countries with sufficient natural gas related infrastructure.  Carbon capture and underground storage may represent a key set of technologies and practices that could play an important role in meeting long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals. ConocoPhillips is working to advance capture technologies and beneficial reuse options:   The company is leveraging its more than 30 years of operational experience in miscible gas injection at its North Slope assets in Alaska and 25 years of CO2 enhanced oil recovery (EOR) experience in West Texas to evaluate new EOR opportunities to facilitate production growth.   In 2012, ConocoPhillips, together with Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation and the US Department of Energy successfully demonstrated methane hydrate production can be achieved using CO2 injection.     ConocoPhillips has contracted to sell CO2 captured from the ConocoPhillips’ Lost Cabin Gas Plant in Wyoming for use in EOR. The company began shipments in March, 2013 and expects to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 700,000 tonnes per year.   Energy Efficiency Since the combustion of fossil fuels is a contributor to GHG emissions, we continually strive to make our operations more energy efficient. This provides an environmental benefit through reduced emissions, as well as an economic benefit through lower production costs. The company has conducted a number of projects to improve overall energy efficiency in its producing fields. Among them, the Ekofisk II redevelopment project in the North Sea utilized high-efficiency turbines to reduce power usage and recover waste heat produced during power generation.   The C-GAS project, undertaken by ConocoPhillips China, replaced diesel fuel with excess associated gas to fuel the turbine generator during the early operational years. This project achieved greater efficiency, reduced flare volumes and reduced diesel fuel consumption.   In Indonesia, our Suban natural gas processing plant optimized power generation by implementing a load-sharing and fuel-usage monitoring system.  The Grissik Debottlenecking Project (CGPX) has selected an option to use a thermal oxidizer instead of flaring or venting to reduce incremental CO2.  Furthermore, flaring reduction initiatives in both Onshore and Offshore Operations have been progressing.  The business unit has been identifying and implementing process optimization, modifying and upgrading process controls and improving shutdown management by aligning maintenance with the gas customer to reduce shutdown time.    In recent years, the Canada business unit completed a number of projects, saving approximately 279 million cubic feet of natural gas. This also precluded approximately 200,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions annually, equivalent to taking 40,000 cars off the road. Projects included engine control systems, solar power projects, optimizing our operations to allow some facilities and equipment to be shut down, capturing vented gas, and reducing flared gas.  The Energy Efficiency team continues to evaluate technologies and identify projects to reduce our emissions footprint. The U.S. Lower 48 business unit has carried out energy efficiency improvements through greater utilization of photovoltaic solar panels on field equipment and optimizing compression in the San Juan Basin. We are now using solar-powered chemical injection units in place of gas-powered pumps on many wells, thus reducing emissions and fuel use.     Carbon Trading  Our Commercial organization trades greenhouse gas emission allowances to optimize emissions management in countries implementing emission-trading programs.   Where our operations are subject to GHG regulation our goal is to meet our compliance obligation in the most cost-effective manner possible. We begin by understanding the cost and impact of our internal GHG reduction opportunities, for example, projects to improve energy efficiency in our operations.   When reducing our own emissions will be costly and where the regulatory system allows trading, we consider purchasing allowances and high-quality offset credits to meet our compliance obligations.       Carbon Trading Around the World  Europe  Since 2005, ConocoPhillips facilities across Europe have participated in the European Union’s emissions-trading program (ETS). The company’s Commercial organization trades allowances on the secondary market exchanges.   Canada  ConocoPhillips Canada participates in the regional emissions reduction scheme in the province of Alberta and has experience with all the compliance mechanisms of that program:   Making internal improvements to operations to reduce emissions.  Purchasing or using Emission Performance Credits (EPC).  Purchasing Alberta-based offset credits and Contributing to the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund (CCEMF).    Integrating the Cost of Greenhouse Gas Emissions into Project Economics For operations in countries with existing or imminent GHG regulation, the cost of regulatory compliance is evaluated based on specific regulation and local greenhouse gas pricing information. This information is incorporated into the base-case economic analysis for ongoing and new capital expenditures. For operations in countries without existing or imminent GHG regulation, all capital projects with a cost of $75 million or greater or which result in a change to annual emissions in excess of 25,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent are required to perform a sensitivity analysis that includes carbon cost as part of the project’s economic analysis. The company uses an estimated market cost of greenhouse gas emissions in the range of $6 to $48 per tonne (2013 real) depending on the timing and country or region to evaluate future project opportunities.        Managing Risks and Opportunities  Overview The effect of many current and potential GHG regulations will be to establish a price or value for a unit of avoided GHG emission. Such laws and regulations bring both risks and opportunities, for example the introduction of a cost of greenhouse gas emissions could also increase demand for less carbon-intensive energy sources and technologies, for example, natural gas and renewable energy. This section of the Sustainable Development report will discuss some of the risks and opportunities that we see developing in a lower carbon business environment.   Opportunities in a Lower Carbon Business Environment  Potential business opportunities related to anticipated climate change regulatory requirements fall into three broad categories:   Opportunities associated with increased demand for and value of lower carbon energy sources and technologies associated with our existing business, for example natural gas exploration and production.  New business opportunities in lower carbon energy and technologies with the potential to provide future growth prospects for ConocoPhillips, e.g., Energy Technology Ventures  Opportunities to extend the life or increase the value of existing ConocoPhillips assets and business, for example through the potential application of CO2 capture and storage.   There are potential opportunities in all these categories to increase revenues, decrease expenses, expedite business development, enhance ConocoPhillips’ license to operate, and to grow our business.   Energy Technology Ventures  ConocoPhillips, along with partners GE and NRG Energy Inc., participates in Energy Technology Ventures (ETV) to accelerate emerging energy technology. The companies have committed $300 million in capital to the new joint venture to fund approximately 30 venture- and growth-stage companies over a four year period.   ETVinvests in, and offer commercial collaboration opportunities to, venture- and growth-stage energy technology companies in the renewable power generation, smart grid, energy efficiency, oil, natural gas, coal and nuclear energy, emission controls, water and bio-fuels sectors, primarily in North America, Europe and Israel. With their wide range of deep technical and financial expertise, relationships, services and products, the three companies behind Energy Technology Ventures intend to help start-ups develop next-generation energy technology.   The current investments are in companies developing potentially game-changing technologies in solar photovoltaic (Alta Devices, 1366 Technologies), cleaner coal (Ciris Energy), non-food biofuels (CoolPlanetBioFuels), energy storage technologies (Ioxus) and energy management software (Hara).   The joint venture’s website is: www.energytechnologyventures.com.   Greenhouse Gas Regulatory Risk There have been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on GHG reduction. These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. Laws in this field continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, such laws, if enacted, could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Examples of legislation or precursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our operations include:  Federal mandatory GHG reporting (United States, Canada, EU, Australia).  The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497, 127 S.Ct. 1438 (2007), confirming that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide as an “air pollutant” under the Federal Clean Air Act. The EPA’s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as “Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act Permitting Programs,” 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2, 2010)), and the EPA’s and U.S. Department of Transportation’s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, that triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act, may trigger more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects.  European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), the program through which many of the European Union (EU) member states are implementing the Kyoto Protocol. Our cost of compliance with the EU ETS in 2013 was approximately US $2 million (pre-tax equity share). A regulation issued by the Alberta government in 2007 under the Climate Change and Emissions Act. The regulation requires any existing facility with emissions equal to or greater than 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide or equivalent per year to reduce the net emissions intensity beginning July 1, 2007 by 12%. New facilities must reduce two percent per year until they reach the maximum target of 12%. We also incur a carbon tax for emissions from fossil fuel combustion in our British Columbia operations. The total cost of compliance with these Canadian regulations in 2013 was approximately US $6 million (pre-tax equity share). Norwegian Carbon Tax - Our cost of compliance with Norwegian carbon tax legislation in 2013 was approximately US $44 million (equity share pre-tax).  Australian Clean Energy Legislation which took effect from July 2012. Our annual cost of compliance with the Australian Clean Energy Legislation during the initial fixed price phase is approximately US $15 million (equity share pre-tax). Compliance with changes in laws and regulations that create a GHG emission trading scheme or GHG reduction policies could significantly increase our costs, reduce demand for fossil energy derived products, impact the cost and availability of capital and increase our exposure to litigation. Such laws and regulations could also increase demand for less carbon intensive energy sources, including natural gas. The ultimate impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to:  • Whether and to what extent legislation is enacted.  • The nature of the legislation (such as a cap and trade system or a tax on emissions).  • Whether both process and product emissions are covered.  • The GHG reductions required.  • The price placed on GHG emissions (either by the market or through a tax). • The price and availability of offsets.  • The amount and allocation of allowances.  • Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services.  Any potential significant physical effects of climate change (such as increased severe weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in temperature).  Whether, and the extent to which, increased compliance costs are ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services. The ultimate financial impact arising from environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor easily determinable as new standards, such as air emission standards, water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations continue to evolve. However, environmental laws and regulations, including those that may arise to address concerns about global climate change, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate. Notable areas of potential impacts include air emission compliance and remediation obligations in the United States.    Operating in a Physically Changing World ConocoPhillips is an independent exploration and production company operating in about 30 countries around the world with physical assets in many of these countries. As such, the company can be exposed to impacts related to a changing physical environment caused by various factors in a number of locations. A few years ago, ConocoPhillips co-led the development and publication of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) report Adaptation - An Issue Brief for Business. The report concluded that changes in the Earth’s climate system could have repercussions on how business operates. The magnitude and frequency of impacts are uncertain, but consequences with negative effects on business could include:   Higher temperatures, which could affect the location, design, efficiency, operation and marketing of business infrastructure, products and services.  Water scarcity, which could stymie business operations, particularly those of water-dependent industries.  Rising sea levels, which could affect the location of business operations, submerge or complicate access to raw materials or natural and human resources.  Increased frequency of extreme weather events, which could damage business infrastructure, disrupt logistics, and affect business continuity and costs.  Changes in the distribution of vector-borne disease (e.g., malaria) and greater population migration, with their attendant socioeconomic impacts on workforces and markets.   ConocoPhillips business operations are designed and operated to accommodate expected climatic conditions. To the extent there are significant changes in the Earth’s climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall.   Given the uncertainty regarding future physical impacts associated with changing local, regional or global climate, it is not possible to determine at this time whether future physical impacts of climate change represent significant opportunities for ConocoPhillips.     Building Resiliency to Climate Change  Business resiliency planning is a process that helps the company prepare to mitigate potential impacts of a changing climate in a cost-effective manner. The key elements of this process include:   Identifying the risks and business opportunities associated with the physical impacts of changing climate.  Identifying physical impacts of greatest concern.  Identifying potential technologies and solutions to mitigate risks and take advantage of opportunities.   Adaptation will not reduce the frequency or magnitude of events related to a changing climate, but will increase the resiliency of our business to events such as drought, hurricanes and flooding.   ConocoPhillips has conducted pilot workshops with business units in regions which cover a broad representation of resiliency risks to establish, on an informed basis, future programs and actions based on projected physical changes to the operating environment. The business units chosen were in Texas and the Gulf Coast, Arctic Canada, Canada Oil Sands, Australia North &West (including offshore) and North Slope Alaska.   The results were discussed within each business to determine the appropriate follow up actions and to integrate those changes into each business unit’s Climate Change Action Plan.  Engaging Externally Public Policy Engagement  Overview We believe that over the months and years ahead, governments – federal, state/provincial and local – will continue to act upon the issue of global climate change. In order to succeed in a low carbon economy, ConocoPhillips must play a constructive role in public policy dialogue to devise practical, equitable and cost-effective approaches to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and address the impacts of climate change. Effective Climate Change Policy The company climate change position outlines our principles of effective climate change policy.  These principles continue to guide our engagement on climate change policy in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and other countries in which we operate. We work with trade associations, industry peers and other key stakeholders to develop and use best practices and in efforts to align the policymaking process with our positions and principles. For more on our perspective on alignment with external organizations engaged in lobbying/advocacy, see xx External Perspective We are members or sponsors of a number of external groups, which are involved in our efforts to manage the impact of climate change. American Petroleum Institute (API) – Climate Change Steering Committee The API’s Climate Change Steering Committee addresses climate change issues affecting the U.S. oil and natural gas industry. The group oversees API’s Climate Challenge program, including participation in government voluntary GHG reduction programs, as well as development of the API Compendium methodology for estimating oil and gas industry greenhouse gas emissions. Reference API Climate Change Steering Committee IPIECA – Climate Change Working Group  IPIECA established its Climate Change Working Group in 1988. Since then the group has monitored the climate science and policy discussions, engaging with international governmental bodies and other stakeholders. It now also focuses on providing best practice guidance on GHG emissions monitoring, reporting and management.  IPIECA participates in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and provides IPIECA members with reliable and timely information about these and other international process dealing with climate change. The Climate Change Working Group is currently working on: GHG emissions management. Revising the Petroleum industry guidelines for reporting GHG emissions. Technical input into the IPCC fifth assessment report. Pilot version of the Addressing uncertainty in oil and natural gas industry greenhouse gas inventories. Reference: IPIECA Climate Change Working Group MIT - Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change ConocoPhillips is a sponsor of the Program. The program’s mission is to:  Improve knowledge of interactions among human and natural Earth systems, with a particular focus on climate and energy, and of the forces that drive global change. Prepare quantitative analyses of global change risk and its social and environmental consequences.  Provide independent assessments of potential responses to global risks, through emissions mitigation and anticipatory adaptation, contributing to improved understanding of these issues among other analysis groups, policy-making communities and the public, and  Augment the pool of people needed for work in this area by the education of graduate and undergraduate students in relevant disciplines of economic and Earth science analysis and methods of policy assessment.  An interdisciplinary team of natural scientists, social scientists and policy analysts supports this mission, with their efforts coordinated through the maintenance and application of a set of analytical frameworks that integrate the various components of global system change and potential policy response.   IHS/CERA – Climate Change and Clean Energy Forum   IHS/CERA host bi-annual forums where member companies can discuss global climate change and clean energy research and its implications for policy. IHS/CERA provides a wide range of research products to ensure that members are up to date with current developments around the world.   Reference CERA - Climate Change and Clean Energy Forum   In addition ConocoPhillips works with the following groups discussed in the Reporting & Transparency section:  • International Oil and Gas Producers Association (OGP)  • U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development (USBCSD)  • Social Responsible Investors and Non-Governmental Organizations 