Environmental PerformanceA pump jack operates in San Juan, New Mexico. We implement high environmental standards so that our actions today will provide the energy needed for economic growth, social well-being, and a healthy environment. CLIMATE CHANGEClimate ChangeDiscussions about climate change and emissions reductions were frequent and far-reaching in 2015, headlined by the COP-21 negotiations and agreement in Paris. Society needs expanding energy supplies to support economic growth and improved standards of living, while at the same time also wanting to address concerns related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  Our FocusOur Climate Change Action Plan includes understanding our GHG footprint, taking steps to reduce our emissions in our operations and projects, planning for risks and opportunities including climate change policy and engaging in public policy development and other stake.holder dialogue. Our multi-year, comprehensive plan is refreshed annually as part of our long-range planning process. During this process, we assess risks and opportu.nities against several criteria, including commodity price forecasts, GHG price forecasts, and our climate change and sustainability position statements.Our 2015 priorities related to managing climate change risks included:¥	Improving data related to emissions. ¥	Identifying opportunities to reduce emissions.¥	Monitoring proposed legislation and regulations.Our Climate Change Action Plan includes 73 specific actions and projects. Of those, we have completed 
51, 14 are in progress and eight have been deferred. Taking Steps to Reduce Our EmissionsIn order to increase our focus on emission reductions, we set an overall company GHG emission reduction target of 3 to 5 percent against our business-as-usual forecast for 2015. Business-as-usual is defined as the emissions that would have occurred from the assets that existed at the time the target was set, had the emission reduction proj.ects not been implemented. Despite the large reductions made to our capital expenditure budget in 2015, we were able to carry out emission reduction projects totaling 
0.6 million tonnes against our business-as-usual emissions of 26.4 million tonnes. This represents a reduction of 
2.2 percent in 2015, maintaining our 7-year average annual reduction at 3.5 percent, or 6.8 million tonnes of CO2e (data from each year includes our actual operated assets; dispositions are removed from current, but not prior years) since the implementation of our Climate Change Action Plan in 2008.            Read our Climate Change Position.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGEReduction Initiatives
Our reduction efforts focus on methane and carbon dioxide releases from operations. We prioritize projects on a global basis to optimize emissions reductions per dollar spent. In 2015, our business units completed numerous projects to improve energy efficiency, recover product and reduce GHG emissions as highlighted in the San Juan case study on page 10. Examples include:¥	Reduced methane venting during well completions.¥	Reduced flaring.¥	Plunger lift optimization.¥	Optimized compression.¥	Replacement of high bleed controllers.¥	Electrification of central facilities.GHG EmissionsIn 2015, total CO2e gross operated GHG emissions were approximately 25.8 million tonnes, a decrease of about 6.8 percent, or 1.9 million tonnes, from 2014. Primary drivers for the decrease in CO2 from operations were tran.sitioning from operatorship of the China Peng Lai field, lower operated production in some assets and increased sales of CO2 for beneficial use in the U.S. Primary drivers for reduced methane emissions were asset dispositions, decreased operated production across multiple assets and reduced venting at a gas terminal. Despite the reduced emissions, the intensity expressed as tonnes/MMBOE increased 5 percent due to lower operated pro.duction volumes. Operated production declined largely due to reduced drilling in the U.S. Lower 48 and change of operatorship of the Peng Lai field, and equity produc.tion increased with addition of production from Foster Creek and Christina Lake, Gumusut and APLNG Upstream.FlaringFlaring, burning off excess gases that might otherwise pose a hazard, is managed by our business units in their action plans and continue to target improvements to emissions and flaring through the Environmental Strategy Framework. An example of how we are addressing flaring is the work with our co-venturers in Qatargas to reduce flaring from liquefied natural gas (LNG) trains with a jetty boil-off gas (JBOG) recovery project implemented at Ras Laffan in Qatar. The JBOG recovery system is designed to mini.mize flaring for all six LNG berths, with a vapor recovery system that compresses gas for fuel to the fullest extent practicable. The project has reduced flaring during LNG loading by more than 90 percent and recovers approxi.mately 700,000 tonnes per year of flared gas. It will result in a reduction of 1.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year Ñ equivalent to annual GHG emissions from 175,000 cars Ñ and achieve savings of 29 billion standard cubic feet (BSCF) per year in flaring reduction. This is just one example of working with our joint venture partners to influence non-operated emissions reductions. In 2015, our total volume of flared gas was 25.9 BCF, a decrease of 11 percent from 2014.  Although post-com.bustion flaring emissions represent less than 10 percent of our emissions, reducing flaring continues to be a priority. The decrease is primarily related to improved gas capture, including installation of a gas pipeline to receive gas that previously was flared and installation of a booster compressor. Other impacts were the change in operatorship of an asset, reduced maintenance activities, less well test flaring and decommissioning of an offshore asset. Partly offsetting these reductions were increases in one asset that experienced equipment problems and another where there was an increase in non-routine flar.ing. Our rate of flaring per unit of production remained flat at 37.4 MMCF/MMBOE.  MethaneManaging natural gas emissions, which are primarily composed of methane, continues to be a key priority. We work to capture even small releases of natural gas known as Òfugitive emissions.Ó Methane emission reduction is a crucial aspect of our well management principles and we rely on numerous technologies, such as forward looking infrared radiometers, reduced emissions completion technology and automatic flare monitoring systems, as we manage our methane emissions. These steps have helped us reduce or prevent the release of 9 billion cubic feet of methane emissions from our facilities in the U.S. Lower 48 states over the past five years. This reduced our global methane emissions by 12.8 percent. In 2015, we continued our review of external methane emissions studies which assess natural gas losses across the entire value chain from well to consumers for heat and electricity. The more than 40 studies continue to estimate an average natural gas loss rate of less than 2 percent. Aircraft methane measurement studies indi.cate difficulty estimating methane loss from a particular source type. Additionally, aircraft and remote sensing measurement studies are relatively new and generally report very wide confidence intervals for methane loss rate. Regardless of the uncertainties around the total amount of fugitive emissions, we are taking action in our operations.Energy EfficiencyTotal energy consumption in 2015 was approximately 
218 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs), a reduction of about 10 trillion BTUs. Of the 2015 consumption, about 
97 percent was from combustion of fuel for our own energy use and about 3 percent was from purchased electricity. Reduced operated production, deactivation of a generator, change in operatorship of an asset, and dispositions were primarily responsible for the reduction, partly offset by increases due to startup of the Surmont 2 asset in Canada. Despite the reduced use, the intensity expressed as Trillion BTUs/MMBOE increased 10 percent due to lower operated production volumes.Our work with the province of AlbertaÕs Climate Change and Emissions Management Corporation (CCEMC) is a prime example of how innovation and collaboration can advance environmental improvements. In 2011, ConocoPhillips Canada successfully secured a $7 million CCEMC grant, which ConocoPhillips matched. That 
$14 million has allowed us to significantly expand our energy efficiency and emissions reduction projects. Since 2010, a total of 580 CCEMC-related projects have been implemented across Western Canada operations, collec.tively reducing GHG emissions by about 270,000 metric tons of CO2e. ThatÕs the equivalent of taking more than 56,300 cars off the road for one year. To date, our Western Canada business unit has implemented more than 1,870 projects since it started reporting GHG-reduction initiatives and proj.ects in 2008, leading to a combined reduction of more than 470,000 tonnes of CO2e per year Ñ equivalent to taking approximately 98,000 cars off the road. In 2015, we hosted a public workshop in collaboration with CCEMC and the Canadian Environmental Technology Advancement Corporation (CETAC)-West. This workshop, attended by over 200 individuals representing 27 energy companies, 11 government institutions and 47 service providers, allowed participants to exchange valuable infor.mation, data and lessons learned from the implementation of energy efficiency technologies, which will help improve the effectiveness of future energy efficiency initiatives across the province. In recognition of the energy efficiency innovation that we deployed and shared with other stake.holders, ConocoPhillips was a finalist in the 2016 Alberta Emerald Awards for environmental achievement.TechnologyAlong with our current technological and operational improvements, we also invest in research and development.In the Canadian Oil Sands, the industry has cut emis.sions from oil sands production by 28 percent since 1990 through improved design and equipment, higher effi.ciency and new technology. ConocoPhillips was a founding member of CanadaÕs Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), an alliance of producers that have developed more than 800 innovations at a cost of $1.3 billion, and with global innovation partners are dedicated to further reductions as technology for steam-assisted gravity drainage is improved. In 2015, we announced support for the $20 million NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE. The contest challenges participants to reduce GHG emissions by captur.ing CO2 emissions and turning them into valuable, useable products. Teams will be scored on how much CO2 they convert, and the net value of their products. We also worked to find cost effective projects that contribute to reduc.ing GHG emissions from NorwayÕs Greater Ekofisk Area, where we have operated since 1973. The upgraded waste heat recovery unit (WHRU) at NorwayÕs Eldfisk 2/7 E will produce approximately 9 megawatts (MW) of electricity generated from the steam turbine, approximately 2 MW more than the original unit. Since completion of the WHRU upgrade, the steam turbine covers almost the entire power demand of the Eldfisk Complex with green energy rather than power from a fuel driven generator. This results in an overall reduction in emissions of approximately 48,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. External EngagementOur Climate Change Position outlines our principles of effective climate change policy. These principles continue to guide our engagement on climate change policy in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and other countries in which we operate. We work with trade associations, industry peers and other key stakeholders to develop and use best practices and in efforts to align the policymaking process with our positions and principles. Our history of U.S. policy engagement on climate change, along with our principles for effective climate policy, reflects what we have and have not supported and why. At the COP-21 meeting in Paris almost 200 countries agreed on a new global emission reduction framework starting in 2020. At the meeting countries representing 95 percent of global GHG emissions submitted volun.tary ÒIntended Nationally Determined ContributionsÓ (INDCs) to set the process in motion. The current INDCs are estimated to represent about 50 percent of the effort required to achieve an emissions trajectory that would hold temperature increases since pre-industrial times to well below 2 degrees Celsius and there is an expectation that the gap will be closed by the pledge and review system that takes place every five years.We participated in the development of IPIECAÕs The Paris Puzzle Ñ describing the challenges and responses needed to address the risks of climate change, in light of the new global agreement at COP-21. The Paris Puzzle outlines the critical pieces of the pathway to how the oil and natural gas industry can meet future energy needs while reducing emissions.We believe that over the months and years ahead, governments Ñ federal, state/provincial and local Ñ will continue to act upon the issue of global climate change. In order to succeed in a low carbon economy, we need to play a constructive role in public policy dialogue to devise practical, equitable and cost-effective approaches to reduce GHG emissions and address the implications of climate change.       Carbon StrategyWe donÕt debate the science behind climate change and recognize that human activity is a contributor to GHGs in the atmosphere. We have a strategy to manage and address climate-related business issues in a complete and logical way, through setting strategy, taking action and engagement. Some stakeholders have expressed concerns that at some point, the use of fossil fuels could be restricted in order to limit GHG concentrations in the atmosphere in an effort to limit changes in global temperatures. This concept is being called Òcarbon asset riskÓ or Òunburnable carbon.Ó Some shareholders are concerned that reserves may not be developed and that their contribution to company valuations may create a Òcarbon bubble.Ó We do not believe there is any evidence of a speculative Òcarbon bubble.Ó Markets are pricing oil and gas companies rationally, based on their expectations of future earnings, taking into account the size and type of reserves, the risks arising from future climate policies and many more factors. Regulations are in place for publicly traded companies that  provide a consistent set of rules that allow investors to evaluate and compare investment choices; we fully comply with rules and regulations for reporting reserves. We have regular discussions about topics of interest to shareholders, including Carbon Asset Risk and provide presentations about our perspective. These collaborative conversations are preferable to formal, costly shareholder resolutions and offer enhanced understanding for ourselves and our stakeholders. WeÕve participated in surveys conducted by CDP, for.merly the Carbon Disclosure Project, since 2004. 
Our 2015 disclosure grade was 93, well above the sector average, and we were placed in performance band C. We are and will continue to take action on GHG emis.sions, resiliency, and policy frameworks related to climate change. We consider a wide range of climate change related risks in setting our corporate strategy as policy.makers, stakeholders, consumers and energy-producers work together on policy and actions on emissions. And we are committed to doing our part.           Learn more about our approach to climate change.Total GHG Emissions (CO2 Equivalent)Total Flaring Volume2015 GHG EmissionsENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGETotal Energy UseClara Cardoza, environmental supervisor, uses a forward looking infrared radiometer (FLIR) camera to inspect for leaks in equipment.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGESee page 47 for more performance data.A flare gas recovery system installed on NorwayÕs new Eldfisk 2/7 S platform in 2015 is being adjusted to operate at full capacity. The new system recovers gas for reuse and will significantly reduce flaring from the Eldfisk Complex.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGEWith our support through the West Arnhem Land Fire Abatement (WALFA) project, indigenous rangers in Australia have offset more than one million tonnes of CO2e through strategic early dry-season burning to prevent devastating uncontrolled bushfires later in the year. See page 34 for more information.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.CLIMATE CHANGESPOTLIGHTBreakthrough Policy Engagement in CanadaEngaging with a broad range of stakeholders to collaborate on effective climate change policy and GHG emissions solutions is key to solving the climate change challenge. In 2014, both the oil industry and environmental leaders in Alberta, Canada, realized they were at an impasse. Over the last decade public dialogue on the oil sands, pipelines, and climate change had descended into a polarized debate. The oil and gas industry was mak.ing environmental improvements without seeing improvements in public opinion. Environmental organizations were generating a lot of attention, but they werenÕt making progress on climate policy. Surveys said the public felt a bal.ance between environmental and economic priorities was possible, and they wanted both sides of the debate to work together to come up with a solution. At the same time, the new provincial government was giv.ing strong signals that they wanted help to achieve their climate change policy commitments.
Industry and environmental organi.zations both realized that it was time to try something different, get out of the unproductive status quo and get moving on a provincial climate policy that recognized the impor.tance of industry competitiveness. That realization led to a group of oil sands executives and environmental non-governmental organizations meeting in late 2014. While initial conversations werenÕt easy, the groups discovered areas of common ground. Both wanted Alberta and Canada to have a strong economy, agreed that climate change issues should be addressed and that they had to work together to find workable solutions. This included defining what leadership in climate change looked like for an oil producing economy. The groups were able to work together and agree on recommen.dations that the Alberta govern.ment decided to include in its new Climate Leadership Plan. In addition to achieving progressive policy, the conflict and rhetoric regarding oil sands development has de-esca.lated. The policy creates the condi.tions for improved environmental performance, carbon competitive.ness and economic success. It also strengthens the competitive posi.tion of AlbertaÕs oil industry, and its capacity to create sustained wealth and jobs, by driving cleaner, lower cost performance. We hope through this policy and our actions, we can continue a constructive conversa.tion about oil sands, industry and pipelines. We have been constructively engaged in climate change policy dialogue around the world. And we believe that effective climate change policy must be aligned with a set of principles that includes environmen.tal and economic considerations. The work in Canada illustrates that climate and energy policy can be coordinated to ensure a diverse and secure supply of affordable energy and promote government and private sector investment in energy research and development.WATERWaterWater is an essential natural resource for communities, ecosystems and economic development. 
Our operations both use water and produce water, so managing water is a key priority for our business. We recognize that freshwater is a limited resource in some parts of the world and that its future availability may change.Our FocusAll of our activities are guided by our Water Action Plan, which focuses on improving the understanding of our water footprint; managing operations through risk-based decision-making; managing risks and opportunities through use of non-freshwater sources; reusing and recy.cling produced water and improving water quality prior to discharge; engaging externally to develop innovative solutions; and increasing capacity for managing water risks. The multi-year Water Action Plan includes 
77 specific actions or projects. Of those, we have com.pleted 23, 43 are in progress, and 11 have not yet started or have been deferred. Development activity decreased in 2015 due to low commodity prices, which slowed some related water actions. Our risk-based approach integrates water strategy and risk management into our long-range planning and business processes. In 2015, some of our water-related accomplishments included development, testing and deployment of fit-for-purpose water treatment technol.ogy to:¥	Recycle and reuse produced water. ¥	Reduce freshwater consumption and lower	operating costs.¥	Reduce the volume of water disposal.¥	Reduce number of water trucks on local roads.¥	Improve discharge water quality.Integrating Technology, Engineering 
and SustainabilityOur dedicated Water Solutions team focuses on advanc.ing technology and innovation to reduce water con.sumption from freshwater sources through recycling and reuse and to reduce the volume of water we discharge or dispose. The group includes onshore and offshore water experts, advisors, team leads and managers representing our global exploration and production portfolio. We also have a Global Water Sustainability Center in Qatar, where programs focus on applying advanced technologies to develop innovative solutions.The collective knowledge and experience of our engi.neers, geologists and other experts has been internalized in many standards, practices, guidelines, procedures and tools that guide key operational steps from exploration to decommissioning.Integrating technology and engineering with our approach to water sustainability resulted in numerous global process improvements and innovations in 2015.Water management43specific actions underwayRead our Water Sustainability Position.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATEROne example is from our team in the Red Hills area of the Permian Basin in the U.S. Building on their experience with produced water recycling and treatment projects for conventional vertical wells, they were able to translate that expertise to unconventional wells. They optimized the process, making it faster and more efficient, leading to the reuse of 250,000 barrels of produced water. It was the first successful, large-scale produced water reuse in our Lower 48 operations.In Canada, Surmont 1 has increased baseline steam qual.ity, the proportion of boiler feedwater converted to dry steam, from 78 percent to a consistent 80 percent, with ongoing trials that have successfully reached 
84 percent and beyond. Benefits of increased steam qual.ity include increased steam output from installed equip.ment, reduced boiler blowdown volumes and increased water use efficiency, which allows us to produce more bitumen with the same amount of water. Application of steam quality improvements and other efficiency learn.ings, in conjunction with saline water makeup capacity and water recovery evaporator technology, provide the foundation for Surmont 2 performance to exceed that of Surmont 1.Managing Local Water RisksWater management priorities are evolving globally in response to physical risks from local water scarcity and changing priorities and expectations of people and
society. While water protection and conservation is a global issue, the use, management and sourcing of water is often very local in nature. For this reason, we conduct water risk assessments for our assets so that we can develop specific solutions to manage water risks for each asset within a local context. Engaging with stakeholders and encouraging dialogue about local water use is a key component of our water management planning and implementation. Protecting groundwater is a key ele.ment of our Global Onshore Well Principles, a framework of operating standards that apply to all operations and throughout the life cycle of a well.For assets located in regions that experience water scarcity today or are predicted to do so in the future, we work to minimize our use of freshwater, explore the use of non-freshwater sources and the reuse of produced water. In 2015, we updated our analysis of predicted water scarce regions amid our operations. Two of our 
23 operated assets are projected to experience water scarcity at the watershed level by 2025; this represents less than 10 percent of our operating areas. Technological advances continue to reduce our reliance on freshwater sources for our operations exposed to water supply, social or regulatory risks, allowing for the re-use of produced water in conventional, oil sands and hydraulic fracturing operations. By using this recycled water, we are minimizing the companyÕs water footprint while maximizing the return on investments made in water treatment. Freshwater WithdrawnIn 2015, ConocoPhillips-operated assets withdrew 
11.6 million cubic meters of freshwater, a decrease of approximately 0.48 million cubic meters, or 4 percent. The decrease was primarily due to less drilling and 
was partly offset by startup of the new Canada 
Surmont 2 facility. SeismicityPublic concerns have been raised about an uptick in the number of small magnitude earthquakes (ÒseismicityÓ) around oil and gas activity in some regions of the U.S. and Canada. Some studies have linked increased seismic.ity rates to the disposal of produced water in saltwater disposal (SWD) wells, while other studies have assessed the potential linkage between hydraulic fracturing and increased seismicity rates. Academic researchers are working to better understand and document if, where and how fluid injection operations may contribute to the phenomenon of increased rates of seismicity over background trends. We are working with peers, govern.ment agencies, and independent researchers to arrive at scientifically based conclusions and solutions that could help reduce the probability and/or impact of human ÒinducedÓ felt seismicity attributed to oil and gas opera.tions. We are using these results and findings to develop our own internal guidelines and operational practices to assess risk and manage our own produced water injection wells or those being used through third party disposal sites.Learn more about seismicity.The first succesful, large-scale produced water reuse in our Lower 48 operations250,000 barrelsin the Red Hills area of the U.S.Learn more about our approach to water.SPOTLIGHTRecycling Produced Water for Hydraulic FracturingWater is scarce in the U.S. Permian Basin. Fortunately, up to 90 percent of the water used in well completions is returned to the surface as produced water. Not surprisingly, water produced during production contains residual oil and must be treated before it is recycled or reinjected into a disposal well. The traditional method for deoiling is based on storing the pro.duced water until the dispersed oil floats to the top to be skimmed off. This method, which relies on density, gravity and time, is not very efficient. Additionally, it recovers a relatively low percentage of oil and requires large tanks and long wait times, which means a bigger footprint.A 2015 pilot project in the Permian Basin has challenged conventional thinking and could impact how we treat produced water as an asset. A new, compact cyclonic deoiler, similar to the cyclonic systems used in offshore production, was tested to see how it stacked up against the old method. The deoiler uses a new liner design that allows processing of dispersed oil at a level that was not possible before. Our team designed an eight-week pilot program to see if the technology could be adapted for use in our unconventional Permian operations. The new cyclonic deoiler performed well, recovering about 
7 barrels of oil a day and yielding much cleaner produced water.The technology has now been installed at one of our storage facilities in the Permian Basin that stores produced water from approxi.mately 10 uncon.ventional wells and additional applications are being evaluated for use in conventional and unconven.tional assets. The process has the potential to reduce our environmen.tal footprint and at the same time save millions in trucking costs over the life of a well while lengthening the life of owned and operated dis.posal wells.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATERSPOTLIGHTOptimizing Offshore 
Water TreatmentIn NorwayÕs Greater Ekofisk Area, which has been producing oil since 1979, our fields produce more water than they do oil and natural gas Ñ about 250,000 barrels of water and 200,000 barrels of oil and natural gas equivalent are produced each day. Produced water volumes associated with oil and gas production have increased significantly, due to aging fields and injection of seawater into the reservoir to increase production. The produced water is dis.charged into the sea after treatment. Options to meet company and government goals of low oil-in-water (OIW) concentration were to reinject produced water back into the reservoir or to improve produced water quality by removing oil and other organics before discharging it. We opted to use the CTour technology, which removes dispersed oil and some water-soluble organics from produced water. In 2006, the OIW concentration in discharged produced water from Ekofisk was just under 20 mg/liter. Since the installation of the new CTour treatment system at the Ekofisk complex in 2008, the OIW concentration has decreased steadily to below 10 mg/liter for the last two years. Based on this success, the CTour module was installed at the new Eldfisk 2/7 platform, which began operation in early 2015 and Eldfisk delivered an OIW result of 4.6 mg/liter.Our team of experts continue to focus on advancing technology, optimizing water treatment and reduc.ing water production and usage in order to reduce the environmental impacts and costs associated with produced water.Freshwater WithdrawnENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.WATERSPOTLIGHTFreshwater Conservation Through Produced Water RecyclingConventional assets in the arid Permian Basin typically have an ample supply of produced water available for reuse. But the water can con.tain H2S gas, a flammable, naturally occurring gas that is very dangerous at high concentrations. We identified and adopted a degassing process as a chemical-free treatment alternative to remove H2S gas, successfully conduct.ing a 6,500-barrel field trial on a ver.tical well in the summer of 2015. The treatment removed H2S levels down to zero parts per million. The process was then optimized and successfully tested on a horizontal well, reusing approximately 100,000 barrels of treated produced water on two wells. The treated produced water was stored on-site until needed in above-ground tanks featuring a double liner around the storage area and five sen.sors for leak detection. In the future, we hope to refine and replicate the process, conserving freshwater and reducing project costs.Achievements¥	Recycled and reused 100,000 
barrels of produced water. ¥	Eliminated more than 800 truckloads of water from
local roads. ¥	Implemented a new treatment technology capable of removing high levels of H2S. ¥	Utilized a new oxidation technol.ogy for bacterial disinfection. ¥	Established guidelines for 
above-ground storage.One of the two 25,000-barrel above-ground storage tanks at Waddell Ranch.BIODIVERSITYBiodiversityBiodiversity Ñ terrestrial and marine plant and animal species and ecosystems Ñ is important to human well-being and for maintaining ecosystem health. We continue working with communities, landowners, government agencies, conservation groups and research institutions to enhance habitats and protect species. Working with partners such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ducks Unlimited and the Australian Institute of Marine Science, we learn together and collaborate on solutions to protect species and habitats.Our FocusOur actions and projects are designed to mitigate bio.diversity risks and to support biodiversity conservation throughout the life cycle of our assets, including plan.ning, operations, decommissioning and restoration. Our activities are guided by our Biodiversity Action Plan. The multi-year plan includes 46 specific actions or projects. Of those, we have completed 10, 25 are in progress and 11 have not yet started or have been deferred. Development drilling activity decreased in 2015 due to low commodity prices, which slowed some of our biodi.versity projects.Our risk-based approach integrates biodiversity  into our long-range planning and business processes. We man.age our biodiversity risks while developing and imple.menting innovative protective measures and mitigations in support of habitat conservation and ecosystem sus.tainability. In 2015, our biodiversity actions and projects focused on priorities related to:¥	Understanding and protecting sensitive environments.¥	Reducing the footprint of our operations.Sensitive EnvironmentsWorldwide, the number of species considered to be at-risk or threatened and the number of protected areas established to conserve habitats is increasing. Our Biodiversity Position and risk-based approach provide guidance on integrating our operations and infrastruc.ture into local ecosystems.  Marine baseline studies can be an important tool to understand the entire environmental system, includ.ing marine flora and fauna, sediments, water quality, socio-economic impacts and emergency response for our offshore operations.We conducted an extensive, multi-year environmental baseline studies program to characterize the marine envi.ronment of the Caldita-Barossa field within the Bonaparte Basin, located in the Timor Sea. The program began with a detailed literature review and gap analysis of existing information, followed by the collection of detailed base.line data over more than 12 months to capture seasonal variability. As part of the program, the Australian Institute of Marine Science completed a survey of the seabed biodiversity and fish communities of offshore shoals and within the proposed Oceanic Shoals Commonwealth Marine Reserve.The results of the Caldita-Barossa baseline studies and the collaboration with research experts, including the Australian Institute of Marine Science, provide us with a better understanding of the existing environment in the development area and are being used to inform a rigor.ous environmental impact assessment that will form the basis of an environmental management strategy should the project proceed.In a similar effort, ConocoPhillips Indonesia conducted an Oil Spill Trajectory Study in Sumatra in 2015, developing Environmental Sensitivity Index mapping to identify sen.sitive habitats so that plans could be modified in order to protect these highly sensitive, priority areas in case of a spill. Our emergency preparedness starts with an emphasis on preventing spills or incidents through good project planning, design, implementation and leader.ship. However, if a spill or other unplanned event occurs, we have plans and processes in place to ensure we can respond efficiently and effectively.We also continue to assess other sensitive environments. For 30 years, we have monitored a North Slope subsis.tence fishery on the Colville River Delta, near our Alpine operations in Alaska. Fishery biologists work with the local Nuiqsut subsistence fishers to monitor the migrating Arctic Cisco. The survey provides a better understanding of current fish population dynamics, helps predict future harvests and provides insight into key factors that con.tribute to the health of the fishery.Reducing Our Footprint In Canada, we are leveraging technology and innovation to reduce our footprint in several areas close to our opera.tions. The Faster Forests program focuses on accelerating the reclamation of areas impacted by exploration activi.ties through better construction techniques and planting native trees in collaboration with members of CanadaÕs Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). The multi-year pro.gram focuses on accelerating ecological recovery and a strategic planting program takes full advantage of natural regeneration. In 2015, ConocoPhillips Canada planted about 75,000 trees and shrubs at 71 locations, bringing the collective total to 3.3 million plants at more than 2,200 locations since the program began in 2009. To address the impacts of exploration activities of multiple oil and gas companies in the oil sands region, we also support the Algar Restoration Project to restore the habitats of native caribou species. The last of 240 miles of linear features Ñ mostly old seismic lines Ñ were restored in 2015, with monitoring work expected to continue for the next sev.eral years to understand impacts to habitat and wildlife.To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of linear restoration programs, we are contributing to a pilot of Òamphibious excavatorsÓ to perform linear restoration. Typical reclamation equipment often sinks in the marsh-like conditions of northern AlbertaÕs boreal forests, limiting reclamation work to the winter season, when the land is frozen. However, ÒamphibiousÓ equipment, which can work in swamp-like conditions with minimal envi.ronmental impacts, could help extend the reclamation season. To explore the available technology further, we partnered on a COSIA Joint Industry Project to test two types of amphibious excavators. Based on this brief trial, amphibious equipment shows tremendous potential for reducing costs and increasing the available days for working on habitat restoration programs.In 2015, we led the next phase of a COSIA joint industry project on caribou recovery, aiming to create a predator exclusion zone to help rehabilitate caribou herds through fencing out predators such as wolves. Key parts of the project included working with regulators and other stakeholders on the design of the exclusion zone. In addition, the Junction Lake Conservation Area, repre.senting 10 percent of the total breeding habitat of the endangered Piping Plover in Alberta was formally rec.ognized by the Government of Alberta in 2015 for Òearly action recognitionÓ and eventual offset credits. We are the first company to receive this recognition, demonstrat.ing our leadership in working with conservation partners.Read our Biodiversity Position.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.BIODIVERSITYSPOTLIGHTDecommissioning in Marine EnvironmentsDecommissioning and reclamation are essential parts of our project planning and includes the final disposition of infrastructure at the end of the life cycle of our assets. Decommissioning of an offshore asset located within a marine protected area adds significant complexity.In the United Kingdom, we are working to address the challenge of removing the infrastructure asso.ciated with the Viking offshore gas production and export facilities, installed in the Southern North Sea more than 30 years ago. The location within which the Viking infrastruc.ture is situated was proposed by the U.K. government as an example of offshore sandbank and biogenic reef habitat type and was designated as a Marine Protected Area (MPA) in 2010. MPAs are a key part of the govern.mentÕs biodiversity strategy; their purpose is to protect and conserve species, habitats, ecosystems or ecological processes of the marine environment and to strike a bal.ance between species and habitat protection and economic activity. Achieving this balance requires a comprehensive understanding of the sustainable use of marine resources. We set out to design a customized decommissioning plan in which the MPA designation influenced the decommissioning engineering scope. Before deciding on the best approach for the decommissioning of the pipeline infrastructure, we completed a comparative assess.ment that ranked decommissioning options based on technical feasi.bility, impact on the marine envi.ronment, energy and resource use, impact on fisheries, tourism, ship.ping, safety, societal impacts and economics. It was concluded that the preferred option would be to leave the pipelines in place, follow.ing a cleaning program to remove hydrocarbons, causing the least disruption to the protected marine habitat. Cutting operations for the steel frame supporting the deck and the topsides of the offshore platform are being designed to limit excava.tion activities, allowing removal of the structure to a depth below the seabed that will not present a risk to other users of the sea.We undertook seabed surveys to establish an environmental baseline to inform environmental impact
assessments and better under.stand the environmental and social impacts of our decommissioning options. The Environmental Impact Assessment has been presented for public consultation in support of the Viking Area Decommissioning Program and we are waiting for a decision from the government on our proposed strategy. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.BIODIVERSITYArctic lupine frame a tundra pond by the Colville River Delta of AlaskaÕs North Slope. These freshwater ponds, formed by freezing and thawing of tundra over hundreds of years, provide important breeding habitat for shorebirds and loons.3.3 milliontrees and shrubs planted by COSIA members at2,200 locationssince 2009Learn more about our approach to biodiversity.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.BIODIVERSITYSPOTLIGHTCoastal Wetlands Restoration InnovationOur effort to preserve sensitive Louisiana coastal wetlands won the Climate Change Business Journal 2015 Business Achievement Award in the Climate Change Adaptation & Resilience category.A pilot project between ConocoPhillips and Tierra Resources tested a ground-breaking methodology Ñ aerial planting of native black mangroves using a crop duster Ñ in a small acreage of salt marsh within ConocoPhillipsÕ 636,000 acres of coastal wetlands.The mangroves help to protect fish habitats while reducing erosion. The project also makes economic sense; traditional restoration techniques range from $20,000 to $150,000 per acre, while this method is about $3,000 per acre. SPILLSSpillsThrough the design, operation and maintenance of our facilities, we are able to reduce the risk of spills in our operations and protect the environments where we operate. Should a spill occur, our trained response personnel are available to ensure a rapid, comprehensive response focused on minimizing safety, health and environmental impacts. Our FocusIn 2015, we targeted improvements to spill perfor.mance through the companyÕs Environmental Strategy Framework, a structured approach to driving environ.mental performance improvements. Our Process Safety Strategy focused on improvements to training, gover.nance, documentation and communications with a goal of preventing spills and releases. We also focused on strengthening our oil spill response capability through our systematic, multi-tiered approach to emergency preparedness and crisis management.Prevention, Preparedness and ResponseWe invest significant resources on spill prevention. In drilling operations, prevention begins with proper well design and carries forward into a critical well review, hazard and operability study, spill risk analysis and task specific job hazard analyses. We also train personnel, select the right contractors and execute our operations in a manner that maintains safety and environmental stewardship. Preventing spills or incidents through good project plan.ning, design, implementation, operations and leadership is our primary objective. However, if a spill or other unplanned event occurs, we have plans and processes to ensure we can respond effectively. For any incident, our response priorities are people, the environment, assets and our reputation, in this order. In 2015, our Global Incident Management Assist Team (GIMAT) received third-party certified training, we completed oil spill preparedness assurance reviews, and maintained programs for existing assets and new activities. The Marine Well Containment System project was completed, an internal Source Control Team was on-boarded and we joined the Marine Well Containment Company Gulf of Mexico Mutual Aid Agreement. Hydrocarbon SpillsIn 2015, there was a significant reduction in the number of spills greater than 1 barrel with 149 events versus 258 in 2014. While all hydrocarbon spills are considered serious, those greater than 100 barrels are defined as significant incidents and trigger immediate reporting to manage.ment, as well as extensive investigation and corrective action. In 2015, we experienced eight hydrocarbon spills greater than 100 barrels. Asset integrity programs, spill prevention teams and monitoring activities are credited for the overall improved performance in 2014 and 2015.Learn more about our approach to safety.Volume of Spills >100 BBLVolume of Spills >1 BBL