CASE STUDYCASE STUDY HURRICANE HARVEYWeathering a really big stormHurricane Harvey was an unprecedented storm that put our employees, communities, operations and offices at risk. Extensive areas of Texas were affected by wind and others received more than 50 inches of rain, leaving a large portion of Houston underwater and flooding thousands of homes. As the storm stalled over South Texas, we put our hurricane and crisis response training and business continuity plans into action. Our priorities were to protect our employees and assets in Houston and the Eagle Ford while maintaining business-critical operations.Operational impactThe first priority was to account for every employee. Teams also mon.itored and evaluated conditions at our corporate and Lower 48 offices in Houston, while others worked to safely and efficiently restore oper.ations to the Houston data center — the company’s central informa.tion hub. Much of the data center operations, including 658 servers housing 1.6 petabytes of data, were relocated to Bartlesville, Okla., in about 10 hours in anticipation of the storm. Commodity traders were also relocated so they could continue business-critical activities during and after the storm. Floodwaters caused the temporary closure of both Houston offices. Our corporate headquarters, which had never com.pletely closed in its 33-year history, reopened two weeks after Harvey made landfall. It took another two weeks before our Houston Lower 48 office could safely reopen. During that time, teams worked to provide workspace for approximately 1,100 Lower 48 employees who were displaced from their offices. The storm also impacted our field operations in South Texas. Prior to Harvey’s landfall, Lower 48 employ.ees implemented their business continuity plan to safely shut down and secure all Eagle Ford production and associated facilities. We also evacuated drilling personnel from the storm’s path. We closed our office in the area, enabling many employ.ees to prepare their families and homes for the storm. Personnel were also evacuated from our Magnolia platform in the Gulf of Mexico, though production remained unchanged. Once the storm passed, produc.tion in the Eagle Ford resumed within a couple of days, despite unprecedented conditions and infrastructure constraints in the area. The demobilization, monitoring and restart of 1,000 wells, two plants, six rigs, three frack crews and 10 con.struction teams was accomplished safely and quickly. The pre-planning and teamwork displayed throughout the organiza.tion resulted in no recordable injuries, minimal property damage and enabled critical business functions to continue during and after the storm. The safe shutdown and restart of our operations was no accident — it was the result of our relentless focus on personal and process safety. Ongoing planning and training will be key to managing any future weather-related disruptions. A helping handThe effects of Hurricane Harvey stretched across the Gulf Coast. We donated $2.5 million each to the American Red Cross and the United Way of Greater Houston to support immediate and longer-term relief efforts. Our American Red Cross donation provided immediate financial assistance, meals, temporary shelter and relief items such as diapers and cleaning supplies. Our United Way donation supported ongoing housing assistance, minor home repairs, utilities, food, healthcare and transportation to impacted residents. These funds were also used for case man.agement to assess residents’ needs and develop recovery plans. Our employees and retirees also contributed $60,000 to eligible relief organizations, which were matched by the company. Nearly 20 percent of our Houston employees were displaced from their homes after the hurricane. Across the organization, people helped their flooded colleagues, retirees, neighbors, and others in need while continuing their work responsibilities. Justin Garner, a drilling and completions coordinator, emailed his work team asking for volun.teers to help provide clean-up assistance. The message spread quickly, resulting in a group of volunteers from all areas and levels of the company. Volunteers, armed with tools and respirators donated from across the globe, worked their way through neighborhoods, going house-to-house to muck out flooded rooms and rip out sheetrock. “When the world gets bad, I think people show their true colors. And ConocoPhillips was impressive — everybody checked their titles at the door and we all went in and got sweaty,” said Garner. As a member of the ConocoPhillips Incident Management Team, Val Rodriguez was prepared to play a role in the company’s response. Her plans changed when Harvey sent four feet of water into her home, where it remained for 10 days.“I went from planning to help others to needing help myself,” she said. She and her 5-year-old son evacuated to a friend’s home for the first few days after the storm, then received help with temporary housing from the company. Colleagues brought household items, food and toys for her son. “The outpouring of help was incredible.”~$180billionin damageCASE STUDYResponse by
the numbersConoco.Phillips supported employees throughout the impacted area. Employees stepped up on every front, and the company continues to offer support:Facilitated housing for150+employees.Processed80+employee loans/immediate cash assistance. Donated$5.2 millionto relief efforts.Employees and retirees contributed $60,000 via employee match.Loan assistance/cash assistance to290+employeesRecord single storm rainfall in the continental United States —51.88inches“Managing unforeseen events, such as hurricanes, and making decisions about personnel and production is never simple. But lessons learned during our emergency preparedness training were invaluable before, during and after Hurricane Harvey.” — Real Estate Facilities Services and Operations Manager Brandon KerrView more about how our employees helped each other and their communities.CreatingShared ValueWe engage with stakeholders to build stronger communities and create sustainable benefits together.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTStakeholder EngagementPriority issuesStakeholder engagementCommunity impactsLocal contentHuman rightsIndigenous peoplesOur goal is to respectfully engage with local stake.holders across our business to understand their values and interests, reduce the impact of our operations, and contribute to economic opportunities. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is guided by our principles, which are integrated into planning and decision-making. By first listening to understand local concerns, mitigating these concerns with our actions, and finding mutually agreeable solutions, we build long-term benefits for both the company and local stakeholders. Our stakeholder mapping process is a key component of social issues risk assessment. Each business unit is responsible for identifying stakeholders — those who may impact or be impacted by our business — to under.stand their perspectives, values, interests and concerns. The relationships of stakeholders to each other are then mapped to identify any potential points of collabora.tion or conflict. We then prioritize key stakeholders and develop an engagement plan to address concerns and maintain our focus on developing mutually beneficial relationships. By having open dialogue, we identify and address the potential impacts associated with our operations.Engaging with communities We have stakeholder engagement professionals in each business unit who manage our stakeholder mapping and integrate local input into our business decisions. These specialists help project teams understand the impact on the community and environment. They also help ensure respect for human rights and alignment with local and international standards. They develop relationships by seeking early and frequent engagement with stakeholders to build trust through regular dialogue. For example, ongoing engagement through our Eagle Ford Citizens Advisory Committee and Eagle Ford Leadership Roundtables in the U.S. includes regular meetings with community leaders from counties in our operating areas. These forums are based on creating and maintaining trust, respect and collaboration, and allow us to identify and cooperatively manage potential risks.Reducing community impacts Throughout the life cycles of our projects, we place a high priority on active stakeholder engagement to address potential impact to communities. Impacts can include increased traffic, noise, water use, and air quality concerns. In Alaska, our Putu exploration well is situated approximately three miles from the village of Nuiqsut, making it much closer to a community than other projects on the North Slope. We are committed to col.laborating with the Nuiqsut community to address their concerns on having an exploration well drilled close to their village and working with them to develop a robust mitigation plan to address issues and concerns. Through extensive outreach with the village, we made several changes to the plan for the well including moving it further away, electrifying the drilling rig to avoid emis.sions that might blow toward the village, expanding air, water quality and noise monitors, and using light mitiga.tion mechanisms. We work to minimize traffic and road safety concerns, which typically increase during exploration and pro.duction operations. In Canada, we are a member of the Coalition for a Safer 63/881 aimed at improving driving behaviors for the communities near our oil sands operations. Members range from peer companies, industry groups, and regional municipalities to safety organizations and the media, all with a commitment to advocate, educate and create awareness for safe journey management.Strategic community investments Coordinated campaigns focus our resources to mean.ingfully and measurably address vital issues globally and at the local level. In 2017, we contributed $36.7 million to support the communities where our employees live and work through charitable giving, employee volunteerism and civic leadership. Our charitable investment strategy is informed by our integrated planning and is built around three giving pillars: Signature programs help unify our global giving around relevant themes and make our charitable investments program significantly more impactful. The company focuses on two signature causes: water and biodiversity stewardship (global) which aligns with our sustainability commitments to protect the environment; and math education (Houston) which is key to academic and career success and aids in building capacity in communities. Local contributions help meet each community’s unique needs and enhance and protect ConocoPhillips’ reputation as a good corporate citizen and neighbor. In 2017, our efforts ranged from building a community basketball court in Alaska (see the video on page 41) to safeguarding the flyways of threatened crane species in China and supporting the recovery efforts after mud.slides in Colombia.Employee programs recognize that employees and retirees are often the company’s best liaison with the communities in which we operate. We encourage and support their involvement in local charitable activities through several Employee and Retiree Giving Programs including the United Way, Matching Gift, Volunteer Grant and Dependent Scholarship programs. In 2017, we supported local communities by participating in eight United Way campaigns raising more than $8 million from employee and corporate contributions and logging over 27,300 volunteer hours in the U.S. and Canada. Supporting energy educationResource access, energy supply diversity, technological innovation, energy efficiency, industry competitiveness, and environmental stewardship can and should be achieved together. We sponsor the “Unconventionals” exhibit in Wiess Energy Hall at the Houston Museum of Natural Science, the most contemporary, comprehensive, and technologically advanced exhibition on the science and technology of energy globally. We also support the National Energy Education Development (NEED) Project, funding energy education workshops for teachers to provide tools to educate students on a wide range of topics from energy conservation to energy sources, including renewable energy. In 2017, the program reached 434 teachers through workshops held in six states.Local content In communities where we operate, we promote local economic growth by supporting local suppliers and employing local workers, providing sustainable economic benefits. These efforts vary across the globe and are tailored to suit each community.In Indonesia, we support the development of small businesses in several ways. Vocational training efforts for women include an initiative that helps partici.pants produce banana crackers, cassava crackers, and chili sauce that are now sold to over 250 locations in Palembang, the capital of South Sumatra. Our com.munity outreach also includes a four- to six-month training program focused on economic empowerment that teaches local residents skills such as bookkeeping, proposal writing, and cooking so that they can partic.ipate in the economic activity associated with natural gas and oil development. They also learn how to solicit business from over 150 other local companies in indus.tries such as construction and coal mining. Vocational training opportunities for Timor-Leste resi.dents were expanded in 2017 with the start of a two-year pilot vocational electrical and instrumentation training program. The program was developed in collaboration with the government of Timor-Leste and will provide specialized training in skills that can be applied across various industries for up to 40 local participants. Six dedicated Timorese trainers from the National Vocational Training Center work with the international trainers throughout the program to ensure skill transfer and long-term sustainability. In Alaska, the CareerQuest program offers training for occupations such as emergency response, facility or automotive maintenance, and food services to high school students from the village of Nuiqsut. Additionally, participants are paired with a mentor from ConocoPhillips to provide personal guidance. Frequent job fairs are also open to the community, often in conjunction with health and science fairs, to highlight career opportunities.  View “CareerQuest.”Human rightsWe believe businesses have an important role to play to advance respect for human rights throughout the world and conduct business consistent with the human rights philosophies expressed in global frameworks. When our operations identify potential human rights concerns during risk assessments, they then develop engagement plans and specific actions to manage and mitigate that risk. We seek to partner and engage with indigenous commu.nities to diminish the negative aspects of our operations and maximize the social and economic benefits we can bring communities neighboring our operations. This includes regular discussion about risks related to com.pliance and permitting in formal and informal meetings to maintain open dialogue about ongoing development plans, regulatory matters and tribal vendor selection. By respecting local history, cultures and customs we can integrate traditional knowledge into our planning process and find solutions that create shared value.View “Stakeholder engagement on the North Slope.”View more about the basketball courts we sponsored in the Nuiqsut community on Alaska’s North Slope.CREATING SHARED VALUE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTUnited Way Day of CaringCREATING SHARED VALUE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT“It is important that we recognize and respect the culture of the communities where we work. When we understand communities’ priorities and concerns, and they understand the work we do, we can incorporate their input into our planning to reduce the potential for negative impacts on the community and our business.”.
Indonesia Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, Adjie SuryaningratView “Supporting sustainable small businesses.”Members of Fort McMurray First Nations meet with ConocoPhillips employees.CREATING SHARED VALUE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTView “Celebrating 100 years of support for
Yellowstone National Park.”SPOTLIGHTConducting seismic surveys responsiblyExploration activities in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, were successful in part due to effective engagement with local communi.ties well in advance of the actual field operations at our Kualakurun Block. By actively engaging indigenous people, seeking to understanding local culture and identifying key stakeholders, we were able to develop a program to provide information about potential impacts of the seismic activities on local inhabitants and land owners. Efforts included months of planning, obtaining govern.ment permits, and engaging with residents and local governments of two regencies, eight districts and 54 villages. This social mapping study was a collaborative effort with the University of Indonesia, University of Palangkaraya and tribal leaders. It identified influential contacts within the local people and mapped the Dayak “sacred sites.” The 460 miles of survey lines, originally positioned for technical objectives, were reviewed and adjusted to avoid these culturally sensitive places. Community relations activities in the form of support for educational programs and funding for social and cultural celebrations also helped establish relationships with the Dayak tribe. CREATING SHARED VALUE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTSupporting conservation innovationSPOTLIGHTWe support programs that help identify and deliver tools and tech.niques to support conservation, build skills and improve access to tech.nology. Through the ConocoPhillips SPIRIT of Conservation & Innovation Fund, we support innovative North American conservation projects by working with the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In 2017, nine grants with a total conservation impact of $2.9 million were made to support projects ranging from mangrove seeding techniques to improve wetlands health and reduce erosion along the Gulf Coast, to piloting a water market for ground.water recharge in the Teton River Basin to improve wetland health, base flows and river temperatures. In Alaska, grant funds were used to help remove a barrier on the Eklutna River and open seven miles of stream habitat to five different species of pacific salmon. They also funded the evaluation of nesting common eiders in northern Alaska’s barrier island ecosystem, and the implementation of cutting-edge tracking technolo.gies to determine the most important staging sites on the Arctic Coast for arctic breeding shorebirds. In Colorado and Texas, projects focused on restoring grassland bird habitats by working with ranchers on rota.tional grazing and engaging land.owners in voluntary habitat practices and other restoration strategies. The results benefited over 79,000 acres of working ranchlands. Since 1997, ConocoPhillips, NFWF and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service have invested more than $10.5 million in projects through the SPIRIT of Conservation and Innovation program. Grantees have matched this funding with an additional $22.9 million for a total conservation impact of $33.4 million. As a result of these investments, more than 293,500 acres of critical habitat in 13 states have been conserved or restored. Support for the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries (LDWF) Coastal Louisiana Array Project allows for the construction of an almost seamless digital network, consisting of 32 passive VHF radio telemetry receiver stations stretching from the Texas border to the Mississippi border, to track migratory species of greatest conservation need. Additionally, through our subsidiary, The Louisiana Land Exploration Company LLC, which owns approximately 636,000 acres, we will provide free access to our property along the southeast Louisiana coast to the agency.We also continued efforts with the Smithsonian Migratory Connectivity Project in the U.S. and Canada to track several species of concern including Arctic Terns, Black-bellied Plovers, and Common Nighthawks in 2017. A variety of satellite, GPS and geolocator tags provide data that helps with several scientific discover.ies, including the Pacific Loon’s migra.tory “continental divide.”Other resourcesStakeholder Engagement Action PlanHuman Rights PositionStakeholder Engagement PrinciplesImplementation Guidance:•	Indigenous peoples•	Human rights•	Community engagement•	Secu.rity and human rights•	Social investmentCode of Business Ethics and ConductConocoPhillips Health, Safety and Environmental PolicyVoluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR)United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human RightsUniversal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR)International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at WorkInternational Labour Organization Convention 169United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous PeoplesGlobal Progress MapSUPPLY CHAINSupply ChainPriority issuesBusiness ethicsStakeholder engagementHuman rightsTransparency and corruptionAcross the globe, we work with thousands of contrac.tors, suppliers and local businesses. Since our success is directly influenced by those who support our operations, we value sustainable development throughout the supply chain.We expect responsible performance by our suppliers and have processes to address risks in our supply chain. Sustainability criteria are integrated into our supplier selection and evaluation, and our expectations regarding integrity, labor and human rights, supplier inclusion, health, safety and the environment are clearly outlined. Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct: Expectations of Suppliers and Commitment to Supplier Inclusion doc.uments provide clear, concise insight into our operating philosophies and expectations. Engaging with suppliersIn 2017, we focused on developing policies and proce.dures for a resilient supply chain. One key element of this effort was hosting a supplier sustainability forum bringing together dozens of suppliers from over 20 different companies, as well as more than 65 ConocoPhillips representa.tives from across the globe. The agenda included short presenta.tions and panel discussions and was designed to facilitate sharing of sustainability best practices that are transferable throughout our diverse supply chains. Topics discussed included water reuse, greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction, and other cost-efficient practices. Collaborating with our suppliers to identify and manage risks, foster supplier inclusion, and increase productivity and efficiency allows us to mutually improve our sustainability performance. We also engaged with major suppliers on standardized environmental key performance indicators (KPIs) to ensure alignment with our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance objectives. Major suppli.ers reported annual performance in several categories, including GHG emissions and freshwater consumption. Annual review meetings also help clarify performance expectations, track results and identify continuous improvement opportunities.Advocating for supplier diversity in business opportuni.ties allows us to build relationships with diverse suppliers. In the U.S., our 2017 supplier diversity program totaled $530 million with minority and women owned businesses and $418 million in expenditures with small businesses.Suppliers who positively impact our business are honored by our annual Supplier Recognition Awards. Sustainability is an integral consid.eration for these supplier awards. In 2017, awards ranged from produced water gathering and disposal to construc.tion jobsite safety.$7.41 billionTotal spend with contractors and suppliers in 2017View “Supporting Supply Chain Sustainability.”2017 Supplier Sustainability ForumCREATING SHARED VALUE SUPPLY CHAIN2017 total spend by segmentSPOTLIGHTGoodnight creates great outcome One winner of our annual Supplier Recognition Awards, Goodnight Midstream, is a Texas-based company specializing in oilfield water man.agement services. Like many of the regions we operate, the Bakken Basin requires solutions for produced water gathering and disposal. Goodnight Midstream took the initiative to propose a phased approach for the produced water gath.ering system, which allowed for an accelerated schedule and reduced costs by over $7 million across the project lifespan. Instead of transporting produced water by truck and disposing of it in salt water disposal (SWD) wells, the gathering system decreases the risks associated with transport and improves our carbon footprint by taking trucks off the road. The Supplier Recognition Awards honor partners who positively impact our business while exhibiting exceptional leadership and alignment with our SPIRIT Values.2017 total spend by categoryCREATING SHARED VALUE SUPPLY CHAINSupporting Truckers Against TraffickingOther resourcesCode of Business Ethics
and Conduct: Expectations of SuppliersAn estimated 25 million people are victims of forced labor globally, coerced to participate in some type of labor or commercial sex act by force, fraud or coercion. Victims of this highly profit.able crime are all ages and are from all races and socioeconomic backgrounds. Forced labor includes human trafficking, which occurs in both large cities and rural areas. Women and girls are dispro.portionately affected, accounting for 99 percent of victims in the commercial sex industry, and 58 percent in other sectors, according to the International Labour Organization.It is important that we address human rights issues not only in our operations, but also along the value chain. While human trafficking is not directly related to our operations, we are in a position to help curb modern day slavery by working with our suppliers and sup.porting Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT) in the U.S. The nonprofit agency educates, equips, empowers and mobilizes members of the trucking and travel plaza industry to combat human trafficking. Truckers Against Trafficking is designed to provide extra sets of eyes and ears to law enforcement, operating in all 50 states.“There are more professional drivers on the road than there are law enforcement officers,” noted Kirsta Leeburg Melton, Deputy Criminal Chief, Texas Human Trafficking and Transnational/Organized Crime Section, speaking at a recent training event we hosted in Kenedy, Texas.The Coalition Build events we hosted brought together law enforce.ment agencies, general managers of truck stops, representatives of trucking companies, state trucking associations, and oil and natural gas companies to provide extensive training. Participants learned about the realities of domestic sex traffick.ing, how the trucking industry can combat it, and how to report suspected trafficking situations. They also heard from a survivor who shared anecdotal information about how traffickers maintain control over their victims. In addition to the Coalition Build event in Texas, we hosted another event in North Dakota, working with industry partners, U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp, the North Dakota Motor Carriers, the Highway Patrol, and local sheriffs and police departments. Our leadership has spurred broader industry support and resulted in a significant increase in anti-trafficking activity in local areas, according to Truckers Against Trafficking representatives.2017 Supplier Recognition 
Award winners Babcock Offshore Services Australasia Pty Ltd.Centerfire Contracting Ltd.Crossfire, LLCGoodnight Midstream, LLCHertel UK Ltd.Magseis Operations ASNanuq AFCPetro Star Inc.WGP Group Ltd.Xtreme Engineering Pty Ltd.1902+calls made to the national hotline by truckers aloneLearn more about how we integrate supply chain sustainability into our operations.CREATING SHARED VALUE SUPPLY CHAINSPOTLIGHT545likely human trafficking cases identified involving 1,008 trafficking victims,
315 of whom were minorsView “Supporting Truckers Against Trafficking.”2017 Coalition Build in Kenedy, Texas. Left to right: TAT Field Trainer Tajuan McCarty; ConocoPhillips Stakeholder Engagement and Social Responsibility Director James Viray; Human Trafficking and Transnational/Organized Criminal Prosecutions Deputy Chief Kirsta Leeburg Melton; TAT Coalition Build Specialist Esther Goetsch; TAT President John EsparzaCASE STUDYCASE STUDY INDIGENOUS PEOPLESCreating long-term relationships in CanadaThrough ongoing engagement with indigenous communities, we seek to understand perspectives about our impacts and consider how best to minimize them. We work with communities to develop consultation and engagement plans that address community needs and leave a positive legacy for communities near our operations including community investment, economic development, and capacity building programs. In Canada, we have a structured approach to meaningful consulta.tion that enables us to address each community’s concerns and risks in a targeted manner while respecting the value of conserving the environ.ment and understanding the impact our operations may have on cultural heritage.“Our goal is to work cooperatively with communities through early engagement. This includes consider.ing traditional ecological knowledge and traditional land use information, and understanding community interests, goals and perspectives on environmental, social and economic topics,” said Canada HSE and Sustainable Development Vice President Darryl Hass.Assessing values and interestsWe use a Values and Interest Assessments (VIA) process to guide practitioners as they work with Aboriginal communities to create positive, sustainable outcomes. Our stakeholder engagement team begins the process by building rela.tionships through authentic, collab.orative dialogue with members of the community. Next, we work with the community to create a shared vision and discuss ways we can work together. The third stage centers around planning and focuses on collaboratively prioritizing ideas and creating structures and processes for working together. Lastly, the ideas are turned into a shared action plan to be implemented and assessed. Sustainable outcomesShared actions from the VIA process vary depending on the interests of the community members and poten.tial risk to our business. These often include initiatives or events that bring social benefit to the community. For the past several years, ConocoPhillips Canada supported the Sustainable Communities Initiative (SCI), an award-winning program to create and support opportunities for aboriginal youth to gain skills and knowledge. The initiative addresses community aspirations for healthy and happy youth who understand their culture. One program element, the Experiential Learning Initiative (ELI), was designed to give par.ticipants insight into experiential learning practices and a deeper knowledge of traditional culture such as beading, traditional food prepa.ration, and Dene and Cree language lessons, while also fulfilling school-based science curriculum. One of the 2017 cultural events was designed to help youth “walk in two worlds” with an Elder teaching participants how to locate and use significant medicinal plants during a medicine walk. We have supported the initiative with in-kind company resources who help create the capacity to strategize, promote the programs, and engage new funding opportunities. The VIA process can result in formal agreements with interested indig.enous communities in close prox.imity to large developments. For those communities, agreements formalize a respectful relation.ship and the mutual promises between our company and those communities. Each agreement is focused on shared value and addressing the specific promises, obligations and benefits for both parties, and like many agree.ments, are confidential. Agreements include a process to resolve concerns about rights infringement from our activities and language committing both parties to work toward mutually beneficial relationships. The Cooperation and Mutual Benefits Agreement (CMBA) with Fort McMurray First Nation (FMFN) signed in 2016 represents multiple years of engagement to build trust and respect, mutual areas of interest and benefit, and a formal commitment to a stronger relationship. In 2017, at the first Leadership Committee meeting with FMFN we identified areas where we could improve and extend our relationship. We received feedback that our contracting strategies were impacting both the current and pro.spective opportunities for the Nation, and that we still had work to do. We explored how our business prac.tices had evolved in the past year as market conditions had changed. The result of these discussions was the strengthening of the joint Business Working Group to create an ongoing deeper dialogue on local contracting opportunities and capabilities. We also changed our internal practices to work more strategically with the FMFN on the shared goal of local business benefits. Another outcome of the meeting was the establish.ment of an Environmental Working Group to provide a forum to discuss environmental monitoring and identify opportunities to support environmental stewardship of the Surmont Project and FMFN commu.nity pillars.Senior Coordinator, Stakeholder Engagement, Chantale Campbell (far right) collaborates with members of Fort McMurray First Nations at Gregoire Creek. CASE STUDY“This is an excellent example of sustainable development. Instead of just funding these efforts, we have been actively engaged in working with the community to help them put processes in place to enable programs’ sustainability beyond our financial contributions.”.—  Stakeholder Engagement Senior Coordinator Chantale CampbellVIA process