Safety, Health and SecuritySafety, Health and SecuritySPIRIT Values – Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork – inspire our actions and confirm that safety is core to how we operate. We consistently promote safe work practices and are focused on control of work. Read our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy on our website.2021 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS›	Remained a leader among our peers on personnel safety performance and had zero fatalities in 2021. ›	Strong focus on leadership engagement, human performance and learning organization concepts.›	Utilized Life Saving Rules and Process Safety Fundamentals to control work and mitigate serious events in the field.›	Crisis management teams employed globally and cross-functionally to safely run the business and protect personnel during the coronavirus pandemic.›	Conducted three global virtual crisis-response exercises.An operator working 
on the Queen Tank Battery in the Midland Basin.148ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2021SafetyA Learning OrganizationOur vision is to increase operational reliability and resiliency, and we believe that begins with learning. By being curious about how work is done, mindful of risks and committed to predicting errors, we can minimize the likelihood of unexpected events. We continuously look for ways to operate more safely, efficiently and responsibly. We focus on reducing human error by emphasizing interaction among people, equipment and work processes. We conduct thorough investigations of all serious incidents to understand the root cause and share lessons learned globally to improve our procedures, training, maintenance programs and designs. By applying a learning mindset and human performance concepts, we are increasing our capacity to safely manage work and critical activities. We have processes in place to encourage candid dialogue on the work being done and to share ideas. Learning Teams are facilitated sessions in which the team and facilitator discuss successful work or an unplanned event to better understand the context of how the work was done. Our Opportunity to Learn process enables information to be shared quickly following an incident or near miss so learnings can be recognized and applied to other applicable locations to prevent repeat incidents.This approach is reinforced through additional activities such as verification of personal and process safety safeguards, and meaningful leadership engagement with field operations.COMPONENTS OF
HUMAN PERFORMANCEOur work is never 
so urgent or important that we cannot take 
the time to do it safely and in an environmentally responsible manner.Watch “Safety Leadership in the Bakken.”Process SafetyProcess safety is achieved by using special precautions, or barriers, to keep our facilities safe and our products safely contained, eliminating potential impact to people, property or the environment. An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from a process system is considered a process safety event. We have consistent practices and processes for the prevention, control and mitigation of process safety events. Effective barriers can be active, passive or procedural, and can involve equipment and/or people. We utilize multiple barriers to achieve redundancy depending on the severity of the potential hazard.We seek to continually improve our process safety culture and performance across the entire company. A global network of process safety experts meets regularly to share knowledge and discuss best practices for continuous improvement. To strengthen our process safety performance:.	Engineers design safer systems with new knowledge and technologies..	Trained operations staff perform routine maintenance to mitigate process hazards and ensure asset integrity..	Process safety experts analyze events and share knowledge globally.Enhancing process safety awareness and competency across our company is one of our key objectives. Our Process Safety Fundamentals are simple, actionable, good operating practices developed to improve process safety awareness. Over time, people naturally become desensitized to the risks they face, making errors more likely. Recognizing this, the Process Safety Fundamentals are intended to increase focus on critical tasks.In August 2021, nearly 100 cross-functional ConocoPhillips employees gathered virtually to learn, share and connect at the 2021 Process Safety Summit. The two-day event featured leadership speeches, an interactive panel discussion and focused knowledge sharing from business leaders. The summit provided a valuable opportunity to share incidents, learnings, best practices and weak signals, which generated candid discussions for continuous improvement in process safety. Enthusiasm from participants and engagement from leaders exemplify our company commitment to process safety performance improvement.PROCESS SAFETY FUNDAMENTALSOperators at a well site in the Eagle Ford. Spill PreventionWe evaluate the risk of spills occurring and potential impacts while taking numerous precautions to prevent spills and mitigate impact. Specialized designs, operating procedures, routine maintenance of our facilities, verifications and process safety best practices play a key role in protecting the environment where we operate. We have dedicated spill prevention teams in areas with high activity and sensitive ecosystems. If a spill does occur, established practices and resources are employed to control and mitigate the impact. We are also focused on strengthening our critical incident risk management capability through our systematic, multi-tiered approach to emergency preparedness and crisis management. Hydrocarbon spills impacting a sensitive area and spills greater than 100 barrels are immediately reported to our corporate office. Spill PerformanceIn 2021, we experienced four hydrocarbon spills to the environment greater than 100 barrels. Three spills occurred on land in the U.S. Lower 48 and one occurred on land in Canada, resulting in approximately 700 barrels being released with an 81% recovery rate. None of our spills in 2021 impacted a shoreline.The number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment greater than one barrel increased in 2021. We had 178 spills that were greater than one barrel, with 148 of those between one and 10 barrels. Sixty-four percent of the volume of our spilled material was fully recovered. We continue to focus on the importance of process safety and spill prevention.The increased spill counts are reflective of the significant increase in U.S. operated production during 2021. View our Performance Metrics on our website. We continue to enhance our spill prevention processes and focus on the importance of process safety.Read more about our Process Safety culture on our website.Spill Response and MitigationWe have both internal and external resources to assist with spill remediation and response. Our investment in spill response technologies includes membership in Oil Spill Removal Organizations (OSROs) across the globe, which affords us access to substantial inventories of, and the latest advances in, proven response equipment.In the Gulf of Mexico, we are members of two OSROs, Marine Spill Response Corporation (MSRC) and Clean Gulf Associates (CGA). Our Alaska business unit has memberships in two large OSROs, including Alaska Clean Seas (ACS) and Ship Escort/Response Vessel System (SERVS) for our exploration and production operations on the North Slope and our Polar Tanker operations in Prince William Sound, respectively. Our membership in MSRC, as well as a contract with the National Response Corporation (NRC), provides coverage for our Polar Tankers operations along the U.S. west coast.In addition to our U.S.-based OSRO memberships, the company also belongs to Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) and Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Companies (NOFO). OSRL provides global substantial response resources staged at various locations around the world, whereas NOFO, also with significant resources, provides regional OSRO support for our Norway operations. We are also members in other, somewhat smaller, local OSROs associated with many of our global operations.Read more about our Emergency Preparedness on our website.SERVS training in Prince William Sound.Personal SafetyOur Life Saving Rules are visual reminders with easy-to-follow minimum requirements to keep our workforce safe during high-risk operations. They are part of our safe work cycle that includes planning, execution, verification and correction. Our Life Saving Rules reinforce our strong culture of safety and contribute to our long-term decline in personal injuries. In 2021, to further enhance awareness and understanding, especially among new members of the workforce, videos highlighting each Life Saving Rule and corresponding critical controls were promoted globally and played in local meetings. ConocoPhillips employed extensive COVID-19 mitigation efforts in 2021 which often exceeded the local standards and requirements. However, we did experience instances of workplace transmission during the year. Including lost workday cases related to COVID-19, our 2021 total recordable rate (TRR) was 0.52. Excluding COVID-19 cases, our TRR was 0.15. We compare our TRR to oil and gas peers and to other industries. Our 2021 workforce TRR of 0.15 excluding COVID-19, is industry leading.HSE Management System Our corporate HSE Management System Standard helps ensure that business activities are consistently conducted in a safe, healthy, environmentally and socially responsible manner across the globe. Our corporate standard aligns with, and is based on, industry standards such as ISO 45001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. In accordance with the corporate standard, each business unit maintains an HSE Management System to assess and manage the local operational risks to the business, employees, contractors, stakeholders and the environment. All our business units periodically review their HSE management systems against the corporate standard and are responsible for integrating HSE and sustainability issues into day-to-day operations, project development and decision making. They analyze current status, identify areas for potential improvement, and then implement key activities to reduce risk and further improve HSE performance. They are held accountable through an annual performance assessment. Objectives, targets and deadlines are set and tracked annually to drive strong HSE performance. Progress is tracked and reported to our Executive Leadership Team and the Board of Directors. Corporate HSE audits manage and maintain a process to provide an independent, objective and consistent assessment for global company-wide operations conformance with ConocoPhillips HSE policies and standards. Business units have additional auditing processes to provide an assessment of compliance with applicable corporate HSE and legal requirements. Results of closure on corrective actions from audits and other risk improvement items are annually reported through a process designed to ensure items are communicated through all levels of company management and driven to appropriate resolution in a timely manner. Read more about our Sustainable Development risk management process on our website.Watch “Life Saving Rules and Critical Controls – Line of Fire.”SafetySafety, Health and SecurityA safety meeting at the Battleship Central Facility.Emergency PreparednessEmergency PreparednessThe complex nature of our business means we must be prepared to respond to a range of possible disruptions such as major accidents, political instability or extreme weather. Preventing incidents through good project planning, design, implementation and leadership is our primary objective. However, if a spill or other unplanned event occurs, we have procedures and processes in place to respond effectively. We also conduct thorough investigations of all significant incidents to understand the root cause, and we share lessons learned to prevent future incidents. We report on our spill performance annually.Preparedness PoliciesOur corporate Crisis and Emergency Management Plan outlines the framework used to manage our response to significant incidents of all types. A Crisis Communications Functional Support Plan outlines how we will communicate with internal and external stakeholders, including emergency responders, regulatory agencies and community members, should an incident occur. Each business unit maintains emergency response plans specific to each asset’s potential risks. Response plans are available to all employees, contractors and designated suppliers.We have a comprehensive tiered response framework to efficiently mobilize the appropriate teams in an emergency. A Tier 1 response is fully managed at the business unit level. If the response exceeds the capabilities of an individual business unit, the Crisis Management Support Team and Global Incident Management Assist Team (GIMAT) would be activated as part of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 response frameworks. The Crisis Management Support Team provides functional, strategic and/or tactical support to the affected business unit during a significant incident or crisis. The GIMAT is comprised of subject matter experts from across the company who have undergone extensive emergency response training. In a Tier 3 response scenario, the Crisis Manager would provide direct access and updates to the Executive Leadership Team.Training and ExerciseWe develop effective emergency responders by conducting multiple emergency response training events and exercises each year for our global operations in compliance with company standards and local regulatory requirements, including the U.S. Oil Pollution Act. In 2021, we conducted a virtual crisis-response exercise for transportation assets in Alaska. The drill was designed to audit the response plan and optimize collaboration between local staff, external government and nongovernmental agencies, and virtual response participants across the globe utilizing a Virtual Incident Command Post (VICP). The exercise included a hypothetical product release from a marine vessel, requiring multi-jurisdictional coordination, unified command, and environmental remediation. We also conducted similar virtual exercises with our Teesside and Australia Pacific LNG assets. Scenario training and exercises provide an opportunity to evaluate incident management systems at various levels throughout the company. Lessons learned and best practices from key exercises are shared within our internal emergency response community and with external response partners and vendors to further enhance capabilities.24/7 MonitoringOur Crisis Management Notification Process is anchored by a hotline – staffed 24 hours per day, 7 days per week – that allows stakeholders to report emergencies. The number is publicly available and is included in product transport paperwork. If assistance is required, a ConocoPhillips representative will coordinate the activation and/or mobilization of corporate resources as necessary.Incident response team members review spill trajectory maps during a drill to better direct mobilization of resources.Occupational Health and Industrial HygieneSafety, Health and SecurityOccupational Health and 
Industrial HygieneThe goal of our Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene program is to protect the health of workers and the neighboring community through the identification, evaluation and control of potential workplace exposures. Each business unit develops and implements an Exposure Assessment Plan that identifies potential chemical and nonchemical exposures and implements controls to prevent worker or community exposures. Health assessments are conducted to ensure that control measures are protecting the health of potentially exposed workers. Read more about employee benefits and wellness on our website.Checking a level controller.Security and CybersecuritySecurity and CybersecurityThe security and protection of our people, assets, information and reputation are cornerstones of our business. While risk can never be eliminated, we continuously strive to mitigate it by prudently anticipating, preventing and responding to internal and external security incidents.As an operator of critical infrastructure and facilities in challenging locations worldwide, we work closely with governmental agencies, nongovernmental organizations, our peers and local communities on initiatives to identify, deter, prevent and mitigate a range of potential threats to company personnel, facilities and operations. We manage our facilities consistent with national and international security standards and regulations including:.	U.S. Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism standards.	Department of Transportation.	Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC).	Hazmat Transportation Security requirements.	Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards.	International Ship and Port Facility Security Code.	Maritime Transportation Security Act.	Maritime Transport and Facilities Security regulations (Australia).	Bureau of Land Management.	All other applicable governmental security requirementsWe maintain a “Tier III” status in the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program by demonstrating effective security that exceeds the minimum program criteria. Our program ensures categories of company procedures intended to maintain the integrity and security of the international supply chain. This effort is conducted through our partnership with U.S. Customs and Border Protection who assess the overall effectiveness of our security processes.We remain an active, participating member of the U.S. State Department Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC), the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) and other national and international security organizations.CybersecurityOur business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies, some of which are managed by third-party service providers on whom we rely to help us collect, host or process information. Among other activities, we rely on digital technology to estimate oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information and communicate with employees and third parties. As a result, we may face various cybersecurity threats including:.	Attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, sensitive information about our operations and our employees..	Attempts to render our data or systems (or those of third parties with whom we do business) corrupted or unusable..	Threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure as well as those of third parties with whom we do business..	Attempted cyberterrorism.The Information Technology Security team is responsible for cybersecurity strategy and planning. The team reports to the Chief Digital and Information Officer who reports to the Executive Vice President, Strategy, Sustainability and Technology. Information security requirements for all employees, contractors and partners are detailed in the ConocoPhillips Information Security & Protection policy, which is approved by senior leaders. Our ongoing information security management strategy is to align the company’s program with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.While our management team is responsible for the day-to-day management of risk, the Board of Directors has broad oversight responsibility for our risk management programs. In order to maintain effective board oversight across the entire enterprise, the Board delegates certain elements of its oversight function to individual committees. The Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight or Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) regarding the effectiveness of information systems and cybersecurity. In addition, the Board delegates authority to the AFC to manage the risk oversight efforts of the various committees. As part of this authority, the AFC regularly discusses ConocoPhillips’ ERM policies and facilitates appropriate coordination among committees to ensure that our risk management programs are functioning properly.To minimize the likelihood of cyberattacks, employees and contractors are required to complete information security training annually, and we frequently communicate with our workforce about best practices to avoid cyberthreats. We revised internal security awareness training in 2020 to reflect current security challenges and the company’s security objectives. Each employee was required to complete the annual training.Although we have experienced occasional cybersecurity incidents, we continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and investigate and remediate detected vulnerabilities based on criticality. During 2021, none of these incidents had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation and did not meet the criteria to be deemed a reportable incident per SEC reporting requirements. For example, ConocoPhillips is one of many customers of SolarWinds, a major U.S. information technology firm. As publicized in December 2020, SolarWinds was subject to a cyberattack that spread to its clients, including ConocoPhillips. Upon learning of the cyberattack, both from U.S. Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency advisories and SolarWinds’ vulnerability notification, ConocoPhillips promptly initiated actions to investigate and respond to the incident. Our coordinated response activities included a comprehensive review and analysis, which did not identify any system or network exploitation.