Our New Approach to Reporting Chevron’s previous Corporate Responsibility (CR) report was produced annually as a comprehensive printed document that also was shared online. Our 2013 report marks a shift to a shorter printed version of the report and expanded, more frequently updated content on our website. Our CR perform.ance data, which are now available online, are based on IPIECA/API/OGP* sector-speciﬁ c sustainability reporting guidelines. Our move to greater online reporting allows us to present the same data that we have disclosed in previous years and to increase disclosure on workforce health and safety, human rights and other areas. The move is also being made in response to the growing number of people seeking information online. Our online CR content should create better opportunities for information custom.ization and feedback. We are continually seeking ways to improve the delivery of CR reporting and information; we will continue to make enhancements as we incorporate feedback from diverse audiences interested in our business activities. Our environmental, safety and workforce performance data and our 2013 reporting on IPIECA/API/OGP indicators can be found at Chevron.com/Reporting. On the cover: Students work together on a project at the Summer Engineering Experience for Kids camp organized by the National Society of Black Engineers. Supported by Chevron, the three-week camp at Martin Luther King, Jr. Elementary School in Oakland, California, inspired 242 students to take an interest in science, technology, engineering and math. * IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues)/ American Petroleum Institute / International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO John S. Watson Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, May 2014 At Chevron, we are proud of the work that we do to safely develop the energy that people and businesses around the world depend on. Affordable, reliable energy is a cornerstone of economic growth and helps improve the quality of life for communities throughout the world. As we work toward our vision of being the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance, we are guided by The Chevron Way, which deﬁnes who we are, what we do and what we believe. Everywhere Chevron operates, we strive to build lasting partnerships that contribute to local economies. We have learned through decades of experience that Chevron’s business success is deeply linked to society’s progress and built upon long-term, collaborative and mutually beneﬁ cial relationships. The foundation of these relationships is our commitment to The Chevron Way and the accompanying set of values that distin.guish us and guide our actions. This report demonstrates the impact and importance of two of those values —Partnership and Protecting People and the Environment. We demonstrate Partnership through a commitment to local businesses, governments, communities and key stakeholders, identifying needs and investing in solutions and programs that will deliver measurable and lasting results. Over the past six years, we’ve spent more than $258 billion in goods and services to supply energy around the world. Our business and social investments help advance local economies by supporting local businesses, generating jobs and improving lives. Beyond contributions to our partner countries through direct business investment and taxes, we’ve made nearly $1.5 billion in social investments in local communities over the past eight years that foster economic growth, with a signiﬁcant focus on health, education and economic development programs and partnerships. This includes spending almost $275 million on global social invest.ments in 2013. Additionally, we support social progress through our comprehensive Human Rights Policy and our promotion of revenue transparency in the extractive industries. We understand deeply that Chevron’s continued success depends on our ability to operate responsibly. To deliver world-class safety and environmental performance, we are guided by a commitment to Protecting People and the Environment. Our Operational Excellence Management System, built upon this value, provides employees with the processes and tools needed to complete every task the right way, every time. In 2013, we continued to be a leader in personal safety, as measured by injuries requiring time away from work. We also undertook extensive actions to enhance process safety to prevent serious incidents, and through these efforts we delivered our lowest number of serious process safety–related loss-of-containment events. However, we are not yet incident-free. Chevron is committed to achieving our goal of zero incidents and will continue to focus on achieving world-class performance in all measures of safety and environmental stewardship. We hope you ﬁnd the information in this report to be informative and useful. This report shares our progress throughout 2013 and highlights how we demonstrate our values and create prosper.ity in the communities where we operate —now and for generations to come. You can learn more about our corporate responsibility efforts online at Chevron.com/CR. At Chevron, we are proud to invest in the people, projects and communities that make our business possible. The Chevron Way explains who we are, what we do, what we believe and what we plan to accomplish. At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. We make this vision a reality by consistently putting our values into practice. The Chevron Way values distinguish us and guide our actions so that we get results the right way. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, protecting people and the environment, and high performance. To read more about The Chevron Way, visit For complete reporting, including performance Chevron.com/ChevronWay. data, visit Chevron.com/Reporting. PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Managing Operational Risk. Ingrained in The Chevron Way is our commitment to protecting people and the environment, which includes developing energy safely and reliably. We strive to develop a culture in which everyone believes that all incidents are preventable and that “zero incidents” is achievable. Our priorities every day are to get our employees and contractors home safe and to protect the environment. 2013 Global Employee Survey: Favorability Percentage 97% 88% 86% Chevron 2013 Global 93% Employee Survey 73% Global high-performing companies norm in 2013 76% Oil, gas and chemical companies norm in 2013 95% 83% 84% Towers Watson benchmark data Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is a comprehensive, proven means of systematic management of process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, reliability, and efﬁciency. Through disciplined application of OEMS, we identify risks and integrate operational excellence (OE) processes, standards, procedures and behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS is aligned with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001,* as well as the Center for Chemical Process Safety’s Guidelines for Risk Based Process Safety. Within OEMS, we use a management system process to drive continual improvement toward world-class performance. This process is linked to business planning and begins with deﬁning a vision of success and setting objectives. Gaps between current per.formance and these objectives are uncovered during assessment. We develop plans to close the gaps, implement the plans and review plan performance. We set high expectations for ourselves, which requires active leadership. We adopt and share best practices with our business and industry partners, and we continually take action to improve our practices and meet our commitments. From 2005 through 2013, our Days Away From Work Rate for our employees and contractor workforce fell from 0.12 to 0.02. Engaged and Capable Workforce To advance our OE culture, we build on the belief that all incidents are preventable, and we actively communicate with and engage our employees and contractors regarding our OE-related policies and objectives. Every year, we run Global OE Focus cam.paigns to drive companywide awareness about OE priorities and stimulate discussion and engagement at the team level. Every three years, we conduct a survey to measure employee engagement, retention and wellness. In 2013, we received responses from 77 percent of our survey population. Ninety-eight percent of employees who responded said that they understand and apply Chevron’s OE standards in their daily work activities. These results signiﬁ cantly surpass the global oil, gas and chemical company benchmarks and global high-performing company benchmarks, as measured by Towers Watson. To enhance our workforce’s OE capabilities, we develop our employees’ and contractors’ skills and experience in several ways. For example, since 2003, employees have attended OE Forums to take train.ing and share information and best practices related to our health, safety and environmental perform.ance. Every business unit is required to conduct regular performance and partnership engagements with key contractors to review OE performance and share best practices. We also hold forums globally with our contractor workforce to promote OE culture. * International Organization for Standardization environmental management system standard and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series management system speciﬁ cation. To learn about our Operational Excellence Management System, visit Chevron.com/OEMS. Read about workforce development at Chevron.com/IPIECA. 5 Operational excellence is 1 Achieve an incident- and injury-free workplace. deﬁned as “the systematic 2 Promote a healthy workforce and mitigate management of process signiﬁcant workplace health risks. OE Objectives safety, personal safety and 3 Identify and mitigate environmental and health, the environment, process safety risks. reliability, and efﬁ ciency to 4 Operate with industry-leading asset integrity achieve top performance.” and reliability. It is based on ﬁ ve objectives. 5 Efﬁciently use natural resources and assets. PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT 