 Chevron Hallmark with Wordmark 2018 
corporate responsibility 
report highlights human energy ® Female farmer outdoors with solar energy panel. Full description on following page. for complete reporting, 
visit chevron.com/crOn the cover: Daw Win Mar, a crop farmer in the Kyauk Se Lay 
village of Myanmar, is a beneficiary of the Ahlin Yaung program. 
To learn more about our social investments worldwide, see 
chevron.com/creatingprosperity.we are in the business of progressAt the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global 
energy company most admired for its people, partnership 
and performance. We enable human progress by developing the 
energy that improves lives and powers the world forward.read more. . .chevron.com/chevronwaySince our industry’s inception, energy has continued to evolve on different paths, at different speeds in different geographies. 
Chevron partners with one of the longest-serving international 
nongovernmental organizations in Myanmar, Pact, to deliver affordable, renewable solar energy to homes and communities. The Ahlin Yaung program, meaning “light” in Burmese, has enabled over 240,000 
people to benefit from solar energy, including helping households to shift from kerosene and wood-based energy sources to solar.a message from our 
chairman and 
chief executive officerThis year, Chevron celebrates 
an important milestone 
in our company’s history—
our 140th anniversary 
of enabling human progress around the world.We strive to uphold this proud legacy every day as we deliver 
the affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy that life depends on. We are in the business of progress, and our work helps billions of people achieve better living standards, access to education, longer and healthier lives, and social and economic opportunities.Helping people improve their quality of life is a tremendous responsibility. It’s why we work. And it’s why Chevron supports 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to deliver 
value for global societies.Today, about 40 percent of the world’s citizens, or 3 billion people, have access to only rudimentary forms of energy. Each of these people deserves better access to energy and the better quality of life it provides. In the decades ahead, energy demand is expected to surge more than 25 percent, driven by rising incomes and population growth.As more energy—and more different forms of energy—is required 
to power the world forward, more of the population will depend 
on Chevron and our people, partnerships and performance.We partner with thousands of business, government and nonprofit organizations to expand health, education and economic develop-ment in the communities where we operate. To further promote prosperity in these communities, Chevron has spent $154 billion on goods and services and more than $1 billion on social investments globally in the past five years. Our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights includes 
key environmental, social and governance advancements we have achieved by honoring The Chevron Way—the touchstone that guides our actions. We do business the right and responsible way, and in this report, you will read about the actions we’re taking to engage our diverse workforce; manage risks; keep people healthy and safe; protect the environment; respect human rights; and address climate change.Protecting the environment is at the core of The Chevron Way. 
We share society’s concerns as governments pursue the 
goals expressed in the Paris Agreement. Every day, we work to make the world’s energy ever-cleaner and our environmental footprint smaller. Those opportunities range from ensuring robust water management techniques to reducing plastic waste in the environment to partnering with companies and investing 
in technology that directly removes carbon dioxide from the air. Chevron CEO Mike Wirth seated with employees. Above: Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth engages with colleagues during a visit to 
Chevron’s offices in Angola.Chairman’s letter continues on Page 2Delivering those opportunities will require Chevron’s greatest 
asset—our people. How we work and how we respond to challenges must continue evolving, to ensure we continue delivering human progress.Chevron has always been defined by our problem solvers—innovators driven to help enable economic, social and individual opportunity for people who aspire to better lives. Affordable, reliable and cleaner energy is essential to enabling this human progress. And just as Chevron has provided the energy that 
helped our world prosper over the past 140 years, we will continue to partner with you—our stakeholders and shareholders—to 
deliver energy in the future. Michael K. Wirth Signature Michael K. WirthChairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive OfficerMay 2019 Chevron CEO Mike Wirth
walking with employees. Above: Wirth received a briefing on our Angolan field operations during a visit in 2018.awards and recognitioncorporate responsibility Dow Jones Sustainability 
North America IndexForbes and JUST Capital JUST 100Ministry of Thailand
Thailand Energy Awards 2018 
Outstanding Energy Conservation in Transport workforceCorporate Equality Index 
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality Glassdoor Employees’ Choice 
Best Places to Work in 2019National Business Inclusion Consortium 
Best-of-the-Best Corporations for InclusionRigzone Ideal Employer RankingsWomen’s Choice Award 
Best Companies for WomenWomen's Business Enterprise National Council 
Top Corporation Hall of Fame 
for Women’s Business Enterprisesidentifying issues 
through continuous 
engagementenvironment Environment Icon social Social Icon governance Governance Icon our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on 
environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues that matter to our stakeholders—investors, customers, 
host governments, local 
communities and employees2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights on iPad. learn more. . chevron.com/ESGreportingissue prioritization process To select content for our 2018 Corporate Responsibility 
Report Highlights and the corporate responsibility section of chevron.com, we interviewed subject matter experts from 
across our business segments to identify and validate relevant 
ESG topics. In addition, Chevron worked with a research firm 
that conducted anonymous surveys of institutional investors, nongovernmental organizations and other external stakeholders. These stake holders identified the same issues highlighted in 
the previous year’s report. Chevron’s Global Issues Committee, 
a subcommittee of Chevron’s Executive Committee, reviewed 
and validated our assessment and prioritization.stockholder engagement Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder trust and goodwill are core Chevron values. Through our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance departments, we engage with stockholders to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and 
policy issues. In 2018, our ESG Engagement team had substantive engagements representing more than 52 percent of Chevron’s outstanding common stock. This team met with all stockholders who submitted proxy proposals to discuss their concerns and potential areas 
for agreement.employee engagement Chevron employees have solved some of history’s most complex energy challenges. Today we are equipping and inspiring our 
workforce to do the same while also anticipating those on the 
horizon. Through continuous engagement and increased connec-tivity, we are nurturing our greatest resources—human ingenuity, creativity and imagination—to shape our ESG contributions 
around the world.In order to bring together minds from around the world, we launched an internal social network, Workplace by Facebook, to create a more connected, inclusive work environment. By the end of 2018, more than half of our workforce had created accounts, and more than 2,000 discussion groups had been created to enable people to connect, share, collaborate and innovate for the future.