managing risk Chevron utilizes a number of processes to manage risk, including risks that may be associated with climate change. These include Enterprise Risk Management, Strategic and Business Planning, Portfolio Management, and assessments of commodity pricing. • Chevron uses an internal outlook of carbon prices in the economic evaluations supporting major capital project appropriation approvals. • We use a risk-based approach to address pos.sible physical impacts to our critical infrastructure. • We continually refresh our portfolio taking into account our views of future market and regulatory conditions. Chevron has the ability to adjust investment patterns, and portfolio composition will reﬂect the evolving nature of possible demand and regulatory changes. In view of the continuing global demand for oil and gas, the substantial future investment required to meet that demand, and the way investment decisions to explore for and develop resources are phased and made with a market view in mind, the risk exposure to the company in a GHG-restricted scenario is minimal. Chevron has analyzed the impacts of supply, demand and resultant pricing levels under a reduced-demand/ GHG-constrained scenario, including consideration of the International Energy Agency (IEA) 450 Scenario. This analysis has shown: • The pricing levels modeled for the IEA 450 Scenario generally align with the low end of the price trajectory range already being used throughout our various planning processes. • Although certain high-cost assets around the world could be impacted by a hypothetical GHG-constrained case, those high-cost assets for which a ﬁ nal investment decision has yet to be made would not ﬁnd a place in our investment portfolio given our risk management processes. Lower-cost assets remain competitive, speciﬁcally, those assets already producing, which would continue to produce. We have undertaken a number of steps to manage GHGs, including investments in ﬂare reduction, investments in CO2 injection, improved energy efficiency and activity in biofuels. We believe that our current risk management and busi.ness planning processes are sufficient to mitigate the risks associated with climate change. These processes are appropriate to enable us to continue to monitor and adjust accordingly as climate policy developments unfold. For more, see our report Managing Climate Change Risks: A Perspective for Investors at chevron.com/climateriskperspective. chevron.com/cr 2016 GHG emissions by sector* 66 million metric tons Transportation Reﬁ ning Power Other Upstream Transportation includes Chevron Pipe Line Company and Chevron Shipping Company. Power includes Chevron Power and Energy Management Company. Other includes Americas Products, International Products, Chevron Lubricants, Chevron Oronite Company, Chevron Building and Real Estate Services, Chevron Aviation Services, Chevron Environmental Management Company, and Chevron Information Technology Company. 2016 GHG emissions by type* 66 million metric tons Methane Other C02 greenhouse gas management We are committed to managing our GHG emissions by improving energy effi  ciency, reducing ﬂaring and venting, and ﬁxing methane leaks when they occur. We are also investing in two of the world’s largest carbon dioxide injec.tion projects. We are addressing the GHG emissions in our operations and integrating GHG emissions management into the execu.tion of our business activities. Further, we maintain and report inventories of our emissions, undertake projects to manage operating emissions, and apply innovative technol.ogies to improve the energy efficiency of our operations. We also assess the GHG emissions of our capital projects. When developing and approving major capital projects, we estimate a project’s incremental emissions proﬁle, assess the potential ﬁnancial impact of GHG regulations and examine the emissions reduction options. Across our operations, the primary sources of our GHG emissions are combustion of fuels and, in some locations, ﬂaring and venting of the natural gas (methane) that is extracted along with crude oil. Methane Methane accounts for approximately 9 percent of Chevron’s total greenhouse gas emissions.* Approximately one-quarter of Chevron’s enterprisewide methane emissions are consid.ered fugitive emissions; of the remaining emissions, most are generated by ﬂaring and venting. It is in Chevron’s business interest to minimize fugitive methane and to maximize the volume of natural gas that we can commercialize. We design, construct and operate our facilities with an eye toward reducing emissions from our operations. We also have design requirements to reduce or minimize fugitive emissions from our new major capital projects. We monitor and verify the integrity of our wells and production equipment with regular inspections and safety tests. We have formal programs in a number of locations to inspect our facilities for leaks. To more efficiently track fugitive emissions, we use infrared cameras in select oil and gas operations around the globe to help pinpoint leak locations so that we can address them. In many locations where we operate, we implement procedures to comply with regulatory requirements per.taining to leak detection and repair. *CO2-equivalent, direct (Scope 1), operated basis. chevron.com/cr 2016 GHG emissions by source* 66 million metric tons Other Venting Flaring Combustion Carbon dioxide injection Chevron Australia’s Gorgon Project incorporates facil.ities to safely inject reservoir carbon dioxide more than 1.2 miles (2 km) below the surface of Barrow Island. Carbon dioxide occurs naturally in the gas being produced and is extracted as a routine part of the processing operations. In most gas processing plants, these gases are vented to the atmosphere. When fully operational, it is anticipated that greenhouse gas emissions from the Gorgon Project will be reduced by up to 4 million metric tons per year, or 100 million metric tons over the life of the project. In Alberta, Canada, Chevron is a co-venture partner of the Quest Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) project— the ﬁrst CCS project in the Canadian oil sands. This innova.tive project is designed to capture and safely store more than a million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year— equivalent to taking 250,000 cars off the road annually. Commercial operations at the Quest CCS project began in November 2015. Venting and ﬂ aring Chevron ﬂares and vents natural gas for safety and opera.tional purposes and in areas where pipelines or other gas transportation infrastructure and utilization alternatives do not exist. We are working to reduce natural gas ﬂ aring and venting and the resulting GHG emissions. We have developed internal country-speciﬁc plans to minimize gas ﬂaring, and we are a member of the World Bank–led Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership. Since 2008, activities carried out by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation/ Chevron Nigeria Limited joint venture have reduced routine gas ﬂaring by more than 90 percent in the Niger Delta. We have also made signiﬁcant progress in reducing ﬂ are gas volumes in Angola through the execution of various projects. For example, our Nemba Enhanced Secondary Recovery Project reduced ﬂaring at the South and North Nemba ﬁ elds by almost 34 million standard cubic feet per day in 2016. In total, ﬂare gas volume rates in Angola have been reduced by more than 50 percent since 2012. energy efficiency Using energy more efficiently helps preserve our ﬁ nite natural resources, lower energy costs and reduce carbon emissions. Reduction in energy intensity in IndoAsia business unit Due to the size and nature of the operations, managing energy consumption in our IndoAsia business unit (IBU) is a critical focus area. The IBU continues to make signiﬁcant improvements in energy effi  ciency and has reduced its energy intensity by 27 percent from 2014 to 2016. This improvement was achieved in part through the establishment of an Integrated Optimization Decision Support Center (IODSC) in the IBU’s Sumatra opera.tions in Indonesia. The IODSC monitors the day-to-day energy performance of the surface facilities and provides recommendations for optimizing energy effi  ciency.