managing operational risk fundamental to the chevron way is our commitment to protecting people and the environment, which includes developing energy safely and reliably to power human and economic progress worldwide learn more chevron.com/OE 0.02 motor vehicle  crash rate* In 2015, our workforce Motor Vehicle Crash Rate  was the lowest we have ever recorded. *Workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven. chevron.com/cr For the past 15 years, we have expanded our systems to support a culture of safety, environmental stewardship and top performance. We call this “operational excellence”  (OE), and it drives everything we do. Our workforce truly believes that incidents are preventable, and we have  policies, processes, tools and behavioral expectations in place to assist us in achieving our goal of zero incidents. Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is a comprehensive, proven means to systematically  manage process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, reliability, and efficiency. Through disciplined application of the OEMS, we identify and mitigate risks  by integrating OE processes, standards, procedures and  behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS is aligned with ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, as well as  with the Center for Chemical Process Safety’s Guidelines for Risk-Based Process Safety.* The single largest factor for success in OE is leadership accountability. Leaders are focused on getting results the right way and behaving in accordance with our values. Executives and managers are accountable for running the OEMS, which involves oversight by our Board of Directors. Through their actions, leaders at every level manage and drive execution and reinforcement of the OE culture, instill operational discipline, and work to ensure that everyone  in their organization complies with OE requirements. Across our business, leaders inspire their teams to strive to achieve zero safety, health and environmental incidents. Within the OEMS, we use a management system process  to drive continual improvement toward world-class perform- ance. This process is linked to business planning and begins with defining a vision of success and setting objectives. Gaps between current performance and these objectives  are identified during annual assessments. We develop plans to close gaps, and we then thoroughly review implementa.tion performance. We adopt and share best practices with our business and industry partners and continually take action to improve our practices and meet our commitments. In 2015, we contin.ued to emphasize our focus on serious incident and fatality prevention as our most important priority. *Attestation: In 2015, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) attested that our OEMS meets the requirements of the International Organization for Standardization’s environmental management system standard and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series’ management system specification and verified that the OEMS is implemented throughout the corporation. Chevron has engaged LRQA for independent verification of  the OEMS since 2004. 5 operational excellenceobjectives Chevron’s OEMS provides a disciplined approach toward managing process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, reliability, and efficiency. We rigorously deploy our processes, standards and regulatory requirements to assure compliance, identify and manage risk of incidents, ensure preparedness for emergency response,  and improve overall performance, focusing on five areas: Safety: Achieve an incident- and injury-free workplace. Health: Promote a healthy workforce and mitigate significant workplace health risks. Environment: Identify and mitigate environmental and process safety risks. Reliability: Operate with industry-leading asset integrity and reliability. Efficiency: Efficiently use natural resources  and assets. Our commitment to OE extends beyond our  employees to include our contractor workforce, our supply chain partners and the communities where we operate. chevron.com/cr protecting people and the environment preventingserious incidents chevron is committed to preventing serious incidents and fatalities, which requires operational discipline among our more than 58,000 employees and our full-time-equivalent contractor workforce of 214,000 learn more chevron.com/healthsafety Kelly Gray, Chevron Australia production technician, monitors operating units in the Gorgon Operations central control room on Barrow Island, Western Australia. chevron.com/cr 10 We identify and mitigate risk by applying policies, processes and  technologies to maintain our focus on achieving zero incidents.  We also build leader fluency in human performance—the way people, culture, equipment, work systems and processes interact. Leaders  are integrating these concepts to improve procedures and incident investigation quality and learning. personal safety Personal safety is managed by multiple processes within our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Written safe-work practices are a core part of our compre.hensive safety program. These safe-work practices help ensure that potentially hazardous work, such as electrical work and entry into a confined space, is properly planned, permitted, executed and closed out to prevent workplace injuries and incidents. We take steps to ensure that our contractors meet the same safety principles by making our expectations clear and verifying compliance with require.ments for safe-work practices. We eliminate or mitigate risks by identifying potential hazards, taking actions to reduce them and sharing what we know throughout our operations. To accomplish this, we have many tools—including our Preventing Serious Injuries and Fatalities Field Guide—to help our workforce identify potential hazards prior to starting work. These tools help those involved in high-risk activities identify and control  the significant potential hazards unique to each job activity.  We also started implementing worker-level training to increase awareness of error-likely situations. Although we have achieved industry-leading performance in preventing injuries, we still experienced three contractor fatalities in 2015, which is not acceptable to us. Each incident is thoroughly investigated so we can understand and learn from the root causes and put solutions in place to help prevent similar incidents. We share lessons learned through.out the Company and apply them in our work practices.  We have intensified management focus on assuring that critical safeguards are in place and functioning for high- risk activities. In 2015, we introduced the Serious Injury and Fatality Metric throughout the Company to help our operations reduce  the potential for high-consequence events. We analyze actual incidents and near-miss events to gauge whether they had the potential to cause a fatality or serious injury. The metric helps facilitate dialogue and drive our operational focus on events with the highest potential consequence and the application of safeguards that keep us operating safely. We are working with other companies in our industry to improve work processes that will help us prevent these serious incidents. We continue to maintain our sharp focus on verifying and validating that safeguards are in place, functioning and effective. process safety We also apply our OEMS to manage process safety as  we work to prevent serious incidents, such as explosions, fires and accidental releases. To identify hazards and  reduce risk, we conduct systematic reviews of facilities  and projects, engaging third-party reviewers in certain cases, and we conduct in-depth hazard analyses to prevent injury and loss of containment. Multiple layers of protection are engineered into our designs to safeguard our operations and prevent or mitigate the possible effects of human  mistakes and mechanical failures. In 2015, we achieved a new low in combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 loss-of-primary-containment incidents.* Programs aimed at improving these metrics involved enhancements to asset integrity management, effective operating procedures and risk management, process safety performance tracking, well safety, and the building of process safety competency at  all levels of the organization. Despite our success in reducing loss-of-containment events, serious incidents in 2015 remind us that we must continue to work toward zero process safety incidents. Through what we learn, we improve our procedures, training, maintenance programs and designs to avoid repeating incidents. We share lessons learned throughout the Company and with industry organizations, such as the American Petroleum Institute and the Center for Chemical Process Safety. *American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 defines Tier 1 loss.of-primary-containment (LOPC) incidents as certain significant unplanned or uncontrolled releases of material from primary containment, including nontoxic and nonflammable materials. A Tier 2 Process Safety Event is an LOPC with lesser consequence. Please refer to page 26 for an in-depth look at our health and safety performance data. chevron.com/cr protecting people and the environment preparing forpotentialemergencies chevron has processes and tools in place to effectively manage emergency response, business continuity and crisis management efforts, which are focused on prevention, preparedness, response and recovery learn more chevron.com/emergencymanagement Chevron uses a tiered approach to emergency manage.ment. Operating units develop site-specific emergency response and business continuity plans to prepare for all identified significant risks. Chevron s Center for Emergency Preparedness and Response (CEPR) is responsible for  providing guidance and expertise in emergency response, crisis management and business continuity. The CEPR  develops and maintains emergency notification procedures; trains and supports emergency response teams; conducts drills; and routinely practices with organizations that provide emergency response support. Chevron also maintains Corporate Emergency Response Teams, composed of well-trained personnel, to assist our operating units worldwide with emergency response preparedness. In 2015, a major oil spill response drill conducted in Richmond, California, demonstrated how our Corporate Emergency Response Team worked effectively with local authorities to improve oil spill response in San Francisco Bay. The exercise included the use of cutting-edge drone technology to map the path of a simulated spill to improve response capabilities. These exercises met the certification requirements of the voluntary National Preparedness  for Response Exercise Program,* in which Chevron  participates annually. Chevron also participates in international oil spill  cooperatives and has relationships with outside experts  and contractors. We sit on the boards of directors of  the two largest global oil spill cooperatives, the Marine Preservation Association and Oil Spill Response, Ltd.  We also work with trade associations, including the American Petroleum Institute and IPIECA, the global  oil and gas industry association for environmental and  social issues, to advance oil spill preparedness worldwide. We contract with spill response experts and organizations that can support us in areas such as incident management, wildlife management, oil spill and air dispersion modeling, toxicology, chemistry, fire-fighting, communications,  shipping, and salvage. Our executive crisis management committee conducts annual exercises to prepare for a range of scenarios that  may affect the Company or require coordination across multiple operating companies. *The National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) was developed to establish a workable exercise program that meets the intent of section 4202(a) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. PREP is a unified federal effort and satisfies the exercise requirements of the Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Research and Special Programs Administration Office of Pipeline Safety, and the Minerals Management Service. chevron.com/cr In 2015, Chevron conducted a major oil  spill response drill in Richmond, California,  in coordination with local, state and  federal agencies. chevron.com/cr 13 protecting people and the environment advancingenvironmental stewardship protecting people and the environment is a chevron way value that guides our actions so that we get results the right way, every time learn more chevron.com/environment Great hornbills (Buceros bicornis), a large bird species from the hornbill  family, found near Chevron’s  Dumai Camp, Sumatra, Indonesia. chevron.com/cr 14 Every day, our employees strive to responsibly manage  the environmental aspects of our operations, which include: • Accidental releases prevention and response • Air emissions • Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas • Natural resources, including water • Site residual impacts • Waste • Wastewater We make continual improvements in our environmental performance by following our Operational Excellence Management System and our Environmental Stewardship Corporate Standard Process, which require our businesses  to systematically identify, assess and prioritize environ- mental risk and improvement opportunities. We also  measure our environmental performance, which enables  us to make informed business decisions around protection of the environment. accidental releases In 2015, Chevron’s petroleum spill volume was the lowest ever recorded. These are some of the safeguards we use  to prevent accidental releases, including petroleum spills: • Assurance of the integrity of our equipment design • Execution of maintenance programs • Personnel training oil spills to land or water* Thousands of barrels ˛° Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Chevron ranking relative to competitors, 1 being the lowest rate Competitor range: British Petroleum plc, ExxonMobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell *Source: Annual company sustainability reports: British Petroleum plc, ExxonMobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell. When needed, units converted  to thousands of barrels (bbl) based on the following assumptions:  1 ton = 7.3 bbl; 1 bbl = 0.16 cubic meters; 1 bbl = 159 liters. 4 environmental principles We have four environmental principles that  define our commitment to doing business in an environmentally responsible manner, as we believe that protecting the environment is compatible with providing energy. These principles are imple.mented across the life of our assets: • Include the environment in decision making We all make decisions that may affect the  environment. From our everyday actions to major capital investments, we make better  decisions when we consider the environment. • Reduce our environmental footprint.We use our business processes to identify and manage risks to the environment and reduce potential environmental impacts throughout the life  of our assets. • Operate responsibly.We apply our Tenets of Operation and improve reliability and process safety to prevent accidental releases. • Steward our sites.We work to decommission, remediate and reclaim operating and legacy sites with the aim of beneficial reuse. Recent examples of how our environmental  principles have been implemented include: Reducing our footprint in Australia.On Barrow Island, Australia, where we operate  the Gorgon liquefied natural gas project, we  carry out the world’s largest nongovernmental quarantine initiative that seeks to preserve the unique ecosystems on and around the island.  Learn more at chevron.com/barrowisland. Site stewardship in New Mexico.In Questa, New Mexico, at the site of a century-old molybdenum mine, we worked to restore Eagle Rock Lake, a key recreational resource for the local community. The project involved remediation of impacted sediment and a redesign of the surface to enable improved access and better represent the region’s aesthetic. chevron.com/cr 15 protecting people and the environment addressingclimate change andenergy efficiency as the world works to address climate risks, we must create solutions that achieve environmental objectives without undermining growth of the global economy and our aspirations for a better quality of life for all learn more chevron.com/climatechange GHG emissions by source* 99 points We received an overall score of 99 out of 100 points in the 2015 CDP S&P 500 Climate Change Report— the highest among all integrated oil and gas companies. Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Combustion 66.2% 67.5% 67.8% 66.5% 68.0% Chevron’s transparency in Other 12.2% 13.0% 14.8% 17.5% 16.6% disclosing our GHG emissions Venting 4.7% 3.9% 4.2% 4.7% 4.1% and climate policies. Flaring 16.9% 15.6% 13.2% 11.3% 11.3% *Equity basis. Please see footnotes 6 and 7 on page 28 for additional information. chevron.com/cr Chevron shares the concerns of governments and the public about climate change risks and recognizes that the use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs is a contributor to rising greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the earth’s atmosphere. GHGs contribute to an increase in global temperature. We believe that taking prudent, practical and cost-effective action to address climate change risks is the right thing to do. Mitigation of GHG emissions, adaptation to climate change, and continuation of scientific and techno.logical research should all be considered. greenhouse gas management We are committed to managing our GHG emissions by reducing flaring and venting and improving energy  efficiency in our day-to-day operations. We compile inven.tories of our emissions, we undertake projects to manage operating emissions and we apply innovative technolo.gies to continually improve the energy efficiency of our operations. We also assess the GHG emissions of our capital projects. When developing and approving major capital projects, we estimate a project’s incremental emissions profile, assess the financial impact of GHG regulations, and describe the emissions reduction options considered and implemented. We have developed tools to identify, assess and rank emissions reduction methods; conduct economic analysis; and integrate GHG factors into decision making  and overall project development and management. The primary sources of our GHG emissions are combustion of fuels for electricity and steam generation during our  operations and, in some locations, flaring and venting of  the natural gas that is extracted along with crude oil. Reductions in flaring and venting Chevron is reducing natural gas flaring and venting and  the GHG emissions that result from this practice. We are  a member of the World Bank–led Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership, and we have developed internal country-specific plans to minimize gas flaring. Where  feasible, we seek opportunities to reduce flaring and venting in our global operations. Over the past five years, our upstream operations have made significant progress in reducing routine flaring through the completion of various gas gathering and  flare reduction projects. In 2015, our Nigeria/Mid-Africa Business Unit commenced operation of the Escravos  Gas Plant Phase 3B, which will reduce flaring from nine  offshore production platforms. In addition, our Southern Africa Strategic Business Unit completed the Nemba Enhanced Secondary Recovery Project, which will reduce our flaring volumes in Angola. Carbon dioxide injection Chevron Australia commenced operation of the first train* of the Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project on Barrow Island at the beginning of 2016. Construction continues  on the second and third trains, which will include execution of one of the largest carbon dioxide injection projects in  the world. *A train in this case refers to an LNG plant’s liquefaction and purification facility. energy efficiency Of all the ways to meet the world’s expanding energy needs, efficiency and conservation are the most cost effective and beneficial to the environment. Using energy more efficiently helps preserve our finite natural resources, lower energy costs and reduce carbon emissions. Some of our upstream operations are making sustained improvements in energy efficiency through implementation  of their Surface Facilities Optimization Process, which  facilitates identification, evaluation and implementation  of projects that will conserve energy resources. In our IndoAsia Business Unit Sumatra operations, optimization efforts have resulted in a 7.5 percent improvement in fuel gas use efficiency. In the Gulf of Mexico, use of a fuel gas dashboard and systematic energy surveys significantly improved fuel efficiency at more than 18 offshore platforms. In the Saudi-Kuwaiti Partitioned Zone, more than 150 wells were tied in to the local power grid, eliminating the need  for numerous low-efficiency diesel-fired generators. In our San Joaquin Valley Business Unit, projects to optimize  steam generation and distribution resulted in a mitigation  of 20,000 metric tons of GHGs through reduced fuel use. Building on examples like these from across the corporation, Chevron began development and implementation of a  more systematic energy management practice, targeting operations that have the highest energy intensity. Please refer to pages 24 and 25 for  methane, other GHG emissions and energy consumption data. chevron.com/cr protecting people and the environment managing water resources chevron recognizes the value of water as a fundamental social, environmental and economic resource learn more chevron.com/water A water recycling plant at Chevron s  Cape Town, South Africa, refinery has reduced the facility’s water withdrawals by 75 percent. chevron.com/cr 18 As a global company, we know that access to adequate supplies of water, both fresh water and water of lower quality, is essential for the communities where we operate as well as for our ability to produce energy around the world. As users of this critical natural resource,  we must manage it responsibly. water management We communicate our commitment to responsible manage.ment of freshwater resources in our Freshwater Position Statement, which states that we strive to do the following: • Continually improve environmental performance and reduce impacts from our operations. • Integrate freshwater conservation and efficiency drivers into our business decision-making processes and opera.tional management. • Conserve our use of fresh water in freshwater-constrained areas by reusing and recycling water and reducing the amount used. • Account for the use of fresh water in our operations with appropriate metrics. • Engage with governments, partners, local communities and other stakeholders on significant freshwater resource issues in areas where we operate. • Build partnerships and participate in industry initiatives to share and promote best practices, assist with the develop.ment of industry standards, and shape and influence relevant freshwater resource policy. We have continued to look for accurate ways of measuring our performance against these commitments. Over the  past five years, we have incorporated water-related metrics, including collecting data on the amounts of fresh and nonfresh water withdrawn from the environment and the amount of fresh water returned to freshwater sources.  In 2015, we began reporting fresh water consumed in align.ment with the IPIECA* Reporting Standard. *The global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. beneficial reuse We responsibly manage our water resources by reusing water that is available to us. Our upstream operations reuse approximately 75 percent of the water that is brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas. One example of how we reuse this water is by heating and reinjecting it into another well to aid in our production processes, rather than using fresh water. In addition, most of our refineries around the world reuse treated wastewater at their locations. By reusing water, we reduce the amount of fresh water we withdraw from the environment. fresh water withdrawn Million cubic meters Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 water recycling in South Africa In Cape Town, South Africa, we partnered with  Improchem on a water-recycling project  that has reduced the amount of water withdrawn  each day by our Cape Town Refinery by approximately  75 percent. This reduction made water available  for an additional 6,000 homes in Western Cape Province.  Our refinery achieved this reduction by building  a reverse osmosis plant that purifies treated wastewater  from the Potsdam Wastewater Treatment Works  to nearly drinking water quality. This purified  water is subsequently reused onsite at our refinery. Please refer to page 24 for an in-depth look at our water performance data. 