2021 corporate sustainability report permian basin 2.2M net acres one of the largest net acreage positions in the Permian Basin, which is located in West Texas and southeast New Mexico 100% of the MCBU drill rig fleet is equipped as of 2021 to utilize natural gas or the grid for primary power, which is expected to reduce emissions intensity and well costs 99% of water used in 2021 was from brackish or recycled sources Photo: The company s most significant holdings in the Mid Continent business unit (MCBU) are in the Permian Basin, where Chevron has been active since 1920. We understand the importance of protecting the region s resources – both the environment and the community. We ve made notable progress in water use, flaring minimization, renewable energy and community involvement. Original release May 2022; update June 2022, page 45 (revised first bullet list in Highlights from 2021 column). a force for shared progress Our success is driven by our people and their commitment to deliver affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy. Our strategy is clear – we are leveraging our strengths to deliver lower carbon energy to a growing world. By operating responsibly and performing with excellence, we strive to make Chevron the partner of choice and aim to be a force for shared progress and prosperity. Our success rests on a culture true to our Chevron Way values – getting results the right way. message from our chairman and CEO As the global energy system evolves to meet the demands of a growing world, we are focused on delivering affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy. Achieving a more sustainable future for Chevron means drawing on our culture of human ingenuity to solve problems and deliver solutions. It also means being an outstanding partner with businesses around the world and with the communities we call home. These priorities inspire us to build trust through collaboration and to nurture the diverse talent necessary to accomplish our goals. Getting results the right way isn’t always easy, but at Chevron we know it’s the sustainable way. reducing our carbon intensity While conversation about the energy transition often focuses on future actions, we are making progress today. We have identified nearly 100 GHG abatement projects to reduce the carbon intensity of our opera.tions, and expect them to deliver approximately 4 million tonnes of emissions reductions per year when completed. In 2021, we started 36 decarbonization projects and completed five. In 2022, we are more than doubling the number of projects to 75 and expect to spend approximately $2 billion total on similar projects through 2028. leading in methane management We continue to lead in methane management in our U.S. operations, particularly in the Permian, where our methane intensity is 85% lower than the basin average. Chevron is on track to meet our 2028 target to reduce enterprise methane emissions intensity by more than 50% from 2016 levels and eliminate routine flaring by 2030. To continue making progress, we’re expanding methane detection capabilities. In addition to traditional ground-based sensors, we’re deploying detection technology using satellites, aircraft and drones for broader coverage. Better methane detection is critical to reducing carbon intensity, and our work with industry and academic partners contributes to improving the accuracy and credibility of global methane reporting. new opportunities, new partnerships Reducing carbon emissions today requires partner.ship and collaboration, because no one company, industry or nation – acting alone – can meet the world’s energy and climate goals. This is particularly true with harder-to-abate sectors, such as manufacturing, agriculture, aviation and heavy-duty transportation. We are working with innovators around the globe to develop breakthrough technologies and building new partnerships to scale lower carbon solutions. In this spirit, we formed Chevron New Energies, leveraging our unique capabilities, assets and customers. We’re working to grow production of products such as renewable diesel, sustainable aviation fuel, renewable natural gas, biodiesel and renewable base oil. Our El Segundo Refinery was the first refinery in the U.S. to co-process biofeedstock to make transportation fuels with renewable content and a lower lifecycle carbon intensity. This capital-efficient project leveraged existing assets, enabled by patented, Chevron-developed technology. Chairman s letter continues on page 4 chevron.com/sustainability Photo: Mike Wirth speaks with workforce during worldwide employee town hall. • 100% rating: Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2022 Corporate Equality Index (17th consecutive year) • 100% on the Disability Equality Index for the Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion (3rd consecutive year) • JUST Capital Best Company for Workers in the Oil & Gas industry 2021 awards and recognition • EGYPS (Egypt Petroleum Show) Employer of the Year Championing Inclusion, Diversity and Equality • Corporation Leader of the Year award by Women Leaders in Data and Artificial Intelligence • Women’s Forum of New York Corporate Champion: more than 40% of Board seats are held by women • Forbes’ Just 100 and Best Employers For New Grads lists • Top Veteran-Friendly Company by U.S. Veterans Magazine • 5-star rating by The Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility’s Corporate Inclusion Index in areas of Employment and Governance chevron.com/sustainability 3 “getting results the right way isn’t always easy, but at chevron we know it’s the sustainable way” – mike wirth In addition, we are making great progress in growing our capabilities to produce lower carbon intensity fuels through agreements with Bunge, CalBio, Brightmark, Gevo and Renewable Energy Group. contributing to a more prosperous world In this year’s report, we have included our contribution to Ipieca’s SDG Roadmap for the oil and gas sector. Chevron supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals through our day-to-day operations, partnership initiatives and social investments. Tengiz.chevroil in 2021 supported Kazakhstani companies with the highest percentage of total spend since 2010 – an example of how we can use our supply chain to create opportunities for local businesses. Chevron’s water management practices utilize several methods to reduce operational demand for fresh water. We continue to partner with organizations like the World Business Council on Sustainable Development and are contrib.uting to the Global Water Solutions Project to develop new tools to strive to make more fresh water available for communities where we operate. Many more such examples are noted in this report. human ingenuity drives it all We invest to develop the full potential of people, believing this offers the best path to a better future for all. In 2021, we made strong progress on our Racial Equity strategy and continued executing our $15 million commitment to address racial inequality in the United States. The health and safety of our workforce is core to The Chevron Way. We strive to provide effective health and education programs to employees and to residents of the communities where we operate. We understand that self-care, mental health and emotional well-being are integral to employee health, safety and productivity. Through our commitment to operational excellence, dedication to partnership, and support for developing the potential of our people, Chevron is focused on what it takes to lead the right way. We proudly embrace our role and go forward with confidence and determination, committed to making vital contributions on the journey ahead. Thank you for your engagement, trust and partnership. Sincerely, Michael K. Wirth Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer chevron.com/sustainability 2021 ESG highlights protecting the environment >.35% GHG reduction target set for Upstream carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) by 2028 from our 2016 baseline 2050 net zero aspiration adopted for Upstream GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2); see page 15 for more details portfolio carbon intensity metric developed encompassing Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions launched Chevron New Energies top quartileperformance maintained in Upstream oil and gas GHG intensity empowering people top marks for 17th consecutive year 100% for 3rd consecutive year getting results the right way $21.1B record free cash flow in 2021 – 25% greater than our previous high 34 years in a row of increasing annual dividend payout per share directly linked Chevron Incentive Plan to achieving energy transition milestones 100+ engagements carried out with investors and stakeholders in 2021 furthered commitment to transparency by disclosing all contributions to trade associations and publishing list twice a year chevron.com/sustainability we focus our sustainability efforts on addressing environmental, social and governance issues, including implementing strong environmental stewardship, putting people at the center of everything we do and achieving results the right way board insight a conversation with debra reed-klages Independent Director Debra Reed-Klages had a virtual sit-down with Vanessa Teran, an employee network specialist in our Diversity, Inclusion, and Ombuds organization. Mrs. Teran is a proud member of Somos (Spanish for “We are”), one of Chevron’s 12 employee networks that promote diversity and inclusion. Somos provides leadership development, promotes inclusive behaviors, and helps create meaningful connections with Latin American and Hispanic employees at Chevron. Their discussion covered a wide range of topics – from expectations regarding the pace of the energy transition to the role diversity can play in managing organizational change. Ms. Reed-Klages shared her thoughts on Chevron’s role in a lower carbon future and the thoughtful approach we have taken thus far to advance an orderly transition. Debra Reed Klages, Audit Committee Chair Vanessa Teran, Employee Network Specialist chevron.com/sustainability Teran: Can you reflect on how Chevron is managing the energy transition? Reed-Klages: Chevron’s approach to the energy transition balances ambition and reality. It recognizes that the energy transition is exactly that – a transition. The world needs energy, and advancing to a lower carbon future should not leave anyone behind. We are driving down the carbon intensity of our oil and natural gas production today and investing to develop lower carbon energy solutions for tomorrow. A diversity of approaches toward achieving a lower carbon future is essential. Chevron is targeting the sectors of the economy that are difficult to decarbonize – manufactur.ing, aviation and heavy-duty transportation – because they are much more difficult to electrify than light-duty transportation. Chevron has the capabilities, assets and customers to drive change and innovation in these critical sectors, but such innovation will require ambitious government policies designed to align goals, create viable markets and serve as a catalyst for action. Teran: Can you share how the Board approached the launch of Chevron New Energies (CNE)? Reed-Klages: I am really excited about CNE. Our portfolio of energy technologies is expected to evolve over time as we advance toward a lower carbon future. Chevron recognized that to be a future leader, we needed to create an organization with a singular focus on pursuing lower carbon businesses. CNE builds on Chevron’s competitive advantages and provides a platform to accelerate lower carbon business activities in harder-to-abate sectors. For example, Chevron’s experience in operating complex refineries supports our hydrogen efforts; our experience in drilling helps us be leaders in carbon capture, utilization and storage; and our customer base in harder-to-abate sectors benefits from our ability to develop lower carbon products and solutions. In addition, Chevron is a goal-oriented organization, and CNE’s launch has helped focus the business on achieving the hydrogen and carbon capture targets we have set for ourselves. Teran: What have you learned about Chevron’s culture since you joined the Board? Reed-Klages: I’ve been particularly struck by the pride employees take in their jobs and the variety and length of their careers at Chevron. As employees move through different roles, they learn the implications of decisions on other parts of the business and build a robust picture of what drives value. Employees care about colleagues and business performance because they want to be a part of Chevron’s future. I’ve also been struck by the themes of caring and doing the right thing that permeate Chevron’s culture. For example, Chevron discloses GHG emissions data and established carbon intensity reduction targets on an equity basis – covering GHG emissions from company-operated and nonoperated joint ventures. Despite having less control over nonoperated joint ventures, transparently communicating our progress toward achieving global GHG emissions reduction goals is the right thing to do. Teran: How does the Board embrace diversity and why does diversity matter? Reed-Klages: In November 2021, Chevron was recognized by the Women’s Forum of New York for having more than 40% of our Board seats held by women. Overall, the Board seeks to achieve diversity of age, gender and ethnicity and recognizes it’s important to refresh Board membership and committee chair positions to introduce fresh ideas and perspectives. This multidimensional diversity enables the Board to challenge itself and management from different points of view. Chevron believes innovative solutions to our most complex challenges emerge when diverse people, ideas and experiences come together in an inclusive environment. I believe diversity brings not only new ideas and perspectives, but also resilience through change. Inclusion cultivates authenticity and a sense of belonging that can foster meaningful connections among employees. These connections can give people the strength they will need as our business evolves and we advance a lower carbon future. “I believe diversity brings not only new ideas and perspectives, but also resilience through change” – debra reed-klages chevron.com/sustainability our  our  purpose  vision  we develop the affordable,  to be the global energy company  reliable, ever-cleaner energy that  most admired for its people,  enables human progress  partnership and performance  Photo: Employees at Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan are working to start up the Future Growth Project and Wellhead Pressure Management Project. chevron.com/sustainability Our sustainability reporting focuses on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter to our business and our stakeholders. Thoughtful engagement around priority issues (sometimes called “material issues” in the context of ESG reporting frameworks1) helps us assess and, where necessary, refresh our ESG strategy and commitments and validate priorities in relation to business risk and opportunities. The content for our Corporate Sustainability Report (2021) was identified through issue prioritization processes and engagements with internal and external stakeholders throughout the year. To gain insight into ESG issues and reporting trends, we engage with numerous third-party groups, including: World Business Council for Sustainable Development, World Economic Forum, Business for Social Responsibility and Ipieca. In addition, we benchmark and obtain third-party reviews of our prior year’s Sustainability Report and send questionnaires to more than 100 internal subject matter experts and stakeholders to test our thinking. In 2021, we had more than 100 engagements with investors and other stakeholders in which a wide range of issues was discussed, such as climate change, corporate culture, cybersecurity, water, human capital management and employee mental health following COVID-19. As part of our reporting cycle, we provide relevant members of the Executive Leadership Team and senior management, the Global Issues Committee, and the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee with the opportunity to review and provide input to the planned content for our voluntary Sustainability Report. Since 2020, we have partnered with Datamaran, an ESG risk identification and monitoring software company that uses a comprehensive data-driven process to identify, prioritize and monitor ESG issues. Its business intelligence tool aims to leverage artificial intelligence to incorporate a wide array of inputs, including corporate reports, global regulations, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 1 With respect to the use of the term material, individual companies are best suited to determine which information is material under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term, and whether to disclose this infor.mation in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission financial filings. (SASB) metrics, social media and online news. We believe this tool is one of many useful inputs into our overall process for assessing the relevance of ESG issues and trends and that it helps us evaluate our alignment with diverse and sometimes competing stakeholder interests. Commitment to transparency We demonstrate our commitment to transparency by report.ing metrics and performance data annually. To determine which metrics to include, we consider the reporting guidance, indicators and terminology of the SASB, Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020) by Ipieca, the International Association for Oil & Gas Producers and the American Petroleum Institute, as well as other leading reporting frameworks. We have also disclosed our ESG data, including GHG emissions data, in the IHS Markit ESG Reporting Repository to enable investors and other stakeholders to efficiently compare ESG data across sectors and reporting frameworks in the absence of consistent mandatory reporting requirements. Responding to our stakeholders Our stakeholder engagement process has resulted in action in our business and enhancements to our reporting. These are but a few examples: • In 2021, in response to a proxy proposal and investor feed.back, we created an updated lobbying and trade association webpage that includes additional transparency on both lobbying and political contributions. • Discussions with investors have shaped our reporting and led us to utilize SASB and TCFD frameworks for sustainability disclosures. Beginning in 2019, we enhanced our reporting by aligning our performance data table with the recommendations of the SASB voluntary framework, as reflected in our SASB index column. In 2020, we began considering how our data related to the core Stakeholder Capitalism metrics developed by the World Economic Forum. These enhancements help provide comparable information for investors and other stakeholders. chevron.com/sustainability • Employees regularly express their thoughts and concerns to management through many formal and informal channels, including town hall meetings, employee pulse surveys and our Workplace platform. A recurring theme has been transparency and equity in job selection processes. Chevron identifies leaders to participate in our internal job selection meetings who act as a neutral third party focused on recognizing unconscious bias. The goal is to facilitate open discussions and bring more transparency to our decision-making processes. The table below highlights how we engage with our key stakeholder groups and what topics we typically discuss. stakeholder engagement  stakeholders  what do we discuss?  how do we engage?  stockholders  • Climate change and the energy transition • Environmental impacts • Executive compensation • Governance • Risk management • Social issues and human rights  • Annual Meeting of Stockholders • Disclosure alignment with SASB and TCFD reporting frameworks • ESG engagements • Quarterly analyst calls • Securities and Exchange Commission filings • Stockholder communication  employees  • Career development and advancement • Climate change and the energy transition • Compensation, benefits and equal opportunity • Health, safety and the environment • Well-being and stress management  • Employee networks • Employee surveys • Global Office of Ombuds • Town halls • Workplace by Facebook – an internal and informal social platform  suppliers and contractors  • Climate change and the energy transition • Health, safety and the environment • Local employment and contracting opportunities • Supplier diversity in the United States  • Advanced supplier relationship and service quality programs, which focus on collaborative improvement of mutual goals • Contractor Health, Environment and Safety Management process, which includes forums, meetings and audits • Engagements with local suppliers • Support and participation in various woman- and minority-owned supplier diversity councils  communities  • Asset retirement and environmental remediation • Health, safety and the environment • Land use • Local workforce and career training • Project and operational impacts • Social investment  • Community feedback hotlines • Grievance mechanisms • Local staff dedicated to community engagement • Regional development committees/strategic partnerships • Town halls • Volunteering • Websites, media and social media  governments  • Climate change and the energy transition • Cultural heritage management • Economic benefit and jobs • Energy supply and security • Health, safety and the environment • Social issues and human rights  • Engagement with all levels of government • Industry and trade association policymaking and advocacy • Promoting Chevron’s Statement on Human Rights Defenders and expectations of suppliers, contractors and business partners to comply • Regulatory rulemaking • Respect for Indigenous rights through Chevron Resettlement Guidance and Indigenous Peoples’ Guidance  NGOs  • Climate change and the energy transition • Economic development • Social issues and human rights • Transparency  • Participation in international climate initiatives and reporting frameworks • Participation in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative • Participation in United Nations’ working groups and other multistakeholder initiatives • Partnerships for environmental research  customers  • Environmental management • Health and safety performance • Lower carbon • Product and service quality • Social issues and human rights • Supply chain oversight • Timely delivery • Training  • Chevron Consumer Connection Center with support as needed from relevant corporate affairs departments and leadership • Customer questionnaires • Local customer service centers and support teams • Regular customer engagements • Regular engagement between sales teams and our business customers  chevron.com/sustainability 