getting results the right waywe cultivate a culture of integrity and commit  ourselves to do things the right and responsible wayA Chevron employee wearing a face mask walks through a refinery in South KoreaAbove: An employee at the GS Caltex refinery complex at Yeosu, Korea. In this section, learn how we approach Health and Safety.governancegovernancechevron believes that  strong governance is the foundation to creating  value for our stockholdersWe have structures and processes in place to responsibly govern our decisions and actions. Our Investor Relations, ESG and Sustainability, and  Corporate Governance departments are engaging with  stockholders to discuss operational, financial, govern-ance, executive compensation, environmental, safety,  and social and policy issues.Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stock?holder trust and confidence are core Chevron objectives.chevron.com/sustainability/governanceboard diversity50%diversity42%women25%racially/ethnically diverseboard of directors The Chevron Board of Directors provides oversight of the risk management systems that are employed throughout the company.They regularly consider critical risk topics as part of their deliberative decision-making processes. Annually, through Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process, they review financial, operational, market, political and other risks  inherent in our business.Our Board of Directors is made up of individuals who bring  diverse experiences and qualities, such as leadership, strategic insights and the ability to provide oversight of risk management. Their range of expertise spans operations, environmental,  policy, regulatory and finance. Their breadth of experience is reflected in their oversight of preparedness and resilience in the face of challenges, such as  the company experienced in 2020 with the COVID-19 pandemic  that resulted in a significant decrease in demand for Chevron’s products and a precipitous drop in commodity prices.The Board has four standing committees, all composed entirely of independent Directors: the Audit Committee, the Board Nominating and Governance Committee, the Management Compensation Com-mittee, and the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC). Each committee fulfills important responsibilities to assist the Board’s oversight of risks and build long-term stockholder value.executive-level committeesThe Executive Committee comprises corporate officers and is  chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee has established two subcommittees  that specialize in various matters important to the company, including strategy and compliance. The Enterprise Leadership  Team is responsible for managing the composition, resource allocation and strategic direction of Chevron’s portfolio to achieve our objectives. The Global Issues Committee (GIC) oversees  the development of Chevron’s policies and positions with respect to issues of global significance, including climate change, and recommends appropriate actions to respond. The GIC receives updates from subject matter experts on an array of climate change–related issues, such as carbon policy developments around the world, political developments, technological opportunities, and stockholder and stakeholder positions. The Vice President, Strategy and Sustainability, chairs the GIC and serves as the secretary to the PPSC of the Board, connecting the GIC’s work to the oversight of the PPSC.complianceThe Chevron Way forms the foundation of our compliance pro-gram through its expression of values and expectations for socially responsible and business conduct. From these overarching principles, the Business Conduct and Ethics Code communicates specific expectations for ethical business conduct.The Business Conduct and Ethics Code reinforces our compliance commitment and the responsibility of each employee to ensure Chevron’s activities fully adhere to legal and policy requirements everywhere we operate. Chevron maintains internal accounting, administrative and operational controls to manage these standards of conduct and compliance. We communicate this requirement  to our business partners through our contractual requirements  and through ongoing engagement. Suppliers and contractors  play a vital role in our success and we rely heavily on them to help  us deliver top-tier business results. At Chevron, it is not only about delivering business results, it is about delivering them the right way.Our compliance program addresses detailed compliance require-ments for many important subjects, including anti-corruption, internal controls, international trade, anti-boycott, operational excellence, data privacy and competition law. For each subject, senior-level Chevron leaders provide risk-based guidance on the company’s compliance requirements and training. Chevron employees and contractors receive training on Chevron’s  Business Conduct and Ethics Code every two years. For 2020,  the enterprisewide completion rate for this training exceeded  90 percent. Additional computer-based and in-person compliance training is also assigned and provided on a scheduled basis. Individual business units have ultimate accountability for compliance requirements.BPCThrough our membership in the Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC), Chevron participates in deliberative, inclusive and informed dialogue on important issues such as energy and environmental policy. BPC is a Washington, D.C.–based think tank that actively fosters bipartisanship by combining the best ideas from various parties to promote sensible solutions. With its strong convening ability, BPC assembles different perspectives on challenging issues to chart a productive path forward. This approach  enables Chevron to effectively engage with key stakeholders on all points on the political spectrum.Employee photoKaren KnutsonVice President and General Manager, Government Affairsemployee spotlightMy team and I are Chevron’s advocates, telling the company’s story to a very important audience: policymakers at the  U.S. federal and state level, as well as talking to international governments in Washington, D.C. We want to be the  honest brokers in the room, with a deep awareness of the opportunities and impacts of legislation and regulation,  and an obligation to support affordable, reliable and  ever-cleaner energy. And in every conversation, we come prepared to focus on climate—it’s the one topic at the top  of everyone’s list.Having been on the other side of the table during my years  of working with the Senate and the White House, I understand how we can help policy makers by advocating in a way that makes their job easier. This also applies to our international work, where we find the U.S. government is interested  in our perspectives on the countries in which we operate.  My team works in close concert with our Corporate Affairs teams around the world every day.Above all, our reputation and our trustworthiness as a company that doesn’t take shortcuts and that lives by the values of The Chevron Way are the most important elements of our advocacy work.corporate alliance for  the rule of lawChevron is a founding member of the Corporate Alliance for the Rule of Law (CAROL), which mobilizes the private sector  to support, promote and strengthen the rule of law as the foundation for social and economic development and the pro?- tection of personal freedoms. Several Chevron attorneys  have worked pro bono with other members to provide their collective expertise on a range of projects. Recent ventures have  included strengthening the capacity and independence of the Guatemalan judiciary; conducting workshops for 70 Kenyan judges; providing an international perspective to women judges in Mexico to improve their decision-making and personal advancement; and developing an assessment tool to assist Latin American countries in combating corruption.lobbying and trade associationsIn our 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report, we have provided examples of the broad range of issues that Chevron contributes to via trade associations and partnerships. Collaborating with trade associations across a spectrum of issues provides our company access to a range of perspectives and creates important opportunities to shape positions that align to our corporate values and with the interests of our employees, stakeholders and stockholders. Trade associations strive to represent the collective point of view of the membership. While there are times when our views diverge from those of other members, we actively engage with trade association partners, believing an open, rigorous examination of the issues helps to promote stronger progress for all.climate lobbying report In December 2020, we published our first Climate Lobbying Report. The report reflects our focus on transparency and desire  to be responsive to stakeholders’ increasing interest in more  details about how we conduct our climate lobbying. The report explains that our climate lobbying activities are designed  to support our commitment to deliver afford?able, reliable and  ever-cleaner energy and help advance the global energy transition. The report describes: (1) our energy transition strategy and  policy framework; (2) how our Board of Directors and manage-ment provide oversight on climate lobbying;(3) our direct  climate lobbying and trade association process; and (4) how our key trade associations contribute to and advance the dialogue regarding the energy transition.five  takeaways  from the climate lobbying  report include >1  at chevron,  we are committed  to compliance, transparency and accountability in our lobbying activities2  we have executive management and board oversight of direct and indirect lobbying activities3  we are committed to having an honest conversationthis means sharing  our perspective, listening to others, respecting differences and working to find solutions4  our climate lobbying activities are designed to support our  commitment to deliver affordable, reliable  and ever-cleaner energy  and help advance the  global energy transition5  we rarely agree  100 percent with  any trade associations,  but we believe our analysis shows that  they help advance chevron’s view on  the energy transitionselect climate-related positions by major US trade associationsAmerican Chemistry Council (ACC) ACC represents U.S. chemical manufacturersACC aims to advocate for a thriving chemical industry, supporting opportunities to use chemistry to  develop efficient and effective climate change solutions. The trade association advocates for: 1) the goals of the Paris Agreement; 2) market-based mechanisms, such as an economywide price on carbon over other regulatory systems or command-and-control approaches; 3) carbon leakage protection measures; and  4) continued investment in research and development and innovative technology, such as renewable energy and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS), to enable significant and cost-effective solutions and mitigation actions.American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) AFPM represents U.S. petroleum refining and petrochemical manufacturing industries Chevron has engaged with AFPM with the goal of encouraging advocacy for policies that enable members  to provide the fuels and petrochemicals that society needs in a sustainable way. AFPM’s climate principles call for policies that are balanced, measured, transparent, harmonized and economywide.American Petroleum Institute (API) API represents all segments of America’s oil and natural gas industry. API is also a standards-setting organization that publishes and maintains widely accepted standards and recommendations for the industryAPI believes that the oil and natural gas industry is part of the global solution to climate change and  has a vital role to play in developing and deploying technologies and products that continue to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while advancing economic prosperity. For instance, API created a new Climate Committee and has developed new policy positions that support market-based approaches  and innovation to address climate change. API supports the ambitions of the Paris Agreement. It also supports innovation, including reauthorization of the ARPA-E. On methane, API has focused on ensuring the EPA’s rule is consistent with the federal Clean Air Act and ensuring that effective state regulations are recognized. In 2017, API launched The Environmental Partnership, of which Chevron is a founding member. Among its activities, The Environmental Partnership has programs designed to further reduce flaring, emissions of methane and volatile organic compounds using cost-effective technologies.Business Roundtable (BRT) BRT is an association of chief executive officers of America’s leading companiesBRT believes that corporations should lead by example, support sound public policies and drive innovation to address climate change. According to BRT, the U.S. should adopt a more comprehensive, coordinated and market-based approach to reducing emissions. In September 2020, BRT established new climate policy principles. The BRT’s principles call for economywide carbon pricing as the primary policy tool to address climate change, support for innovative technologies such as CCUS, and efficient nonduplicative regulations.Consumer Energy Alliance (CEA) CEA advocates for various consumer stakeholders on energy and environmental issues on  the regional, state and federal levelsCEA states that energy production and environmental stewardship are not mutually exclusive. CEA is  focused on advancing policies that consider consumer needs and support technology and innovation.  CEA supports affordable and reliable energy in all forms.Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) IPAA represents U.S. independent oil and natural gas producersIPAA’s stated purpose is to advocate for federal policies that promote the safe development and use of American oil and natural gas. IPAA believes well-reasoned, cost-effective steps can be taken to limit  the generation of GHG emissions. IPAA also supports global cooperation, which it views as essential to  avoid national adverse economic actions without global GHG benefits.The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) The NAM represents small and large U.S. manufacturers in various industry sectors and advocates pro-manufacturing policiesThe NAM supports the objectives of the Paris Agreement to reduce climate risks. The NAM has called for Congressional action on climate policy that achieves meaningful, cost-effective GHG reductions while maintaining a strong economy. The NAM’s principles support a level playing field that prevents carbon leakage, while maintaining manufacturers’ global competitiveness. The NAM supports innovation and technological deployment to help decarbonize manufacturing.Natural Gas Supply Association (NGSA)NGSA represents U.S. integrated and independent companies that supply natural gas, and focuses on producer-marketer issues related to the downstream natural gas industryNGSA supports the Paris Agreement and believes the U.S. should remain part of the Agreement. In addition, NGSA advocates for economywide carbon pricing and, in the absence of national policy, carbon pricing in power markets. For example, NGSA encouraged the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to hold  a technical conference on carbon pricing, and NGSA participated in that September 2020 FERC conference. On methane, NGSA supports cost-effective methane policies and regulations. NGSA is committed to reducing methane emissions and improving the quality of methane data to achieve greater transparency.United States Council for International Business (USCIB)USCIB promotes a  variety of business views across multiple sectors to the U.S. government and to international policy makersUSCIB’s priorities include advancing global climate action alongside energy security, innovation and climate resilience. Related to its priorities, USCIB supports the Paris Agreement and believes the U.S. should remain part of the Agreement. USCIB principles recognize carbon pricing as an important climate policy tool, and USCIB seeks opportunities to design international climate cooperation that works with markets to encourage companies in all sectors to integrate climate mitigation into their activities, supply and value chains.U.S. Chamber of Commerce (U.S. Chamber)The U.S. Chamber develops and implements policy on major issues affecting U.S. businesses of all sizes across many sectors of the economyThe U.S. Chamber believes that the U.S. should be a world leader in climate change science and technologies. In November 2019, the U.S. Chamber announced its support for U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement. The U.S. Chamber also emphasizes the importance of market-based approaches, efficiency and resilient infrastructure in addressing climate change. The U.S. Chamber supports innovation-related legislation, and the phasedown of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). It is also working on a path forward on light-duty vehicle fuel economy and GHG standards that provide regulatory certainty, continue progress on mileage and emissions reductions, and preserve a unified national program for vehicle sales.Western States Petroleum Association (WSPA) WSPA is a nonprofit trade association that represents companies involved in petroleum exploration, production, refining, transportation and marketing, in the five western states of Arizona, California, Nevada, Oregon and WashingtonWSPA works to support development of the energy the world needs, while addressing concerns associated with climate change. WSPA recommends, for states considering climate policies, that market-based approaches can help balance the need to achieve GHG emissions targets while reducing the economic  impact on families, consumers and the economy. health and safetywe work to improve the health and safety of  our workforce through our policies, programs  and actionsWe are committed to our culture of Operational Excellence (OE) and continually work to improve our  OE performance by eliminating serious injuries and fatalities, and by learning from our incidents. We believe the more effectively we work on safety, the less often  we will need to respond to an incident or potential injury involving our colleagues.chevron.com/sustainability/governance# pursuingoperationalexcellenceup to 90%up to 90 percent of our  office-based employees shifted  to remote work in 2020Our strong safety record reflects the evolution of  our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), established in 2004 and updated in 2018, to manage  health, safety and environmental risks. The OEMS enables  us to systematically manage risk, implement and assure safeguards, and foster a culture of learning.supporting physical and emotional well-being2020 presented unprecedented pandemic-related health and  well-being risks. While many of our employees were able to  work remotely, others continued working onsite to keep our operations running safely. As stressors increased during the pandemic, Chevron connected employees with programs  that support physical and emotional well-being to cope with  the many challenges posed by COVID-19.With up to 90 percent of our office-based employees shifting  to remote work, demand for Chevron’s Repetitive Stress  Injury Prevention services increased, and ergonomic solutions  were needed to respond to a change in work environments.  Our Global Health and Medical ergonomic teams utilized technology to provide ergo evaluations and assistance for more than 6,300 Chevron U.S. employees, using a variety of communications channels and digital images of at-home workstations. Ergonomic evaluation support was extended  to an 18-hour window each day to accommodate Chevron employees around the world. As our workers experienced increasing stress in balancing  work-life issues and other pressures, the company encouraged employees to utilize our suite of wellness programs that  provide mental health and wellness resources, a substance  abuse program, and new app-based resilience tools. Our long-standing Employee Assistance Program, now in its 51st year, offered a range of virtual programs for our employees and their families, including art contests, music classes, mindfulness  and yoga instruction, storytelling sessions, and comic strips. Employees experiencing emotional issues were able to utilize meQuilibrium, an engaging resilience app that coaches employees on managing stress, overcoming negative thinking and making healthy lifestyle choices.applying technology for safer, faster resultsDuring the pandemic, a key safeguard was physical distancing, particularly important for our offshore and seagoing workforce,  who live and work together for extended periods. Advances in digital technologies enabled us to conduct remote audits to assess safe operations in our facilities, while keeping our workers physically distanced.We recognized the potential for conducting remote audit and assurance activities in early 2020 and began pilot testing at our Blind Faith Platform in the Gulf of Mexico. By year-end, we had completed corporate audits in our Upstream, Midstream and Downstream U.S. businesses, and had developed a fully remote 2021 audit schedule including several international locations. Our safety team utilizes a variety of technologies to conduct remote audits, including Microsoft Teams,® smartphones,  tablets and HoloLens. Microsoft’s HoloLens is a headset that operates as a fully self-contained holographic computer. Coupled with Microsoft Dynamics 365® Remote Assist,™ the technology  provides a remote view of operations that allows auditors to verify safeguards as if they were onsite, maintaining a high standard  of compliance without introducing the risk of additional personnel. Chevron is continuing to evaluate products and technology to  help us assess and promote our OE culture. Employee photoJanis Davis-StreetManager, Global Public  Health and Special Projects employee spotlightBefore joining Chevron in 2006, I worked as a researcher at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, where I helped develop nutritional requirements for astronauts coping with isolation and stress while in space. This proved to be good training for my work at Chevron, where I am helping to influence the health and well-being of a global workforce.  It has been very motivating to influence the well-being of  our workforce who live and work on offshore rigs, which can be as isolating as space travel in its own way. As a trained nutritionist, my first assignment at Chevron  was helping employees develop healthy eating habits to combat illnesses such as heart disease, the No.1 killer in the United States and much of the world. Each assignment  since then has inspired me and made me proud to work for  a company that cares so much about people’s physical  and emotional well-being. An exciting part of my journey has involved Chevron’s  focus on Human Performance factors, such as fatigue and stress, as targets for influencing individual well-being.  That focus has continued in my new position, which I began  in October 2020, where I continue to concentrate on  resilience and psychological well-being as one of the key factors in operating safely and productively. After all the challenges we faced in the past year, resilience is now  even more critical for us to maintain.product stewardship:  chemicals in productsChevron Oronite Company LLC, or Oronite, the company’s additives and specialty chemicals business, adheres to an internal policy to place new products on the market that, when possible and without compromising safety or reliability, do not contain more than 0.1 percent (w/w, per weight) of a given priority substance. Priority substances include those, for example, that are known to be carcinogenic; reprotoxic; mutagenic; or persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic (PBT). Oronite routinely evaluates opportunities to reduce or eliminate priority substances from the company’s product lines.IOGPAs a member of the International Association of Oil and  Gas Producers (IOGP), we recognize the importance  of collaborating on a wide range of industry initiatives that support our business objectives. Through our work as part of IOGP’s Safety Committee, we helped develop a set of Life-Saving Rules. Published in 13 languages, these rules provide industry workers with actions they can take to protect themselves and their colleagues from serious injuries and fatalities. These rules complement Chevron’s thorough guidelines on safe workplace procedures. We also participated in the development of Process Safety Fundamentals, a companion approach to helping our work?force identify process safety risks. Adoption of these programs can be particularly helpful to oil and gas service company personnel who work for a variety of operators and benefit from standardization and consistency in our approach to workforce and process safety.expansion of ePTWElectronic Permit-to-Work (ePTW) is a digital tool that replaces manual, paper-intensive processes required for routine and  high-risk maintenance operations. In 2019, the HSE Workforce Safety Team collaborated with software provider Enablon to configure their software tool for our work processes. The pilot version of ePTW supported permit and isolation workflows  across multiple permit types. The primary objective of Chevron’s ePTW deployment is an enhanced focus on safeguard verification. By reducing the administrative burden associated with permitting work, there is more time for robust hazard analysis development and review, and safeguard verification. An unexpected but notable benefit during the pandemic has been ePTW’s ability to support physical distancing of the workforce. In 2020, our ePTW technology was expanded to 12 new sites, in addition to the initial three sites piloted in 2019. New software releases provided additional enhancements, including integration with maintenance management systems and improved identification of potential  risks and available safeguards. The tool was also made available  in four additional languages to support our global operations.As a result of travel restrictions driven by the pandemic, the  ePTW team pivoted to a virtual train-the-trainer approach to enable business unit employees to deliver training. Deployment  to additional sites will continue through 2021 and beyond,  with ongoing software releases for continued enhancement.enhancing our process safety cultureIt is important to understand the effectiveness of our process safety procedures and programs at all levels of the organization. Are they producing the desired effects? Are risks identified  and well understood? Are safeguards in place and functioning  as intended? Are there signs or weak signals that need to  be addressed?The systems to manage process safety are complex, and it  takes people with skills in a wide variety of disciplines  working together to keep our safeguards strong and effective.  For this reason, we created a guide designed to help leaders  more effectively engage employees and contractors in the essential process safety elements, to build and sustain a culture where we rigorously apply established practices with a keen  eye to recognize and respond to warning signs.The guide is targeted at supervisors with responsibility and accountability for specific process safety elements and provides planning questions, expectations, warning signs and suggested reviews to help supervisors understand more deeply how each topic area is addressed within their business. When facility leaders set aside time on a regular basis to address process safety issues  in an honest, thoughtful manner, it sends a clear message to  all employees that process safety is important. By encouraging  our supervisors and their teams to ask the right questions  every time they approach a task, we believe we can maintain  our focus and strengthen our process safety culture.enforcing greater road safetyMotor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of death in every industry group. In Chevron, we have set rigorous OE standards for transportation safety and consistently seek ways to ensure that  we meet these standards. In March 2019, Chevron committed to only purchase, lease and contract 5-Star New Car Assessment Program (NCAP)–rated vehicles. This rating measures the crashworthiness of light vehicles and is based on factors such as front- and side-impact crash testing, as well as rollover resistance testing. Research indicates that by using only 5-Star cars, we can lower the risk of a fatal injury by 68 percent compared to 2-Star-rated vehicles, and by about  12 percent compared to 4-Star-rated vehicles. Our commitment to purchase 5-Star vehicles when existing Chevron fleet vehicles are replaced, to update contract language, to work with our rental car partners, and to review options with ride-share companies will take several years to fully implement.