Building Local Capacity. We demonstrate our commitment to the countries and communities where we operate by creating jobs, employing local workforces, and developing and sourcing from local suppliers. This business strategy establishes Chevron as a partner of choice that helps build local economies and improve livelihoods. In 2013, we spent nearly $59 Billion on goods and services globally. 92% of our employees worked in their home countries in 2013. We are committed to having a workforce that reﬂ ects the communities where we operate. We onboard and train the local people we hire, developing their skills and capabilities, and we have many programs in place to build capacity within the broader local communities. Supplier Sourcing We apply a customized methodology to develop national and local content for our major capital projects and our ongoing operations. This process is grounded in lasting partnerships. We collaborate with national and local governments, national oil companies, nongovernmental organizations, and development agencies to identify high-impact, sustainable supplier and workforce development opportunities. We do this within our own supply chain and our contractors’ supply chains. For example, in Indonesia, where we have operated for 90 years and are the country’s largest oil Left: Driver Kumar Dyushimov operates a crane at Adem Ecology, a qualiﬁed Chevron supplier in Kazakhstan. producer, a local business development program that we launched in 2001 has resulted in more than 6,100 contracts awarded to local Indonesian compa.nies and approximately 41,000 jobs being created. Capacity Building After local companies are identiﬁed, we design and implement programs to help them meet industry standards and provide goods and services to Chevron and other oil and gas producers. Metrics are agreed upon with our partners and suppliers to make sure that desired outcomes — in terms of quality, timeliness and cost — are achieved. In Kazakhstan, where we are a 50 percent partner in the Tengizchevroil LLP (TCO) joint venture and the country’s largest private oil producer, there are very few companies offering household waste collection and disposal services. TCO identiﬁed Adem Ecology for its local develop.ment program and helped the company secure a loan for its new program that involves separating recyclable materials from solid household waste. Adem Ecology has since reduced the amount of waste entering landﬁlls by 30 percent. The local company has qualiﬁed as a Chevron supplier. We strive to remove barriers to economic growth, so we invest in promoting equality and economic empowerment for women. In 2013, we spent more than $1 billion with women- and minority-owned businesses in the United States and more than $2.7 billion on goods and services from U.S.-based small businesses. To learn more about how Chevron beneﬁ ts communities, please visit Chevron.com/CR. PARTNERSHIP Social Performance. Social performance is deﬁned as the systematic management of social impacts and stakeholder relationships. Our social performance relies on conducting business in an ethical and responsible way and engaging openly with our workforce, partners and communities. We work with communities and partners to focus our support on strategic social investments in health, education and economic development. We build trusted relationships by focusing on engaging our stakeholders and managing our potential social impacts through our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment process, Human Rights Policy, and processes for stakeholder engagement and legislative and regulatory advocacy. Additionally, we support revenue transparency in the extractive industries. INVESTED WE HAVE $1.5 Billion NEARLY in social programs and partnerships in health, education and economic development over the past eight years. HEALTH Left: Chevron and Pact’s SHINE program has reached more than 1 million people across 1,166 Myanmar villages to bring sustainable health solutions and improved livelihood opportunities. More than 600,000 people have directly beneﬁ ted from access to health services. Right: In partnership with the government of Angola and Texas Chil dren’s Hospital, Chevron’s sickle cell initiative has, since 2011, screened more than 65,000 babies and enrolled more than 900 in a disease treatment program. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Left: By helping women overcome adversity and develop trade and business skills, the Chevron-funded Vístete de Sueños (Dressed With Dreams) program in Venezuela beneﬁts an estimated 2,100 people annually. Right: Since 2010, the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative has directly beneﬁted more than 10,000 people and created more than 600 jobs. EDUCATION Left: Chevron has committed more than $1 million to support science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education programs and job training initiatives in its Marcellus operating areas of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. Right: In 2013, Chevron invested nearly $94 million in education worldwide and expanded support of U.S. STEM partnerships and programs, such as the Bay Area Science Festival in San Francisco, by an additional $30 million over three years. Social Investment Our social investments aim to foster economic stability and improve the quality of life in the communities where we work. We cultivate strong partnerships and make strategic investments in health, education and economic development. We work with communities ﬁrst to understand their needs and then to develop solutions together that seek to remove barriers to economic growth. In 2013, we spent $275 million globally. HEALTH Chevron promotes healthy communities by improving access to health care in order to help eradicate disease. We partner with employees and their families, community programs and global health organizations, spending $40 million in 2013 on programs for treatment and prevention. Since 2008, we have partnered with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to ﬁght these diseases in areas where we operate, directing $60 million for programs in Africa and the Paciﬁ c Rim. EDUCATION We believe education is a building block for economic development and employability. We support educational programs from kinder.garten through college, and career and technical training for the local workforce. In 2013, we invested nearly $94 million in education worldwide, which includes major funding for programs that promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). We expanded our long-term support for STEM education in the United States by committing an additional $30 million over three years in programs and partnerships, which include Project Lead The Way, the Fab Foundation, the National Academy of Engineering, Achieve, the USA Science & Engineer.ing Festival, the U.S. News STEM Solutions National Leadership Conference, and DonorsChoose.org. Our commitment to advancing STEM will help prepare students to become future scientists, engineers and innovators. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT We boost local econo.mies and increase incomes by creating jobs and by building local workforce skills and capacity through our supply chain activities. We invested nearly $44 million in 2013 in local community-level economic development initiatives. In 2010, we launched the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative and announced a ﬁve-year, $50 million endowment to increase income, employment and equitable economic growth in Nigeria. To date, through our continued support and a total of 51 programs implemented throughout the Niger Delta, more than 5,000 people have been trained, including 400 local business owners and employees. This resulted in more than 600 jobs being created. Chevron achieved a rating of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the ninth consecutive year. Human Rights Chevron has an unwavering respect for human rights. We believe that although governments have the primary duty to protect and ensure fulﬁ llment of human rights, we can play a positive role. We adopted our Human Rights Policy in 2009 to foster greater awareness of human rights issues through.out the company and enhance our capabilities to identify and manage human rights issues in four areas relevant to our business: employees, security Chevron invested more than $1 million in 2013 to support STEM programs and job training initiatives in its Marcellus operating areas of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. We support programs such as the Carnegie Science Center, Project Lead The Way and Mentors Community Wealth Building Initiative. Since 2003, Chevron has sponsored HIV/AIDS education, awareness and prevention organizations in Angola, including those at Maria Imaculada HIV Voluntary Counseling and Testing Center, in Cabinda Province, where mothers receive milk supplements to support infant health. Since 2008, Chevron has directed $60 million to the Global Fund for programs in Africa and the Pacific Rim. According to Global Fund metrics, to date Chevron has played a part in saving 8.7 million lives through its support of the fund. providers, communities and suppliers. Our policy is consistent with the United Nations’ Guiding Prin.ciples on Business and Human Rights, endorsed by the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2011. We have a long-term commitment to strengthening human rights protections. As a founding partici.pant in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, we promote the principles as good practice for managing security operations. We also helped develop an IPIECA Responsible Security Operations task force that is working to further engage the industry on security and human rights through information sharing and training. In 2013, we participated in the task force’s ﬁ rst peer-learning workshop. Our Human Rights Policy guides our commitment to respecting indigenous communities and the rights of property owners, and we set expectations for how our suppliers treat their employees. We work with indigenous communities to understand their con.cerns throughout new project planning and during ongoing operations. In addition, we try to avoid relocation/resettlement whenever possible. When it is unavoidable, we strive to work collaboratively and transparently with communities that are affected. We also require our key suppliers to adhere to all domestic laws and encourage them to follow the International Labour Organization’s core principles of freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced In 2013, through our company-sponsored community involvement program Chevron Humankind, 13,000-plus employees and retirees contributed approximately 160,000 volunteer hours to more than 5,600 charitable organizations in the United States. Additionally, Chevron employees and retirees contributed more than $19 million to U.S. nonprofits, which Chevron matched, for a total of more than $37 million. and compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in the workplace. We use regular meetings with our key suppliers to reinforce our Human Rights Policy. Revenue Transparency Resource-rich countries have the ability to generate revenues to spur economic development and reduce poverty. We believe that the transparent and accurate accounting of these revenues by governments and extractive industry companies contributes to stable, long-term investment climates, economic growth and social well-being. To promote revenue transparency globally, we participate in the multinational, multistakeholder-run Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Chevron is the longest continually serving member of the EITI Board. More than 40 countries are now undertaking EITI’s external validation process to ensure that they are implementing the program according to agreed-upon standards. According to the EITI International Secretariat, approximately $1.2 trillion in government revenues has been disclosed to date. Chevron currently operates or has a nonoperated working interest in 17 EITI-implementing countries: Azerbaijan, Cameroon, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Indo.nesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Liberia, Nigeria, Norway, the Philippines, Republic of Congo, Sierra Leone, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, and the United States. In addition, we are supporting several countries in their efforts to join EITI, including Myanmar and the United Kingdom. Learn more about Chevron’s social performance at Chevron.com/CR. NEARLY7,400 Women Tested In 2013, through our partnership with Pact and the PROMOT project in Bayelsa State, Nigeria, 148 health workers have been trained to support programs that prevent and treat mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Nearly 7,400 women have been tested for HIV during prenatal care, and nearly 700 received HIV counseling. Above: Pregnant women wait to be tested at Agudama Comprehensive Health Center, Bayelsa State, Nigeria. 