Social Performance Chevron contributes to the economic and social well-being of people in the countries where we operate because we have learned through decades of experience that our business success is deeply linked to society’s progress. Our social performance — defined as the systematic management of social impacts and stakeholder relationships — relies on conducting business in an ethical and responsible way and engaging openly with our workforce, partners and communities. Chevron’s Bangladesh Partnership Initiative commitment represents one of the largest corporate social investments for Bangladesh. Our $20 million investment in the new Appalachia Partnership Initiative is designed to foster education and workforce development in the Tri-State area of Pittsburgh in the United States. The initiative is a partnership with the Allegheny Confer.ence on Community Development, the Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation and RAND Corporation. It seeks to improve the quality of education in 27 counties across southwestern Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia and eastern Ohio. In 2014, Chevron announced a $10 million commitment to create the Bangladesh Partnership Initiative (BPI), a ﬁve-year program to support economic development for communities in the Greater Sylhet region. Over the next ﬁve years, the BPI will work with local non.governmental and international development organizations to assess local needs and establish enterprise and work.force development programs. Chevron’s BPI commitment represents one of the largest corporate social investments for Bangladesh. 12 Chevron.com/CR As a participant in her local livelihood improvement program, after completing a sewing course and receiving a loan to buy a sewing machine, Husne Ara tailors clothing for women in her neighborhood in Ujirpur village, Bangladesh. Chevron.com/CR EDUCATION HEALTH A MORE THAN $100 MILLION INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION OVER THE PAST 3 YEARS Chevron invested more than $100 million in education over the past three years in the United States and has pledged an additional $30 million through 2015 to support science, technology, engineering and math, or STEM, education. The Fab Foundation Chevron partners with the Fab Foundation to bring its fabrication labs (Fab Labs) to areas where we operate across the United States. The Fab Foundation emerged from the Massachusetts Institute of Technol.ogy’s Center for Bits & Atoms Fab Lab Program. A Fab Lab consists of a suite of digital fabrication and rapid prototyping machines, such as 3-D printers. Working in Fab Labs, students can develop the critical thinking, problem solving and analytical skills needed to innovate. In September 2014, Chevron launched its ﬁrst sponsored Fab Lab at California State University, Bakersﬁeld. The Fab Labs will provide approximately 20,000 students and adults with a hands-on science and technology experience. Pact Chevron is committed to the prevention of mother.to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV. Through our partnership with Pact in Bayelsa State, Nigeria, we have established a community-based and government-supported PMTCT outreach program across the state. Since launching in 2012, our partnership has helped train more than 440 individuals on the latest PMTCT approaches and techniques, has contrib.uted to more than 30,000 pregnant women being tested for HIV, and has reached more than 117,800 individuals with PMTCT messaging. ZERO REPORTS OF MOTHER-TO-CHILD TRANSMISSION OF HIV Chevron has received no reports of mother-to-child transmission of HIV among its employees or qualified dependents participating in PMTCT programs since 2001 in Nigeria. Left: At the first Chevron-supported Fab Lab at California State University, Bakers.field, students benefit from project-based learning and explore the engineering design process in a real-world context. Chevron’s recent $10 million contribution to the Fab Foundation will go toward the development of Fab Labs in areas where we operate across the United States. 14 Chevron.com/CR Our Focus Areas and 2014 Highlights Human Rights Chevron’s commitment to respecting human rights wher.ever we operate is embodied in The Chevron Way, our Opera.tional Excellence Management System, our Business Conduct and Ethics Code, and our Human Rights Policy. Chevron is a leader on human rights issues and actively works with industry and human rights organizations to share knowledge and experience. For 2014–2015, Chevron holds leadership positions in industry groups on human rights and responsible security and is currently serving as the lead corporate pillar representa.tive on the steering committee for the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights initiative. Our participation in the initiative since its founding in 2000 demonstrates our long.standing commitment to critical security and human rights issues. Stakeholder Engagement Building trusted, long-term relationships with communities, host governments and other stakeholders provides us with invaluable opportunities to share information and receive feedback about our operations and activities. This open dialogue enables us to identify oppor.tunities for mutually beneﬁ cial growth jointly with our partners. In 2014, we deployed a revised Stakeholder Engagement process embedded in our Operational Excellence Management System. Revenue Transparency We believe that the transparent and accurate accounting of revenues by governments and extractive industry companies contributes to stable, long-term investment climates, economic growth and social well-being in resource-rich countries. To promote revenue transparency globally, we participate in the multinational, multistakeholder.run Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). To date, Chevron is the longest continually serving member of the global EITI board. We currently operate in or have a nonoperated working interest in 17 EITI-implementing countries, including Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Myanmar, Nigeria and the United States. Social Investment Our social performance is enhanced by our large-scale social investment partnerships that support improving access to health, education and economic development opportunities in the areas where we operate. Our social investments aim to foster economic stability and improve the quality of life in the communities where we work. In 2014, we spent more than $240 million globally. Learn more about Chevron s social performance at Chevron.com/CR. Left: In Bayelsa State, Nigeria, mothers and babies benefit from improved access to HIV testing, health professionals and facilities, and essential drugs. Chevron’s partnership with Pact is focused on PMTCT in Nigeria, Angola and South Africa. Chevron.com/CR 15 Diverse, Engaged and Capable Workforce We invest in people to strengthen organizational capability and develop a talented global workforce that gets results the right way. Our success in attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce comes from strategies, programs and processes based on The Chevron Way. We are committed to building a workforce that represents the many countries where we operate. We believe that sustainable high performance is achieved by creating a culture that encourages and values people with a wide range of experiences and knowledge. 21,000 EMPLOYEES Chevron was honored to receive the prestigious 2015 Catalyst Award, the premier honor for companies committed to expanding opportunities for women. Our application for the Catalyst Award — titled “The Chevron Way: Engineering Opportunities for Women”— details how The Chevron Way’s focus on people over the past two decades established a culture that attracted and retained more diverse talent in our workforce. The application also shows how The Chevron Way served as a primary driver for our diversity strategy that includes programs, proc.esses and tools to facilitate gender diversity and help increase the number of women in leadership roles. To be considered for the Catalyst Award, we partici.pated in a rigorous, yearlong application and review process that included extensive documentation and interviews with more than 60 employees and leaders. We shared information and perspectives with Catalyst regarding our business rationale, senior leadership support, account.ability, communication, employee engagement, inno.vation and measurable results. In 2014, an estimated 21,000 employees— about one-third of our regular workforce — participated in Chevron’s many employee networks that celebrate cultural and lifestyle differences. 16 Chevron.com/CR 