Building Local Capacity We demonstrate our commitment to the countries and communities where we live and work by creating jobs, developing and sourcing from local suppliers, and employing local workforces. This business strategy establishes Chevron as a partner of choice that helps build local economies and improve livelihoods. IN 2014, WE SPENT MORE THAN $63 Above: Small business owner Denise Mitchell serves coffee to Rachel Whiting, Stuart Chettle, Chevron Australia Supply Chain Manager Sarath Ravipati and BILLION Western Australia Minister for Small ON GOODS & SERVICES Business Joe Francis. The Chevron-developed West Pilbara Business Support Program supports and guides small GLOBALLY businesses to grow and be competitive. Chevron recently commis.sioned the consulting ﬁrm IHS to conduct eco.nomic impact studies to quantify the direct, indirect and induced economic contributions* associated with our operations. Highlights of the ﬁ ndings include the following: In 2012, every direct Chevron job supported 29 additional jobs in Thailand, and Chevron helped drive more than 2.4 percent of the country’s gross domestic product. In 2013, the Chevron Gulf of Mexico Business Unit supported 61,500 jobs in the United States, including 26,200 in Louisiana, 14,000 in Mississippi and 750 in Alabama. In 2011, Chevron’s contribution to Louisiana’s gross state product was $6.5 billion. This contribution was more than seven times the economic contribution of the seafood industry ($877 million) and almost two-thirds of the economic contribution of the tourism industry ($10.3 billion). *Direct: Capital and operating expendi.tures that directly enter the economy as spending on local goods and services. Indirect: Spending with local supply chain and service providers. Induced: National economic activity occurring as a result of direct and indi.rect employee salary spending. 10 Chevron.com/CR Our Focus Areas and 2014 Highlights Capacity Building We design and implement pro.grams to help local companies meet industry standards and provide goods and services to Chevron and other oil and gas producers. Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) has partnered with Nigerian oil and gas serv ices companies to grow their capacity to supply both onshore and offshore oilﬁ eld equipment and services. In 2014, CNL part nered with Beneprojecti Nigeria Limited to manufacture and deliver a Dynamic Positions II platform support vessel, which is a ship specially designed to supply and support offshore oil and gas operations. Supplier Sourcing We consider and assess the capacity of local businesses and supply chains when developing national and local content for our major capital projects and our ongoing operations. We collaborate with national and local governments, national oil companies, nongovernmental organizations, and development agencies to identify high-impact, sustainable supplier and work force development opportunities within our own supply chain and our contractors supply chains. In 2014, Chevron Australia created the Chevron West Pilbara Business Support Program, an integrated approach to providing services, support and guidance to help local small businesses grow and compete within the resources sector in Western Australia. Local Hiring We are committed to having a workforce that reﬂ ects the communities where we operate. We onboard and train the local people we hire, developing their skills and capabilities, and we carry out many programs to build capacity within the broader local communities. In 2014, 92 percent of our employees worked in their home countries. 