Process Safety Chevron strives to operate incident-free. To achieve this goal, we must complete every task the right way, every time. Process safety is a blend of engineering and management skills and practices focused on preventing incidents, particularly explosions, fires and releases. Our Operational Excellence Management System requires that safeguards are in place and maintained to prevent process incidents. Safeguards include several types of protection, such as alarms, automatic shutdowns and equipment integrity procedures. Having multiple layers of protection helps to prevent a small mistake or failure from becoming a bigger incident. We are providing process safety training and making safeguards more visible to the entire workforce. In 2012, our senior leaders across the enterprise attended process safety workshops, and they continue the dialogue by incorporating a higher focus on process safety into routine business meetings. Process safety was a topic of focus at our annual companywide employee meeting and at our Operational Excellence Forum. Our operating companies also continue to improve their ability to prevent process safety incidents. In addition to implementing corporate process safety standards, each business segment is working to strengthen the layers of protection that prevent inci.dents. For example, through an improved process for alerts and bulletins, our Upstream operating companies have increased their ability to learn from incidents. Our Drilling group began a new program for drill-site managers, and Global Manufacturing expanded its Operational Excellence and Reliability Intelligence system to include additional leading indicators of process safety performance. To learn more, please visit Chevron.com/OE. Workers are transferred by personnel basket from a supply vessel and onto the Discoverer Clear Leader drillship in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. U.S. Gulf of Mexico Executing With Excellence Chevron is one of the largest producers of crude oil and natural gas in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. A continuing commitment to safety, leading Operational Excellence (OE) programs and new technology allow us to tap into needed energy supplies. At the same time, our work in the Gulf creates jobs and grows businesses. Chevron’s Billy Varnado knows that the time for easily finding oil is gone. Twelve years ago, he worked on our first discovery in the deepwater region of the Gulf of Mexico, the Genesis Field, located approximately 150 miles (241 km) south of New Orleans, Louisiana, where we tapped resources 12,000 feet (3,658 m) below sea level. Today, his work takes him another 130 miles (209 km) south of Genesis to the Chevron-operated discoveries Jack and St. Malo, where we will seek energy at depths of 27,000 feet (8,230 m) below the water’s surface. “Jack and St. Malo are being devel.oped at extreme depths and amid challenging temperatures, currents, pressures and drilling complexity,” said Varnado, the Jack/St. Malo project director. “We implement processes to help ensure the health and safety of our people and the environment, from design to production and through the life of the field’s operation, which can last for decades.” Jack and St. Malo highlight the com.plexity of finding new energy sources. The project involves two fields 25 miles (40 km) apart. Each field will have separate clusters of wellheads on the seafloor that will be connected to a single floating production unit located between the two facilities. When the Above: Bob Miller is a ﬁeld Health, Environment and Safety specialist in the Gulf of Mexico aboard the Paciﬁc Santa Ana, a deepwater drillship built to Chevron’s speciﬁcations and the ﬁ rst drillship with dual-gradient drilling capabilities, which can enhance the safety of deepwater drilling. $7.5 billion Jack/St. Malo project comes on line in 2014, it is expected to supply energy resources for 30 to 40 years. “Our growth depends on our ability to maintain the region’s confidence in our deepwater drilling projects and prac.tices. People expect that the energy the world needs will be produced safely and reliably,” said Warner Williams, vice president of the Gulf of Mexico business unit. “There is no room for complacency in our operations.” Safety in Design and Processes Our Operational Excellence Manage.ment System (OEMS) guides our com.mitment to incident-free operations. OEMS includes policies, processes, tools and behavioral expectations that focus our workforce on protecting the safety and health of people and the environment and on conducting our operations reliably and efficiently. “We understand the impacts that can result from an operational error,” said Stephen Thurston, vice president of Chevron Deepwater Exploration and Projects (DWEP) in the Gulf of Mexico. “Operational Excellence isn’t static, and it must be applied to every task every day. All operators and business partners must also be committed to improvements in OE, especially as new technology is developed.” Within OEMS, Chevron’s approach to process safety management is based on the Center for Chemical Process Safety’s Guidelines for Risk Based Process Safety, and we establish stringent requirements for the design, construction, operation and mainte.nance of our facilities. The Jack/St. Malo facilities and their installation are massive undertak.ings. “The structures we’re building are the size of huge hotels, complete with living quarters, food services, vessel and helicopter transportation, advanced surveillance, and communi.cation and control capability,” said Mike Casey, general manager for the Gulf of Mexico operations. Process safety is incorporated into the design of our production facilities. Our Big Foot facility, another field in the Gulf of Mexico 225 miles (362 km) south of New Orleans, is being designed to survive 1,000-year-storm conditions. It will include 16 tendons made of steel pipes, each up to 44 inches (112 cm) in diameter, to moor a nearly 400-foot.wide (122-m) floating platform to the ocean floor approximately 1 mile (1.6 km) below the surface. In 2012, we took delivery of the Pacific Santa Ana, the first deepwater drillship built to our specifications for dual-gradient drilling using a seabed pump located above the blowout preventer. This drillship will be the first in the indus.try to deploy the GE MaxLift 1800™ Finding Oil Ever Deeper The Oil and Gas Industry Increases Its Reach 0 FT 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 Turning Rigs Into Reefs When the last drop of new energy is extracted by many of our offshore oil plat.forms, one job ends and another begins. Since 1983, we have donated 74 structures to programs in Louisiana, Mississippi and other U.S. states that create artificial reefs in the Gulf of Mexico. Reusing the platforms creates a new ecosystem with thousands of inverte.brates and fishes. “The platforms provide excellent habitat that is beneficial both to marine organisms that inhabit these reef systems and to commercial and recreational fishermen,” said Lew Dennis, U.S. offshore area manager for Chevron Environmental Management Co. (EMC). “Something no one can argue about is that there’s no better fishing anywhere in the Gulf than off the Louisiana coast, and that’s due in part to these artificial reef structures created from decommis.sioned oil platforms,” said Randy Pausina, assistant secretary at the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries. Turning rigs into reefs presents unique challenges. For example, EMC and our Gulf of Mexico operations worked together to decommission a platform that stood in 473 feet (144 m) of water near the mouth of the Mississippi River. The project required removing the platform “jacket,” or support legs. The jacket was removed as one 520-foot-tall (158-m) piece. Instead of having divers conduct the hazardous work of removing the soil and sand around the footings, large remote-controlled dredges safely extracted the material. The massive platform deck, or topsides, was removed by a special heavy-lift vessel and brought to shore for disposal. Through the Louisiana Artificial Reef Program, the support legs were lifted, towed to a designated location and lowered to the seafloor to create an artificial reef. Left: For more than 60 years, new technology has enabled the oil and gas industry to drill at ever-greater depths. Chevron achieved industry water depth and drilling depth records in 2003, 2005 and 2009. PRE-1950 ’50–’59 ’60–’69 ’70–’79 ’80–’89 ’90–’99 ’00–’09 ’10–’12 pump, the core component of dual-gradient drilling. This technology allows wells to be drilled more effectively by managing two fluids in the wellbore: a seawater-density fluid from the seabed to the drilling rig, and a higher-density drilling fluid from the seabed to the bottom of the well. This combination of fluids is much more aligned with the natural pressures of the formations in the subsea well and offers the potential to dramatically simplify well designs and improve operational safety. The equipment developed for dual-gradient drilling also allows operators to more quickly detect and react to pressure changes encountered while drilling. Also in 2012, following benchmarking with industries such as commercial aviation, commercial nuclear power and the U.S. Navy submarine force, we began developing our WELLSAFE certification program to bolster our efforts to prevent well-control incidents. The program addresses procedures from the design of wells through rig operations and includes extensive auditing requirements to provide significant assurances that well control can be maintained. Our WELLSAFE program is scheduled to be fully implemented by year-end 2014. A Culture of Safety “We have worked hard to build a culture of safety and environmental stewardship that strives to achieve high performance and prevent incidents,” said Warner Williams. In 2012 in the Gulf of Mexico, we safely drilled 46 development and delineation wells, which establish the productive area of oil and gas accumulations. We had no recordable fires in 2012, and our Gulf workforce recorded more than 12 million work hours without a Days Away From Work injury. Before employees or contractors begin working in Gulf waters, they are rigorously trained in safety procedures. All drilling personnel must have current industry-recognized certifications that cover such procedures as well control and the management of abnormal conditions. Chevron requires its con.tractors to adhere to company safety standards and to comply with the company’s OE practices. This is critical because our contractors conduct 80 percent of the work in drilling and completions for DWEP. “We can break every deep-drilling record and make new discoveries, but we will have failed if one of our team members is injured,” said Marcel Robichaux, general manager for DWEP Drilling and Completions. Worker and process safety are enhanced by our longstanding commit.ment to practices such as stop-work authority, which allows any employee or contractor — from a cook to a drilling superintendent — to stop the work on a project to raise a safety concern, without repercussions. That thinking extends to project planning. Iain Haughie, Chevron’s DWEP Health, Environment and Safety manager, said that if an operating plan isn’t right or if something changes, it’s part of our safety culture to stop the work and revisit the plan. “We have five drillships right now in the deep waters of the Gulf,” said Haughie, “and we’re drilling a series of wells over the next few years. You have to get it right every single time.” Hear employee Natalie Martin explain how process safety enhances personal safety on an offshore rig at Chevron.com/CR2012/GOM. Overview Workforce Safety Our commitment to the safety of our 58,000 employees and 200,000 contractors is reinforced at all levels of the corporation. The rigor of our Operational Excellence Management System delivers continuous improvement in our ability to protect the safety and health of our workforce as well as the environment everywhere we operate. We have shown significant improve ment in workforce safety over the past 10 years as a result of ongoing, focused attention on preventing incidents in all Chevron operations. Chevron s Days Away From Work Rate has decreased from 0.29 in 2001 to 0.03 in 2012 (a 90 percent reduction). Also, Chevron s Total Recordable Incident Rate has decreased from an average of 0.82 in 2001 to 0.24 in 2012 (a 71 percent reduction). We took steps in 2012 to improve workforce safety across the company through increased oversight of high-risk activities. As part of Chevron s Managing Safe Work process, we implemented five additional safety standards for the following: hazard analysis; working in confined spaces; “hot work” locations where ignition of materials could occur; environments with “hazardous energy, such as pressurized liquids, thermal energy and kinetic energy; and internal permitting for contractors so that proper consideration is given to the risk of a job before it begins. By maintaining operational discipline completing every task the right way, every time we will continue to sustain and improve our workforce safety culture. For more details, please visit Chevron.com/OEMS. The Bibiyana gas field is one of the most significant natural gas discoveries in Bangladesh. Chevron acquired the field in 2005 and brought it into production in 2007. By 2014, field expansion is expected to increase gas plant capacity by 50 percent. Bangladesh Journey to Safety Chevron is the largest foreign investor in Bangladesh, providing employment and supplying approximately 50 percent of the natural gas the country consumes. To bring our Bibiyana Field into production, we recruited 2,300 Bangladesh citizens to work on the project. For people living near our facilities, who were accustomed to working in agriculture, this new project marked the beginning of a dramatic transformation in safe-work practices and behaviors that extend into daily living. Amid the lush rice paddies and 150-plus-year-old tea plantations typical of northeast Bangladesh lie Chevron’s Bibiyana, Jalalabad and Moulavi Bazar natural gas fields. Generations of farmers have worked the rice paddies and other crops between seasonal floods. Largely because of this agricultural tradition, many in the area had little experience with how a complex industrial facility works. As we began employing villagers in 2005 to build the Bibiyana Field, the nation’s largest-producing natural gas field, we introduced a culture of safety that was unfamiliar to many local residents. We did so to make sure that people and the environment were protected. “In a predominantly agrarian economy with no large-scale manufacturing or industry, it took time for our workforce to develop a culture in which safety is above all else,” recalled Kinnesh Dalal, Chevron Health, Environment and Safety manager in Bangladesh. Prospective workers were unaccus.tomed to wearing protective shoes and didn’t understand the need for safety Above: Workers at the Bibiyana gas plant receive safety awareness training that extends from their jobs into their homes and communities. glasses and fire-retardant clothing. To operate the field in a safe and responsible manner, he said, “we had to foster a cultural paradigm shift both inside the plant and in the com.munities around it.” Today in Bangladesh, Chevron has amassed 40 million work hours since the last Days Away From Work injury in 2008, and we have had no significant environmental incidents, fires or spills. “We invested heavily in our workforce to build capabilities, institutionalized global processes focused on operational excellence and initiated training programs. It has been a many-year journey toward achieving zero incidents in Bangladesh,” said Dalal. Chevron has been operating in Bangladesh since 2005, following the acquisition of Unocal. We have approximately 700 employees and more than 2,400 contractors in the country. We are working with communi.ties and the government-owned Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral Corp., known as Petrobangla, to reduce the nation’s reliance on imported energy. By 2014, expansion of the Bibiyana Field now under way is expected to increase gas plant capacity by 50 per.cent, with new pipelines also being constructed to safely deliver this added energy capacity. Driving a New Safety Ethic “Today’s safe operations are a result of creating an understanding of the importance of personal and process safety, and then providing tools and training under Chevron’s supervision,” said Geoffrey Strong, Chevron’s Bangladesh country manager. We expanded our training capacity in 2012 with a new Health, Environment and Safety training center for contrac.tors and community-based workers. Since opening in April 2012, more than 2,000 people have been trained. “I was like a wide-eyed child at the training center, learning things for the very first time,” said Abul Kalam, a labor team leader with five years of experience at Chevron. He said that Chevron “is essentially a huge classroom. I do not look at Chevron as just a place of work; for me personally, this is a place of learning.” Promoting Sustainable Livelihoods In the rural villages near our natural gas fields, our economic development programs foster sustainable livelihoods to help residents overcome socio.economic challenges. Our livelihood programs were initially created to assist people who depended on 69 acres of land that the govern.ment acquired to develop the Bibiyana gas field in 2006. “Bibiyana was a predominantly agrarian economy with no industrial presence, low literacy rates and inadequate infrastructure,” said Naser Ahmed, Chevron Bangladesh’s External Affairs manager. “We’ve built relationships with local communities and nongovernmental organizations to implement programs that provide lasting socioeconomic opportunities.” With residents and partners, we helped create alternative livelihood programs by establishing village development organizations (VDOs) comprising members selected by the community. These programs provide training in income-generating skills, such as tailoring, poultry farming, goat rearing, engine maintenance and business management. As of 2012, programs launched in seven villages near the Bibiyana and Moulavi Bazar gas fields provide solar panels and energy-efficient stoves to reduce home-lighting and fuel costs. The savings are invested in income-generating enterprises and a savings fund maintained by the VDO. Chevron contributes to a seed-fund, to which VDO members add their savings. Members draw upon the fund to build their small and medium-size enterprises. Today more than 100 VDOs are benefiting nearly 4,000 families living near our three major gas fields. Ojud Miah completed a Chevron-funded training course and received a microloan for his duck breeding enterprise. “I earned enough to build a concrete house for my family and pay for my younger sister’s wedding. I completed a paraveterinary training course through my VDO, and now earn a steady income. After taking care of household expenses and my children’s schooling, I am able to set aside 10 percent in savings every day. My journey has just begun.” Employees and contractors are required to undergo our Fitness for Duty process, which identifies the circumstances under which workers are able to safely perform essential physical, psychological and cognitive job requirements without risk to self, others or the environment. Trainers make sure new employees under.stand our Operational Excellence Management System, the framework Chevron uses to manage process safety, health and personal safety, the environment, reliability, and efficiency. Because the literacy rate in Bangladesh is approximately 56 percent, we adapted the way we teach to ensure understanding, using repetition, memorization, visual aids and addi.tional field-testing. Six-month-long mentoring programs were established for many positions. Every morning, employees hold a “tool box” meeting to review safety proce.dures for the tasks being performed that day. The type of work ranges from crane operation to leveling an access road. Employees are reminded of stop-work authority, which encourages any employee or contractor to stop work when an unsafe condition or act is recognized. In 2012, the Muchai compression project, which added pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from our three fields, involved more than 2.6 million work hours and was completed with no recordable incidents. Improving Contractor Safety “We want to use a local workforce and are committed to working with local companies, some of which do not have strong safety performance,” said Zulfikar Ahmed Chowdhury, Chevron field manager for community engage.ment. “We help contractor companies through extensive safety training so that they can be hired.” Chevron enlisted 111 vendors and suppliers directly from the local com.munity. These contractors supply labor and materials for minor civil, construc.tion and mechanical work. We work with our contractors to develop risk mitigation plans and administer safety management systems. Contractor safety performance has improved because of intense Chevron oversight and structured, continual training and mentoring. “When we first started in 2005, things were not very easy for us as we had no experience working for a company that had such high expectations for safety performance. We had to work very hard to reach the standard set by Chevron,” said Md. Boyet Ullah, proprietor of Zakaria Enterprise, which has been supplying laborers and materials. Firuz Miah, a contractor working with the facilities engineering team, said, “Even if I go elsewhere, whatever I have learned here will benefit me.” Extending Safety Into the Community When building our Bibiyana gas plant in 2007, we implemented our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment process to identify and minimize potential project impacts, and we conducted comprehensive community engagement programs. For example, after learning that the community extensively used a narrow, winding main supply road, we imple.mented a safety program along the route. In addition to installing extensive road signage, we implemented a road safety campaign for area resi.dents, including training 180 local drivers, distributing safety booklets and providing reflectors for nonmotor.ized vehicles. “Community engagement is an essential part of our business here,” said Strong. “Having an effective and personal relationship with the commu.nity helps us to address critical socio.economic challenges that benefit both our operations and our neighbors.” We extend concepts and benefits of our safety culture into communities. For example, because motor vehicle safety is the single largest safety risk outside our facilities, with 85 deaths for every 10,000 registered motor vehicles in Bangladesh, we developed a comprehensive driver safety program, including initiatives to raise awareness in the community. We continue to engage the community on various initiatives, including earthquake pre.paredness and first-aid training for health care workers. Employees are transferring what they learn from Chevron to their homes and into the community. “My friends say I’ve completely transformed and have influenced those around me,” Abul Kalam said. “On my way home from work every day, if I see something being done in an unsafe way, I point it out to people, and they stop and listen.” Now, after eight years with Chevron, onsite Health, Environment and Safety representative Saleh Ahmed said he tells his children the safety stories he learns at work. “They listen to me because they want their father to return home to them safe and sound every day. And as their father, I tell these stories because I want them to grow up safe and protect themselves from life’s many mishaps.” Safety, he added, ultimately is a system of rules, processes and procedures that only work “if you believe in them from the core of your being. Before working here, there was a time when I would get the odd minor injury here and there; but working for Chevron in the past five or six years, I have not had so much as a scratch.” 