empowering people We put people at the center of everything we do. Photo: Laboratory employees assess product specifications so we can deliver quality, ever cleaner fuels to customers. In this section, learn about our approach to creating prosperity. diversity and inclusion we foster an inclusive workplace that promotes diverse ideas and drives innovation Advanced our Human Capital Continued evolving Continued advancing 2021 Management strategy our diversity and inclusion our Racial Equity highlights with additional investments strategy by enhancing commitments in people and culture programs and resources We believe human ingenuity has the power to overcome obstacles, solve challenges and transform the future of energy. We invest in people and foster a culture of belonging that seeks to empower our employees to develop their full potential and drive innovation. Diversity and inclusion (D&I) at Chevron are enabled by a strong corporate culture, an empowered employee workforce, a focus on talent recruitment and development, and a commitment to racial equity. strengthening our corporate culture The Chevron Way articulates our values, our beliefs and our behaviors. We believe a culture built on trust and inclusion empowers the workforce to deliver higher returns for our shareholders and advance a lower carbon world. We support employees in the pursuit of meaningful careers. We celebrate our differences, support work-life balance, and promote health, safety and personal well-being for everyone. We seek to strengthen our culture by offering a variety of training resources that enable employees to understand and recognize biases, promote a culture of beneficial feedback, encourage inclusive and empathetic leadership, and embolden teams to innovate and meet strategic objectives. empowering employees to speak up We know that culture serves as the bedrock of high-performing organizations. A culture in which authenticity is valued and employees are empowered to speak up encourages diverse viewpoints, which can lead to better decision making and problem solving. For more than 30 years, the Global Office of Ombuds has helped employees find their voice by providing a safe, neutral, independent resource for voluntary, off-the-record confidential conversations pertaining to a myriad of topics. Over the past five years, a growing number of employees outside the United States have utilized the services of our Global Office of Ombuds, which is widely recognized in the oil and gas sector as the benchmark for Ombuds programs. In 2021, the office responded proactively to worker concerns that grew out of the pandemic by hosting a three-part webinar series titled “Courageous Conversations.” The series aimed to continue building a culture of open feedback based on trust, psychological safety and conflict resolution skills. chevron.com/sustainability Ryan Wilson Earth Scientist, Clastic and Seismic Stratigraphy 52 years of our employee assistance program Now in its 52nd year, the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a confidential consulting service, consisting of licensed mental health professionals who can help workers resolve a broad range of personal, family and work-related concerns and problems. The EAP also manages a hotline that operates 365 days a year and 24 hours a day to address issues affecting employees’ mental health. In addition to our Global Office of Ombuds, Chevron regularly conducts surveys to assess the health of the company’s culture. Recent surveys indicate high employee engagement, which is an indicator of employee well-being and commitment to the company’s values, strategies and purpose. In 2021, the company increased survey frequency to better understand employee sentiment throughout the year, including focused efforts to gain insights into employee well-being. building a diverse talent pipeline Our approach to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce of high-performing talent is anchored in a long-term employment model that fosters personal growth and engagement. Chevron’s philosophy is to offer compelling career opportunities and a competitive total compensation and benefits package linking compensation to individual employee spotlight After receiving my Ph.D. in Earth Sciences, I joined Chevron because the culture aligned with my long.term aspirations to continue learning and growing as a person. For example, Chevron has a long history of using innovation and advanced technologies to unlock a deeper understanding of our assets. Today, we use data analytics, machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence to improve our understanding of a range of topics in our industry, from stratigraphy to renewables and carbon capture. To advance my own digital compe.tency, Chevron has provided access to digital training and experiential learning resources, opportunities to receive mentorship from subject matter experts, and time for me to work on my own small research projects. Chevron’s culture also values diversity, which has helped me embrace my own cultural heritage. As president of the Native American Employee Network, I’m able to focus on my Indigenous culture and its link with Chevron’s One Team approach, which values diverse perspectives and recognizes that each person has a unique skill set. Chevron’s Indigenous people-focused networks have merged into one unified global network that allows our former regional Indigenous networks to address common issues impacting Indigenous communities, such as reconciliation efforts to strengthen relationships between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people. I often think about the fact that more than a third of the world’s remaining land belongs to Indigenous people. As Chevron continues to advance a lower carbon future and consider nature-based solutions, Chevron’s relationship with Indigenous communities will continue to grow. and enterprise performance. Chevron maintains strong partnerships with universities and diversity associations to develop and attract new as well as experienced talent. In addition, we have coordinated efforts to recruit veterans, which are further supported by our Veterans Employee Network. We also look for creative, multidisciplinary innovators and leaders to introduce transformative ideas, envision new ways of working and help us grow our lower carbon businesses. Our approach to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce of high-performing talent is anchored in a long.term employment model that fosters personal growth and engagement. chevron.com/sustainability API DEI initiative Chevron, in collaboration with the American Petroleum Institute’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion working group, is leading a workstream with Opportunity@Work, to recruit talented individuals from less traditional educational backgrounds and promote diversity. This pilot is ongoing in the San Francisco Bay Area and is set to launch in Houston in 2022. Our intern program is critical to building Chevron’s early-career talent pipeline. Even as we worked remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic, we continued our internship program virtually the past two summers, minimizing gaps in the talent pipeline, which resulted in a 91% full-time offer acceptance rate in 2021. Chevron’s Welcome Back Program was created to hire, support and develop talented people who left the workforce for personal or family reasons and desire to return. Individuals complete a 12- to 16-week “returnship” focused on training, coaching and acclimation. Chevron is now considering a broader pool of candidates, flexible work options and a rolling cohort model so that we may hire into the program at any time during the year. Building on neurodiversity programming introduced in 2020 and with support from Chevron’s ENABLED Employee Network, our retail station business continued a neurodiversity employment program at 24 company-owned and -operated service stations in Central and Southern California. The hiring of neurodiverse individuals exemplifies ENABLED’s goals of expanding opportunities to people with disabilities and reinforces Chevron’s commitment to employee diversity and inclusion. developing talent We have a portfolio of learning and development programs designed to help people achieve their full potential by building leadership capabilities at all levels and by ensuring that the company’s workforce has the technical and operating capabilities to produce energy safely, reliably and efficiently. We invest in digital learning experiences to empower our employees to develop, maintain and enhance critical skills from any location. We’re also helping employees expand their horizons and plan for future positions with Gigs Marketplace. This digital platform allows employees to apply for short-term project opportunities across the organization to grow their capabilities beyond their current roles. We believe that leadership is not only about formally super.vising a team or group but also about informally influencing peers and other colleagues. With that perspective, we believe that everyone in our organization has the potential to lead. We have multiple formal and informal leadership development programs. Your Leadership Our Future is our refreshed suite of leadership development programs with learning paths for all levels of employees, designed to help individuals discover the mindsets and capabilities that are most impactful for leading others in any environment. During 2021, we launched two formal sponsorship programs to build advocacy relationships between leaders and employees with the aspiration of developing a leadership pipeline that reflects the overall diversity of our workforce. We plan to leverage the learnings from these pilots to increase sponsorship activity over time. The Chevron Hispanic/Latinx Leadership Development Program provided participants with an opportunity to discuss topics that may impact their workplace experience, from how their heritage can shape their workplace values and motivations to addressing potential barriers. The Chevron Hispanic/Latinx Leadership Program, designed in partnership with Southern Methodist University, provided the inaugural cohort of 25 participants with an opportunity to discuss a range of topics, from how their heritage can shape their workplace values and motivations to how to address potential barriers to achieving career advancement. We have also continued our Asian American Leadership Development Program with a new partnership through INSEAD Business School, and our development of Black chevron.com/sustainability education  black talent  job creation  community  and leadership  and small business  development  partnerships  employees through our partnership with the Executive Leadership Council. These programs are intended to further enhance participants’ leadership and business skills and foster networking opportunities. working toward racial equity In 2020, Chevron made a $15 million pledge to support the Black community in the United States to address barriers to equity. A year later, we continue to address racial barriers through education, job creation, talent and leadership devel.opment, and community and small business partnerships. Since establishing our Racial Equity strategy, we have progressed the following initiatives: • Supporting the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF), which named Chevron Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Pierre Breber to its board of directors. Our spon.sorship contributes to a TMCF scholarship program and creation of the Chevron Energy Innovation Summit, which features Chevron executives as speakers and other employees as judges in business case study competitions. • Pledging $150,000 over three years to the East Oakland Youth Development Center (EOYDC) and launching a Chevron Black Employee Network–led career-awareness program with EOYDC high school and college students. In addition, the Chevron EOYDC Special Scholarship Program provides funding to EOYDC graduates who need assistance with overcoming financial hardships resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. • Expanding our Chevron Leadership Academy by establishing an academy at Prairie View A&M University. The program promotes leadership skills in students in the business, engineering and science disciplines and helps increase our access to diverse talent that can contribute to the company’s future growth. • Establishing a Supplier Diversity Governance Board that provides strategic direction and oversight of Chevron’s supplier diversity strategy across Chevron’s U.S.-based business units. In addition, Chevron collaborates with major suppliers on an ongoing basis to influence their adoption of our commitment to supply chain inclusion. A recent win includes updating Chevron’s procurement policies on our Amazon purchasing platform, which, by the end of 2021, resulted in a fivefold increase in purchases with small and diverse sellers through this platform vs. the historical average. This commitment to a diverse and inclusive supply chain is founded on the belief that the use of inclusive practices in the procurement of goods and services creates a business advantage for our company, supports local economies and creates prosperity in regions where we operate. To learn more, visit chevron.com/diversityandinclusion. chevron.com/sustainability human rights respect for human rights is rooted in our values and applies wherever we do business Developed Environmental Updated our Global Security Updated our human rights 2021 Justice Principles function’s methodology for computer-based training highlights identifying operations in module conflict-affected and other high-risk areas Chevron believes that we have a responsibility to respect human rights and that we can play a positive role in the communities where we operate. In 2021, we continued to advance our approach to respecting human rights by conducting assessments of potential impacts, identifying mitigations and engaging with appropriate external stakeholders. We also continued to implement our Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management (SEIM) process, through which we operationalize respect for human rights. In 2021, more than 19 business units updated their risk profiles. The types of risks captured through this process vary considerably and can include social and human rights impacts. Once a Chevron business unit identifies a risk, it establishes management plans to address the risk and prevent or mitigate potential impacts. In addition, business units are required to maintain a grievance mechanism as appropriate. In 2021, six business units underwent reviews of their grievance mechanisms to assess their efficacy and identify opportunities for improvement. Also in 2021, to educate our workforce, we provided human rights training to more than 5,400 employees and contractors – including appropriate personnel who joined Chevron as part of the Noble Energy acquisition – using our updated human rights computer-based training module. doing business in conflict-affected and other high-risk areas In 2021, Chevron’s Global Security function updated the methodology for identifying operations that are in conflict-affected and other high-risk areas, leveraging a tool created by the consultancy BSR, as well as geospatial data from risk intelligence company Verisk Maplecroft. In areas that are conflict-affected, an enhanced review of potential security-related human rights risks takes place as part of the security risk assessment program. The enhanced evaluation complements the existing security management review, 5,400+ employees Provided human rights training to more than 5,400 employees and contractors conducted 6 reviews Conducted six reviews of business unit grievance mechanisms 19 risk profiles Completed 19 risk profiles as part of the Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management Process chevron.com/sustainability which has human rights as one of its nine focus areas, and assesses the security management efforts within a business unit. As part of our commitment to continual improvement, Chevron will seek to identify additional opportunities to advance respect for human rights in conflict-affected and other high-risk areas across the focus areas of our Human Rights Policy. addressing grievances in bangladesh Bangladesh began managing community grievances when onshore seismic activities were taking place under Chevron Bangladesh Blocks Thirteen and Fourteen, Ltd. The process was subsequently expanded for use with communities surrounding additional operational areas and over the years has been enhanced based on continuous learning, a key attribute of rights-respecting mechanisms. For example, the team has established a cross-functional grievance resolution committee, comprising internal stakeholders across multiple areas, including operations, health and safety, security, and community engagement. This team has assessed, reviewed and addressed more than 50 grievances since their creation in 2016. The types of grievances lodged have included impacts of security lighting and water discharge, among others. For example, when the grievance related to security lighting was introduced, a review revealed that the intensity of the security lighting may have been one of the contributing hindrances to the ability for some crops located very close to the fence to complete the process of photosynthesis. To contribute to remediation, the angle of the lighting was changed and the intensity of the lighting reduced. respecting human rights in equatorial guinea Chevron is committed to respecting human rights in the communities where we operate. Since 2018, the Equatorial Guinea business unit has supported Ven Amiga (Spanish for “Come Friend”), an anti-trafficking initiative run by the nonprofit organization Por la Igualdad y por los Derechos Humanos de la Mujer en África (IDHMA). The program is conducting a national prevention and awareness campaign, mobilizing communities at all levels to prevent human trafficking. It focuses on mitigating the risks to vulnerable groups such as women and children and raising awareness of the risks of labor exploitation. The target audience includes educators, students, community leaders and the public. As the only NGO working on anti-trafficking measures in the country, IDHMA is working with the government of Equatorial Guinea to advocate for the enforcement of laws and prevention of human trafficking. Supported by the U.S. Embassy and working across sectors, it is also utilizing innovative methods to educate, inform and galvanize support. Chevron is proud to support IDHMA’s work with the government of Equatorial Guinea, the U.S. Embassy and other entities as a part of this cross-sector collaboration. In Bangladesh, a team has assessed, reviewed and addressed more than 50 grievances since 2016. Sofía Nuñez Global Labor Relations Counselor employee spotlight Before I joined Chevron, I worked with a law firm in Buenos Aires that specialized in international labor relations, often assisting clients from abroad in their collective bargaining relationships. My current role is to provide labor relations support to business units on three continents. It’s a fascinating and challenging job because labor relations issues vary from country to country. I’m guided by Chevron’s commitment to respect the right to freedom of association and collective bargain.ing, as set out in the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. These rights fall under the employee focus area of Chevron’s Human Rights Policy and align with The Chevron Way. As such, the Labor Affairs Team is a key partner, supporting business units in implementing our Human Rights Policy. I feel especially proud of the support and subject matter expertise my team provided one of our business units as they negotiated their first collective bargaining agreement. Similarly, we have worked with our colleagues in Africa to provide data-driven support for their anticipated negotiation of a renewed labor agreement next year. During the COVID-19 pandemic, understanding the specific labor issues on the ground has been challenging, since normally I would travel to our business units and talk to employees. However, I’ve been able to overcome this difficulty by working with labor relations specialists to build trust and mutual understanding. chevron.com/sustainability chevron’s approach to environmental justice Chevron’s approach to environmental justice is rooted in our Chevron Way values and our commitment to human rights, equity, and diversity and inclusion. It is our policy that no one should ever be subject to discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, disability, veteran status, political preference, sexual orientation, membership or non-membership in any lawful organization, or any other status prohibited by laws or regulations. Chevron believes in the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of race, color, national origin or income, with respect to the development, implementation and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies. We implement our values through our social and environmental policies and practices. Chevron acknowledges and understands that for many communities and stakeholders, environmental justice is a long-standing concern. We recognize that each community is unique. We work together with our community stakeholders to understand their needs and priorities as we: • Avoid or mitigate the potentially adverse impacts of our operations • Live our commitments to environmental, health and social performance • Identify and develop meaningful opportunities to support the community • Contribute to communities’ environmental, economic and social well-being We support transparent and well-designed government policies that enable communities and businesses to advance the values of fair treatment and meaningful involvement. API’s environmental justice principles Through our membership in the American Petroleum Institute’s (API’s) Environmental Justice Coordination Team, Chevron contributed insights into the development of API’s environmental justice position and principles. API’s principles reflect the organization’s long-standing commitment to advancing industry standards for community engagement and improving environmental performance, and they complement Chevron’s Environ.mental Justice Principles. Going forward, Chevron expects to continue serving on the working team to support API’s analysis of proposed administrative and legislative actions at federal and state agencies relating to environmental justice. establishing environmental justice principles In 2021, Chevron developed a set of Environmental Justice Principles. These principles are designed to support our engagements with stakeholders as well as our policy efforts. They reflect Chevron’s beliefs and are aligned with policies and processes such as the SEIM process and the Environment Risk Management Process. This work is complemented by our efforts to advance racial equity, respect human rights, and protect people and the environment. To learn more, visit chevron.com/humanrights. chevron.com/sustainability richmond, california, US building trust and integrity Chevron and the city of Richmond share a history that stretches back more than a century. Established in 1902, our refinery in Richmond was Chevron’s first major refinery and creates products that fuel progress in Richmond and around the world. Chevron is committed to being good neighbors and providing affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy. The refinery supplies approximately 60% of the jet fuel for major Bay Area airports, approximately 20% of the gasoline in Northern California and 100% of the paraffinic base oils on the West Coast. We also host the campus of the Richmond Technology Center, a world-class scientific research facility that supports Chevron’s worldwide operations and has developed some of the world’s most significant energy innovations. We do all of this with a focus on improving our environmental performance. In 2021, Chevron released an update to the Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management (SEIM) process. Our goal is to improve how we manage environment, social and community health risks across our business and the lifecycle of our assets. At the Richmond Refinery we can see these aligned processes in action. respecting communities Chevron aims to be a leader in health, safety and environ.mental performance. The protection of people, assets, communities and the environment is our highest priority. We have a long-standing commitment to reduce criteria air pollutant emissions in Richmond. The refinery has funded an independently operated community air monitoring program since 2013 and we have reduced particulate matter emissions refinery-wide by 30% since 2018. Our community outreach includes ways to promote two-way dialogue, provide access to quality, reliable data, and support the health and safety of our community. Air monitoring is one of the tools used to understand neighborhood criteria air emissions and increase transparency. chevron.com/sustainability investing in what matters The 3,000 employees and contractors who serve our Richmond operations make us the city’s largest employer. Among those employees are generations of families who have seen their children, cousins, aunts and uncles, and even some grandchildren enjoy careers at Chevron Richmond. The refinery has a variety of programs that build our talent pipeline and grow leadership capabilities at all levels to ensure the company’s workforce has the technical and operating capabilities to produce energy safely and reliably. One in particular, the Regional Occupational Program (ROP), is a free job readiness course offered through a partnership with the Richmond Refinery and the Contra Costa County Office of Education that helps prepare community members for jobs in the petrochemical and related industries. Students from all walks of life learn the basic processes and equipment common to the industry and have an opportunity to make connections with local employers. Since 2015, Chevron Richmond has directly hired more than 115 ROP graduates as either maintenance mechanics or process plant operators, and other program graduates have gone on to work for other facilities or companies across the energy industry. accelerating progress on hydrogen Our strong distribution network, coupled with excess capacity in a new hydrogen unit, is expected to put Richmond in an advantaged position to grow a profitable hydrogen business. We plan to use Richmond’s volumes, combined with existing and future strategic partnerships, as the foundation to support demand growth in the heavy-duty transportation, industrial and power sectors. In addition, we recently initiated two green hydrogen pilot projects – one utilizing a gasified waste stream and another a solar-powered electrolyzer. Richmond is just one example of how we seek to continue improving our environmental performance, enhancing community partnerships and enabling significant economic impact development. We have learned through decades of experience that our success is directly tied to the progress and prosperity of the people we work with and the communities where we operate. To learn more, visit chevron.com/richmond. richmond BUILD Chevron supports RichmondBUILD, an award-wining career-training program that is leading the 10.5MW Chevron is providing access to 49 acres of refinery land for the Marin Clean Energy Solar One project, which is made possible in part by Deep Green 100% renewable energy cus.tomers who support local renewable development. The Solar One project generates 10.5 megawatts of renewable energy annually, enough to power 3,900 U.S. homes. $1B As of 2021, our operations have contributed more than $1 billion to the local economy by purchasing supplies and services from local businesses and paying local taxes since 2015. 2,200 Richmond Promise is a community-wide college success initiative with $35 million in seed funding from Chevron Richmond. From 2016 to 2021, there were 2,200 Richmond Promise Scholars, and 70% were first-generation college students. chevron.com/sustainability creating prosperity we strive to advance progress and strengthen communities where we work and live At Chevron, we work to make the world a better place. Our partnerships and investments in health, education and economic development advance progress and strengthen communities. We strive to empower people around the world to improve their lives, achieve their aspirations and meet their full potential. education Investing in the future We believe education is critical to achieving social equality and enabling human progress. In 2021, we collaborated with the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) and Techbridge Girls, to launch the first Summer Engineering Experience for Kids program aimed to introduce middle-school girls of color to science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) careers. Almost 300 students explored robotics, drones and coding through hands-on activities, guided by Chevron volunteers and NSBE collegiate mentors. Supporting STEM education Chevron is helping promote effective STEM education in Southeast Asia through three grants to the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO) Regional Centre for STEM Education. The grants aim to improve STEM education in both the formal and the informal education sectors across Thailand and the rest of Southeast Asia through developing evidence-based policy, building capacity of researchers and educators, and piloting innovations such as career academies that can create better pathways from high school to further education and the workplace. PSP Chevron is a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), a coalition of energy companies that works with regional communities to improve local education, housing, health care, transportation and work.force development. From 2019 through 2021, Chevron donated $4.2 million to PSP, which, despite challenging conditions resulting from COVID-19, continues to help meet the area’s medical and educational needs. This effort is helping fund the implementation of Phase 2 of the $35 million Chevron Enjoy Science Project in Thailand, a seven-year program that Chevron has supported since 2015. Our contribution to SEAMEO’s Centre for STEM Education will help bring together international experts from the public and private sector through research, policy roundtables and workshops. health Serving rural and remote communities The Chevron/Adventist Health Mobile Clinic provides easier access to health care for underserved rural and remote communities in Kern County, California. Chevron contributed funds toward the construction of the clinic, which in 2021 assisted in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines in the county’s rural areas, where lack of health insurance can impede well-being. Seeking to eradicate malaria In Equatorial Guinea, we support local government and industry partners in the Bioko Island Malaria Elimination Project (BIMEP) with the aim of eradicating malaria from the island. Since 2004, BIMEP’s medical initiatives have contributed to a 55% reduction in malaria parasites among children aged 2 to 14 and a 63% reduction in the mortality rate among children under 5 years old, as reported by the implementing partner, Medical Care Development International. Serving the needs of vulnerable community members For more than 30 years, PRC has served the needs of San Francisco’s most vulnerable people and communities, including those struggling with substance abuse, HIV/ AIDS and behavioral health challenges. In 2021, Chevron contributed funds to support PRC programs involving workforce development, behavioral health initiatives, and diversity and prosperity health issues. PRC was formed through the merger of the Positive Resource Center, Baker Places and the AIDS Emergency Fund. Chevron’s support for PRC demonstrates our role in helping address the health risks and systematic inequities that can potentially have a major impact on the communities where we operate. chevron.com/sustainability Leila Aitmukhanova Social Investment Advisor, Eurasia Business Unit employee spotlight I love my work as a social investment advisor, especially when I’m part of a team working to solve challenges confronting our organization and the communities we operate in. I was especially impressed by the passion and commitment of the Chevron and Tengizchevroil (TCO) people who came together to mobilize our response to COVID-19 in Kazakhstan. My primary role was to ensure that critical supplies like medicine and equipment were delivered quickly and efficiently to the company in charge of distributing the supplies to hospitals and clinics around the country. Our first shipment of emergency supplies arrived in late 2020 at the Almaty Airport in the middle of the night. Our team quickly got up to speed on the airport’s new COVID-19 procedures and developed an understanding of how to manage the logistics for medical supplies. We spent hours making sure that the delivery of medi.cation arrived in full and was properly documented. Throughout 2021, a team worked with the Kazakhstan Ministry of Healthcare and our nonprofit partner MAP International to deliver more than 14 million units of criti.cal medicines, 20 million protective personal equipment items, 1.5 million single-use syringes and six CT scanners. TCO’s team continues to work closely with government authorities in the Atyrau region to keep the workforce safe and make medical resources available. As of Decem.ber 2021, more than 97% – or 95,000 individuals – in the TCO workforce had been fully vaccinated. I am proud of how we have all mobilized and worked in unison to support my country’s pandemic response. U.S. chevron humankind 2021 $32M+ contributed to U.S. nonprofits through a combination of employee and retiree giving and company matching funds 73,415 volunteer hours were logged in the United States 1,160 charitable organizations in the United States benefited from volunteer time economic growth Empowering social entrepreneurs The Miller Center for Social Entrepreneurship works with social enterprises that are focused on solutions that most directly address the nexus between environmental disasters and vulnerability among the world’s poor. In 2021, Chevron supported the center’s Asia-Pacific climate resilience accelerator, a six-month-long mentoring program that provides social entrepreneurs with practical tools, proven curriculum, online workshops and best practices based on the Miller Center’s experience helping social enterprises prepare for investment. Supporting Indigenous-owned businesses In 2021, Chevron Canada established the Local and Indigenous Partnership Strategy Framework that aims to increase the representation of Indigenous people in our supply chain through additional opportunities for our business partners and suppliers and a commitment to developing relationships with Indigenous-owned businesses. communities and the environment Protecting the mangrove ecosystem Since 2018, Chevron and a consortium of industry partners have supported the Mangrove Ecosystem Restoration Alliance (MERA) program at the Muara Angke Wildlife Reserve in Jakarta, Indonesia. The five-year program, sponsored by The Nature Conservancy and its local Indonesian affiliate, Yayasan Konservasi Alam Nusantara, is a collaboration with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry’s Jakarta Natural Resources Conservation Center. Now at its halfway mark, the MERA program is about to open Jakarta’s first-ever center for mangrove education to help build public awareness about mangrove ecosystem conservation. Providing disaster relief Chevron has a history of providing humanitarian aid to the communities where we operate when they are devastated by natural disasters. In 2021, the company donated $3 million to organizations focused on supporting U.S. Gulf Coast communities affected by Hurricane Ida. The funds not only provided immediate relief, but also helped communities rebuild in the aftermath of the hurricane. In early 2022, Chevron donated $5 million to the World Food Programme and the Red Cross to support their efforts to respond to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. As part of our Chevron Humankind program, the company can match qualifying donations made by employees and retirees and make financial contributions to organizations where employees volunteer. To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/ social#creatingprosperity. chevron.com/sustainability contributing to the UN SDGs Chevron is proud to contribute to the achievement of the  and more prosperous world aligned with the 2030 Agenda  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  for Sustainable Development. This will allow for a uniform  We have a long history of investment in health, education and  approach to demonstrating alignment to relevant SDGs for  economic development with the goal of creating measurable  the oil and gas companies. The oil and gas sector has the  and enduring value. Through our membership in Ipieca, we  potential to advance all 17 goals either directly or indirectly  worked with the World Business Council for Sustainable  and the Roadmap identifies 10 SDGs as priority areas where  Development on the creation of an SDG Roadmap for the  the sector has the most influence or ability to respond to  oil and gas sector (“Roadmap”). The Roadmap identifies  societal needs.  how Ipieca, as an industry association, and individual oil and  gas companies working within the sector, can work toward  Below are select examples of Chevron’s contribution  a lower-emissions future while contributing to a healthier  to the Roadmap, as of 2021.  chevron’s ipieca roadmap ipieca option s for oil  and gas companies  chevron’s contributions  impact opportunity  SDGs  action  highlights from 2021  what we plan to do next  policy and  Report approach to  • Published 4th report aligned with  • Continue to action our commitment  partnerships  managing climate-related  Task Force on Climate-related  to compliance, transparency and  risks including, discussion  Financial Disclosures  accountability through our lobbying  on risk and opportunities related to the energy transition.  • Building on our 2020 Climate Lobbying Report, created an updated lobbying and trade  activities and climate-related reporting  climate  association webpage  innovation   Scale innovative and venture business models to help customers reduce emissions.  • Established Chevron New Energies to accelerate progress in renewable fuels; hydrogen; carbon capture, utilization and storage; and offsets • Awarded U.S. patent to produce biofuels at scale using our Fluid Catalytic Converter technology  • Spend planned $8 billion in lower carbon investments by 2028  operations   Adopt methane intensity reduction targets consistent with best available methodology. Consider deploying new technologies for better detection and quantification of methane.  • Launched a global methane detection campaign to expand detection capabilities • Since 2016, reduced Upstream methane intensity by more than 50%, inclusive of methane from our LNG operations • Through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, committed to a collective methane-intensity target of well below 0.20% as a share of market gas by 2025  • Continue executing projects to achieve 2028 methane target of 2 kilograms CO2-equivalent per barrel, which is a more than 50% reduction from our 2016 baseline • Continue progress to achieve zero routine flaring by 2030 and 3 kg CO2e/boe for overall flaring  operations   Strengthen operational GHG emissions reduction initiatives by identifying emissions hotspots, implementing resource efficiency best practices, encouraging innovation and disclosing progress.  • Advanced 36 marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) projects to reduce carbon intensity of our own operations • Completed and commissioned five MACC projects  • Spend approximately $2 billion on similar projects through 2028 • Achieve expectation to deliver ~4 million tonnes of emissions reductions per year by 2028  Ipieca roadmap continues on page 45  SDGs:  3.Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. 7.Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. 8.Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. 9.Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.  12.Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 13.Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. 14.Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. 15.Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial eco.systems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.  chevron.com/sustainability chevron’s ipieca roadmap, continued ipieca option s for oil  and gas companies  chevron’s contributions  impact opportunity  SDGs  action  highlights from 2021  what we plan to do next  biodiversity,  Contribute to sustainable  • Chevron Shipping became a  • Starting in 2023, Chevron Shipping  land and  shipping practices through- signatory to the Sea Cargo Charter  will disclose vessels’ climate  nature water stewardship   out the value chain (e.g., through compliance with IMO/MARPOL requirements such as development and application of strict ballast water management practices and adoption of lower sulphur and alternative marine fuels for improved air quality).  • All ships continue to have ballast water treatment systems  alignment scores utilizing the Sea Cargo Charter methodology • Chevron Shipping supports the target of the International Maritime Organization to reduce total mari.time greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2050, compared to 2008 levels  biodiversity,  Implement environmental  • Mitigation hierarchy is incorporated  • Continue implementation of ERAM  land and  management practices that  in the Environmental Risk  with Protective by Design concept  water  incorporate the mitigation  Assessment Management (ERAM)  that calls for implementation of  stewardship  hierarchy to promote biodiversity and ecosystem services, with a focus on critical ecosystems and protected areas.  procedure and applies to all operations and across the asset lifecycle  mitigation hierarchy in early phases of asset lifecycle • Continue preparing Biodiversity Action Plans and conservation agreements where appropriate  people  governance and transparency   Strengthen cooperation between companies and governments on health, safety and environment training programs, social impact assessments, job creation and social performance standards.  • Launched a $248.5 million Direct Investment Fund in Kazakhstan • Partnership with Asia Injury Prevention Foundation, which conducted quality road safety education in schools, increased road safety awareness in local communities, completed significant infrastructure modifications and enhanced the capacity of local government institutions  • Continue to partner with communities and local governments where we operate to advance safety programs and enhance local capacity  communities   Support national health efforts and community response through collaborative efforts on disease prevention and medical emergency response.  • Continued to support the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which included emergency efforts to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic • Continued to support local communities as they recover from COVID-19 impacts • Sponsored and partnered with the American Heart Association  • Continue supporting workforce and community health programs where we operate  and the Cancer Society on various health initiatives  thriving  Implement local content  • TCO achieved its highest recorded  • Continue implementing local  workforces  plans that support supplier  local content share of spend with  content plans that support supplier  development and enhance  approximately 68% or $3.2 billion  development and enhance the scale  the scale and quality  of 2021 spend with Kazakhstani  and quality of local procurement  of local procurement.  businesses  Where possible, emphasize preference for local suppliers near operations.  • Brazil concession contract achieved approximately 46% of certified local content  • Australian business unit in joint  government/industry initiative  introduced the GeneratER  innovation program to connect  shared business and technical  challenges with the local industry  to spur innovation  Please refer to chevron.com/sustainability/social#contributingtothesdgs for additional information on Chevron’s contributions to the UN SDGs. 