getting results the right way We cultivate a culture of integrity and commit ourselves to do things the right and responsible way. Photo: Employees at a tankless facility in the Mustang Comprehensive Development Plan area in the Denver Julesburg Basin in Colorado. In this section, learn about our approach to health and safety. governance we believe that strong governance is the foundation to creating value for our stockholders Increased transparency Updated Chevron Incentive Amended several Board 2021 concerning lobbying Plan to directly link employee Committee charters to clarify highlights and trade association bonuses to achieving energy scope and roles, particularly memberships transition milestones as they relate to climate change and sustainability Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business and affairs. As part of their responsibility, the Board oversees risk management policies, practices and systems that are applied throughout the company. Board members regularly consider critical risk topics as part of their deliberative decision-making processes. Annually, through Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, they review financial, operational, market, political and other risks inherent in our business and oversee the safeguards and mitigations that are put in place. Also, as part of their responsibility, the Board oversees Chevron’s strategic and business planning process. Our Operational Excellence (OE) Management System enables us to systematically manage risks related to workforce safety and health, process safety, reliability and integrity, environment, efficiency, security, and stakeholders. Preventing high-consequence incidents and impacts starts with understanding and mitigating risks and maintaining a system of effective safeguards to help keep our workforce, the communities where we operate and the environment safe. board oversight The Board has four standing Committees, all composed entirely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy and Sustainability. Each Committee fulfills important responsibilities to assist the Board’s oversight of risks and to build long-term stockholder value. In 2020 and 2021, the full Board reviewed their governance of potential climate change-related risks and energy transition opportunities with the aim of providing clarity of Board and Committee roles and responsibilities. Each Committee under.took a revision of their charter in order to clearly articulate oversight related to climate issues and coverage of related Board responsibilities. The Audit Committee Charter clarifies the Committee’s oversight of the company’s sustainability and climate change-related risks as they relate to financial risk exposures and oversight of the corporation’s OE audit and assurance process. The Management Compensation Committee Charter has been amended to clarify the Committee’s oversight in aligning compensation policies and practices with stockholder interests, including those related to sustainability and climate change. The Chevron Incentive Plan was modified to include an energy transition category that measures progress toward activities that lead to achieving our GHG metrics, growing renewable energy and carbon offsets, and investing in low-carbon technologies. This addition directly links virtually all workers’ annual bonuses to performance measures aimed at advancing a lower carbon future. board diversity 50% diversity 42% women 25% racially/ ethnically diverse our board of directors is made up of individuals who bring diverse experiences and qualities, such as leadership, strategic insights and the ability to provide oversight of risk management chevron.com/sustainability skills, experiences and expertise of the board of directors director ioicnifenCEO, sigr of seds aonletiraeop e,te, ia ncgmeierindsceeain,acg, nhecv etiusearcerextnr ea l,agernmene,lvryoogtycgulalio,recpyligbloupnohc su, oeclgnistiancldnnfiouciacnalacnfiiaancnfit, ess, s nirsiaulblafaabnlotioa grntein,re l nmentaoirven nsiung bioindmatarleosfnatr es  Wanda M. Austin        John B. Frank      Alice P. Gast       Enrique Hernandez, Jr.       Marillyn A. Hewson         Jon M. Huntsman Jr.       Charles W. Moorman        Dambisa F. Moyo       Debra Reed-Klages         Ronald D. Sugar         D. James Umpleby III        Michael K. Wirth         board composition (%)  83%  75%  92%  100%  92%  75%  67%  The charter of the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) clarifies the manner in which the Committee assists the Board with climate change and other sustainability issues, including changing the Committee’s name from “Public Policy Committee” to “Public Policy and Sustainability Committee.” In addition, the Board amended the Corporate Governance Guidelines to clarify that climate issues are included within the environmental experience that the Board seeks as part of the skills and qualifications for Board composition, and it also added experience in leading business transfor.mation to those skills and qualifications. Our Board of Directors is made up of individuals who bring diverse experiences and qualities, such as leadership, strategic insights and the ability to provide oversight of risk management. Their range of knowledge and experience spans operations, environmental, policy, regulatory and geographical issues. executive-level committees The Executive Committee comprises corporate officers and is chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee has established two subcommittees that specialize in various matters important to the company, including strategy and compliance. The Enterprise Leadership Team is responsible for managing the composition, resource allocation and strategic direction of Chevron’s portfolio to achieve our objectives. The Global Issues Committee (GIC), an executive-level subcommittee, oversees Chevron’s policies and positions on sustainability issues and practices. The Vice President of Strategy and Sustainability chairs the GIC and serves as the secretary to the PPSC, connecting the GIC’s work to the oversight of the PPSC. chevron.com/sustainability chevron’s governance structure relevant to ESG-related matters * Chaired by Chairman of the Board Additionally, events may be handled via ad-hoc, cross-functional Crisis Management and Issue Management † Chaired by Chief Executive Officer teams, which report regularly to members of the ELT, and if appropriate, provide updates to the Board. chevron.com/sustainability compliance and training The Chevron Way forms the foundation of our compliance program through its expression of values and expectations for social responsibility and business conduct. Developed from these overarching principles, the Business Conduct and Ethics Code communicates expectations for ethical business conduct. The Code reinforces our compliance com.mitment and the responsibility of each employee to ensure that Chevron’s activities fully adhere to legal and policy requirements everywhere we operate. Chevron maintains internal accounting, administrative and operational controls to manage these standards of conduct and compliance. We communicate this requirement to our business partners through our contractual requirements and through ongoing engagement. Chevron employees and contractors receive training on Chevron’s Business Conduct and Ethics Code every two years. Our compliance program addresses detailed compliance requirements for many important subjects, including anti-corruption, internal controls, international trade, anti-boycott, OE, data privacy and competition law. For each subject, senior-level Chevron leaders provide risk-based guidance on the company’s compliance requirements and training. In addition, we continue to expand our offering of diversity and inclusion trainings. Popular topics include unconscious bias and inclusive leadership. Across Chevron, compliance is everyone’s responsibility. We take pride that our employees are constantly mindful of the company’s stringent compliance requirements. And in that spirit, Corporate Compliance issues a quarterly award celebrating meaningful efforts to do business the right way. The Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) is a Washington, D.C.–based think tank that actively fosters bipartisanship to solve challenging issues and chart a productive path forward. Through our membership in BPC’s ESG Taskforce, Chevron participates in constructive, bipartisan conversation about ESG issues with U.S. government policymakers. We believe our work with this task force serves as a venue for policymakers and staffers to explore the fast-evolving landscape of ESG and climate risk disclosures and to consider bipartisan solutions. 24/7To reinforce our Business Conduct and Ethics Code, the Chevron Hotline operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week and is available for anonymous reporting in multiple languages. The Chevron Hotline operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week and is available for anonymous reporting in multiple languages if someone suspects that anyone in Chevron or our affiliates has violated any company policy or local laws or has information on any activity that could damage the company’s reputation. Chevron does not tolerate any form of retaliation for reports made in good faith. This includes blatant actions, such as firing, transferring, demoting or publicly undermining someone, as well as more subtle retaliation, such as avoiding someone or excluding them from professional or social activities. It includes actions taken by managers and employees alike. doing work the right way We contribute to the communities where we work and live by creating jobs, developing and sourcing from local suppliers, and giving back in the form of social investment partnerships and programs. We pay taxes in jurisdictions around the world and comply with all applicable tax laws. We support the public finances of host countries by paying what we owe, in full and on time. Over the past decade, Chevron’s tax obligations have surpassed $110 billion, by accruing $64 billion in income taxes and more than $48 billion in non-income taxes, such as property taxes, severance taxes and payroll taxes. Chevron also provides a competitive total compensation and benefits package that enables us to attract and retain a highly competent global workforce. Our pay philosophy is to pay our workforce competitively and equitably based on job responsibilities and job performance. chevron.com/sustainability lobbying and trade associations select climate related engagement with major US trade associations American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers  Chevron engages with AFPM to encourage support of our climate principles and positions,  (AFPM) AFPM represents high-tech American  such as an economywide carbon price and innovative breakthrough technologies. Our  manufacturers and midstream companies that  continued engagements with AFPM have helped create a Carbon Steering Committee and  enable the production and delivery of nearly all  shifted AFPM from historic opposition to carbon pricing to evaluating proposals on a  U.S. gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, home heating oil,  case-by-case basis.  critical petrochemicals and other refined products  American Petroleum Institute (API) API represents all segments of the oil and gas industry  Chevron supported the creation of a new Climate Committee at API and the development of policy positions that support market-based approaches, innovation and support for the goals of the Paris Agreement. Consistent with these policy positions and in the absence of national, economywide, market-based solutions, API is now supporting innovation-focused legislation, Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy reauthorization and the expansion of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative.  Business Roundtable (BRT) BRT is an  Chevron engaged with BRT to help develop its new climate policy principles, released  association of chief executive officers of  in September 2020. BRT’s principles now more closely track Chevron’s Climate Policy  America’s leading companies  Framework, including calling for economywide carbon pricing as the primary policy tool to address climate change, support for innovative technologies such as carbon capture, utilization and storage, and efficient streamlined regulations.  U.S. Chamber of Commerce (U.S. Chamber)  Chevron works with the U.S. Chamber to encourage support for market-based approaches  The U.S. Chamber develops and implements  to climate policy, innovative breakthrough technologies and streamlined, efficient regulations.  policy on major issues affecting U.S. businesses  The U.S. Chamber also shares our support for the goals of the Paris Agreement and calls for  of all sizes across many sectors of the economy  phasing down the use of hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs.  Jay Thompson Manager, Federal and International Government Affairs employee spotlight I manage a team that advocates Chevron’s positions with the U.S. government and abroad. One of our biggest challenges is lobbying effectively at a time when the United States is so politically polarized. Our strategic time horizon is long, and we need to be able to work with policymakers on both sides. Our goal is to help enable the United States to maintain a vibrant energy sector, which is critical for economic vitality. When we don’t achieve alignment with our member trade groups, we may independently share our own approach. We seek to be a trusted and reliable source of information to governments around the world to create better policies. I’m particularly proud of the opportunity I get every day to articulate Chevron’s contribution to society as we work toward advancing a lower carbon future. lobbying Building on our 2020 Climate Lobbying Report, we updated the lobbying and trade association webpage that includes a detailed description of our policies, processes and oversight. We now disclose all U.S. trade association memberships where a portion of our dues are attributed to lobbying and the range of lobbying expenditures made through these trade associations. We report a five-year history of corporate political and Chevron Employees Political Action Committee contributions and the Executive Committee reviews and endorses corporate political contributions and the central budget annually. All Chevron employees adhere to strict internal review procedures for all corporate political contributions, and no employee is reimbursed for making a political contribution. All corporate political contributions are made independent of executives’ personal political preferences and in alignment with Chevron’s business interests. Beginning in 2022, we are planning semi.annual updates regarding corporate political contributions and employee political action committee contributions. As part of our oversight, employees receive mandated online training on political compliance education, delivered to in-scope employees and translated into several languages. In addition, internal legal counsel and the political compliance team provide regularly scheduled training to all employees who might engage in lobbying activities. Some jurisdictions, including California, also require that lobbyists take training as part of their registration. To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/governance. chevron.com/sustainability 51 cybersecurity protecting our people, information and operations 2021 highlights  Chevron’s digital strategy strengthened our ability to navigate the current and future risk environment  Maintained secure operations for more than 35,000 employees and contractors, who continued  Continued to improve our cybersecurity program to mitigate the risks inherent in an increasingly connected  and advance a digitally  to work remotely  and challenging cybersecurity  driven future  landscape  delivering cybersecurity 2021 was a pivotal year for cybersecurity. The threat landscape evolved with increased targeting of process control networks (PCN), exploitation of trusted software in supply chains, and frequency of ransomware attacks. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic created an environment where a large number of employees and contractors may be working remotely at any given point in time, which has provided more opportunities for malicious hackers to exploit. At Chevron, we seek to protect our people, information and assets by using a risk-based, multilayered approach to cybersecurity. In 2017, we integrated cybersecurity into our Operational Excellence Management System with the Cybersecurity for Personnel and Assets process. The prevention of high-consequence cybersecurity incidents is a notable goal of our Enterprise Risk Management process. Chevron’s Digital Transformation effort integrated cybersecurity into our platforms and promotes Security by Design, one of six digital enterprise imperatives that form our company’s digital strategy. Security by Design aims to protect Chevron’s high-value assets and the value of our digital solutions by making security intrinsic to the development of the digital solutions we build before we build them. assuring safeguards are in place We test our cybersecurity program using internal and external assessments to verify that safeguards are in place and effective. The frequency and rigor of compliance controls cybersecurity safeguards and programs are organized and managed based on an internationally recognized cybersecurity framework developed by NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology): recover activities to maintain plans for resilience and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a cybersecurity event respond activities to take action regarding a detected cybersecurity incident identify organizational understanding to manage cybersecurity risk to systems, people, assets, data and capabilities protect cybersecurity safeguards to ensure delivery of critical services detect monitoring and surveillance activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event chevron.com/sustainability As members of the ONG-ISAC (Oil and Natural Gas Information Sharing and Analysis Center), we come together with other major energy companies not as competitors, but as trusted partners to share intelligence on cyber incidents, threats and best practices to address the unique challenges our industry faces. We share information and improve our capabilities as we seek to bolster cybersecurity across the industry. Kayla Lacefield Operational Technology Cybersecurity Engineer employee spotlight Before joining Chevron, I was a systems administrator in the U.S. Air Force for eight years. That experience was great preparation for my current work as operational technology, OT, cybersecurity engineer at Chevron. In the Air Force, I supported all aspects of IT, from delivering network security to software configuration. As an OT security engineer, I provide digital support to our operations, which focuses on managing our process control networks. My role is to design and establish the guardrails for the multiple safeguards we have in place to prevent or mitigate impacts to our PCNs. One of our biggest assets is Security by Design, which helps build cybersecurity into a system’s architecture and individual solutions. Using Security by Design, my team works with our business units to develop guardrails and test that those guardrails are effective. The team also evaluates our vendors to certify that they’re secure by design – it’s a process that not only supports cybersecurity, integrity and reliability, but also has the potential to reduce costs. There’s also a very human side to our work. For example, a PCN may monitor the facility’s emissions and effluents. My team’s job is to put in the protocols so that we have confidence that the data are protected and reliable. Accurate and timely data enable us to have the infor.mation to help keep our employees and the communities where we operate safe and healthy. and audits are determined using a risk-based approach. Because the threat landscape continuously changes, we use penetration testing, which simulates attacks against the company, employing tactics, techniques and procedures hackers use to achieve their objective of accessing sensitive data or disrupting business operations. In the operational technology space, cybersecurity for PCN (e.g., industrial control systems) is a top priority for Chevron. PCNs have multiple safeguards in place to protect them against attack. We use a risk-based approach to establish that PCN architecture is securely designed and implemented. preparing the workforce We require employees and contractors to complete training either annually or biannually on a range of cybersecurity best practices, including information on risk awareness, data privacy, privileged user access and email phishing. Training is updated regularly to reflect current cybersecurity challenges and Chevron’s cybersecurity objectives. We also have a cybersecurity awareness campaign to make the workforce aware of risks and threats and educate people on safe cyber behaviors. establishing resilient operations The intensifying threat landscape and the speed and sophistication of the ability of malicious actors to exploit vulnerabilities have made cyber attacks increasingly difficult to prevent. Therefore, we seek to quickly identify and rapidly respond to cyber incidents to limit their scope and impact and enable us to restore normal operations as fast as possible. In addition, we use multiple methods to regularly test our cybersecurity program, including exercises that test and build our capabilities to enable us to maintain a ready state for responding to and recovering from cyber incidents. supporting the new way of working Previous crises such as hurricanes on the U.S. Gulf Coast prepared Chevron for the impact of COVID-19 as we shifted to working at home. At peak, more than 35,000 employees and contractors were able to work safely from home with the protections provided by our cybersecurity team. The cybersecurity team worked with vendors and partners to provide us with the resources needed to enable secure access to our network. To maintain our cybersecurity posture as Chevron embraces a hybrid work model, we continue to monitor the network and conduct vulnerability assessments, audits and email phishing exercises to test that we are appropriately managing the risk. To learn more, visit chevron.com/cybersecurity. chevron.com/sustainability 53 health and safety we work to protect the health and safety of our workforce through our policies, programs and actions Continued focus on programs Used analytics technology Enhanced our management 2021 to support employee mental to apply a risk-based processes and procedures highlights health and resilience approach for managing land to seek to make our transportation safety operations safer Recent challenges, like the COVID-19 pandemic, have demonstrated the innovative spirit of our culture and fueled the evolution of programs and processes that support our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). The OEMS enables us to systematically manage risk, implement and assure safeguards, and foster a culture of learning. chevron’s OEMS is a comprehensive and prescriptive system to improve our health, safety and environmental performance mental health At Chevron, we recognize the importance of self-care, mental health and emotional well-being as part of our overall health, safety and productivity. We provide our employees with convenient access to work-site wellness programs and use data to evaluate effectiveness and engagement. Providing wellness programs Chevron’s Healthy You program offers tools and resources to help eligible participants reach their health goals. The program is mobile and on-demand, which fits the needs of our global workforce to help them reduce stress, make healthier life choices and take steps to protect themselves from communicable diseases, including COVID-19. Now available in four languages, the program has extended its reach into 18 countries, where it is demonstrating its effectiveness in supporting a healthier, safer, more productive workforce. Surveys found between 69% and 87% of Chevron participants felt the Healthy You program provided the following out.comes: improved their productivity, helped them feel more committed and engaged at work, made them proud of the company culture, and helped them develop useful habits. A survey conducted by our U.S. vendor, WebMD, indicated the Healthy You program has helped Chevron employees achieve lower personal health risk rates when compared with other WebMD clients included in the survey. Another resource available to employees is the meQuilibrium (meQ) app, a stress-management tool designed to help users learn ways to navigate stress, overcome negative thinking, and build greater resilience to the stressful thoughts and situations that come with daily life. Chevron meQ members scored higher than members at other companies in several key areas, including overall resilience, connection to their job and connection to their team. The meQ app is also available on-demand in nine countries and four languages. chevron.com/sustainability Building strength and resilience To help support the mental health and wellness of our global workforce, business units may adopt additional programs on a site-specific basis. To maintain operations at Angola LNG at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, an emergency management team listened to employees who articulated a need for rest, exercise and stress relief. In consultation with Chevron’s Health & Medical doctors, Angola LNG developed the Strength and Resilience Movement – a calendar of activities, education events and special meals to create a sense of community and provide opportunities for rest, exercise and stress relief. In Israel, workers on the Leviathan Production Platform engaged in a “Lose to Win” campaign aimed at healthy weight loss. In Thailand, we established a virtual mental health talk forum, created engaging activities to support healthy hearts and provided peer-to-peer support programs to increase workers’ self-reliance. return to the workplace Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, a large segment of our global workforce remained onsite to keep our facilities operating safely. The other members of our global workforce have been working remotely while continuing to provide effective support to our operations. During this time, we have actively addressed evolving issues, updating workforce guidelines to be consistent with the advice of leading public health organizations for providing a safe workplace. We now have a better understanding of the risks and of viable and effective safeguards, and we have the capacity to manage the impact of the virus on our operations at the local and regional level. Based on what we have learned, Chevron has developed new safeguards and operating standards and updated existing protocols to adjust for the ever-changing conditions of the pandemic, including a strategy for a paced, conditions-based return to the workplace that allows our business units to make decisions based on local conditions. The company also announced a hybrid work model, based on employee feedback and learnings from the pandemic, that will give employees the flexibility to combine in-office and remote work. We also have region-specific resources available to help our workforce navigate this transition. We recognize that the risks associated with COVID-19 might impact our communities to varying degrees for the foreseeable future, and we are counseling our employees to be vigilant and use the safeguards available to them. Vanessa Fruge Process Engineer, Pascagoula Refinery employee spotlight During the planning phase for recent turnarounds, I was 28 weeks pregnant, so I went to our local medical clinic to evaluate my fitness for duty because working a turnaround is more physical than a typical day at work. Performing inspections on equipment can involve crawling into tight spaces, climbing ladders, increased noise exposure and other activities in the plant. Our industrial hygienist provided me with recommendations to discuss with my doctor and supervisor to help keep me healthy and safe while performing my job responsibilities during the turnaround. On the job, whenever I brought up concerns to my team, my co-workers were available to help me. To complete tasks that I could not physically perform in my third tri.mester, such as confined space entry for column inspec.tions, I took advantage of HoloLens, which is a headset that can be worn in the field to provide me with a remote view on my iPad. My supervisor also supported my need for new maternity FRC (flame-resistant clothing). The overall support I received at this time was critical in keeping me safe and healthy during my pregnancy while enabling me to perform typical turnaround tasks. Completing a turnaround is an important milestone for any process engineer hoping to grow their capabilities, and I didn’t want to miss out on that opportunity. This experience is consistent with the way Chevron has supported me across my career. They have allowed me to be creative and open-minded with my work – and they have encouraged me to bring my recommendations to the table. Overall, I feel very fortunate to work for a company where I do not have to choose between a thriving career and the personal experience of being a parent. chevron.com/sustainability 55 how we maintain safe operations comprehensive risk management based on data and science Preventing high-consequence incidents and impacts starts with understanding and mitigating risks. We manage risk across our six focus areas through a system of safeguards. Learn more at chevron.com/oems. workforce safety Chevron’s leaders drive our OE culture by managing risk and learning from each other. Chevron is committed to continuously improving safety and in this spirit, we innovate to find better ways to protect our workforce. Preparing for high-risk activities Consistent with our goal of preventing fatalities and serious incidents, we established Start-Work Checks (SWCs) in 2018 for workers involved in high-risk activities. The SWCs require these workers to assure that critical safeguards are in place and functioning as intended before they start a task. In each case, a verifier confirms the worker’s assessment with leadership support from a supervisor, when required. SWCs are digitally available to workers on company-enabled mobile devices, providing access to information for each task. Chevron’s approach to preventing serious injuries and fatalities with SWCs has made our operations safer and positively influenced the safety of our industry. We believe the SWCs have contributed to our decreased fatality rate from 2018 to 2021. The IOGP’s Safety Committee was aware of the success SWCs provided to Chevron’s workforce. As a result, the committee welcomed Chevron to voluntarily lead a sub-team within the IOGP Life-Saving Rules task force to build out verifiable SWCs. Integrating SWCs for all legacy Noble Energy assets is ongoing. Monitoring heat stress and heat strain On hot days, workers in outdoor and some indoor settings face an increased risk of incurring heat strain (the overall physiological response to heat stress), which can lead to significant illness and even death. To protect our workforce from heat strain, we are researching and piloting the feasibility of a wearable skin patch that could provide real-time, automated analysis of sweat loss, electrolyte loss, temperature between the skin and clothing, and motion. Using these measurements, it’s possible to identify conditions that can lead to heat stress and heat strain, alert workers when they need to take breaks, and provide recommendations for replenishment of fluids and electrolytes. Enforcing greater road safety Transportation safety in the communities where we operate is a top priority. As a founding member of the Permian Road Safety Coalition, we share and advance best practices among the companies operating in the region as well as educate communities on their critical role in road safety. This initiative in the Permian Basin is consistent with our enterprisewide, risk-based approach to land transportation safety, with a focus on applying appropriate safeguards and controls to prevent serious injuries and fatalities. In 2021, Chevron started using road safety analytics to evaluate crash data history and identify high-risk road segments to understand the risks associated with various routes and schedules. These tools support our transportation safety efforts by providing drivers with alternative lower-risk routes. chevron.com/sustainability process safety The systems to manage process safety are complex, and it takes people with skills in a wide variety of disciplines working together to keep our safeguards strong and effective. In Indonesia, Chevron supports the YCAB Foundation, an organization dedicated to breaking the cycle of poverty through education and innovative financing. Beginning Transforming our organization in December 2021, Chevron Pacific Indonesia and the YCAB Foundation collaboratively held a two-month mass vaccination program to administer COVID-19 vaccines to residents of West Java, an Indonesian province where vaccinations had previously lagged. Outreach emphasized reaching vulnerable groups and those with disabilities. In addition, Chevron cooperated with the Health Crisis Center of the Ministry of Health to lease a secure warehouse in Jakarta to store COVID-19 donations and equipment. We also funded training for the Ministry of Health’s staff on warehouse management. Promoting active partnership The OEMS establishes the expectation to apply robust standards to assessing, managing and mitigating risks from In 2021, we completed the transformation of our organization and the integration of Noble Energy and launched Chevron New Energies. Much like managing change in our equipment and operations, organizational change requires a review and authorization process for evaluating proposed adjustments to anticipate unforeseen new hazards and plan for unintended consequences. To manage these changes, we asked experts and empowered our workforce to identify gaps and evaluate potential risks associated with the organizational changes. The transformation helped improve our process safety culture by engaging leaders who not only embraced change and growth but also are committed to sustaining OE performance at a level that meets our competitive objectives. all our operations, including those that employ a contractor workforce. Our approach to workforce safety requires training for all employees and contractors on Chevron’s processes, standards and guidelines. Building upon the success of our Contractor HES Management program, we developed the Contractor Operational Excellence Management (COEM) process to establish clear accountabilities, promote active partnership, and provide a consistent process to help prevent serious injuries, fatalities and loss-of-containment events. Key enhancements of COEM include: • Fit-for-purpose learning methodology for consequence assessment • New guidelines for working together in a contracting environment • Increased rigor in HSE qualification standards for contractors • Improved risk assessment process for evaluating a contractor’s ability to implement and verify effective safeguards • Clarification of definition of safeguard assurance before work starts In 2021, we piloted COEM in our Fuels & Lubricants business, and our other business units are developing deployment strategies to introduce COEM in 2022. COEM process require.ments and standards will be integrated into practical work instructions, training, procedures, tools and other methods. Maintaining reliability and integrity The reliability and integrity of our equipment is another important dimension of process safety. We are using digital technologies to transform our ability to look at equipment across our enterprise and gain better insights to further improve our integrity and risk management. As of 2021, the harmonization and standardization of the design, operating and maintenance practices within our Upstream, Midstream, and Downstream & Chemicals businesses have enabled the development of an enterprisewide data system and equipment stewardship approach: Facilities Integrity and Reliability Management (FIRM). We will begin implementing FIRM in 2022. 