empowering people
 Social Icon we put people at the center 
of everything we do
 16 promoting diversity and inclusion 18 creating prosperity 22 respecting human rights: a conversation Social Icon promoting diversity
and inclusion
 we believe diverse thinking and an inclusive work environment encourage human ingenuity and creative problem solving learn more chevron.com/diversity Employee PhotoErin McGregor Human Resources, 
Transformation Office
 “I don’t consider 
Chevron’s employee 
networks as just another 
aspect of diversity and 
inclusion; I see them as an 
integral part of a culture 
that allows employees
 to bring their authentic 
selves to work every day.”
 Chevron executive and three Chevron employees. Above: Lead Construction Engineer Laura Kezar, Chief Diversity Officer Lee Jourdan, 
Product Supply and Operations Trading Manager Shari Ruelas and Earth Scientist
 Kat Hoffman demonstrate the “Balance for Better” pose at the 2019 International
 Women’s Day celebration in Houston.
 people are our most important resource At Chevron, we believe the most creative solutions emerge in an environment where diverse voices are heard, ideas are considered, bold thinking is valued and people can grow into their fullest potential. This approach is a facet of The Chevron Way that reflects our commitment to engage our people in ways that help them thrive and innovate. Our commitment to active inclusivity is evident in our operations around the world. For example, a new employee network in Kazakhstan builds camaraderie between nationals and the expatriate community. An employee network in Australia promotes understanding and respect between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal cultures. In Nigeria, we strive to build teams with workers from different tribal affiliations. 100%
 Chevron received the top score of 100%, making it one of the Best Places to Work for People with Disabilities in 2019 by the Disability Equality Index. engaging employees to improve performance The work environment at Chevron continually evolves to maximize the employee experience and drive high performance. Our culture of well-being motivates employees to work safely and productively. Chevron has several methods to engage employees, collect input and improve our performance. For more than 30 years, we have conducted an annual companywide employee survey to measure and improve our culture and business results. In 2019, our internal scores were among the best in the industry, and this year, the survey had the highest response rate in recent history. In addition, our Human Resource Committee reviews workforce demographics to monitor diversity progress. We also obtain employee feedback through our Ombuds program, which provides a safe, confidential and neutral place to express concerns and develop solutions, including issues related to employee engagement and The Chevron Way values and culture. “Attracting and developing 
individuals with different 
talents, ideas and experiences 
is needed to solve the world’s 
most complex challenges. 
Our greatest resource is the 
inspiration, creativity 
and ingenuity of our people.”
 — Lee Jourdan Chief Diversity Officer Four Chevron employees in an office. Above: Members of our XYZ Employee Network gather in Chevron’s Midland office. The XYZ Employee Network is one of the 12 employee networks at Chevron, with more than 20,000 members, that promote Chevron’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. partnering with MIT to enhance our workforce To win in any environment, we need to prepare our leaders for a future that will rely heavily on digital tools and concepts. In 2019, we launched a partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to sponsor employees interested in pursuing a Master of Science degree focused on digital technology, management and data analytics. Sixteen Chevron employees from Kazakhstan, Nigeria and the United States enrolled in fall 2019. MIT faculty works with these employees and Chevron leadership to identify ways that digital technology can help solve challenges facing the energy industry. creating a pathway to return to Chevron In 2019, Chevron launched Welcome Back, a return-to-work program to attract talented professionals who want to reenter the workforce. Participants have strong leadership and planning skills but have taken a career pause of two or more years to raise a family, continue their education, volunteer in their communities or meet other responsibilities. The program provides participants with a pathway to reenter the workforce by strengthening their technical expertise. Participants spend 10 to 12 weeks training with supervisors and mentors, with the goal of filling full-time positions at the end of the program. Nine women of diverse backgrounds participated in the inaugural group in 2019. Employee PhotoRuth Fernandez Welcome Back 
Program Participant
 “I was nervous after taking a break in my career, but the Welcome Back program helped me comfortably return to the petroleum industry with ease.” Web Link Icon additional resources chevron.com/culture Social Icon creating prosperity
 we strive to empower people around 
the world to improve their lives, achieve their 
aspirations and meet their full potential
 learn more chevron.com/creatingprosperity Employee PhotoFlor Sandrea Payroll Coordinator “By participating and volunteering with social projects inside and outside of the company, everyone wins the employees, community and Chevron fostering a sense of belonging.” Classroom with teacher and students. Above: The SHIKHON Project in Bangladesh, a collaboration between Chevron and Save the Children, provided more than 1,800 children in 46 villages with early education opportunities near our areas of operation in 2019. We work to make the world a better place. Our partnerships and investments in health, education and economic development advance progress and strengthen communities. the path ahead The countries and territories in which we operate present widely varying challenges and opportunities in meeting our goal: to make human progress a reality for those without access to reliable, affordable and ever-cleaner energy everywhere we work. Partnerships are core to our business and enable us to achieve more together, which is why we work with local stakeholders, governments and NGOs who can bring their expertise to our projects, augment our reach and improve our results. Our commitments to help reduce poverty, drive economic and social opportunity, and prepare the workforce of the future drive us to continually improve. our approach At Chevron, we define the energy challenge in human terms. Life depends on reliable, affordable and ever-cleaner energy, and we are doing our part to provide access to people without it today. We work together with governments, communities and business leaders to help the communities we operate in prosper. We are proud of the gains we have made in promoting health, economic development and education around the world. Employee PhotoLeslie Emma Health Advisor “As one of the Peer Health Educator program coordinators I’m committed to role modeling healthy behaviors to promote whole person health.” health Building a better world requires promoting the well-being of its people and enhancing their ability to lead meaningful lives. We participate in several programs that improve the health of the communities where we operate. delivering results in health employee and community wellness Chevron employee lifting weights. Peer Health Education (PHE) supports Chevron’s health and wellness initiatives by empowering employee volunteers to influence and role-model among their peers. Through the program, more than 440 peer educators have been trained as workforce and community health champions around the world. These employees deliver health support and referrals to their peers through education, programming and activities designed to build capacity and positive behavior change. They also increase health awareness in their communities through planned engagements and event participation. enabling road safety Chevron employees and partners outdoors. Chevron’s commitment to partnership and safety in China is visible in Chuandongbei, where we have a 49 percent nonoperating interest in the project. Road safety is a critical issue for local children, and together with the AIP Foundation, Chevron created the Walk Wise road safety program to address the hazards of unsafe driving and poorly maintained roads. Since the initial program sponsorship in 2012, the program has benefited 156,000 students and 300,000 parents, who demonstrated improved knowledge, attitudes and behaviors toward road safety. mental and emotional health Two Chevron employees walking in an office. The Chevron Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and WorkLife Services is a free, confidential consulting service for employees, their family members and retirees worldwide. The EAP team connects beneficiaries to advisors who assist in the resolution of personal and work-related concerns. In 2019, the team launched Let’s Talk, a three-year enterprisewide mental health initiative designed to increase awareness of available services and reduce associated stigmas. Let’s Talk emphasizes the importance of establishing a strong and sustained community of support for employees, encouraging managers to share personal stories with their teams and to promote utilization of well-being tools and participating in mental health events and programming. Employee PhotoDana Yerlanova MakerSpace
 Ambassador
 “Because Chevron believed and invested in me I now have the resources to promote STEM and coding to the next generation in Kazakhstan.” education Our investments in education are long-term and far-reaching, and our support for science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education helps communities prosper and gives everyone partnership in the process. We work to create innovative education programs that position the next generation of problem-solvers to tackle the most complex challenges of the future. investing in education education and innovation A child and an instructor. The Chevron Enjoy Science Project is a multiyear, $30 million public-private partnership in Thailand. The project promotes and improves STEM education and vocational training. Schools involved in the program are making marked progress in improving the quality of teaching and learning. The program has far exceeded its original target of 500,000 beneficiaries, with a reach of nearly 3 million students, teachers, technical workers and community members. Enjoy Science also delivered the first-of-its-kind public-private partnership within the STEM and vocational education sectors in Thailand. The findings may help to guide the work and decisions of policymakers and educators in Thailand as they seek to establish more effective instructional interventions to ensure equitable access to quality education. empowering women through STEM A Chevron employee presents at a meeting. In 2019, Chevron partnered with the Asian University for Women (AUW) during the Math and Science Summer School in Bangladesh, which helps aspiring female scientists and mathematicians enter top universities and start or consider STEM careers. An impressive 88 percent of students reported that the program helped prepare them for university, and 78 percent said they were more informed about opportunities in the STEM field and careers. promoting global literacy Four students reading. The Chevron Readers’ Cup is a scholastic reading competition, held annually at the Emirates Airline Festival of Literature in the United Arab Emirates. In 2019, the competition included over 2,000 student participants from 700 schools. Chevron provides books, supplies, prizes and staffing for the event. The festival is the world’s largest celebration of the written and spoken word in the region. Chevron also sponsors the Dubai Cares Walk for Education, an event to help provide quality education to children in developing countries. In 2019, more than 15,000 participants representing more than 200 nationalities walked alongside millions of children from developing countries who must walk long distances daily to attend school. Employee PhotoKayleigh Dunn Community 
Relations Advisor
 “The challenges are real and the opportunities endless. What better work is there than helping build a better future for my community?” economic growth Our global social impact initiatives aim to ignite and inspire new possibilities for women, families and communities. By investing in programs that provide support for small businesses and entrepreneurs with financial health training and soft skills training, we are supporting the current and future health and prosperity of the communities where we operate. building local capacity investing in the future Four children in a classroom. The Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), which comprises 20 leading Permian Basin energy companies including Chevron, aims to improve the quality of life for Permian Basin families. By partnering with local leaders, PSP is making roads safer, improving schools, upgrading health care, increasing affordable housing and training the next generation of workers. In July 2019, PSP announced its first initiative, a $16.5 million donation to support the opening of 14 new IDEA Public Schools in Midland and Odessa, Texas. PSP also committed $500,000 in funding to help Lea and Eddy counties in New Mexico compete for state, federal and foundation grants in education, health care and workforce development. Chevron is a proud member of both of these initiatives. promoting growth A Chevron employee working outside. In Kazakhstan, Chevron has a history of successful partnership that spans almost 30 years. Chevron remains one of the largest international investors in the country and has helped catalyze economic growth and social prog.ress. Since 1993, we have invested over $1.9 billion in Kazakh employee and social programs, including $300 million in social infrastructure. During this same time period, Chevron has spent $32.9 billion on local goods and services. We also provide support to help Kazakhstani companies develop sustainable business models. In addition, Chevron supports Zharkyra, a Eurasia Foundation of Central Asia (EFCA) social entrepreneurship develop.ment program. In 2019, local entrepreneurs submitted 25 project ideas to EFCA, and 10 were selected for financial assistance. The focus of eight of the projects is education, child development and health improvement. generating opportunity Twelve people celebrating a graduation. In Argentina, Chevron partners with the Other Voices Foundation to support Entrepreneurs in Action, an initiative we have been promoting since 2013. Through training and workshops, this program aims to support women entrepreneurs in Neuquén in the development and management of their cooking, sewing, reflexology, hairdressing and dry construction businesses. In addition to gaining technical knowledge, participants receive training on entrepreneurial analysis, costs, marketing, logo and brand design, and personal development. In 2019, more than 160 women benefited from this initiative. Social Icon respecting human rights: a conversation we believe respecting human rights is central to who we are, what we do and how we work learn more chevron.com/humanrights question and answer with dale walsh  and jyotsna mahendra A Chevron executive and an advisor. Right: Dale Walsh, Vice President of Corporate Affairs, and Jyotsna Mahendra, Senior Advisor of ESG and Sustainability, discuss key human rights issues impacting our business. Employee PhotoMahendra: Why does Chevron have a   human rights policy? Employee PhotoWalsh: Our success is driven by our people and their commitment to get results the right way. Chevron’s Human Rights Policy details the expectations we have of our employees, suppliers and business partners to deliver on this commitment. This means conducting our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner and respecting the law and universal human rights to benefit the communities where we work. Employee PhotoMahendra: Chevron recently updated our  Human Rights Policy. Why? Employee PhotoWalsh: Chevron first implemented our Human Rights Policy in 2009, with only minor updates in the years since. However, in 2019 we undertook a complete review of the policy and associated guidelines, processes and procedures to ensure that they reflect more clearly the company’s commitment to respecting human rights. Employee PhotoMahendra: Can you describe the changes that were made? Employee PhotoWalsh: There were three main changes. First, we clearly state our continuing commit.ment to international human rights norms: “We commit to respect human rights as set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work as well as adhere to the principles set out in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards.” Second, we clarified that we expect our suppliers and contractors to respect human rights and adhere to applicable international principles. We also encourage our business partners—those businesses with which Chevron is associated in a joint venture, partnership or other form of business collaboration—to do the same. This means going beyond Chevron’s direct operational control, seeking to use our influence to promote respect for human rights by our suppliers and contractors. Third, Chevron has developed a Human Rights Defenders Statement that explicitly states that we will not tolerate physical threats, intimidation or violence against human rights defenders who are lawfully exercising legitimate rights. We also expect and encourage our suppliers, contractors and business partners to comply with this statement. “Our success is driven by our people and their commitment to get results the right way..” — Dale Walsh Vice President, Corporate Affairs Employee PhotoWalsh: Can you speak about the integration of human rights across our work at Chevron? Employee PhotoMahendra: Respect for human rights is embedded in Chevron’s existing processes, most notably the Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Both the stakeholders and security focus areas within OEMS are key to how we integrate human rights into our work. For example, Chevron has a Security Risk Assessment Program (SRAP) through which security risks are identified and assessed, from corporate level down to individual facilities and from conceptual projects to mature operations. One of the focus areas involves identifying human rights concerns. The process is designed to help ensure any safeguards put into place adhere to the main international framework on security and human rights, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. This is one of the many ways we systematically identify relevant human rights-related risks in various parts of our operations and establish safeguards that help us comply with our Human Rights Policy. Employee PhotoWhat are some other examples of how Chevron works to protect human rights? Employee PhotoWalsh: One example is how a group of employees in Houston took action to fight human trafficking. Working with our ESG and Sustainability team, the employees were able to connect their local volunteering with broader corporate efforts on modern slavery and human trafficking, a key issue in the business and human rights space. Chevron is now collaborating with peers in the oil and gas industry to raise awareness of human trafficking. We’re also sponsoring Truckers Against Trafficking, a nonprofit organization dedicated to fighting modern slavery by working with transport and logistics providers. Additionally, there are initiatives across the enterprise that help create a safe and equal environment free of discrimination for employees. This promotes the realization of human rights every day. chevron human rights policy 520 Employees Icon employees We treat all employees with respect and dignity, and promote diversity in the workplace. focus areas Our company policies and procedures adhere to all applicable domestic laws, and we commit to core international labor principles, including: • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Elimination of forced or compulsory labor • Nondiscrimination in the workplace Security Icon security We protect personnel and assets and provide a secure environment for business operations. focus areas We conduct our operations and execute projects in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, which guide engagement with security providers to ensure human rights are respected in the protection of company facilities and premises. Communities Icon communities We commit to regularly engage communities near our operational and project areas in meaningful conversations. focus areas We engage stakeholders on key human rights issues in our operating areas, including: • Indigenous peoples • Resettlement • Grievances • Livelihoods • Environmental matters • Human rights defenders Suppliers Icon suppliers We expect our suppliers and contractors to respect human rights and adhere to applicable international principles. focus areas We engage with key suppliers to reinforce awareness of our policies and potential human rights issues such as: • Working and living conditions • Forced labor • Child labor • Human trafficking • Conflict minerals sourcing • Protecting human rights defenders Partnership Icon other business partners We encourage 
our customers and 
business partners 
to respect human 
rights and adhere to 
applicable international
 principles.
 focus areas We encourage all business partners to respect the spirit and intent of the following Chevron policies and statements: • Human Rights Policy • Indigenous Peoples Guidance • Statement on Human Rights Defenders • Guidance related to land tenure and water rights chevron australia’s reconciliation action plan Chevron values ongoing consultation with communities and rights holders. In Australia, we launched our inaugural Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) to drive our contribution to reconciliation, both within the organization and the community. It lays out our vision, aspirations and hopes for our relationships with Aboriginal people based on a culture of diversity, inclusion, trust and respect. Our RAP sets the tone for the engagements and relationships we want to have with Aboriginal people. Most importantly, our RAP was developed together with Aboriginal people from across our business and communities where we operate. Our vision for reconciliation is a nation where Aboriginal people fully participate and benefit from the social and economic opportunities available in Australia. Chevron is honored to contribute to Australia’s journey of reconciliation. Learn more about Chevron Australia’s RAP at australia.chevron.com/ community/reconciliation-action-plan. Four Aboriginal ceremonial performers outside. Above: Aboriginal stakeholders performed a traditional welcoming ceremony to recognize construction commencement at Chevron’s new office facility in Perth, Australia. 