getting results the right waywe foster a culture of integrity and commit 
ourselves to do things the right and responsible wayPhoto: Throughout our history, Chevron has 
been a place where trust and respect define 
our culture and where performance, truth 
and accountability guide the way.governancewe believe that strong governance is the foundation to creating value for our shareholdersOur Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business and affairs. As part of its responsibility, the Board oversees risk management policies, practices and systems that are applied throughout the company.Board members regularly consider critical risk topics as part of their oversight responsibility. Annually, through Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process, they review financial, operational, market, political and other risks inherent in our business and oversee the safeguards and mitigations that 
are put in place. The Board also oversees Chevron’s strategic and business planning process.board oversightThe Board has four standing Committees, all composed entirely of independent Directors: Audit; Board Nominating and Governance; Management Compensation; and Public Policy and Sustainability. Each Committee fulfills important responsibilities to assist the Board’s oversight of risks with the goal of building long-term shareholder value. The Board and its four Committees also oversee related climate and sustainability issues.Coming from various industries and backgrounds, our Board members bring diverse skills, experience and expertise. Their range of knowledge and experience spans operational, environmental, policy, regulatory and geographical arenas. New members are added, as appropriate, to ensure Board refreshment. For example, Cynthia “CJ” Warner, formerly president and CEO of Renewable Energy Group, Inc., joined the Board in 2022 and brings depth of experience across 
both the traditional and renewable energy sectors.executive-level committeesThe Executive Committee comprises corporate officers and is chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee has two subcommittees, the Enterprise Leadership Team and the Global Issues Committee, that specialize in various matters important to the company, including strategy and climate 
and sustainability issues.Scott BanksSubsidiary Governance Liaison employee spotlightChevron Corporation has many subsidiaries throughout the world. Managing them properly requires a strong team within corporate governance that is well-versed in governance requirements and internal policies, as well 
as the subsidiaries’ processes and histories.I’m one of three liaisons who each supports a different region where Chevron subsidiaries operate. Countries within regions have their own rules and regulations, and it can be challenging to determine how governance should function in each jurisdiction.My role involves ensuring the proper governance of 
the subsidiaries and advising and coordinating with key internal stakeholders, such as Tax, Finance, Law and other departments. We must have knowledge of the governance regulations in every jurisdiction in which Chevron does business and be able to collaborate 
with stakeholders.I also help to implement the governance integration, reorganization and corporate structure of companies we acquire, most recently Noble Energy, Inc. and Renewable Energy Group, Inc. I’ve learned the importance of involving stakeholders early in the integration process 
so that we can continue to improve our best practices 
in this area.I am fortunate to have colleagues and mentors who share their knowledge to help protect the company 
and shareholder value.  chevron’s governance structure relevant to ESG-related mattersinvestorsboard of directors*Board-level committees composed 
of non-employee directorspublic policy and sustainability 
committee (PPSC)management compensation committee (MCC)audit committee (AC)board nominating and 
governance committee (BNGC)Assists the Board in overseeing accounting and financial reporting processes, including:• Internal controls over financial reporting• Relationship with independent auditor• Implementation and effectiveness of 
compliance programs• Financial risk management• Cybersecurity risks 
as they relate to financial 
risk exposures• Sustainability and climate change risks as they relate to financial risk exposures• Operational Excellence 
audit and assuranceAssists the Board in overseeing governance practices and processes, including:• Board succession planning• Board skills, experiences and qualifications• Stockholder engagement program (in conjunction with PPSC)• Board, Committee and Director evaluation processAssists the Board in overseeing compensation programs and practices, including:• Executive retention and diversity strategies 
and supporting processes• Compensation program design and goals• Alignment of compensation with stockholders’ interests, including those related to sustainability and climate change risks and opportunitiesAssists the Board in overseeing policy issues and potential risks in areas such as:• Environmental matters, including those related 
to sustainability and 
climate change• Legislative and regulatory initiatives• Community relations• Political contributions and lobbying• Chevron’s global reputation• Stockholder engagement program (in conjunction with BNGC)Committees of executive officers 
operating under direction of the Boardexecutive committee†.(EC)enterprise leadership team† (ELT)global issues committee 
(GIC)Manages the composition, resource allocation and strategic direction of
Chevron’s portfolio in the following areas:• Operational Excellence• Performance improvement• Energy transition• Enterprise Risk Management process• Market and price forecastsReceives briefings on these topics from internal subject matter experts and consults with outside experts to discuss energy transition and climate change issues.Oversees management of sustainability 
issues and practices, including:• Energy transition• Lobbying and trade association activity• ESG reporting• Revenue and tax transparency• Human capital management• Human rightsReceives regular updates on these issues 
from internal subject matter experts in advance of quarterly meetings.board compositionskills, experience and expertise board tenure, diversity 
and independence director CEO/senior executive/leader of significant operations science/technology/engineering/research/ academia government/regulatory/legal/public policy finance/financial disclosure/financial accounting global business/international affairs environ-
mental leading 
business transfor-
mation tenure.. age.. gender diversity race/ethnicity diversity  independent Wanda M. Austin       6.4 68 F Black/African American  John B. Frank      5.5 66 M White  Alice P. Gast      10.4 64 F White  Enrique Hernandez, Jr.      14.4 67 M Hispanic/Latino  Marillyn A. Hewson        2.3 69 F White  Jon M. Huntsman Jr.      2.7 63 M White  Charles W. Moorman        10.9 71 M White  Dambisa F. Moyo      6.6 54 F Black/African  Debra Reed-Klages        4.4 67 F White  Ronald D. Sugar.        18.0 74 M White  D. James Umpleby III       5.2 65 M White  Cynthia J. Warner       0.9 64 F White  Michael K. Wirth         6.3 62 M White total/avg. 85% 77% 85% 100% 92% 77% 77% 7.2 66 46% 23% 92% 1	Tenure and Age as of May 3, 2023. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. previously served on Chevron’s Board from January 2014 to September 2017 
but resigned to serve as U.S. Ambassador to Russia. For purposes of calculating tenure going forward, we include only his current term.2	Retiring as of the date of the 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.the chevron way forms the foundation of our compliance 
program through its expression of values and 
expectations for business conduct and social responsibilitycompliance and trainingDeveloped from The Chevron Way principles, our Business Conduct and Ethics Code (chevron.co/code) communicates expectations for ethical business conduct. The Code 
reinforces our compliance commitment and the responsibility of each employee to ensure that Chevron’s activities adhere to legal and policy requirements everywhere we operate. Chevron maintains internal accounting, administrative and operational controls to manage these standards of conduct and compliance. We communicate the Code to our business partners through our contractual requirements and through ongoing engagement. Chevron employees and contractors receive training on Chevron’s Business Conduct and Ethics Code every two years. For 2022, the enterprisewide completion rate was 97%.Our compliance program addresses detailed compliance requirements on many important subjects, including anti-corruption, internal controls, international trade, anti-boycott, Operational Excellence (OE), data privacy and competition law. For each subject, senior-level Chevron leaders provide risk-based guidance on the company’s compliance requirements and training.across chevron, 
compliance is everyone’s 
responsibilityWe take pride that our employees are constantly mindful 
of the company’s stringent compliance requirements. And in that spirit, Corporate Compliance issues a quarterly award celebrating meaningful efforts to do business the right way.The Chevron Hotline operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week and is available for anonymous reporting in multiple languages if someone suspects that anyone in Chevron or at our affiliates has violated any company policy or local laws or has information on any activity that could damage the company’s reputation. Chevron does not tolerate any form of retaliation for reports made in good faith. Retaliation 24/7chevron hotlineTo reinforce our Business Conduct 
and Ethics Code, the Chevron Hotline operates 
24 hours a day, seven days a week 
and is available for anonymous reporting 
in multiple languageslobbyingwe’re committed to transparency 
and disclosure of informationapproach to lobbyingLobbying is an important way for Chevron to participate in the political process. In the United States, Chevron engages with executive and legislative branches of federal, state and local governments to provide perspective on energy issues affecting the nation and the world.Chevron strives to maintain positive, constructive relationships with policymakers and their staffs. In our engagements, we talk about the economy, regulations, energy security, foreign policy, research and energy development. Chevron also works with trade associations to advocate for effective, responsible and nonpartisan standards, regulations and energy policies.updated disclosuresWe’ve updated Chevron’s lobbying and trade association webpage (chevron.co/lobbyingandtrade) to be responsive 
to stakeholders’ increasing interest in how we engage 
with policymakers. The webpage outlines our political engagement strategies; our governance, policies, processes and training; our five-year history of corporate political and Chevron Employees Political Action Committee (CEPAC) contributions, including oversight of these activities by Chevron’s Executive Committee, the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee, and the CEPAC Board; and disclosure details. The webpage also includes links to all Chevron external reports representing the jurisdictions where we lobby and comprehensive trade association membership lists and disclosure of information, including semiannual updates of membership in U.S.-based organizations and lobbying expenditure ranges for each organization.trade associationsChevron holds memberships in industry and other associations that provide expert perspectives on safety, business, technical and industry best practices and a broad range of issues. 
While Chevron does not control, and may not always agree with, positions taken by trade associations of which we 
are a member, trade associations provide a unique venue 
to engage other companies and industry experts.we rarely agree 100% 
with any trade association, but 
we believe our participation 
is important to the informed 
exchange of viewsoversightChevron has both executive management and Board oversight of our lobbying and trade association activities. Chevron’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) of the Board is the Committee primarily responsible for assisting the Board in overseeing climate and lobbying policy and reporting, as well as Chevron’s response to stockholder concerns regarding such activities. The Committee annually reviews the policies, procedures and expenditures related to the company’s political contributions and lobbying to assess the value of these activities and alignment with Chevron’s positions and interests, including those related to climate. At the management level, oversight of climate policy 
and lobbying is done through the Global Issues Committee (GIC). Chevron’s Corporate Officer responsible for climate change issues is a member of the GIC and serves as the secretary of the PPSC, enabling efficient sharing of information and guidance.To learn more, visit chevron.co/governance.Alana O’Connell RueggSenior Analyst, 
Political Compliance employee spotlightChevron’s reputation, integrity and trustworthiness 
as a company are the main reasons I have continued 
my career here for 37 years. I have held various 
roles within Chevron, from operations to marketing. 
My background in cross-functional collaboration 
and business optimization and my childhood passion 
for politics inspired me to pursue my current role as a 
senior analyst for the Political Compliance team.Transparency and accountability are important 
aspects of corporate political activity. My colleagues and I are responsible for responding to increasing stakeholder interest in how we engage with policy.makers. On our lobbying and trade association 
webpage, Chevron provides extensive disclosure of 
our processes, tools and systems, which is intended 
to promote integrity and reflect good governance. 
A recent example of our increasing transparency 
is the biannual publication of the range of lobbying expenditures attributed to Chevron’s contributions 
to each U.S.-based trade association.For the first time, Chevron was designated as a “Trendsetter” – the highest recognition – within 
the 2022 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. The index benchmarks U.S. com.panies in the S&P 500 and Russell 1000 for 
their disclosure and oversight of political spending.I am grateful to be part of the team responsible for 
that recognition and to be surrounded by colleagues 
and leaders who embody The Chevron Way values. select climate-related 
engagement with trade associations American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) AFPM represents high-tech American manufacturers and midstream companies that enable the production and delivery of nearly all U.S. gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, home heating 
oil, critical petrochemicals and other 
refined products. Chevron engages with AFPM to encourage support of our climate principles and positions, such as an economywide carbon price and innovative breakthrough technologies. Our past engagements with AFPM helped create a Carbon Steering Committee in 2020. In addition, the engagements encouraged AFPM from historic opposition to carbon pricing to evaluating proposals on a case-by-case basis. American Petroleum Institute (API) 
API represents all segments of the oil and 
gas industry in the U.S. Chevron engages with API to support the development of climate policies that advance 
market-based approaches and innovation to support the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
API supports economywide carbon pricing, World Trade Organization-compliant mechanisms to mitigate carbon leakage and well-designed performance-based methane regulations on new and existing sources. API also supports policies and laws advancing research, development and deployment of critical early-stage technologies, such as the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and specific provisions in the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act related to clean hydrogen and carbon capture. Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) 
OGCI is a CEO-led initiative that is aiming 
to accelerate the oil and gas industry’s response to climate change. Chevron joined OGCI in 2018 and pledged $100 million to the $1 billion+ OGCI Climate Investments fund, which invests in technologies to reduce GHG emissions within the oil and gas value chain. OGCI member companies support the aims of the Paris Agreement. OGCI engages in policy-supported activities and contributes to the conversation on climate change. Chevron and other members reduced the group’s aggregate absolute upstream methane emissions by 40% and aggregate upstream carbon emissions (Scope 1) by 18% over the past five years. We also work closely 
with OGCI members to promote the development of carbon capture, utilization and storage industrial hubs. U.S. Chamber of Commerce (U.S. Chamber) The U.S. Chamber develops and imple.
ments policy on major issues affecting U.S. busi.nesses of all sizes across many sectors 
of the economy. Chevron works with the U.S. Chamber to encourage support for market-based approaches to climate policy, innovative breakthrough technologies and streamlined, efficient regulations. For example, the U.S. Chamber has long advocated for policies 
and laws providing for greater federal support of technology and innovation, such as 
the 2021 U.S. Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and specific provisions in the 2022 U.S. Inflation Reduction Act. Similarly, the U.S. Chamber’s long-standing support for phasing down the use of hydrofluorocarbons, an especially potent greenhouse gas, helped secure bipartisan U.S. Senate ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol in 2022. climate policy framework our overarching visionWe support policy that enables the realization of a lower carbon future at least cost to society. we believe policymakers should elements of well-designed policy•	Include all sectors of the economy •	Complement and reinforce rather than hinder market efficiency •	Utilize a price on carbon as the primary policy tool•	Enable linking with other markets •	Recognize and account for negative emissions technologies and offsets•	Support early-stage pre-commercial activity and research and development for breakthrough technologies Ensure global 
engagement and actionEncourage investment 
in technology, 
research and innovationTake a balanced 
and measured approachPromote transparency 
and equitycybersecurityprotecting our people, information and operationswe aim to protect personnel, 
facilities, information, 
systems, business operations 
and our reputationmanaging vulnerabilitiesA vulnerability is an exploitable weakness in a system or device. At Chevron, we seek to preemptively remove vulnerabilities before they have a chance to become a threat. We create automated threat intelligence feeds from security experts 
to increase vulnerability awareness, taking action to mitigate the highest risks. Our cyber risk organization schedules 
weekly meetings with business units to raise vulnerability 
risk awareness and keep diverse cybersecurity skill sets connected across the enterprise.Each day that goes by without patching a vulnerability leaves a system or device exposed and increases the risk of exploitation. For mobile devices, we enforce iOS upgrades while protecting communication channels, tailoring mobile security to enable business with little impact. We leverage market intelligence as well as internal and external expertise to monitor operating systems and third-party software. We complete security scanning of acquisitions, like Renewable Energy Group, Inc., before bringing them into our technology environment.preparing for cyber threatsOur Business Continuity Planning Operational Excellence (OE) Process, a component of the enterprise OE Management System (OEMS), prepares Chevron to continue operations during an unplanned event or disruption, which aligns with our OE objective to prevent high-consequence security and cybersecurity incidents. To maintain continuity of critical business processes in the event a cybersecurity incident results in significant loss of IT systems, our Business Continuity Plans account for cyber conditions. We work to identify critical business processes and dependent IT applications and document the processes for continuing operations without IT systems. Cross-functional teams conduct regular multidisciplinary exercises to test and continually improve 
our plans. For example, in 2022, over 100 employees and senior leaders from varying disciplines and locations participated in an exercise to test and experience the impact of a large-scale outage.implementing guardrailsCybersecurity guardrails are high-level-technology, secure-by-
design rules built into digital solutions. Their use at Chevron aligns with our imperative to “Secure Our Digital Future.” 
In 2022, we began updating our cybersecurity guardrails by migrating from a highly customized in-house technology environment to a more flexible cloud-based solution, Modern Desktop. It is largely an off-the-shelf software as a service solution that takes advantage of contemporary, standardized industry products with built-in security. This approach allows for better integrations, scalability within our organization, 
and collaboration with business partners and industry peers. protecting personal dataData privacy is a set of rules that promotes the processing of personal data in a way that protects individuals’ rights and freedoms and that follows all applicable regulatory requirements. Chevron’s comprehensive privacy program is central to the success of our overall information risk management strategy. Sound privacy practices promote trust and integrity. We promote privacy by design and by default, which reduces privacy risks in systems, technologies, applications and business processes.cultivating IT talentChevron aims to be a destination for top IT talent by providing superior career opportunities. Our focus on cultivating IT talent includes recruitment and retention strategies that seek a diverse mix of employees by targeting experienced, university and intern talent. For example:•	We actively recruit from seven historically Black colleges and universities, nine Hispanic-serving institutions, and several minority engineering and computer science organizations.•	In 2022, we recruited from our Welcome Back Returnship Program, which supports and develops experienced professionals reentering the workforce following a 
career break. Several offers for IT positions were extended and accepted.•	Our Neurodiversity Hiring Program, an intern-to-hire program targeting neurodiverse talent, was expanded in 2022 and seeks to fill more than 11 IT positions across the United States, Buenos Aires and Manila.Our Cyber Talent Management team has developed 
detailed training activities and career mapping to support recruitment and retention strategies. Competency development activities help build top-tier talent with the technical, professional and leadership skills required to 
meet enterprise business objectives.Our career development maps cultivate engaged and motivated IT employees and provide opportunities to grow professionally and personally throughout their career. 
We are proud to note that three members of our Data 
Privacy team were selected as Fellows of Information Privacy by the International Association of Privacy Professionals. 
This designation will help support employee mentorship and keep Chevron aligned with software industry protocols 
and standards.To learn more, visit chevron.co/cybersecurity.The OEMS Security Focus Area expectations enable consistency and standardization across the enterprise. Security Management seeks to proactively identify security risks, develop personnel and sustainable programs 
to mitigate those risks and continually evaluate the effectiveness of these efforts.CJ WhitesideForensics Operations Lead, 
Cybersecurity Operations employee spotlightThe big question my team confronts every day is, “How do we best protect Chevron?” In Cybersecurity Forensics, our areas of involvement include investigations, 
e-discovery, data recovery and divestitures.Technology is changing daily. To help speed up investigations and make us more cost-efficient, we’re working on automation and conducting training to ensure our knowledge and capabilities are sharp and continually improving. Being proactive also means staying abreast of the global trends and standards applied by the digital forensics and investigative community around the world. That’s why I’m part of 
an external scientific working group that shares the 
best tools and practices for our community and a member of a multidisciplinary sensitive investigation group within Chevron.My specialty is digital forensic investigations. As Chevron’s forensics operations lead, I draw on my prior experience specializing in cyber-related criminal investigations and digital forensic examinations for 
the U.S. government. I conduct investigations into 
cyber incidents to determine whether there could be 
an impact to Chevron.A colleague and I started an internal video podcast originally to share our knowledge and experience within the Cybersecurity function. Recently, one of our podcasts was published on Chevron Workplace, the company’s internal social media, to promote available career pathways. I absolutely love what I do and encourage people to pursue a career in cybersecurity.  executive women’s forum Chevron supports the advancement of women into cybersecurity and cyber risk roles. We encourage participation in communities like the Executive Women’s Forum (EWF), whose mission is to engage, develop and advance all women in the information security, IT risk management and privacy industries through education, leadership development and relationship building. We believe the EWF’s cross-company mentoring and lessons sharing can benefit Chevron’s members, who in turn can inspire and empower women in our workforce to achieve leadership positions in cybersecurity.