Protecting People. Chevron is committed to protecting the safety and health of its more than 61,000 employees and more than 200,000 full-time-equivalent contractor workforce. We manage risk by applying policies, processes and technologies to maintain our focus on having zero incidents. Our attention to personal safety and process safety goes hand in hand with our programs to promote a healthy and engaged workforce. Days Away From Work Chevron rating relative to independent oil company competitors, “1” being the lowest rate 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *Source: The data are publicly available from each company’s annual sustainability reporting: British Petroleum plc (BP), ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM) and Royal Dutch Shell plc (RDS). XOM rates are lost-time incident rates. RDS rates are lost-time incident rates for injuries only. Competitor data for 2013 were not available at the time of publication. In a survey of our employees, 95% said that they would be supported for using stop-work authority. Below: Woraman Chalermwat, left, specialist for health, the environment and safety, and Parinya Ploypray, medic, discuss safety procedures at Chevron’s Platong oil and gas production platform in the Gulf of Thailand. Personal Safety Personal safety is managed by many targeted processes within our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Written safe-work practices are a core part of our comprehensive safety program. These safe-work practices help ensure that potentially hazardous work, such as electrical work or entry into a conﬁ ned space, is properly approved, assessed and performed to achieve the safety standards necessary to pre.vent workplace injuries and incidents. We also take steps to extend these safety principles to our con.tractors by reinforcing our expectations and moni.toring compliance with requirements throughout the life cycle of our projects. This includes engaging with our contractors to improve oversight of their activities, particularly when we lack operational control. Motor vehicle safety also is written into our OEMS. We prohibit the use of cell phones and other electronic devices while employees are driving company vehicles or driving on company business, and we offer customized defensive-driver training to employees and contractors through the Smith System Driver Improvement Institute, Inc. Above: Ashley Geneve, left, Gorgon Upstream offshore construction manager, and Rory Denniss, Gorgon Upstream advisor for health, safety and the environment, conduct a safety inspection before the installation of the Gorgon project’s subsea structure offshore Western Australia. *The American Petroleum Institute deﬁnes a Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment incident as an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including nontoxic and nonﬂammable materials, that results in signiﬁ cant consequence. Our behavior-based safety programs, which include peer evaluations, improve safety awareness among all employees and contractors. Employees and contractors alike know they have stop-work authority and the responsibility to stop unsafe and at-risk behaviors without repercussions. While we have achieved industry-leading perform.ance in preventing injuries, we are still experiencing safety incidents that lead to fatalities, which is not acceptable to us. Fatalities have a profound impact on families, communities and our company. Each incident and fatality is thoroughly investigated so that we can understand the root causes and learn from them. We then share lessons learned throughout the company and apply them in our daily practices. Chevron has also intensiﬁ ed management focus on assuring that critical safe.guards are in place for every high-risk activity. We are also working together with other companies in our industry to improve work processes that will prevent these serious incidents. Process Safety We also apply OEMS to manage process safety and work to prevent serious incidents, such as explo.sions, ﬁres and accidental releases. We conduct sys.tematic reviews of facilities and projects to reduce risk, and we conduct hazard analyses to prevent injury and loss of containment. Multiple layers of protection are designed to prevent or contain a small mistake or failure. We saw a reduction in Tier 1 loss-of-primary.containment incidents* from 74 in 2012 to 36 in 2013. Programs that contributed to this improve.ment involved well safety, asset integrity manage.ment, engineering and operations decision making, safety performance tracking, the building of process safety competency at all levels, and an increase in our use of process safety leading indicators. Despite our success in reducing loss-of-containment events, serious incidents in 2013 remind us that we must continue to work toward zero process safety incidents. Through what we learn, we improve our procedures, training, maintenance programs and designs to avoid repeating incidents. We share lessons learned throughout the company and with industry organizations, such as the American Petroleum Institute. Above: Susan Allen, head operator at Chevron’s Pascagoula, Mississippi, reﬁ nery, veriﬁes that a pressure-relief device is properly tagged, dated and set correctly at the Pascagoula base oil plant, where she is on assignment as an operations representative. Product Stewardship Product stewardship is another layer in our OEMS to protect people and develop energy in ways that respect the environment throughout a product’s life cycle — from manufacturing to use and recycling or disposal. We comply with regulations and act in accordance with industry and international standards wherever we operate. We assess safety, health and environmental aspects of our products and comply with product safety laws, both where our products are made and in their intended markets. In Europe, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulatory framework requires information about product environmental and health impacts. We have registered more than 100 substances to date under REACH. We also implement the United Nations’ Global Product Strategy, a voluntary program that provides public information on the safe use of chemicals. Workforce Health Chevron’s safety culture is paired with active efforts to help employees live healthier lives. In some of the areas where we operate, infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and chronic maladies such as cardiovascular disease can be prevalent. Our workplace HIV/AIDS policy and training program combine educational programs, peer-to-peer training and counseling, and access to community-based care and treatment to keep healthy workers disease-free and to educate HIV-positive workers on living with the illness. To date, nearly 17,500 current employees have completed HIV/AIDS aware.ness training. Through our Healthy Heart program, we try to reduce cardiovascular disease by offering an annual voluntary risk assessment and educational resources to employees and their adult dependents. The program was updated in 2013 to increase employee engagement in the United States and Canada. From 2012 through December 2013, more than 11,500 participants registered with the program. For more information on Chevron’s workplace health and safety programs, visit Chevron.com/HealthSafety. PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental Stewardship. For more than 135 years, we have been committed to producing energy responsibly while continually striving to improve our environmental performance and reduce the potential for impacts from our operations. We have four Environmental Principles that deﬁne our commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible manner: We include the environment in decision making, reduce our environmental footprint, operate responsibly and steward our sites. 2013 2,135 TOTAL SPILL VOLUME Petroleum 1,378 TOTAL VOLUME RECOVERED 2012 1,684Spill Volume: 779 Decreasing 2011 10,164 6,063 Over Time 2010 9,584 7,952 2009 8,054 Volume in barrels of spills to land and water that are greater than or equal to one barrel are included. 6,250 Above: American alligators are native denizens of the Lower Neches Wildlife Management Area near Port Arthur, Texas, where Chevron Environmental Management Co. created more than 110 acres of wetland habitat. We incorporate these principles into our business by applying the Environmental Stewardship Corporate-Standard Operational Excellence process to our opera.tions. This process is designed to identify and manage potentially signiﬁcant environmental impacts and assess our activities, with the aim of improving performance. In 2013, Chevron spent approximately $2.7 billion on environmental management activities at its consolidated companies, based on guidelines estab.lished by the American Petroleum Institute. These expenditures included approximately $1 billion in environmental capital expenditures and $1.7 billion in costs associated with the prevention, control, abatement or elimination of pollutants from operat.ing sites, closed or divested sites, and abandoned and restored sites. Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment We apply our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process to all capital projects within the company’s operational control. The ESHIA process provides a systematic and risk-based approach to identifying, assessing and managing potentially signiﬁcant impacts. The assessments can include potential impacts of our activities on surrounding communities, natural resources, air quality, land and water, or community health and livelihoods. Obtaining input from communities and partners is central to the ESHIA process and occurs throughout a project’s life cycle. Our application of the ESHIA process is wide ranging: It informs facility siting, infrastructure and technology selection. The ESHIA process has also helped our project development teams strengthen the protection of local ecosystems, improve pro.tection of endangered species and enhance our community investments. Since 2007, we have used our ESHIA process in the planning and implemen.tation of nearly 900 capital projects worldwide. 7Aspects EnvironmentalFor Chevron, getting results the right way happens throughout the life of a project — from planning and construction through operation and decommissioning. To achieve this, we use our Operational Excellence Management System to manage potential risks from the activities that may affect the environ.ment. We have deﬁned seven corporate core environmental aspects to manage how our businesses interact with the environment. 1 Accidental Releases Management 2 Air Emissions Management 3 Energy Efﬁciency and Greenhouse Gas Management 4 Natural Resources Management 5 Site Residual Impact Management 6 Waste Management 7 Wastewater Management Above: Chevron’s former reﬁnery in Cincinnati, Ohio, is now a certiﬁed monarch butterﬂy way station. Biodiversity Chevron’s Biodiversity Statement expresses the com.pany’s commitment to incorporating biodiversity considerations into its capital projects and opera.tions. Our Operational Excellence Management System includes internal processes and tools, such as our ESHIA process, for managing potential environmental impacts of all kinds, including impacts on biodiversity. Our operations personnel inventory their interactions with the environment, including those that may affect biodiversity, and develop plans for managing them. Through the ESHIA process, we conduct a baseline assessment of existing environmental conditions, such as the presence of sensitive habitats or ﬁ shing grounds, to inform our understanding of potential impacts. The assessment results are incorporated into project planning to help us avoid potentially signiﬁcant impacts and protect sensitive habitats. Remediation and Restoration Since 1998, Chevron Environmental Management Co. (EMC) has served as Chevron’s leader in site remediation and asset retirement and is a key enabler to achieving Chevron’s environmental stewardship goals. EMC works to decommission, remediate and reclaim operating and legacy sites, with the aim of beneﬁcial reuse, including habitat restoration and creation. For example, a former Chevron reﬁnery in Cincinnati, Ohio, is now a certiﬁed monarch butterﬂy way station, which provides resources necessary for the butterﬂ ies to produce successive generations and sustain their migration. In 2013, EMC was directly involved in approximately one-third of Chevron’s estimated worldwide environmental spending. Freshwater Management Chevron recognizes that water, and particularly fresh water, is a critical resource for business, our communities and the environment. In 2010, we launched a corporate initiative to improve our freshwater risk management and reporting prac.tices, which included publishing our commitment to responsible management of freshwater resources. The initiative focuses on improving our corporate, regional and local water risk identiﬁ cation and management through the use of water mapping tools. Also in 2010, we established a corporate water metric, which collects data on fresh water. These data show that we have continually improved our measurement accuracy and data quality control. In 2013, Chevron expanded its freshwater initiative to incorporate non-fresh sources and beneﬁ cial reuse of wastewater streams. This initiative contin.ues to focus on water risk assessment and manage.ment through the life cycle of our assets. Our global practices in natural gas from shale operations recognize the importance of managing water use and protecting water resources. In the northeastern United States, we are working to recycle 100 percent of our produced water. By doing so, we are able to offset nearly 50 percent of our freshwater use. We also recognize that the best way to protect water resources is to use strong well design and completion standards. Our wells have multiple layers of steel casing and cement, forming a barrier between hydrocarbons and groundwater. Climate Change We share the public and government concern about climate change. The use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs contributes to an increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — mainly carbon dioxide and methane — in Earth’s atmosphere. Operationally, we continue to address GHGs in our operations and explore innovative, low-carbon energy technologies that will help us manage our carbon emissions. This includes continually improving the energy efﬁ ciency of our operations. Additionally, we operate one of the world’s largest geothermal energy portfolios and have signiﬁcant investments in two of the world’s largest CO2 storage projects. We invest in advanced biofuels research and in ways to reduce our equity GHG emissions from ﬂaring and venting. These actions span all phases of technology development, At our Sumatra, Indonesia, operations, where we have 94 oil-producing ﬁ elds, an effort to curb flaring and venting resulted in a 75% reduction of GHG emissions and a 97% reduction in volatile organic compound emissions since 2008. Our score of 97 Points on the Carbon Disclosure Project’s S&P 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index was nine points higher than the previous year’s score. from research to demonstration and deployment, and they signiﬁcantly inform Chevron’s view and involvement in GHG abatement. In addition to taking inventory of our emissions, we include GHG emissions management in how we plan and execute our business. We consider carbon costs when forecasting long-range supply, demand and energy prices, and we thoroughly assess a range of potential future policy and economic growth outcomes. These analyses affect our investment decisions and capital project approvals worldwide. Energy Consumption and Performance Chevron continues to ﬁnd new ways to use energy more efﬁciently in its own operations. From 1992 to 2012, we used our Chevron Energy Index (CEI) to track energy use performance across all operations and measured a 34 percent improvement during that time. CEI measured our operational energy intensity based on estimated technological and operational improvements and operational perform.ance. Over time, as our assets have grown in size, complexity and diversity, we recognized that energy efﬁciency could be better measured and, ultimately, improved. In 2013, we adopted new metrics to track energy performance. The ﬁve metrics are Upstream Energy Intensity, Manufacturing Energy Index, Pipeline Energy Intensity, Shipping Energy Intensity, and one for all other parts of the business. The new metrics provide more relevant and transparent energy performance measures for each segment of our business. They are easier to understand, and the segment-speciﬁc nature of these new metrics will help drive energy performance improvements. Read more about these environmental topics at Chevron.com/Environment. To learn more about our natural gas from shale operations, please visit Chevron.com/Shale. PARTNERSHIP 