we develop the energy that improves lives and powers the world forward The Chevron Way values are the foundation upon which our company is built. These values distinguish us and guide our actions to deliver results. We conduct our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, respecting the law and universal human rights to benefit the communities where we work. Our values are: diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and trust, partnership, and protect people and the environment. read morechevron.com/chevronway the business of progress Everywhere we work, we commit to running our business the right way, and we strive to build relationships and make investments that unlock the potential for progress and prosperity. We are committed to developing energy ethically and responsibly in ways that support and protect our people, the communities where we work and the environment around us. WellSafe and other programs in our Upstream business help assure that well and reservoir ﬂuids are under control and not released and help us achieve our goal of zero signiﬁcant incidents. See Page 9 for a description of Chevron’s WellSafe program. On the cover: Kenneth Sell, Appalachian Mountain water super.visor, inspects equipment at a well site producing natural gas from shale formations in Pennsylvania’s Appalachian Basin. a message from our chairman and  chief executive officer For over 138 years, we have provided affordable, reliable energy that creates economic opportunity and improves lives. Our business success is driven by our people and  their commitment to getting results the right way. The 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights is a summary of how we address safety and the environmental, social and governance issues that matter to our business and stakeholders. The foundation of how we operate is The Chevron Way, which explains who we are, what we believe, how we achieve and where we aspire to go. It defines our values, which distinguish us from our competitors and make  us the partner of choice. One of these values is to protect people and the environ.ment. We demonstrate this value in a variety of ways, including through our commitment to human rights, which  is embedded in our safety culture and participation in  international human rights initiatives. The principles of “do it safely or not at all” and “there is always time to do it right” underpin how we conduct our work. As part of our continuous improvement process,  we systematically investigate “near miss” events that had the potential to cause serious injuries or loss of containment and develop appropriate mitigations. Every member of our workforce is empowered with Stop-Work Authority—the right and responsibility to halt any potentially unsafe activity, without repercussion. Learn more about this on Page 8 of this report. In addition, Chevron is working to manage greenhouse gas emissions and potential risks related to climate change.  This includes investments in flare reduction, carbon dioxide injection and improved energy efficiency. Details are pro.vided on Pages 10–13 and in our report on Managing Climate Change Risks at chevron.com/climateriskperspective. We know our business success is directly tied to the progress and prosperity of the communities in which we operate. In providing oil and natural gas, we create local jobs and develop local workforces. We develop supply chains by enhancing local suppliers’ capabilities to meet industry standards. In 2016, we spent $39 billion on goods and serv.ices globally. Beyond direct business investments and taxes, we unlock the potential for progress in these communities through social investments that focus on what we see as three crucial pillars: health, education and economic development. Last year,  we made more than $185 million in such social investments. Our investments in health supported partnerships and programs that promote healthy communities by improving access to health care, strengthening health systems and helping fight against infectious diseases. Our investments in education were directed toward inspiring young people to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and math—or STEM—a key building block of employability  and economic development. Our investments in economic development promote self-sufficiency and job growth. These are just some of the ways in which we demonstrate our commitment to responsible development of energy resources. The 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights provides additional details, illustrating our com.mitment to developing energy ethically and responsibly.  Thank you for your interest in Chevron. May 2017 chevron.com/cr Corporate responsibility highlight Downstream reﬁ nery Downstream major chemical manufacturing facility Upstream exploration area Upstream production Locations are approximate. transportation, power and trading to Downstream manufacturing and retail, each of our businesses works in concert across virtually every facet of the energy industry. Angola On the Cabinda coastline of Angola, we developed and applied a Land Manage.ment Plan prior to execution of our Malongo Dock Project to prevent any potential impact on the sea turtle nesting season, which includes three different species that nest along the Malongo beach. Learn more about Chevron in Angola at chevron.com/angola. chevron.com/cr Guided by The Chevron Way, we operate responsibly, execute with excellence and conduct our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, respecting the law and universal human rights to beneﬁt the communities where we work. Below are corporate responsibility examples from just a few of our locations around the world. Japan To support Chevron’s growing position, the company expanded its ﬂeet of technologically advanced lique.ﬁed natural gas carriers to safely and reliably deliver cargoes to customers in Japan and elsewhere. Learn more at chevron.com/shipping. chevron.com/cr Midcontinent drill site managers Thomas Wilder and Kristina Sanclemente oversee drilling operations in Midland, Texas. prioritizing issues for our reporting Our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on environ.mental, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter to our business and our stakeholders—investors, customers, host governments, local communities and employees. To select the content for our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights and the corporate responsibility section of chevron.com, we used an issue prioritization process that involved the following steps: Step 1: A team of employees from across functions and business segments identiﬁed and validated ESG topics that are salient to our stakeholders and our business, using the outcome from our 2015 issue prioritization process as a basis. The team considered internal and external sources, including international reporting guidelines and frameworks, ESG analytics, topics addressed in previous Corporate Responsibility Reports, feedback received on the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights, media analysis, industry peer reviews, and learnings from a range of internal and external stakeholder engagements. Step 2: The team conducted an initial prioritization of ESG issues based on relevance to our business. Step 3: The team sought feedback on the initial prioritiza.tion of issues through dialogues with internal subject matter experts and external stakeholders. Step 4: The team determined the issues that are of highest priority for our reporting. Step 5: Chevron’s Global Issues Committee, a subcommittee of Chevron’s Executive Committee, reviewed and validated the team’s assessment and prioritization. We discuss the issues of highest priority in this report or on our website. Our prioritized issues reﬂect topics covered in the 2015 edition of the IPIECA/API/IOGP* Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. For 2016, Chevron reported on all 34 indicators. An IPIECA/API/IOGP content index is available on Page 30 of this report and at chevron.com/IPIECA. **IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. chevron.com/cr integrity and trust delivering results the right way guided by the chevron way, our board is committed to strong governance and the highest standard of ethics learn morechevron.com/corporategovernance board of directors Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business and affairs. Among the many duties of the Board is oversight of Chevron’s risk management policies and practices to ensure that appropriate risk manage.ment systems are employed throughout the company. It regularly considers critical risk topics as part of its deliberative decision-making process, and annually, as part of Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process, it reviews ﬁnancial, operational, market, political and other risks inherent in our business. The Board has four standing committees, each composed solely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee fulﬁlls important responsibilities to help Chevron manage risks enterprisewide and compete more effectively to help build long-term stockholder value. The Public Policy Committee assists the Board in fulﬁlling its oversight of risks that may arise in connection with the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business. director nomination process An ethical, knowledgeable and diverse board is critical to Chevron’s success. In identifying Director nominees, the Board strives to maintain a balance of individuals with business acumen, broad experience and expertise at the policy-making level in various areas, including science, technology, engineering, research or academia, and environmental affairs; with extensive knowledge of gov ernmental, regulatory, legal or public policy issues; and with expertise in ﬁnance, global business or international affairs. The Board also seeks to achieve diversity of age, gender and ethnicity. governance For Chevron, good corporate governance means having structures and processes in place to ensure that decisions and actions are in the best interests of our stockholders. It also means being responsive to our stockholders. Through our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance depart.ments, we engage with many of our stockholders to discuss operational, ﬁnancial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy issues. Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder trust and goodwill is a core Chevron objective. business ethics Diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and trust, partnership, and protecting people and the environment are all core values of The Chevron Way that underpin our business conduct. We believe that when we apply our ethical principles to our business decisions, the company is posi.tioned for success. We expect our suppliers and contractors to conduct their business in a manner that protects people and the environment and that complies with all applicable Chevron policies and with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. For more, see our Business Conduct and Ethics Code and Business Conduct and Ethics Expectations for Suppliers and Contractors, both available on chevron.com. chevron.com/cr Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process pro.vides corporate oversight for identifying major risks to the company and ensuring that mitigation plans are in place. The ERM process includes an annual risk review with executive management and the Board of Directors that identiﬁes ﬁnancial, operational, market, political and other risks inher.ent in our business. Critical among these is operational risk. We believe that incidents are preventable, and we have policies, expectations, processes and tools in place to help achieve our goal of zero serious incidents. Our systems support a culture of safety, environmental stewardship and top performance in which risk management, assurance and learning are foundational. We call this Operational Excellence (OE), and it is fundamental to all of our operations. Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) provides a disciplined approach to systematically manage process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, reliability, and efficiency. Through rigorous application of the OEMS, we are able to identify and mitigate risks by integrating OE processes, standards, procedures and behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS is aligned with ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007.* Chevron also maps its process safety efforts to the Center for Chemical Process Safety’s Vision 20-20 guidelines. Management is accountable for running the OEMS to deliver results the right way, in accordance with our Chevron Way values. Leadership is the single most important factor for success in OE. Leaders at every level manage risk, drive execution, reinforce our OE culture and instill operational discipline to ensure that everyone in their organization complies with OE requirements. Underscoring our efforts to manage risk, we have an OE Assurance process that applies across all of our operations, including work conducted by contractors. This process serves a dual purpose: (1) it establishes systems to assure that the company maintains compliance with internal and external requirements; and (2) it establishes systems of veriﬁcations to demonstrate that safeguards are in place and functioning when they are most needed, thereby reducing the risk of incidents. These veriﬁcations may include a combination of audits, inspections and routine duties. We adopt and share best practices with our business and industry partners and continually take action to improve our practices and meet our commitments. In 2016, we contin.ued to emphasize our focus on serious incident and fatality prevention as our most important priority. *Attestation: In 2015, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. attested that our OEMS meets the requirements of the International Organization for Standardization’s environmental management system standard and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series’ management system specification and verified that the OEMS is implemented throughout the corporation. managing contractor health, environment and safety Contractors are a critical part of the Chevron work.force. On any given day, we may have more than 177,000 contractors on the job, complementing our employee base of approximately 52,000. Chevron’s Contractor Health, Environment and Safety Management (CHESM) process estab.lishes clear accountabilities and facilitates active engagement with contractors to help keep them, and our entire workforce, safe. The CHESM process helps us: • Select contractors that are qualiﬁed for speciﬁc work activities; • Share Chevron Health, Environment and Safety (HES) standards with contractors; • Communicate clear HES performance expecta.tions to contractors; and • Engage with our contractors as work progresses to conﬁrm our joint commitments to safe work standards and continuous improvement in HES performance. Opposite: Contractor surveyor Yerlan Kussainov determines the location for key infrastructure at the Future Growth Project– Wellhead Pressure Management Project in Kazakhstan. chevron.com/cr protect people and the environment preventing serious incidents and impacts everything we do begins with a commitment to safe and reliable operations learn morechevron.com/healthsafety stop-work authority Every person involved in our operations— employee, contractor and business partner alike— is empowered to stop work any time there is concern that work conditions are unsafe and any time an unsafe act has occurred or is about to occur. We call this Stop-Work Authority, and it is a responsibility that is exercised without repercussion. Above: At our Richmond Reﬁnery in California, process engineers Nicole Fannin and Thomas Lee review Chevron’s Preventing Serious Injuries and Fatalities Field Guide, a quick-reference handbook to help personnel involved in critical activities identify and control the potential hazards unique to each activity and job. chevron.com/cr personal safety In 2016, we set record lows in our Days Away From Work Rate (0.016) and Total Recordable Incident Rate (0.14). The largest-ever planned maintenance program at our Tengizchevroil joint venture was perhaps the greatest singular achievement in personal safety for the year, with zero Days Away From Work injuries among 8,800 workers over a 40-day period. Overshadowing our otherwise strong performance were 10 fatalities (nine contractors, one employee) that resulted from four incidents. One of the incidents—a helicopter crash off the coast of Angola—accounted for six of the lives lost. Any loss of life is unacceptable to us, and we are deter.mined to eliminate fatalities throughout our operations. process safety Chevron continues to improve performance in preventing incidents that result in a loss of primary containment, including petroleum spills and vapor releases. Programs like WellSafe in our Upstream business and Essential Checklists in our Downstream and Chemicals (DS&C) operations support our efforts to achieve zero signiﬁ cant incidents and fatalities. In DS&C, Essential Checklists pinpoint key tasks that must be completed the right way every time for potential high-consequence activities, such as vacuum truck operations and conﬁned-space entry. These key tasks are veriﬁed by a co-worker who conﬁrms in the ﬁeld that we have safeguards in place and functioning immediately before work begins. Our manufacturing facilities and some of our complex Upstream plants use this same method of safeguard veriﬁ cation. Across all of our operations, we seek to learn from past incidents and to improve our procedures, training, maintenance programs and designs. We share lessons learned throughout the company and with industry organizations, such as the American Petroleum Institute and the Center for Chemical Process Safety. Chevron has developed and implemented WellSafe, a program to assure well and reservoir ﬂuids are under control and not released, poten.tially impacting people and the environment. The program applies to all drilling operations and those completion and workover operations that are under the operational control of Chevron’s Drilling and Completions (D&C) organization. WellSafe requires four levels of certiﬁ cation. Each certiﬁcation has speciﬁc requirements, or safeguards, that must be met: • Business Unit Certiﬁ cation is focused on having technical standards in place. • Rig Certiﬁ cation requires that the proper equipment and procedures are utilized and that competent personnel are on the rig sites. • Well Design Certiﬁ cation is attained when the well plans have been veriﬁed to conform to the business unit’s technical standards. • Well Execution Certiﬁ cation occurs when the well operations are veriﬁed to have been performed in adherence with the certiﬁ ed well design. Chevron’s Upstream Capability D&C Assurance group is responsible for verifying that all business units achieve and maintain their certiﬁ cations. Please refer to Page 25 for an in-depth look at our health and safety performance data. chevron.com/cr protect people and the environment addressing climatechange risks we take prudent, practical and cost-eff ective actions to address climate change risks as part of our commitment to running our business the right way and to unlocking the potential for progress and prosperity everywhere we work learn more chevron.com/climatechange climate principles Our climate change policy principles guide us in evaluating approaches to addressing climate change. 1 Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is a global issue that requires global engagement and action. 2 Balanced and measured policies can ensure that long-term economic, environmental and energy security needs are met; costs are allocated equitably, gradually and predictably; and actions consider both GHG mitigation and climate change adaptation. 3 The costs, risks, trade-off s and uncertainties associated with GHG reduction and climate change adaptation efforts and policies must be transparent and openly communicated to global consumers. 4 Continued research, innovation and application of technology are essential to enable signiﬁ cant and cost-effective mitigations to climate change risks over the long term. chevron.com/cr climate risk management and disclosure Chevron believes that climate change is a global issue. We share the concerns of governments and the public about climate change risks and recognize that the use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs contributes to the rising concentration of greenhouse gases in Earth’s atmos.phere. GHGs contribute to increases in global temperatures. We take prudent, practical and cost-effective actions to address climate change risks as part of our commitment to running our business the right way. Reliable and affordable energy is necessary for improving standards of living, expanding the middle class and lifting people out of poverty. Oil and natural gas will continue to fulﬁll a signiﬁcant portion of global energy demand for decades to come—even in a carbon-constrained scenario. Even under an aggressive climate policy scenario such as the IEA’s 450 Scenario, oil and natural gas will meet 44 percentof global energydemand by 2040. 