empowering peoplewe put people at the center of everything we doA Chevron employee wearing personal protective equipment in the field in CaliforniaAbove: Portrait of one of our 42,628 employees in the field. In this section, learn about our approach to diversity and inclusion.socialdiversity and inclusionwe are building a strong, inclusive culture by encouraging diverse ideas and experiencesThroughout our history, Chevron has been a place where we celebrate ingenuity and potential. A culture that is built on a common purpose, teamwork, respect and feedback—and rooted in inclusion, trust and empowerment—is essential for everyone to be their  best in the workplace. And by fostering diversity and inclusion at all levels of our company, we rely on individuals with an array of talents, ideas and  experiences to drive our success.chevron.com/diversityandinclusionOur future success depends upon preparing our workforce for an ever-changing energy market. Chevron’s key Human Capital Management (HCM) goals involve investing in our people and culture to meet the world’s future energy challenges. Foundational to those goals is our cornerstone value of diversity and inclusion  as part of The Chevron Way. We focus on:•	People strategies that help us attract a new generation of problem-solvers, build the capabilities needed for the future,  and reinforce collaborative and team behaviors•	A compelling, consistent employee experience that aligns  the needs of our workforce with business objectives,  such as rewarding long-term performance, promoting a  continual learning culture, and encouraging informal  learning and personal growth•	Developing the leadership capability of our workforce and managing our succession plans •	Fostering a workplace culture that enables the entire work?- force to reach its full potentialChevron is continuing to advance a diverse and inclusive workforce  and work environment through intentional conversations about diversity  and inclusion. The following pillars drive intentional actions in support  of an inclusive culture.Aaccountabilityensures diversity and  inclusion are moving forwardroadmap iconCcommunicationsinspires and  informs workforceconversation iconTtrainingeducates on  inclusive behaviorsvideo conference iconSselectionsensures a robust  pipeline of diverse talentgroup of people iconWe have launched updated demographic dashboards to provide leaders with greater insights into workforce representation. Additionally, we ensure diverse selection teams and diverse  slates as part of our selection practices, and inclusion counselors  were embedded in job selection teams during the company’s  2020 reorganization to help minimize bias in the candidate selection process.recognizing our high-potential womenIn 2020, we launched the Global Women’s Leadership Develop-ment Program (GWLDP). The establishment of GWLDP is consistent with our recognition that we achieve the best business results when we draw upon and develop the diverse talents  of our workforce.With a goal of increasing the number of women at senior  levels, we set three broad objectives for the program:•	Provide strategic development planning for high-potential women earlier in their careers•	Offer access and visibility to influential senior leaders, job  owners and personnel development committees•	Establish resources to support development, including  coaching, mentoring and skills growth GWLDP kicked off with a two-phase pilot program involving women employees from eight countries, 12 reporting units and  12 functions. During an initial phase in February, the program explored self-awareness, a recognition of pitfalls that might impede success and the development of strategic approaches.  The participants were given training to pursue before resuming  the program for a second, two-week module online in July and September, which focused on senior management and stake?-holder engagement, how to gain greater visibility and pursue  one’s career goals, and how to benefit from external coaching.Program feedback was consistently positive. Participants cited learning activities that helped them focus on strengths and weaknesses, the opportunity to build relationships, and receiving coaching as the most valuable components. Employee photoLondon WorrellFinance Manager,  Crude Supply & Trading  North Americaemployee spotlightWhile at Chevron, I’ve been fortunate to have several opportunities to help drive cultural change. In 2019, after  our CFO Pierre Breber and the Finance Leadership Team chose me as the Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Advisor for Global Finance, I helped to set up Finance’s D&I structure, goals, strategies and action plan. In 2020, Finance won Diversity, Inclusion and Ombuds’ “D&I Function of the  Year” award and I was recognized for my involvement in supporting the function’s D&I growth.Another example of how our culture is evolving is the three-day Women of Color workshop for multicultural women  that Chevron’s Diversity, Inclusion and Ombuds (DIO) organized in 2019. I was one of 24 women across Chevron invited to attend, and the experience really inspired  me. The workshop resulted in recommendations from  the participants that led to several impactful actions  that DIO implemented. Since then, we’ve organized an internal social media page, “Empowering Women of Color at Chevron,” for women  of color and advocates to support the goals and aspirations of greater diversity and inclusion. With support from the Women’s Employee Network, we’re creating podcasts  to bring awareness and building other forms of recognition  for Women of Color at Chevron. I’ve also been on Finance’s team to create Chevron’s first formalized sponsorship program, through which we identify individuals who are talented but who may be experiencing headwinds in their careers. The 21 sponsored individuals  will spend a year developing relationships with senior members  of Finance, who will act as their sponsors. We hope that over time, they’ll become individuals who have tailwinds behind them in their careers. Perhaps my proudest moment came when the Black Employee  Network named me their 2020 Diversity Ambassador.  Being Diversity Ambassador means a lot to me. I can help impact people’s lives at Chevron in a positive way.investing in racial equity In 2020, Chevron evolved our long-term approach to improve  racial equity by increasing our support and investment in  the external education and internal development of Black talent and leadership. This approach is in response to a convergence  of events that include the spread of COVID-19, an economic  down??turn that led to massive unemployment, and social unrest  growing out of the death of George Floyd and other Black citizens in the United States. These events sparked a movement to eliminate systemic racism, racial inequality and economic inequality that have disproportionately affected Black Americans and other people of color. Our racial equity approach includes a $15 million commitment  that has four pillars: education, job creation, talent and  leader  ship development, and community and small business partnerships. We are also working to expand our existing  relationships with community, business and educational partners such as K–12 science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) organizations and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs).Advancing Black talent and leader development is critical to enhancing racial equity within our company. We increased leadership development training through our partnership with the Executive Leadership Council (ELC) to strengthen the Black leadership pipeline. In the second half of 2020, 37 Chevron employees participated in ELC leadership development programs. And several Black employees who have participated in ELC talent development programs have moved into senior positions. In 2020, we launched our first formal sponsorship program for employees in the Finance function, and we plan to expand similar programs across the enterprise. We recognized that informal sponsorship does not always include underrepresented talent. By creating a formal sponsorship program, we are better able to ensure that all employees benefit.We not only seek to achieve better representation and retention of Black employees, but also to increase our workforce’s understanding of Black experiences and adopt or revise prac- tices, policies and programs to create greater racial equity.  For example, the leadership team of Chevron’s Black Employee Network sponsored a reverse-mentoring program with our Chairman and CEO and some members of his executive leader-ship team to provide a greater understanding of how racial injustice perpetuates inequalities for Blacks. These dialogues provided senior leaders the opportunity to explore ways to better support Black Americans in our workforce and the community. Our executive leadership team continues to engage in meetings with leaders from our Black Employee Network, HBCUs, and other business and professional organizations to gain a greater understanding of the experiences of Black people in the workplace and in our communities.Recognizing that data play an important role in understanding  the recruitment, retention and promotion of our talent, we  have enhanced our tools and practices to track and report on diversity metrics.employee networks—strengthening our  culture of inclusionAt a 20th-anniversary celebration of Chevron’s employee  networks, held in 2020, Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth said,  “Our 12 employee networks, nearly 20,000-strong and  40 percent of our workforce, are the lifeblood and driving force  in strengthening our culture of inclusion.” Our employee networks aim to reinforce and strengthen  Chevron’s commitment to build on our diverse and inclusive  culture where everyone feels included, valued and purposeful.  And, in helping everyone reach their full potential, they drive business success. The networks contribute to Chevron’s culture in three ways:•	By encouraging more meaningful employee engagement, which enables individual development and allows the emergence of future leaders•	By acting as a resource for attracting and retaining new talent and providing formal and informal mentoring and coaching to facilitate the transfer of knowledge, skills and experiences throughout the company•	By being the crucible of new ideas as technology and a changing workforce require new insights and new perspectivesa screenshot of graphic with grid of twelve rectanglesAbove: Landing page of Chevron’s employee networks on our employee intranet.12 networks20 years40% of our workforce ~20,000 employeesSome 2020 initiatives demonstrate the networks’ contributions  to Chevron’s culture and success:•	A new program, called Elevate, is patterned after the structure  of the Women’s Employee Network’s Men Advocating Real Change (MARC) program, which created a framework for men and women to exchange frank, open dialogue about gender equity and headwinds that women face in the workplace.  Elevate expands that framework beyond gender to include  many other dimensions of diversity, such as age, ethnicity, military veterans and disabilities •	ENABLED has partnered with our Talent Acquisition and IT departments, to establish a neurodiversity program to attract talented individuals from the autism community in areas  such as infrastructure, cybersecurity and data science •	The XYZ Network launched Extend@Chevron, a pilot pro-gram designed to create solutions for business leaders and  opportunities for employees by connecting Chevron workers  to short-term projects aligned with their career goalsThese initiatives, among others, demonstrate the employee networks’ role in supporting Chevron’s culture of innovation, encouragement of new ideas, and a recognition that we believe diversity and inclusion are vital to the company’s future.APIChevron and our colleagues in the American Petroleum Institute’s (API’s) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) Member Working Group are focused on efforts to further workforce  and supplier diversity. The group’s DE&I initiatives are designed to increase awareness of these issues among API members and share best practices. Ultimately, API aims to help increase opportunities for diverse suppliers across the industry and better recruit and serve minority-skills servers in the oil and natural gas industry. API established its DE&I Working Group in 2020 to foster increased conversations and accelerate its progress to continue driving meaningful change.human rightsrespect for human rights  is rooted in our values  and applies wherever  we do businessOur Human Rights Policy reflects our commitment  to getting results the right way. We updated our  policy in 2019 to more clearly articulate the company’s respect for human rights. As described below, we  have been implementing actions to further incorporate that respect into our practices.chevron.com/humanrightsimplementation in action2018Added requirement for  appropriate operations  to utilize a Grievance  Mechanism2019Human Rights Policy  updated2020More than 10 business  units update risk profiles;  8 Grievance-Mechanism  reviews conductedIn our 2018 report, we shared details about the revised approach to Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management (SEIM), highlighting changes that deepened the integration of social  risks into business units’ risk management process. As part of that process, business units are required to regularly update their  risk profiles. In 2020, more than 10 business units updated their risk profiles. The types of risks captured through this process vary considerably and can include social and human rights impacts. Once a Chevron business unit identifies a risk, it establishes management plans to address the risk and prevent or mitigate potential impacts. Beginning in 2021, Chevron will assess certain of our nonoperated joint-venture partners’ processes to manage social impacts  and stakeholder engagement, including the availability of Grievance Mechanisms.operational-level grievancesIn addition to maintaining and updating risk profiles, the SEIM process requires business units to design and maintain a Grievance Mechanism at the appropriate operational level. In 2020, eight business units and other facilities underwent reviews of their Grievance Mechanisms to assess the efficacy of the systems and identify opportunities for improvement. Our processes aim to accord with globally recognized human  rights standards, such as the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.a digital solutionWe recently updated our Stakeholder Management System  (SMS), Chevron’s digital tool to manage stakeholder engagements and issues. SMS enables our business units to track stakeholder engagements, consistently collect and track grievances, and enhance cross-functional collaboration on issue management, including human rights. The use of SMS and the SEIM process supports internal alignment on key issues and improves communi-cation with leadership about high-priority issues.chevron human rights policyemployees iconemployeesWe treat all employees with respect and dignity, and promote diversity in the workplace.focus areasOur company policies and procedures adhere to all applicable domestic  laws, and we commit to core international labor principles, including:•Freedom of  associa?tion and collective bargaining•Elimination of forced or compulsory labor•Nondiscrimination in the workplacesecurity iconsecurityWe protect  personnel and assets and provide a secure environment for business operations.focus areas We conduct our operations and  execute projects in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, which guide engagement with security providers to ensure human rights are respected in the protection of company facilities and premises.communities iconcommunitiesWe commit to regularly engage communities near our operational and project areas in meaningful conversations.focus areas We engage stakeholders on key human rights issues in our operating areas, including:•	?Indigenous peoples •Resettlement•Grievances •Livelihoods •Environmental matters•Human rights defenderssuppliers iconsuppliersWe expect our suppliers and contractors to respect human rights and adhere to applicable international principles.focus areas We engage with key suppliers to reinforce awareness of our policies and potential human rights issues such as:•Working and living conditions•Forced labor •Child labor •Human trafficking•	?Conflict minerals sourcing•Protecting human rights defenderspartnership iconother  business partnersWe encourage  our customers and business partners  to respect human  rights and adhere to  applicable international principles.focus areas We encourage all  business partners to respect the spirit and intent of the following Chevron policies and statements:•Human Rights Policy•Indigenous Peoples Guidance•Statement on Human Rights Defenders•Guidance related  to land tenure and water rightsdoing business in conflict-affected areasWe understand the complexity of working in sensitive operating areas. We also understand that we can have a positive role in  the communities where we operate by promoting energy security and economic opportunities. The implementation of our Human Rights Policy through our core processes and operational activities is an important component of our ability to invest and operate responsibly in sensitive environments.Chevron regularly engages with key stakeholders to pro-mote responsible investment and respect for human rights.  In 2020, we helped convene a multi-stakeholder event  on best practices for companies operating in areas affected  by conflict. The event brought together cross-sectoral  expertise for a robust discussion on the role of business in  areas impacted by conflict. We continue to engage externally on the topic through participation in groups such as the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights; see next page. With the acquisition of Noble Energy in 2020, our portfolio  has expanded to new geographies. As part of the integration process, we continue to adhere to our Human Rights Policy and intend to deploy and implement our established policies, procedures and systems on human rights, such as security processes aligned with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.protecting human rights during COVID-19Chevron’s respect for human rights does not waver in times  of economic downturns, emergencies or crises such as  COVID-19. Throughout our response to COVID-19, we have identified, addressed and mitigated potential and actual  impacts of COVID-19, primarily by taking swift action to pro?- tect the health and safety of our employees and contractors around the world, and by supporting some of the communities  in which we operate.The spread of COVID-19 has placed a spotlight on the  different levels of vulnerability among various racial, ethnic  and socioeconomic groups. And by being mindful that  our purpose is to help improve lives, our business units have  been able to identify vulnerable communities surrounding  our operations and prioritize them for support. For example, Chevron initiated the People-to-People Emergency Assistance Project in Kazakhstan to help lessen the impact  of the pandemic. The project aided medical workers, vulnerable groups and migrants and provided job-creation initiatives and advisory support to micro- and nano-businesses.GBI The Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI) enables representatives of business, including Chevron, to discuss relevant human rights concerns with experts in the field, such  as the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights. External engagement with human rights experts, likewise with civil society, governments and industry groups, contributes to our ability to identify and manage potential impacts in adherence to our Human Rights Policy.Employee photoMary FeildLocal Content Lead, Operations,  Australasia Business Unitemployee spotlightI’ve been with Chevron for more than a decade. The past two years have presented a new kind of challenge. After the passage of the Australian Modern Slavery Law in 2018, I became involved in Chevron Australia’s development of a methodology to manage the risk of modern slavery  in relation to our operations and supply chain. At a personal level, coming to terms with the gravity of modern slavery  as a global issue was very unsettling, especially as it raised  my awareness of the high representation of women and children considered at risk around the world. We developed a strong cross-functional team to navigate the process. We then reviewed publicly available material concerning modern slavery risk in the oil and gas sector,  which helped us identify classes of suppliers who were high-risk. Mapping this against our supply chain, we identified first-tier suppliers and subcontractors from each category, and subsequently issued questionnaires to these suppliers to understand their risks more closely. In February 2021, we completed Chevron Australia’s Modern Slavery Statement, which identifies our actions to assess  and address the risks, guided by Chevron’s principles and policies. The statement indicates our plan to conduct periodic audits based on a risk-ranking, determined by the nature of the work to be performed, and by the responses to our questionnaire on supplier policies, processes and performance. The statement also stresses the need for us  to provide training to reinforce respect for human rights among our suppliers and employees. We recognize the process of protecting against human slavery will involve a rigorous journey, but I’m proud  of Chevron’s culture in enabling us to reach this point in our first year of reporting.creating prosperitywe strive to empower  people around the world  to improve their livesWherever we work, we strive to build lasting  partner?ships to create prosperity now and into the  future. By listening to our partners and engaging  with stake?holders, we localize our programs to help  meet the needs of each community.chevron.com/sustainability/social#creatingprosperityU.S. chevron humankind 2020.$36M+contributed to U.S. nonprofits through a combination of employee and retiree giving and company matching funds67,992 volunteer hours were logged in the United States1,244 charitable organizations in the United States benefited from volunteer timeU.S. noble energy employee match program$350,000+contributed to U.S. nonprofits through a combination of Noble Energy matching funds 292 volunteer hours were logged in the United States during Noble Energy program1	?	?Noble Energy’s report ran from January 2020 to May 2020 prior to the hold that was placed on the program in advance of the acquisition. Chevron numbers are representative of all 2020 volunteer hours and giving related to our 2020 program, which ran from January 1, 2020, to January 31, 2021.2	?	?2020 Colorado activities include 2020 activities of Noble Energy, Inc. prior to acquisition.donorschooseChevron’s support for social investment is rooted in our Chevron Way value of partnership, which dictates that we build trusting, mutually beneficial relationships to achieve solutions and breakthroughs that benefit our stockholders and society. Through our decade-long relationship with DonorsChoose, Chevron has channeled more than $50 million to community schools to increase educational access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) opportunities, espe-cially for Black, Hispanic/Latinx and Indigenous Americans.DonorsChoose is a nonprofit that hosts a website that enables teachers at U.S. public schools to request books, art supplies, technology and other resources they need for the classroom.investing in educationEquity-forward collaborationsIn 2020, Chevron collaborated with DonorsChoose to provide teachers and students with resources that promote racial equity and increase access to STEM opportunities for Black, Hispanic/Latinx and Native Americans/Indigenous Peoples. The program grows out of our recognition that education will play a critical  role in combating racial inequity and injustice. Building on our existing educational relationship with DonorsChoose, Chevron supported teachers and students by doubling donations on projects promoting equity, inclusion and anti-racism in select locations. The company also tripled donations on STEM projects from Black, Hispanic/Latinx and Native American/Indigenous Peoples teachers, or projects serving schools with majority Black,  Hispanic/Latinx and Native American/Indigenous Peoples students in select locations. generating opportunity Collaborating in ColoradoThrough collaboration with key stakeholders in our communities, Chevron2 aims to help improve the lives of people around the world. We rely on building effective relationships to benefit the communities in operating areas such as Northern Colorado.  The company’s support for the Women’s Foundation of Colorado (WFCO) enables Chevron to help meet the needs of women and families today and propel them toward a more stable future. Chevron’s contribution to WFCO’s research, grantmaking, public policy, statewide engagement and support for such programs  as Women Achieving Greater Economic Security, the Women and Families of Colorado Relief Fund, and Women & Girls of Color  Fund has been driven by greater need during the 2020 pandemic. Empowering Latina womenSince 2014, the Richmond, California, refinery has been supporting the Incubator Project of the Richmond-based Latina Center,  which is improving economic self-sufficiency for Latinx women  and their families. Each year, the project nurtures microenterprises for up to 50 Latinx immigrant women to promote empowerment and create and sustain jobs in Richmond. Latinx are the fastest-growing population in the city of Richmond  and among the hardest-hit by COVID-19. Latinx are overrepre-sented in high-risk and low-paying jobs and likely face greater risk of exposure to the coronavirus in the workplace than other groups. The independence that comes with financial self-sufficiency is even more critical for the communities that the Latina Center supports due to the pandemic. Chevron’s aid to the center helps deliver transformative leadership and culturally relevant services that strengthen vulnerable social support networks, improve individual and family health outcomes, and promote economic self-sufficiency.delivering community healthMeeting health needsConsistent with our support for the health of communities where we operate, in 2020 Chevron contributed to several local initiatives in Brazil. These initiatives included support for construction of a 200-bed field hospital in the Gávea area that served COVID-19  patients from neighboring communities. The company also donated  5,000 disposable medical aprons to meet the high demand at the Martagão Gesteira Childcare and Pediatric Institute of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. In addition, Chevron volunteers raised funds to provide the hospital with 1,800 personal hygiene kits to distribute to parents accompanying hospitalized children.Employee photoKaren RawlsSenior Social Investment Advisor, Corporate Affairsemployee spotlightI have the best job in the world. Managing U.S. corporate educational social investment programs gives me the  chance to work on projects that make a long-term impact on so many communities. Internally, I advise our U.S. business units, work with the Office of Global Diversity and communicate our social investment strategy to the presidents of Chevron’s employee networks. Externally, I work with our community partners, organizations like DonorsChoose,  the Fab Foundation and Techbridge Girls, all of which are natural fits because they share our values. We have opportunities to make a positive impact on the communities, especially at a time of crisis such as we’ve been having with the pandemic. Some other companies have drawn back, but we’ve been consistently in line with our values in maintaining our goals. Last summer, there were a lot of uncomfortable conversations about racial inequities in the United States. We were receiving social media posts asking how we were going to make an impact. And our leadership was unwavering. Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth insisted that education was the natural pathway to making a long-term social impact, and he has a “reverse mentor” from our Black Employee Network. We already had a strong involvement through our support  for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and our  K–12 STEM programs. And we stuck to our strategy and our core values in introducing a new approach to achieve  social equity through educational support.This adherence to our values is a big part of why I’m proud  to work for Chevron.tengizchevroil and european bank for reconstruction and development supplier development projectTo support the development of Kazakhstani suppliers, our Tengizchevroil joint-venture partners work with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to implement  a joint supplier development program. The program enables potential suppliers to access a diverse range of consulting services to build their capacity in quality management  systems, quality certifications, finances and management information systems. The program has resulted in:•	Sales increasing by 66 percent in 73 percent of the  assisted companies•	Employees increasing by 32 percent•	New jobs increasing by 20 percent •	Productivity per employee increasing by 13 percent •	Exports reported increasing by two of the 15 companiesThe program has demonstrated that through direct capacity development and training, local enterprises can show significant growth and contribute to our shared prosperity in Kazakhstan.sustainable development goalsIn our effort to help create prosperity wherever we operate, we  are inspired by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),  which seek to achieve a more sustainable future and make  progress toward a global 2030 agenda. Chevron touches all  17 SDGs through our business operations, partnership initiatives and social investment opportunities. In focusing on the four  goals discussed below, we stress our recognition of the critical need to work with key partners, communities and industry  groups to make positive contributions to society.To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/social#contributingtothesdgs.SDG 3: good health  and well-beingensure healthy  lives and promote  well-being for all  at all agesThe health of any business depends on the well-being of its community. For 35 years, Chevron has supported HIV/AIDS partners and programs to empower individuals and communities to prevent disease, support health system strength, improve health equity and security, and build prosperous communities. One example is our long-standing support of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and its work in Africa and the Pacific Rim. Since 2008, we have contributed over $60 million to help the organization’s success in preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV, reducing new HIV infections and improving the quality of life for the infected and those affected by the disease.Similarly, we have been involved with the International AIDS Conference since 2006 and have been a sponsor since 2012. Again in 2020, we sponsored the conference, which was held virtually. Its theme of resilience resounded for us as we maintain our global effort to help educate communities, prevent new infections, and improve access to care and support.SDG 4:quality  educationensure inclusive  and equitable quality  education and promote  lifelong learning  opportunities for allOur Richmond, California,  refinery supports the Hidden Genius Project in Richmond,  which trains and mentors Black male youth in technology creation, STEM-related entrepreneurship and leadership skills to transform their lives and communities.  The program is designed to address the dramatic contrast between the high unemployment of Black male youth and the widespread career opportunities within the local technology sector.In 2020, the Chevron-supported program was implemented in collaboration with the Richmond Fab Lab at Kennedy High School and the Autodesk Black Network. Engineers from Autodesk  trained the youths in AutoCAD, a critical technology linked to Chevron’s industry and to wider software applications across multiple industries.SDG 7:affordable and clean energyensure access to  affordable, reliable,  sustain?able and  modern energy for allIn operations around the world, we seek innovative ways to increase energy efficiency while reducing our carbon footprint. In Western Australia, Chevron’s major liquefied natural gas (LNG) Wheatstone Project is helping provide residents of the Onslow community with affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy through a solar and natural gas–powered microgrid. Together with the Western Australia state government, Chevron and its  joint-venture participants have invested in a pilot project that  will help make Onslow home  to Australia’s largest distributed energy resource microgrid.  An advanced metering system  will play an important role in making the solar and battery components of power genera?- tion an affordable option for  the community.SDG 8: decent work and economic growthpromote sustained,  inclusive and sustain- able economic growth,  full and productive  employment and  decent work for allDuring the early phase of the pandemic, many U.S. communities in which we operate were especially hard-hit by the virus and were short on critical supplies. In collaboration with the Fab Foundation, we funded skilled sewers and other community members with the goal to manufacture more than 20,000 masks to help protect local citizens. In Houston, we also supported the Fab Foundation  and Connect Community to  train community members to become skilled sewers, enabling them not only to produce the safety masks but to continue receiving a livable wage for  their professional services.  This initiative was an extension of our collaboration with the foundation, which began in 2014 when we made a $20 million commitment to increase STEM knowledge and opportunities through digital fabrication by investing in Fab Labs across the United States.