2017 corporate responsibility report highlights for complete reporting, visit chevron.com/reporting we are in the business of progress At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. We enable human progress by developing the energy that improves lives and powers the world forward. read more chevron.com/chevronway Our business success is tied to the progress and prosperity ects like Agbami. This year marks a decade of production of the communities where we work. Through our operations, from our Agbami Field, where we operate one of the world’s we have created local jobs and developed local workforces. largest floating production, storage and offloading vessels. We also partner with more than 26,000 suppliers across On the cover: Offshore Subsea Engineer Emeka Njokanma and Marine the globe, such as Marine Platforms in Nigeria. There, we Platforms’ Remotely Operated Vehicle Supervisor Olawale Okuntola operate under a joint-venture arrangement with the Nigerian work together on projects for Agbami. To learn more about our National Petroleum Corporation and other parties on proj-suppliers worldwide, see chevron.com/supplychain. prioritizing issues for our reporting Our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on environ.mental, social and governance issues that matter to our business and our stakeholders—investors, customers, host governments, local communities and employees. We use a formal issue prioritization process to select the content for this report and the corporate responsibility section of chevron.com. A description of this process is available online at chevron.com/reporting. a message from our chairman and chief executive officer For nearly 140 years, Chevron has been in the business of progress—providing the reliable, affordable and ever-cleaner energy necessary to raise living standards for billions of people around the world. Chevron takes great pride in our role in an industry responsible for the greatest advancements in economic development and human progress in recorded history. And we take seriously our responsibility to help meet the needs of people who aspire to a better quality of life. To fulfill this responsibility, we are guided by The Chevron Way. Its vision, values and strategies guide us as we fulfill our purpose: enabling human progress by develop.ing the energy that improves lives and powers the world forward. Energy is one of the world’s most complex industries. Delivering the energy of today in a socially and environ.mentally responsible way while innovating the energy solutions of tomorrow requires a network of partners and relationships built on trust and integrity. As described by the United Nations Sustainable Develop.ment Goals, the world continues to strive for progress to benefit global societies. Chevron is contributing to this progress, working with business, government and nonprofit partners to help address stakeholder needs while creating value for our stockholders. Over the past five years, we’ve invested $167 billion in goods and services around the world, which has created jobs, built businesses and strengthened local economies. In that same period, we’ve invested more than $1.1 billion globally in social investment partnerships and programs with a significant focus on health, education and economic development. Across our operations, we support our workforce, our stakeholders, the communities where we operate and the environment by doing business the right and responsible way. We engage openly and often with stakeholders and stockholders to understand their perspectives on important environmental, social and governance issues, some of which we address in our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights. This includes the work we’re doing to manage risk; operate safely and reliably; address climate change; protect the environment; respect human rights; and promote diversity and inclusion in our workforce. Chevron appreciates that climate change is a concern to our stakeholders, as it is to people who invest in our company. We’ve published our second report detailing the framework we use to think about climate change issues. I invite you to read this year’s report—Climate Change Resilience: A Frame.work for Decision Making at chevron.com/climatechange. I believe that businesses can both contribute to society and be profitable, by delivering results that matter to stakeholders as well as stockholders. Throughout our long, distinguished history, we’ve always strived to enable progress and prosperity for people everywhere—and we always will. Enabling human progress is why we work. Thank you for your interest in our company. Michael K. Wirth Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer May 2018 chevron.com/cr Example location of Chevron’s contribution to the SDGs Upstream exploration area Upstream production Downstream manufacturing facilities (refineries, chemicals) Locations are approximate Working with partners, we support initiatives that build local capacity and deliver lasting gains in the fight against devastating diseases. For example, we partner with Baylor College of Medicine International Pediatric AIDS Initiative at Texas Children’s Hospital to provide training and health care to medically underserved populations in Africa and Latin America. chevron.com/health If people and communities are to thrive, education and job training are of critical impor.tance. We partner around the globe to develop and support innovative programs—such as Emprered, in Venezuela—that invest in tomorrow’s workforce. Globally, Chevron has invested more than $400 million in education since 2013. chevron.com/education Our operations promote the efficient use of water in water-constrained areas through conservation, reuse and recycling. In the Permian Basin, more than 95 percent of the water used in our well completions is from brackish water sources. chevron.com/water Chevron is a leader in supply.ing liquefied natural gas (LNG), a relatively lower-carbon.intensity fuel. Combined, our Gorgon and Wheatstone assets are expected to produce more than 24 million metric tons of LNG per year—enough to supply 16 percent of Japan’s electricity and reduce GHG emissions from power genera.tion by around 11 percent if used in lieu of coal. chevron.com/australia chevron.com/cr Among Chevron’s most power.ful tools for creating prosperity are our supply chain and workforce investments. Much of Chevron’s spending is on goods and services provided by locally owned companies. For example, in 2017, the Chevron-led Tengizchevroil joint venture spent more than $2.5 billion on Kazakhstani goods and services. chevron.com/ creatingprosperity Chevron is a founding partner of The Environmental Partnership, a voluntary industry initiative led by the American Petroleum Institute with the goal of accelerating improvements to reduce methane and volatile organic compound emissions. For information on other actions we are taking, see our report Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making. chevron.com/climatechange We’ve been producing energy on Barrow Island for more than 50 years, and it remains one of Australia’s finest Class A Nature Reserves. We also promote and protect biodiversity through our global social investments, such as our Maratua Ecotourism for Sustainable Small Island program in East Kalimantan, Indonesia. chevron.com/biodiversity Our partnership initiatives around the world strengthen local economies through programs that provide microloan services, support enterprise and workforce development, and improve education. Among these are the Niger Delta, Appalachia, Bangladesh and Thailand partnership initiatives. chevron.com/ creatingprosperity chevron.com/cr integrity and trust getting resultsthe right way chevron is committed to strong governance and the highest standards of ethics learn more chevron.com/corporategovernance board diversity board of directors different perspectives make Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s our Board’s decision making and business and affairs. Among the many duties of the Board is oversight of Chevron’s policies and practices to ensure oversight more effective that appropriate risk management systems are employed throughout the company. It regularly considers critical risk topics as part of its deliberative decision-making process, and annually, as part of Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process, it reviews financial, operational, market, political and other risks inherent in our business. The Board has four standing committees, each composed solely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee fulfills important responsibilities to help Chevron manage risks enterprisewide and compete more effectively to help build long-term stockholder value. For example, the Public Policy Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight of risks that may arise in connec.tion with the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business, including climate change. The Executive Committee is a committee of corporate officers chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in managing the company’s business. To assist in discharging its duties, the Executive Committee has established five At May 30, 2018 chevron.com/cr subcommittees that specialize in various matters important to the company. One such committee, the Global Issues Committee, oversees strategic corporate responsibility policy issues. Director nomination process An experienced, talented and diverse board is critical to Chevron’s success. In identifying Director nominees, the Board Nominating and Governance Committee utilizes a skills and qualifications matrix to maintain a balance of knowledge and experience across key dimensions. The committee particularly considers leadership experience; expertise in science, technology, engineering, research or academia; extensive knowledge of governmental, regula.tory, legal or public policy issues; expertise in finance, financial disclosure or financial accounting; experience in global business or international affairs; and environmental experience. The committee considers other factors as appropriate to meet the current needs of the Board and the company. The Board seeks to achieve diversity of age, gender and ethnicity and recognizes the importance of Board refreshment, as demonstrated by our current average Board tenure of 4.3 years. director skills and expertise number of directors with relevant skills CEO/senior exec./leader of significant business operations: 8 Science/technology/engineering/research/academia: 8 Government/regulatory/legal/public policy: 8 Finance/financial disclosure/financial accounting: 10 Global business/international affairs: 9 Environmental: 7 At May 30, 2018 Governance For Chevron, good corporate governance means having structures and processes in place to ensure that decisions and actions are in the best interests of our stockholders. It also means being responsive to our stockholders. Through our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance depart.ments, we engage with many of our stockholders to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy issues. Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder trust and goodwill is a core Chevron objective. business ethics Strong financial results and a solid safety record were hallmarks of our company performance in 2017. These suc.cesses were achieved through the demonstration of The Chevron Way behavior and a commitment to The Chevron Way values—diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and trust, partnership, and protecting people and the environment. It is on these values that the foundation of our company is built. Below are two examples of how we apply our core values to business decisions and position ourselves for success. For more, visit chevron.com/BCEC. Antibribery Bribery of any government official in any country is strictly against Chevron policy. Chevron requires that internal controls be in place and functioning and that accurate and complete transaction records be kept within the company. Supplier expectations Suppliers and contractors play vital roles in our success, and we rely heavily on them to help us deliver leading business results. We expect our suppliers and contractors to conduct their business in a manner that protects people and the environment and that complies with Chevron policies as well as all applicable laws and regulations. We expect our suppliers to treat their employees and to interact with communities in ways that respect human rights. Our standard language for procurement contracts includes a requirement for our suppliers and contractors to comply with applicable laws and keep accurate books and records. Where appropriate, our procurement contracts contain specific antibribery commitments. Through our Contractor Health, Environment and Safety Management process, we work with suppliers to increase accountability and improve performance. chevron.com/cr diversity and inclusion valuing diversityand inclusion we value the uniqueness and diversity of individual talents, experiences and ideas learn more chevron.com/diversity Above: Mike Wirth celebrates and promotes diversity with PJ Vaughn, Nicole Colley and Adelesan Olanrewaju at a black history awareness event in San Ramon, California. chevron.com/cr diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are cornerstones of The Chevron Way values. We believe that a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture strengthen business performance, drive innovation, increase employee engagement and lead us to greater long-term success. Reinforcing the inherent importance of diversity and inclusion to business performance, The Chevron Way advances diversity at all levels of the company. Many of our employees, including the CEO, have diversity action plans as part of their annual performance evaluations. men advocating real change (MARC) MARC is a Catalyst initiative created for and led by men and women in partnership to achieve gender equality through workplace inclusion. In 2017, the Chevron Women’s Network and now-CEO Mike Wirth brought MARC programming to Chevron, beginning with a pilot in Houston. Chevron’s MARC programming now includes more than 750 employees in seven Chevron locations globally, with additional growth planned. developing a diverse talent pipeline We focus on hiring the best and the brightest, both recent college graduates and candidates with experience. Through our University Partnerships Program, Chevron works with colleges and universities to help attract and develop the talented students and teachers needed for a technically proficient workforce. Chevron partners with more than 30 diversity-focused professional associations, provides scholarships to 120 or more diverse students every year, and has supported historically black colleges and universities for more than 40 years. texas A&M–chevron engineering academies Recognizing that many talented, diverse engineers get their start in community colleges, Chevron partners with Texas A&M to connect students from five community colleges to Texas A&M’s College of Engineering. Students accepted into the Texas A&M–Chevron Engineering Academies attend community college for two years, where core engineering courses are taught by A&M faculty, before transferring to Texas A&M College of Engineering for their final two years. Launched in 2015, the first class of Texas A&M–Chevron Engineering Academies is 45 percent female, 26 percent Hispanic and 19 percent black/African American. We are collaborating with other university partners to implement similar innovative programs in other parts of the country. 100% In 2017, we achieved a score of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the 13th consecutive year. employee networks and diversity councils In 2017, more than 19,000 employees—nearly 40 percent of our regular workforce—participated in Chevron’s employee networks that celebrate and promote diversity. These networks act as a resource for attracting and retaining talent and enhance Chevron’s reputation through com.munity activities and outreach. They also provide formal mentoring programs and offer opportunities for skill build.ing and career development. In addition, Chevron hosts more than 15 diversity councils across its business units and corporate functions that actively support Chevron’s strategic approach to diversity. inclusion To support business value, Chevron strives to provide an inclusive work environment, one in which each employee is valued and respected and all employees feel welcome to bring their full and authentic selves to work every day. Our strong corporate culture is reflected in the results of our most recent employee survey, which found a total employee engagement score of 90 percent—among the best in the oil and gas industry. In addition, 94 percent of employees surveyed reported that they “believe strongly in the goals and objectives of Chevron” and 93 percent reported being “proud to be a part of Chevron.” 