creating prosperity through decades of experience, we have learned that our business success is deeply linked to society’s progress and prosperity learn more chevron.com/creatingprosperity $54B in total goods and  services globally in 2015 In the United States, we spent nearly $800 million with woman- and minority-owned businesses and more than $2 billion on goods and services from small businesses. See page 25 for an in-depth look at our goods and services spend. Above: Contract workers at Nigerdock Fabrication Yard, an  indigenous subcontractor to Hyundai Heavy Industries, hired by Chevron Nigeria Limited to fabricate more than 7,000 tons  of steel for the Meren gas gathering compression platform and Sonam Field Development Project. chevron.com/cr We invest significantly in major projects and local goods and  services, create jobs, and generate revenues for local communities. Beyond our direct business investments and taxes, we make  strategic social investments in three core areas: health, education  and economic development. building local capacity Chevron has an unwavering commitment to being a good partner, which extends to our supply chain. We are focused on building productive and lasting relationships with local suppliers that provide goods and services for our major capital projects and ongoing operations. We use custom.ized approaches to develop national and local content through collaborative partnerships with national and local governments, national oil companies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and development agencies. Together, we identify high-impact, sustainable supplier and workforce development opportunities within our own and also our contractors’ supply chains. Once local companies are identified, we design and imple.ment programs to help them meet industry standards and provide goods and services to Chevron and other oil and gas producers. Metrics are agreed upon with our partners and suppliers to make sure that quality, timeliness and cost objectives are achieved. partnership in Kazakhstan In Kazakhstan, where Chevron has a 50 percent interest in the Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture, the country’s  largest private oil producer, we work with local  companies to improve their ability to qualify as a TCO  supplier. For example, TCO has worked extensively  with MontazhSpetsStroy JSC (MSS), a 100 percent  Kazakhstani-owned and -operated engineering,  procurement and construction company, to upgrade the firm’s health, environment and safety practices to  meet TCO’s standards. As a result of that effort, MSS  recently won a second contract with TCO and is on track to further build its safety capabilities and skills. In 2015,  TCO spent $2.4 billion on goods and services that qualify  as local content, which represents 51 percent of  TCO’s total goods and services spend in Kazakhstan. local economic impact Chevron partners with independent research and analysis firms to quantify the economic contributions associated with our operations. These studies evaluate Chevron’s direct and indirect spending throughout our supply chain and demonstrate the positive impact on local employment and economies, which improves livelihoods. contributions in Indonesia* From 2009 through 2013, every Chevron job  supported an average of 36 other jobs in Indonesia,  and in 2013 alone, Chevron supported more  than 260,000 jobs across a broad range of industries.  Also in 2013, our operations contributed more  than $11.9 billion (Rp120 trillion) to Indonesia’s  economy, accounting for 1.4 percent of the country’s  gross domestic product (GDP). benefits in Australia* Chevron’s development of the Gorgon and  Wheatstone natural gas projects, together with other  activities in Australia, are delivering significant  direct and indirect economic benefits to the Australian economy. From 2009 through 2014, nearly  19,000 workers were directly employed, and close to  1,000 contracts were awarded to Australian  companies. Over the period of 2009 through 2040,  more than AU$1 trillion is expected to be added  to Australia’s GDP—nearly AU$32 billion per year. **Results for Indonesia are based on a 2014 study commissioned by Chevron and conducted by the Institute for Economic and Social Research, the University of Indonesia, and the research firm IHS. Results for Australia are based on a 2015 study commissioned by Chevron and conducted by ACIL Allen Consulting. The economic forecast is based on an indicative estimate for the period of 2009 through 2040 as of January 2015. chevron.com/cr Above: Teachers participate in a training-of-trainers event in  preparation for the launch of an extracurricular life-skills program for youth in Atyrau, Kazakhstan, as part of the Atyrau Youth Development Initiative. Facing page: Students at a Chevron Enjoy Science Project family camp in Bangkok, Thailand, experience the connection between  science and everyday life through hands-on activities related  to science, technology, engineering and math. social investment Our large-scale social investments focus on education, health and improving access to economic development opportunities in the areas where we operate. These  investments aim to foster economic stability and improve the quality of life in the communities where we work. Education We champion science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education and help provide career and technical training that can lead directly to well-paying jobs. Through our programs and strategic partnerships, we help both students and teachers get the tools and resources they need for success. For example, we partner with the California State University system and support its STEM Teacher and Researcher (STAR) Program. The STAR Program engages aspiring and early-career teachers in cutting-edge research projects, primarily at national laboratories, and helps them translate their research experience into classroom practice. Health Chevron invests in programs aimed at improving access  to health care. Working with partners, we support initiatives that build local capacity and deliver real and lasting gains in the fight against devastating diseases. 2015 marked the third year of Chevron’s partnership with the international NGO Pact to help prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS in Bayelsa State, Nigeria. At the end of three years, the project has achieved impressive results by helping to educate close to 300,000 people about HIV prevention and testing more than 53,000 pregnant women for HIV. Economic development We make social investments in programs that promote self- sufficiency, job growth and economic development. We start by working closely with communities and our partners to assess local needs, and we then take action to help remove barriers to economic growth. chevron humankind Chevron Humankind is a giving  and volunteer program that supports U.S.  employees and retirees in their efforts  to help the causes they care about. In 2015, 15,500+ employees and retirees contributed 329,000+ volunteer hours to 2,500+ charitable organizations in  the United States. In addition, $20 million+ was contributed by Chevron employees  and retirees to U.S. nonprofits,  which Chevron matched, for a total of $41 million chevron.com/cr Global partnership initiatives We work with local governments, NGOs and community leaders to create long-term programs that address critical education, health and economic development needs in  communities across the globe. These programs strengthen local economies by providing microloan services, enterprise and workforce development training, and resources and tools to improve health services and education. By leverag.ing our partners’ resources and expertise, we can help drive scalable and sustainable impact in these communities. Thailand partnership initiative In 2015, Chevron Thailand announced a $30 million  commitment to create the Thailand Partnership Initiative (TPI), known locally as the Chevron Enjoy Science  Project, a five-year program to strengthen Thailand’s  competitiveness by improving STEM  and vocational education across the country. Over the next five years, the TPI will work in partnership with leading NGOs, academia, key government  organizations in science and education, and the private  sector to increase the quality of science and  math teaching in Thailand, establish 18 training hubs  nationwide, and promote the study of  science, technology, engineering and math. community engagement in Nigeria In 2005, Chevron and joint venture partner the  Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation  (NNPC) pioneered the global memorandum of  understanding (GMoU) as a new approach  to community engagement in the Niger Delta. Designed to create participatory development  processes that manage conflict and address community needs near Chevron’s areas of operations, the  GMoU has empowered more than 500,000 people  across 400 communities. In collaboration with  NGOs and state and local governments, eight Regional Development Committees were created to represent  communities’ interests across five states. Over the past 10 years, the NNPC/Chevron  joint venture has spent more than $100 million on  roughly 600 development projects and  programs in health, education, economic development  and local capacity building. These activities  focus on education (40,000 scholarships), agriculture, medical facilities and supplies, schools, water,  housing, bridges, jetties, drains, and roads. chevron.com/cr united nations  sustainable  development goals In September 2015, the United Nations General Assembly adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which will frame countries’ development agendas through 2030. Governments around the world are preparing to implement  the SDGs, and business will play a role in the achievement of the goals. Chevron demonstrates its commitment to sustainable development by safely and reliably producing and delivering affordable energy, protecting people and the  environment, and investing in communities’ health, education and economic development. Many of our business and corporate responsibility activities support the SDGs, particularly the following: Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote  well-being for all at all ages. Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning  opportunities for all. Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable,  sustainable and modern energy for all. Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and  sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, and halt biodiversity loss. Goal 17: Strengthen means of implementation  and revitalize the global partnership for sustain.able development. 