Climate changeat chevron, we believe 
the future of energy is lower 
carbon, and we support 
the global net zero ambitions 
of the paris agreementUpstream net zero 2050 aspirationIn 2021, we announced our aspiration to achieve net zero upstream emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2050. Accomplish.
ing this aspiration depends on continuing progress on commercially viable technology; government policy; successful negotiations for carbon capture, utili.zation 
and storage (CCUS), hydrogen and nature-based 
projects; availability of cost-effective, verifiable offsets 
in the global market; and granting of necessary permits 
by governing authorities.potential scope 1 and 2 
reduction opportunities source type reduction strategies supporting policy direct 
energy use: combustion Energy management, 
e.g., efficiency improve.ments, fuel switching 
to lower carbon sources, CCUS, offsets Carbon pricing, 
carbon-related reporting, innovation support 
for technologies like CCUS, offsets flaring Gas market develop.ment, operational best practices, e.g., flow assurance Infrastructure support for gas market development fugitives and venting Methane management, 
e.g., leak detection 
and repair, pressure-management systems Equipment performance standards indirect 
energy use: imported electricity 
and steam Energy management, 
e.g., efficiency improve.ments, fuel switching 
to lower carbon sources, CCUS, offsets Carbon pricing, 
carbon-related reporting, innovation support 
for technologies like CCUS, offsets marginal abatement cost curve process (MACC)Our MACC process is a disciplined and value-driven approach to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations and assets by optimizing carbon reduction opportunities and integrating GHG reduction technologies across the enterprise. addressing methane emissionsChevron’s ambition is to be a global leader in methane emissions performance. Our goal is simple – 
keep methane in the pipe. We believe addressing methane emissions is a key part of being a responsible producer of oil, products and natural gas.2.0kg CO2e/boetarget upstream methane intensity by 2028 Reducing methane intensityTo evolve facility designs, we’re reengineering process controls and systems to help remove, reduce or prevent methane venting as part of normal operations. In 2022, 
we committed to designing, where possible, new upstream facilities without routine methane emissions. We anticipate that our monitoring and detection program will provide additional insights to improve how our facilities are operated and maintained.Improving detection to prevent methane emissionsSince 2016, we have conducted 13 advanced detection technologies trials. “Find and fix” campaigns in Argentina, 
the Denver-Julesburg Basin, the Gulf of Mexico, the 
Permian Basin and Kazakhstan provided opportunities 
to test different methane emissions detection and measurement options. Detection results were used to 
validate performance and inform repairs. In 2022, Chevron contracted with GHGSat to monitor 22 onshore assets worldwide. We believe advanced technologies can help 
drive overall reduction in methane intensity.Advancing methane measurementChevron is taking actions to improve the quality and 
trans.parency of our methane emissions disclosures. 
As quantitative technologies become more widely available and protocols are developed to reconcile current inventories with actual measurements, we are working to incorporate 
field measurement into existing emission factor based-inventories. For example, we have joined GTI Energy’s Veritas, an initiative to develop measurement, reconciliation and assurance protocols, to help provide a widely accepted methodology for incorporating field-informed methane quantification into emissions inventories.global methane pledgeChevron supports the effort to reduce global 
human-made methane emissions by at least 30% from 2020 levels by 2030. U.S. upstream methane intensity6kilograms CO.e/boenational average3chevron0boe = barrels of oil-equivalent64%lower methane intensitythan the U.S. upstream production sector average as of 2022 for Chevron U.S. upstream operations2022methanereportChevron’s 2022 Methane Report discusses our strategy, goals and action plan to prevent, detect and reduce methane emissions.We believe the most effective approach to estimating the total emissions intensity associated 
with the activities of companies, like Chevron and their customers, should cover the full value chain 
inclusive of all emission types (Scope 1, 2 and 3).For Chevron, Scope 3 emissions result principally from customers’ use of the products we sell and are the largest category of emissions associated with our activities. Chevron expresses the emissions intensity per unit of energy. Our portfolio carbon intensity (PCI) methodology facilitates calculation transparency and replicability by using information from financial statements and emissions disclosures. This approach enables validation of reporting and the comparison of carbon intensities of companies that may participate in different parts of the value chain. The PCI metric encompasses upstream and downstream businesses, as well as growth of lower carbon business lines in renewable fuels; carbon capture, utilization and storage; hydrogen; offsets; and other emerging technologies.A PCI calculator is available on our website for anyone to 
use and compare energy companies’ carbon intensities. 
It has recently been updated to provide increased disclosures on the assumptions around energy and emissions factors 
and includes a list of frequently asked questions.To access the PCI calculator, visit chevron.co/chart-generator.chevron supports•	A price on carbon through well-designed policies, see page 54•	Transparently reporting Scope 3 emissions from the end use of our products (Category 11)•	Assisting customers to achieve their lower 
carbon ambitions through our renewable products and by offering offset-paired products71g CO.e/MJtarget portfolio carbon intensity
(Scope 1, 2 and 3) by 2028chevron’s PCI metric The portfolio carbon intensity (PCI) metric, which includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, represents
 the carbon intensity across the full value chain associated with bringing products to market. third-party operationschevron operationsuse of 
productsCCUS and offsetschevron’s 
PCIgrowing new energiesOur targets guide growth in our new energies business lines. We continue to build momentum by actively pursuing opportunities around the globe that we believe will position us as a future leader in this space.100 mbd renewable fuels 25 mmtpa carbon capture and offsets 150 mtpa hydrogen.. 40,000 mmbtu/d renewable natural gas 2030 targetsaccelerating actions on renewable fuels targetsRenewable fuels can help reduce the lifecycle carbon intensity of transportation fuels while meeting the world’s growing energy needs. Chevron intends to grow our renewable fuels production capacity to 100,000 barrels per day by 2030. Bunge Chevron Ag Renewables, a joint venture between Bunge North America, Inc. and Chevron, is expected to help develop renewable fuel feedstocks by leveraging Bunge’s expertise in oilseed processing and farmer relationships and Chevron’s expertise in fuels manufacturing and marketing. With the acquisition of Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), in 2022, we increased renewable fuels production capacity toward our renewable fuels target. By combining REG’s growing renewable fuels production and leading feedstock capabilities with Chevron’s large manufacturing, distribution and commercial marketing position, we are positioned to 
be a leader in the renewable fuels space.We aim to grow production of renewable natural gas (RNG) to 40,000 mmbtu/d by 2030. In 2022, Chevron and California Bioenergy LLC announced a joint investment in their second holding company to produce and market dairy biomethane as an RNG transportation fuel in California. Chevron also has a joint venture with Brightmark LLC to construct dairy biomethane projects to produce RNG in multiple states. With our acquisition of Beyond6 in 2022 and its network of compressed natural gas (CNG) stations across the United States, we can market the RNG we produce or procure through a nationwide network of CNG locations.CCUS as a lower carbon businessWe’re building on decades of experience handling CO. to become a full-service carbon capture solution provider, enabled by foundational projects and working with partners across the value chain. CCUS is the process of capturing CO. emissions to use as a feedstock (utilization) or permanently store in geological formations deep underground (storage). We see CCUS opportunities in two areas: reducing the carbon intensity of our existing assets and building a carbon capture business, primarily through hubs with third-party emitters as partners and customers.We plan to reduce the carbon intensity of our central 
California operations by installing post-combustion carbon capture equipment to capture CO. and store it thousands 
of feet underground. This potential CCS project will begin at Chevron’s Kern River Eastridge cogeneration plant in Kern County, California.In 2022, Chevron entered into the Bayou Bend joint venture with Talos Energy and Carbonvert. Bayou Bend is a CCS project along the Texas Gulf Coast. In early 2023, the project was expanded to cover nearly 140,000 acres of geological formation both onshore and offshore, which could provide storage for over 1 billion tonnes of CO.. The expansion helps position Bayou Bend to be a CO. transportation and storage provider for industrial emitters in and around the Houston 
Ship Channel and the Beaumont/Port Arthur area.carbon capture to storage Implementing CCS at scaleIn Australia, we operate Gorgon, one of the world’s largest integrated CCS projects. Since the system started up in 
mid-2019, almost 7 million tonnes of CO. emissions have been injected as of 2022. We expect to capture and store more 
than 100 million tonnes of CO. over the life of the project.In Canada, we have a 20% nonoperated working interest 
in the Quest CCS project, the world’s first commercial-scale 
CCS project to tackle carbon emissions in the Canadian 
oil sands. The Quest project safely captures and stores 
1 million tonnes of CO. per year, sequestering approximately 
7 million tonnes of CO. as of 2021.Commercializing investments in technologyChevron has invested in multiple carbon capture technologies, including startup companies Svante and Carbon Clean, to help drive down costs and develop these technologies at scale.In collaboration with Svante and the U.S. Department of Energy National Energy and Technology Laboratory,. we are piloting technology that captures CO. from our Kern River facility in San Joaquin Valley, California.The carbon capture trial at our McKittrick facility, also in California, combines two technologies, Caterpillar’s CarbonPoint Solutions’ semi-closed cycle CO. concentration technology and Carbon Clean’s fully modular CycloneCC technology. Other examples include:•	In 2022, we signed a joint agreement with Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. to study the feasibility of transporting liquefied CO. from Singapore to permanent storage locations offshore Australia.•	A consortium of Chevron, Air Liquide, Keppel Infrastructure and PetroChina International intends to evaluate and advance the development of large-scale CCUS solutions 
and integrated infrastructure in Singapore.•	Chevron Australia participates in joint ventures that have been granted an interest in three offshore GHG assessment permits. These new permits have the potential to expand Chevron’s portfolio of CCS assets in the Asia-Pacific region.generating offsets and achieving lower 
carbon ambitionsChevron believes offsets, along with other lower carbon solutions, will be needed to achieve global net zero. Offsets can be generated through avoidance, reduction and removal activities. We believe that high-integrity carbon offsets can help companies, like Chevron, and our customers achieve 
their respective lower carbon ambitions. Chevron believes a large, transparent, verifiable and robust voluntary carbon market is key to the integrity of offsets. As global demand grows, we expect to be a supplier of offsets and provide customers with offset-paired products. For example, in 2022, we safely delivered our first cargo of offset-paired LNG. We’re also planning to invest directly in scalable, nature-based solutions. In St. Charles Parish, Louisiana, we are working 
with Restore the Earth Foundation to plant approximately 
3.7 million trees, primarily bald cypress. Almost half a million trees have been planted for this carbon offset project, 
with more planting underway. This nature-based solution 
is expected to help restore up to 18,800 acres of cypress 
forest and swamp habitats and benefit dependent plant and wildlife species. emerging technologiesChevron has a long history of fostering innovation through research and development, innovation ecosystems and university partnerships. We are currently exploring oppor.tunities to commercialize and scale the next generation 
of emerging technologies to grow our offering of lower 
carbon solutions.In 2022, Chevron and Baseload Capital announced a 
joint venture to develop geothermal projects in the United States. Leveraging our combined experience and technical strengths, we aim to advance scalable, novel geothermal technologies and tap into the Earth’s core heat, an important renewable power source. Traditional oil and gas sector com.petencies, including subsurface, wells, drilling and completions, 
are especially relevant in this effort. The first project is in Weepah Hills, Nevada, where previous geothermal research and advanced exploration data already exist. With the 
potential to provide reliable, baseload power, we believe 
geothermal energy will be a contributing element in the energy system of the future. To learn more, visit chevron.co/growingnewenergies.hydrogen from green waste Chevron is collaborating to develop a waste-to-hydrogen production facility in Richmond, California. The facility is expected to use up to 99 wet tons of green and food waste per day and produce up to 2,400 tonnes of hydrogen per year. The hydrogen is intended to supply transportation fuel markets in Northern California. 1	Chevron’s approach to hydrogen envisions the use of green, blue and gray hydrogen.CO. capture2	Under award number DE-FE0031944.in a growing world faced 
with complex energy 
challenges, innovative solutions are required to advance 
a lower carbon futureTechnology and innovationChevron Technology Ventures (CTV) identifies, invests in and integrates externally developed technologies and new business solutions. CTV targets innovation and transformational technology in areas like CCUS, hydrogen and emerging power, among others. For example, Chevron Studio is a collaboration between CTV and the U.S. Department of Energy National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Launched in 2022, the $10 million program links entrepreneurs with national labs and universities to scale up and commercialize innovative, early-stage technologies that have the potential to enable a lower carbon future.chevron renewable 
energy groupfueling a lower carbon future, todayAs one of the first companies to build commercial-scale 
biodiesel plants in the United States, Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG) has been at the forefront of the evolving 
biofuels industry. Established in Iowa in 1996, REG was acquired by Chevron in 2022. The new organization, Chevron Renewable Energy Group (CREG), based in Ames, Iowa, 
will help us achieve our renewable fuels production capacity target of 100,000 barrels per day by 2030.Balancing economic prosperity, energy security and environ.mental protection is important to us. We expect CREG 
to position us to create an ever-stronger renewable fuels 
business that meets evolving customer needs.CREG aims to leverage our feedstock aggregation capabilities 
and operational technology to help provide lower carbon solutions for hard-to-abate sectors, such as rail, marine and heavy-duty transportation. In pursuit of innovative and 
sustainable solutions, we have established vertical integration opportunities with regional partners.managing renewable feedstocksThe primary inputs for producing biodiesel and renewable diesel are fats, oils and greases. We utilize a flexible 
sourcing strategy to manufacture products with lower 
lifecycle carbon emissions.One of our priorities is supply chain compliance, which 
helps promote integrity in the business. We screen 
potential feedstock partners, assessing factors such as 
environmental and human rights impacts, and expect 
suppliers to adhere to our Vendor Code of Conduct. 
We work to ensure that all feedstocks can be traced to the point of origin or aggregation. Independent third-party 
verification bodies validate our internal control processes 
for sustainability program compliance.Our investment in CoverCress, Inc. (CCI) is an example of 
our pursuit of innovative feedstock solutions. CCI is developing CoverCress,™ a winter oilseed cash crop that could be grown like a cover crop during the off-season. Besides having the potential to augment our supply of lower carbon feedstock, CoverCress offers the typical benefits of a cover crop, like mitigating soil erosion, improving soil health, and reducing water and nutrient movement.expanding productionIn 2022, our Emden, Germany, biorefinery broke ground 
on a pretreatment system that will allow us to refine a 
broader variety of lower carbon intensity feedstocks to produce biodiesel. In addition, the improvement and expansion project at our Geismar, Louisiana, renewable 
diesel facility continues. Started in 2021, the expansion is intended to raise the biorefinery’s annual capacity from 
95 million gallons to approximately 348 million gallons.supplying the rail sectorCREG is working to help rail companies meet their lower carbon ambitions. Union Pacific continues to test the performance of our 80% renewable diesel, 20% biodiesel blend. They also use 100% bio-based diesel in locomotives at the Colton, California, rail yard. In 2022, the Canadian National Railway Company commenced a two-year test to evaluate how our biodiesel and renewable diesel perform, especially 
in cold weather conditions.To learn more, visit regi.com.flexible feedstockIn 2022, 69% of our feedstock was from waste and residual streams and 31% was from vegetable oils.community We were awarded the 2022 
Volunteer Business of the Year by the Ames Foundation for our 
work planting nearly 400 trees over the past two years.renewable dieselRenewable diesel meets the same standard as petroleum diesel (ASTM D975) but with lower lifecycle carbon emissions and lower exhaust emissions.Chevron 2022 Corporate Sustainability Report22biodieselTo deliver strong performance and lifecycle carbon reduction, biodiesel could be blended with both petroleum diesel and renewable diesel.partnershipWith Iowa State University, we are evaluating new lower carbon feedstocks for production of renewable diesel.circularityFor over 10 years, Restaurant Technologies has supplied feed-stock to our facilities and now 
uses our renewable fuels in their own fleet.Chevron 2022 Corporate Sustainability Report23environmental risk managementprotecting the environment takes effective 
processes, leading technologies and dedicated peopleenvironment strategyChevron’s Environment strategy underscores our commitment to protect the environment. By embedding this into enter.prise business planning, we aim to enhance environmental performance across the globe. The strategy promotes systematic consideration of business risks and environmental performance alongside external stakeholder expectations.environment risk management processFor Chevron, getting results the right way is important throughout the life of a project – from planning and construction through operation and decommissioning. 
We employ long-standing risk management processes to evaluate facility, activity and product-related risks across the lifecycle of the business. Our Environment Risk Management Process helps business units identify and evaluate their environmental risks alongside safety risks and asset integrity. Risks and safeguards identified through the process are integrated into individual business unit risk profiles and inform the Environment strategy. growing workforce capabilitiesWe continue to build environmental fluency and competency within our broad workforce and strengthen coordination between our technical center and businesses. To promote data quality and consistency, our environmental experts offer biannual training on reporting data for air and energy and 
for waste and water.In 2022, we trained environmental risk assessors and 
launched a digital tool to evaluate risks across the enterprise. This information is used to inform long-term vision and business planning for the Environment strategy.innovationChevron targets innovation and transformational technology development through participation in external interdisciplinary, multi-institution research programs designed to improve environmental performance. As a member of Rice University’s Carbon Hub, a zero-emissions research initiative, we are supporting research to explore the potential use 
of methane-derived carbon for sequestration in soil. Within NEWT, an engineering research center for nanotechnology water treatment also headquartered at Rice University, 
we are exploring efficient modular water treatment systems
to facilitate access to clean water.In 2022, Chevron Technology Ventures invested in a sustain.able industrial innovation fund, by Emerald Technology Ventures, focused on sustainable packaging. The fund provides access to novel technology and partnerships aimed at operationalizing higher-yield and lower-cost recycling approaches. It targets innovation along the full packaging value chain in categories such as lower carbon footprint feedstocks; functional and smart materials; design for reuse and recycle, collection, sorting, cleaning and recycling technologies; digital and connected solutions; and new business models.addressing plastic wasteTo reduce waste and develop circularity opportunities, we 
seek to learn from industry peers and sustainability leaders. Circularity opportunities include recycling, reusing or repurposing post-use plastic. We’re working to leverage partnerships to share best practices, drive innovation and develop industry standards.our partnerships are taking 
steps to reduce plastic waste and 
to develop a circular economyIn 2022, Chevron joined the Ipieca Circular Economy Task.force, which aims to improve understanding of circularity 
in oil, gas and alternative energy industries. We also joined the U.S.-based National Lubricant Container Recycling Coalition, an industry-led technical coalition focused on developing a national market-sustaining program to drive the recovery 
and recycling of plastic packaging used to transport lubricants and related products for commercial and consumer use.We are partnering on sustainability-related initiatives 
through our joint-venture companies, CPChem and GS Caltex. 
Using KBR and Mura’s Hydro-PRT® (Hydrothermal Plastic Recycling Technology) process, GS Caltex is establishing a 50,000 ton/year unit in South Korea to convert waste plastics into raw materials for conversion into new plastics.To learn more, visit chevron.co/environmental.focus on 
environmentThe Environment strategy shapes enterprisewide processes and procedures to influence environ.mental metrics, workforce training, technology investments and external partnerships. In addition to focusing on our climate and carbon objectives, we also endeavor to:•	Conserve fresh water in water-stressed regions•	Protect biodiversity•	Manage waste generation and waste stream circularity•	Reduce non-GHG. air emissions1	Non-greenhouse gas air emissions include sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides 
and volatile organic compounds, excluding methane. The OEMS Environment strategy seeks to protect the environment through responsible design, development, operations and asset retirement. The Environment Risk Management Process is our systematic approach to identify, manage and assess environmental risks and safeguards.Brennan OttSenior Environmental & 
Regulatory Specialist, 
San Joaquin Valley business unit employee spotlightAs an avid surfer, I value protecting the environment. 
At Chevron, I work to apply environment risk manage.ment practices that contribute to the safety of our 
daily operations and the success of new projects. The Environment Risk Management Process is designed 
to be fit-for-purpose so that it can be applied to activities with a broad range of complexity, including large 
projects and ongoing operations.Chevron recently proposed the Kern River Eastridge carbon capture and storage project in the Kern 
River field, where Chevron has been operating for over 100 years. When assessing projects, our process seeks to strengthen our safeguards and apply lessons learned across Chevron. We bring together a variety of technical and business function experts with a broad range of view.points. Identifying environmental risks, across an asset lifecycle, guides selection and implementation of safeguards that can protect people and the environment.I believe using the Environment Risk Management Process can help set projects on a strong path 
to success. performance monitoringIncreased functionality
of enterprise environmental 
data dashboardschevron phillips 
chemical company Chevron Phillips Chemical Company (CPChem), a 50-50 joint venture between Chevron and Phillips 66, is a founding member of Cyclyx International, a consortium-based feedstock management company with a mission to help increase the recycling rates of post-use plastic from 10% to 90%. In 2022, Cyclyx launched 10 to 90 Challenge, a consumer engagement effort to divert plastics from landfills and into the Cyclyx supply chain. Cyclyx also signed an agreement to advance development of a plastic waste sorting and processing facility in Houston, Texas. The facility aims to connect community recycling programs to new recycling technologies that have the potential to accept a wider variety of plastics. targeting innovationWe participate in zero-
emissions and sustainable 
research initiativesbiodiversitywe work to protect biodiversity through 
our operating practices and innovative solutionsBiodiversity, or variation of living things from genetics to ecosystems, is essential to a healthy biosphere and human welfare. The foods we eat, shelters we rely on and medicines we use are direct benefits of biodiversity. We also benefit indirectly through natural functions such as pollination, climate regulation, water purification and nutrient cycling. Chevron recognizes the importance of biodiversity and 
works with communities, universities, regulatory agencies, industry groups and conservation organizations to take 
action to help protect and enhance it.screening for biodiversityWe are creating a global geospatial database of our upstream onshore operations and have overlaid protected area data sets provided through the Proteus Partnership and the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool. The combination allows us 
to screen operating sites and potential new projects against multiple biodiversity resources, such as the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Protected Area Management Categories I–IV, the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and the World Database of Key Biodiversity Areas.Screening of our 2022 portfolio identifies no upstream onshore operating sites in IUCN I–IV areas, except for 
Barrow Island, Australia. There, we have several decades of operating within an Australia-designated Class A nature reserve (IUCN category Ia – strict nature reserve). Through the exclusion of invasive species on Barrow Island, our environmental stewardship has contributed to the conservation of rare and threatened species, such as the spectacled hare-wallaby and golden bandicoot.Our geospatial database helps us understand potential 
bio.diversity impacts and benefits at the site level. Screening is 
intended to strengthen risk assessments through our Environ.ment Risk Management Process and quality decision making.preventive measuresTo protect biodiversity during planning stages, Chevron prioritizes preventive measures to avoid or reduce potential impacts. Avoidance measures may include site selection, design and scheduling. Reduction measures may include physical, operational and abatement controls.California harbor seal rookery protectionIn 2017, Chevron established the West Coast Decommission.
ing Program to complete the decommissioning of five oil plat.forms and related facilities in federal waters off the central coast of California. The Carpinteria Gas Plant pier provides shore-based support to two of the platforms. This pier is adjacent to an active harbor seal rookery.Independent volunteers watch over the rookery year-round, particularly during pupping season from December through May when the city of Carpinteria closes the beach to the public. Working with the volunteers, we allow monitoring 
from an overlook on plant property. Wherever possible, the West Coast Decommissioning team takes great care to avoid and reduce disturbances to the 
seals and their pups. We are able to adjust pier lighting and reduce the public address system noise levels to reduce disturbances to the rookery.Work plans eliminate routine activities on the beach 
during pupping season. When work is unavoidable, we coordinate with the city and dedicate onsite wildlife 
monitors to reduce potential impacts to the seals. Our personnel also undergo marine mammal training, specific 
to their responsibilities, to remain sensitive to the seals 
and the surrounding environment.Australia solar-powered mobile lightingTo reduce the potential effects of diesel-powered mobile lighting towers on biodiversity, we began trials on four solar-powered mobile lighting towers in 2020 at our Gorgon operations in Australia. Solar-powered lights remove or 
reduce many of the environmental impacts of diesel-powered lights, such as noise, odors, vibration and carbon emissions. The solar-powered LED lights maintain wavelengths at 
590 nanometers. This is ideal for reducing impacts to turtle hatchlings and other nocturnal fauna, which tend to be less attracted to this wavelength. Based on the success of the trials, Chevron has leased an additional 27 units, for use in Australia, and is evaluating wider use in our global efforts to monitor and prevent impacts to biodiversity.remediative measuresChevron may also implement remediative measures, such as restoration and offsets, that can help achieve a net positive 
impact on local biodiversity. Restoration may include reestab.lishment of habitat types, biodiversity or ecosystem services. Offsets may include restoration offsets or averted loss offsets to compensate for biodiversity impacts.New Mexico wetlands restorationRegulatory-required remediation activities at the Questa Mine in New Mexico triggered the need to offset 2.74 acres of wetlands. In consultation with stakeholders, Chevron elected to restore wet meadows and mountain fen, which is a high-altitude peat-forming wetland unique to the area.Restoration in the Cabresto Creek watershed of New Mexico’s Sangre de Cristo Mountains began in 2019. By 2021, we had restored approximately 6.7 acres of wetland habitat through the installation of corrective structures.Site monitoring has confirmed a reduction in erosion and a 
rise in the water table. Vegetation is responding to the hydrology improvements, and characteristic mountain fen 
and wet meadows plant species are returning. protecting habitat and speciesChevron is involved in a variety of projects designed to 
protect habitat and benefit sensitive species, which can help us achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity within 
certain regions.Gnatcatcher habitat preservationFor nearly a century, the West Coyote Hills property in Fullerton, California, operated as a 2,000-acre oil field until operations ceased in the early 1990s. The property is one of the few large, contiguous tracts of natural lands south of the San Gabriel Mountains. It is home to a variety of wildlife species and protected vegetation, including the California gnatcatcher, an endangered bird, and its habitat, the coastal sage scrub. In 2021, we sold 24 acres to the city of Fullerton. The sale allowed remediation of the site and a link to the Robert Ward Preserve, an area we had previously donated 
to the city. Additionally, Chevron converted two miles of 
roads in the preserve to nature trails for public use.Sociable lapwing conservationOur Tengizchevroil LLP (TCO) joint venture continues to sponsor the Association for the Conservation of Biodiversity 
of Kazakhstan (ACBK) and their work on the Sociable Lapwing Conservation Project. While this critically endangered migratory bird is not present in TCO’s operational area, it 
does breed in Kazakhstan. This conservation project is an important biodiversity offset for TCO to achieve no net 
loss of terrestrial natural habitat.In May 2022, the ACBK conservation team discovered the bird in locations where it had not been witnessed nesting for more than seven years. The team was able to satellite-tag, for the first time, an adult female bird in addition to 17 more birds. ACBK will analyze migratory paths and identify where these individual birds spend their wintering time, which will support additional conservation programs, such as habitat protection.nature-based solutionsWe launched Chevron New Energies (CNE) to advance 
lower carbon solutions in our own businesses and to serve our customers’ lower carbon goals. CNE is evaluating a variety of opportunities, including nature-based solutions, which encompass actions that increase carbon sequestration through environmental conservation, restoration and improved land management practices. We believe nature-based solutions can potentially benefit biodiversity and communities while also helping us achieve our lower 
carbon ambitions.To learn more, visit chevron.co/biodiversity.Paul HoffmanEnvironmental Specialist, 
Rehabilitation, Australasia business unit employee spotlightI grew up on a farm in Western Australia, which set me up well for a career in environmental rehabilitation. With an interest in soils, nature and biodiversity, I gravitated toward studies in natural resource management, which led to my current position as a rehabilitation specialist for Chevron Australia.I am currently focused on restoration and revegetation of 82.5 acres on Thevenard Island, Western Australia. 
To help protect the area’s unique biodiversity, my team 
has been collecting and propagating 14 target species of indigenous seeds and cuttings from the island. The island environment is predominantly coastal beach sand with low rainfall, so the chance for seeds to naturally germinate is compromised. We spent time to understand the soil physics and chemistry of the rehabilitation area to identify a preferred planting method. In a controlled nursery on the mainland, we 
give the vegetation a head start before transporting 
it back to the island for planting.I’m proud of the results that we’ve achieved. Fairy terns, a vulnerable bird species, are now roosting in the rehabilitation area. It’s fantastic to see native species inhabiting the area and to know that I’m working on something for future generations. The OEMS Environment strategy seeks to protect the environment through responsible design, development, operations and asset retirement. The Environment Risk Management Process is our systematic approach to 
identify, manage and assess environmental risks and safeguards.applying the mitigation hierarchy The Environment Risk Management Process incorporates
Chevron’s Protective by Design concept, which underpins the mitigation
hierarchy and is used when evaluating projects or design changes. preventiveremediativereductionavoidanceoffsetsrestoration•	Physical controls•	Operational controls•	Abatement controls•	Restoration offsets•	Averted loss offsets•	Site selection•	Design•	Scheduling•	Reestablishment of 
habitat types•	Reestablishment of 
biodiversity•	Reestablishment of 
ecosystem servicesipieca Chevron is a member of the global not-for-profit oil 
and gas industry association, Ipieca. We contribute technical expertise and participate in their Biodiversity 
and Ecosystem Services Work Group and task forces 
for Nature Positive, Nature Related Disclosure and Reporting and Nature Based Solutions. In 2022, our technical experts supported the effort to update the Guide to Developing Biodiversity Action Plans and participated 
as one of Ipieca’s delegates in the 15th meeting of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 15) in Montreal, Canada. waterstewarding responsible water managementstrengthening water stewardshipWater is vital to our operations as we develop and supply energy to meet growing demand around the globe. We aim to drive efficient and responsible water use, reuse, recycling and conservation. Chevron recognizes that collaboration with the communities where we operate is fundamental to strengthening water stewardship.using nonfresh water in high or extremely 
high water stress areas We use the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool 
to map operated assets in water-stressed areas. In 2022, 
seven upstream facilities, one biorefinery, one oil refinery 
and one additives facility were located in areas of high 
or extremely high water stress, according to the WRI tool.To avoid using fresh water in a high water stress area, our business in Australia operates two onshore permanent 
sea.water reverse osmosis desalination facilities with a combined maximum capacity of approximately 1.8 million cubic meters per year. Throughout the commissioning and operation of these facilities, comprehensive effluent ecotoxicology analyses have been undertaken to 
reduce potential impact to the marine environment 
and protect biodiversity.recycling and reusing produced water to 
reduce shale and tight freshwater useOur operations in Northeast Colorado conducted a pilot study on produced water recycling in late 2021, which led to the construction of a recycling facility catering to our shale and tight operations. The facility started up in August 2022 and will run for slightly over two years, diverting almost all produced water flow for recycling and eventual reservoir reinjection. The expected recycled volume is up to 17 million barrels throughout the facility’s lifetime, which translates to approximately a 12% reduction in freshwater volume usage.Permian Basin operations continue to increase the use of recycled produced water to displace the use of fresh and nonfresh water for completions. In 2022, 99% of water demands for well completions were met using brackish or recycled water. By using nonfresh, brackish or recycled 
water, we help preserve fresh water in the Permian Basin, 
a drought-prone area.Aris Water Solutions provides produced water gathering 
and recycling services infrastructure in the Permian Basin. Under our agreement with Aris Water Solutions, we will contribute to the development and piloting of an integrated system of technologies to treat produced water for potential reuse in applications outside of the oil field.enhancing environmental safeguardsProcessing crude with a higher nitrogen content is 
challenging because wastewater with higher nitrogen loads 
can be harder to reliably and consistently treat. To better manage these issues and achieve required treatment levels, the Pascagoula Refinery implemented a series of improvements. Improvements included upgrading the bioreactors with a new bioreactor inlet and aeration system 
in 2021. This infrastructure upgrade enables the refinery 
to process nitrogen-rich crude and enhance environmental safeguards by improving wastewater treatment performance.At Chevron, we seek opportunities to advance our water management acumen through our partnership in research consortia and industry participation. In 2022, we piloted the Wastewater Impact Assessment Tool developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development at four U.S. refineries. We also hosted a series of training sessions to improve our understanding of water footprint methodologies at site and product levels.To learn more, visit chevron.co/water.percentage of total fresh water 
withdrawn in stressed 
vs. non-stressed areas in 202224%water-
stressed areas76%water non-
stressed areasTo advance our vision for water stewardship, Chevron aims to:•	Evaluate, implement and maintain safeguards designed to prevent or mitigate potential impacts to the environment, including water resources, 
and surrounding communities throughout the lifecycle of our assets•	Identify solutions to reduce water withdrawals 
for our operations, especially in high water 
stress areas•	Assess water treatment technology solutions 
to mitigate wastewater-related impacts to 
the environment•	Measure the effectiveness of our management practices, drive accountability within our operations and communicate performance 
to stakeholders•	Build partnerships with stakeholders and participate in industry water resources initiatives 
to share best practices in water management and support the development of industry standards and related policyThe OEMS Environment strategy seeks to protect the environment through responsible design, 
development, operations and asset retirement. The Environment Risk Management Process is our 
systematic approach to identify, manage and assess environmental risks and safeguards.increasing recycled 
water in chevron 
permian basin operations0% recycled 
water in201613%freshwaterwater-stressed areas Our operated assets are mapped 
using the WRI Aqueduct 
tool. Visit chevron.co/watermap.87%brackish water<1%	fresh	water60%recycledwater60% recycled 
water in202239%brackish waterAlejandro CalvoSenior Environmental Engineer, 
Angola LNG employee spotlightIn 2003, I joined Chevron in my home country of 
Colombia and spent my first 14 years on multiple assign.ments within the Latin America business unit and 
Chevron Technical Center. Over the years, I gained fluency in environmental management topics, including risk-based assessment of operations activities.Now as a senior environmental engineer at Angola LNG (ALNG), my focus is to help local practitioners deploy OEMS processes, including the Environment Risk Management Process. For example, we are using this risk-based approach to help us prioritize critical actions to improve wastewater management.Partnering with our waste and water team has been invaluable. In 2019, the team guided us through an extended plantwide wastewater monitoring program to characterize risk and develop a risk profile. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we developed a detailed water management plan for ALNG’s 2022 turnaround. While working remotely, the technical experts in Houston collaborated with us to develop a day-by-day plan to successfully and safely manage water and process 
waste throughout the turnaround.I am proud of my contributions to growing the capabil.ities of others and am gratified to see the members of my team using their technical skills to provide effective wastewater management solutions. new mexico produced 
water research consortium In 2022, Chevron participated in the New Mexico Produced Water Research Consortium. Through this engagement, we helped to advance scientific research and technology solutions for the treatment and fit-for-purpose reuse of oil and gas produced water. We were involved in conducting a demonstration of treatment technologies, formulating risk and toxicology approaches, and evaluating potential economic impacts related to the beneficial reuse of produced water. We also provided input to guide the development of state policies and regulations.