protecting the environmentwe work to deliver the energy the world needs while protecting the environmentA line of camels walking beside a road near Chevron operations in KazakhstanAbove: A herd of camels near the Tengiz Field, western Kazakhstan. In this section, learn about our approach to biodiversity.environmentclimate change24=higher returns, lower carbonWe believe achieving 24kg C O 2 e/boe for oil and for natural gas would place Chevron in the top quartile of total production, meaning among the most carbon-efficient producers.  This is our objective for 2028. chevron.com/sustainability/environment/energy-transitionthree  action areasdecrease iconlower  carbon intensitycost-efficientlysolar panel iconincrease  renewables and offsetsin support of our businesscarbon capture and storage iconinvest  in low-carbon technologiesto enable commercial solutionslower-carbon  capital allocation$2Bby 2028 in carbon-reduction projects$750Mby 2028 in investments  in renewables and offsets$300Mcommitted to the  Future Energy Fund IIcarbon  footprintingvalue chain graphicdrilling &completionsproductionpipelineliquefaction/reﬁningshippinguse•	Standardized reporting enabling buyer choice•	Reliable, verifiable information driving returns•	Life-cycle carbon-footprinted products mobilizing actionpolicyinnovation iconinnovation supportair emissions iconcarbon pricingenvironmental reporting icontargeted policiesmetricsupstream production net greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction metrics for 2028:24 kg C O 2 e/boe for oil (global industry averages 46) 40% reduction from 201624 kg C O 2 e/boe for gas (global industry averages 71) 26% reduction from 20162 kg C O 2 e/boe for methane and a global methane detection campaign 53% reduction from 20160 routine flaring by 2030 and 3 kg C O 2 e/boe for overall flaring 66% reduction from 2016our goalWe are building on our strengths to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations and assets by optimizing carbon-reduction opportunities and integrating greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation technologies across  the enterprise. These efforts drive progress on metrics, enabling us to update progress on a timeline aligned  with the Paris Agreement.chevron.com/climatechangeto achieve global net zero,  markets should be empowered  to incentivize the most  carbon-efficient producersWe support the Paris Agreement and its goal of “holding  the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2° C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit  the temperature increase to 1.5° C above pre-industrial levels,” which, per the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPPC), implies reaching global net zero in the second half of this century. We believe that the optimal approach for society is to drive the most efficient and cost-effective reductions economywide, paired with negative emissions from man-made and natural sources. Narrow sectoral or geographic metrics are less efficient than broad economywide solutions, which are uniquely able to incentivize the most efficient and cost-effective reductions. Chevron supports a price on carbon, applied as widely and broadly as possible, as the best approach to reduce emissions. We work to encourage national policies to support international linkages (for example, through Article 6 of the  Paris Agreement), with the goal of ultimately building up to a liquid and integrated global carbon market.reliable and disciplined oversight Our governance structure calls for Chevron’s full Board of  Directors to exercise their oversight responsibilities and executive leadership to set strategy and day-to-day management with respect to climate change–related risks and energy-transition opportunities. Oversight is executed through regular engagement by the full Board of Directors and also through deeper, focused engagement by all Board committees. This occurs primarily through the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee, and also involves the Board’s Management Compensation, Audit, and Nominating and Governance committees. At the executive level, we manage climate change–related risks and energy-transition oppor?tun??ities through the Enterprise Leadership Team and the Global Issues Committee.risk assessment and managementWe face a broad array of risks, including physical, legal, policy, technology, market and reputational risks, as laid out in our  10-K filings. We utilize an enterprisewide process to assess major  risks to the company and seek to apply appropriate mitigations  and safeguards. As part of this process, we conduct an annual risk review with executive leadership and the Board of Directors and assess our risks, safeguards and mitigations.higher returns, lower carbonOur primary objective is to deliver higher returns, lower carbon  and superior stockholder value in any business environment. Chevron’s strategic and business planning processes bring together  the company’s views on long-term energy market funda?mentals  to guide decision-making by executives and to facilitate oversight by the Board of Directors. Most published outlooks conclude  that fossil fuels will remain an important part of the energy system  over the coming decades, and that the energy mix will include increasingly lower-carbon sources. As part of our strategic planning process, we use propri?etary models to forecast demand, energy mix, supply, commodity pricing and carbon prices—all  of which include assumptions about future policy, such as those that may be implemented in support of the Paris Agreement’s  goal of “holding the increase in the global average temperature  to well below 2° C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing  efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5° C above pre-industrial levels.”our strategylower  carbon intensitycost-efficientlydecrease iconincrease  renewables and offsetsin support of our businesssolar panel iconinvest  in low-carbon technologiesto enable commercial solutionscarbon capture and storage iconsuccess in a lower-carbon futureAs a global company, we operate in many jurisdictions that have enacted lower-carbon policies. In 2020, more than 60 percent of our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 equity GHG emissions were in regions with existing or developing carbon-pricing policies, in addition to other lower-carbon policies like mandates for biofuels and renewables, methane regulation, and emerging support for technologies like carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) and hydrogen. Under current and potential future market conditions, we seek to understand the impacts of climate-related actions and strategies and to advance opportunities to increase returns to investors.Chevron’s energy-transition strategy is to advance a lower-carbon future, and we will leverage our capabilities, assets and expertise  to focus on three action areas that aim to deliver measurable progress that is both good for investors and good for society. Our intent is to deliver affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy  that enables human progress and delivers superior stockholder value. Our actions are focused on: (1) lowering our carbon intensity cost-efficiently, (2) increasing renewables and offsets in support  of our business, and (3) investing in low-carbon technologies  to enable commercial solutions.We use carbon prices and derived carbon costs in business plan?ning, investment decisions, impairment reviews, reserves calculations and assessment of carbon-reduction opportunities. We believe that our portfolio is resilient and that our asset  mix enables us to be flexible in response to potential changes  in supply and demand, even in lower-carbon scenarios. See our Climate Change Resilience: Advancing a  Lower-Carbon Future report, Section 3.6, for more,  chevron.com/climatechangeresilience2021.APIChevron has been working in leadership roles within the American Petroleum Institute (API) to develop a template for  oil and gas companies’ reporting of core GHG emissions  data. By developing a template that prompts for reporting  of consistent, comparable GHG data, API seeks to support  API member companies in reporting climate information  in a transparent manner to the financial sector, policy makers, industry customers and other stakeholders. When finalized,  the template will be a tool that individual energy companies  can use in their climate reporting. The initiative is consistent  with API’s principle of advancing the understanding of global climate change risks and opportunities to help achieve effective future policies.Employee photo Colby HallIntegrated Optimization  Team Lead, Cabinda Gulf Oil Co.employee spotlightI’ve always been a results-driven person, and my current position enables me to see positive results in two interdepend- ent categories—decreasing our operating expenses and reducing the intensity of our greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs).Our workforce was inspired by the marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) studies in 2019 and we kicked into gear in the second half of 2020. Basically, MACC is a visualization that represents a rank order of GHG-reduction opportunities by showing their relative cost and abatement potentials. MACCs help us target carbon-reduction activities more efficiently. During the economically challenging second half of 2020,  our team was able to develop a roadmap and began progressing the small capital projects that had the highest-impact GHG reduction at the lowest cost. I find it exciting to have an impact in my work at Chevron,  and I continue to be motivated by the growing environmental stewardship of Angolan employees and corporate experts.We are building on our strengths to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations and assets by optimizing carbon-reduction opportunities, and integrating GHG-mitigation technologies  across the enterprise. These efforts drive progress on metrics, enabling us to update progress on a timeline aligned with  the Paris Agreement.We selected more than 60 MACC projects to lower our carbon  intensity to advance to execution. We plan to spend more  than $100 million in 2021. We expect to spend approximately  $2 billion on them through 2028, on the path to deliver our  2028 performance metrics. Further out, we have additional  MACC opportunities identified that have the potential to lower  our Upstream carbon intensity into the mid-teens. Significant technology advancements and the development of large offset markets could enable reductions to net zero by mid-century.working toward a net-zero futureCombination bar and waterfall charts presenting opportunities to lower carbon intensity

2016 Emissions intensity bar chart in kilograms C O 2 e/boe totaling 37.4 and comprised of: indirect emissions 1.81, fugitives and venting 2.18, flaring 11.82, combustion 21.59

2016 and onward waterfall chart in kilograms C O 2 e/boe ranging from 37.4 to 0 and comprised of: 2016–2020 Achieved reduction of 9, 2021–2028 Portfolio estimated reduction range of 2.8, 2021–2028 MACC projects estimated reduction range of 2.2, 2029 and onward future MACC projects estimated reduction range of 8.1, 2029 and onward innovation and offsets estimated reduction range of 15.3investment graphic$2B by 2028 in carbon-reduction projects$750M by 2028 in investments  in renewables and offsets$300Mcommitted to the  Future Energy Fund II$3B+invested through 2028  to advance our  energy-transition strategycarbon footprintingAccess to reliable, verifiable carbon-footprinted data is important for buyers to make informed  decisions, enabling contributions toward meeting Paris Agreement goals. In addition, carbon-footprinted data can enable price discovery, a compar?i??son of the “green premium” and alternatives, and potentially incen?tivize reducing both carbon intensity and the “green premium” cost-efficiently.working to track the carbon footprint through the value chainvalue chain graphicdrilling &completionsproductionpipelineliquefaction/reﬁningshippinguseWBCSD logoWorld Business Council for Sustainable Development— Value Chain Carbon Transparency Pathfinder: End-to-end  value-chain transparency on primary GHG emissions at a  product level provides important data to help organizations  make informed decisions as they work toward a lower- carbon future to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement.  Within the Pathfinder, Chevron is working together with  other committed stakeholders from across the value chain, independent industry bodies such as GHG Protocol, and technology companies to develop the methodological and technical infrastructure required to create such transparency.Pavilion Energy logoLiquefied Natural Gas (LNG) GHG value-chain emissions reporting: Pavilion Energy and Chevron have signed a five-year  LNG sale and purchase agreement under which each LNG  cargo delivered will be accompanied by a statement of its GHG emissions. The parties are committed to co-developing and implementing a GHG quantification and reporting methodology  for LNG based on internationally recognized standards and covering emissions from well-to-discharge terminal, including  LNG transportation.chevron’s approach to key climate issuesChevron supports the Paris Agreement and is committed to addressing climate change while  continuing to deliver energy that supports society. Climate policy should achieve  emissions reductions as efficiently and effectively as possible at the least cost to economies.global involvement iconwe believe the world’s oil and  gas should be supplied by the most efficient producers, and we  address Scope 3 emissions by:•		Supporting a price on carbon•		Transparently reporting•		Enabling customers to lower their emissionsair emissions iconwe believe a price on  carbon should:•	Be the primary policy to reduce emissions•	Be economywide to apply to all sectors•	Spur innovation and enable support  to affected communities, consumers and businessesdata science iconwe support research, develop??ment, demonstration and deployment  for emerging technol??ogies to address climate change•	A focus on emissions•	Pre-commercial support•	Scalable solutionsenvironmental reporting iconwe support well-designed and  properly enacted methane regulation, in the energy industry and in other  key emitting sectors•	Performance-based regulation•	Technological innovation•	Industry best practices•	All sectors contributingchevron supports well-designed emissions-reduction metricsOur approach is designed to facilitate carbon accounting  that not only reduces our own emissions, but also sets a frame?- work that facilitates the possibility of achieving global net  zero as efficiently and effectively as possible, and at the least  cost to society. Achieving these metrics is directly tied to  the compen?sation of our executives and most of our  employees worldwide.This approach, coupled with our view of Scope 3—supporting  a price on carbon through well-designed policies; transparently reporting emissions from the use of our products for nearly  two decades; and enabling customers to lower their emissions through increasing our renewable products, offering offsets  and investing in low-carbon technologies—supports a global approach to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement as  efficiently and cost-effectively as possible for society.chevron upstream emissions intensity reduction metrics for 2028: 24 kg C O 2 e/boe for oil (global industry averages 46) 40% reduction from 201624 kg C O 2 e/boe for gas (global industry averages 71) 26% reduction from 20162 kg C O 2 e/boe for methane and a global methane detection campaign 53% reduction from 20160 routine flaring by 2030 and 3 kg C O 2 e/boe for overall flaring 66% reduction from 2016equity basispie chart iconoperatednonoperatedaligned with financial reportingcommodity basisbarrel iconoilnatural gas icongasaligned with end use, enabling  value-chain reportingup to point of saleroadmap iconaligned with influence/ control to incentivize action  along the value chainverifiableresults iconaligned with  accurate value-chain emissions reportingtradablesupply trading iconaligned to offer  the marketplace premium lower-carbon productsupdated every 5 yearscalendar iconaligned with Paris Agreement’s global stocktake updates (2023, 2028)environmental  risk managementour goalProtecting the environment while providing affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy takes commitment, supported by effective processes, leading technologies  and dedicated people. It takes the commitment to keep  learning—and constantly improving.chevron.com/sustainability/environment #enhancingenvironmentalstewardshipChevron’s Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS)  has helped build our Operational Excellence (OE) culture  and improve our health, safety and environmental performance over time. To facilitate continual improvements in environmental performance, we have developed a new environmental risk  management strategy that is aligned with our Chevron environmental principles. The strategy provides a dynamic framework to identify emerging and long-term environmental  risks and issues as well as drive actions to improve our  performance across the enterprise.Chevron’s environmental risk management strategy will:•	Set and track objectives to meet environmental expectations•	Enable data-driven decision-making with enhanced digital innovation and analytics•	Expand the use of risk management practices and cost- effective technologies to identify and mitigate risk, benefit  the environment, and make better decisions•	Inspire our workforce by recognizing the good work we  already do and by increasing employee engagementwe’ve devised a  new environmental  risk management strategy to better identify emergency and long-term risksthe chevron way: who we are, what we believe, how we achieve and where we aspire to goOEMS, environment focus area: the frame- work we use to manage significant environmental risksenvironmental risk management strategy: drive improvements in environmental performance across the enterpriseenvironmental risk management process: identify and manage environmental risks  across the asset life cycleconcentric circle graphicOur Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) has been using elements of the environmental risk management strategy to drive auto-mated and integrated data collection, analytics and visualization  to improve environmental performance, communication and  compliance efficiencies with a long-term focus on maintaining  progress. Additionally, MCBU conducts cross-functional com-petency training to equip their workforce with current, relevant information related to regulatory changes, compliance refreshers, enterprise environmental goals and commitments, and best  management practices. These actions are designed to enable  recognition of environmental conditions, so our employees are capable stewards who are empowered to actively care for the  environment no matter what role they serve. The environmental risk management strategy is evergreen, and the shaping plan to realize the strategy will continue to evolve as our business evolves.Chevron’s Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process has been the cornerstone of evaluating potential impacts of capital projects. To build on the success of ESHIA,  we are expanding our approach to risk management to enable  the evaluation of environmental risks throughout the life cycle  of Chevron’s assets. We have developed a new Environmental  Risk Management Process (ERMP) that works alongside our existing Stakeholder Engagement and Issue Management (SEIM) process to strengthen our integrated approach and consistently manage environmental, social and health risks.The ERMP is designed to align with the practices of the Chevron OE Risk Management Process in identifying, mitigating and managing environmental risks from exploration activities, capital projects, operations, and asset retirement. The goal is for each business unit to have its environmental information documented  in an environmental risk register to understand its risk profile  and appropriate mitigation options more clearly. Field studies are an example of how the ERMP can be utilized  to assess environmental risk, aiding the business to make  data-driven decisions. In our Australasia business unit (ABU), sensors mounted on remotely operated underwater vehicles, gliders on the ocean surface and unmanned aerial vehicles have been used to verify characteristics of an offshore permitted discharge at our Wheatstone Platform. This field measurement allowed ABU to confirm that the project design was conservative and that the discharged wastewater was mixing with ocean  water more vigorously than modeling had indicated, resulting  in a lower estimation of risk than originally established. Imple-mentation of the ERMP will aid in the identification of high-consequence environmental risk scenarios, which would allow for more systematic risk-based field monitoring.Employee photoDon DanmeierIntegrated Optimization  Manager, Waste and Wateremployee spotlightMy education and training were as an ocean engineer, and during my first several years at Chevron, I applied numerical models and analysis to support offshore capital projects and marine operations. This included establishing metocean design criteria and operational support for drill rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico. I loved that work.I moved into the Health, Safety and Environment function several years ago with a focus on environmental and oil spill risks. I especially enjoy working with teammates who bring multiple perspectives to a problem and appreciate that Chevron is open to collecting input from a diverse group of subject matter experts with a deep understanding across physics, chemistry and biology. Their technical rigor and range of experience help us seamlessly integrate science into the decision-making process and provide the comprehensive risk management our Operational Excellence Management System demands.The company has a finite amount of resources, and we want to prioritize how we use them so we effectively identify and manage high-consequence environmental risk. Grounding our processes in science helps us understand our risks and have appropriate safeguards to manage them.UNEP-WCMCThe Biodiversity Indicators for Site-based Impacts (BISI) project—a joint initiative between the United Nations Environment Programme-World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC), Conservation International and  Fauna & Flora International, with support from the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the Proteus Partnership—developed and tested a methodology for aggregating biodiversity impact/benefit and performance data at a site level to provide indicators of biodiversity management performance at the corporate level. The screening step of Chevron’s new Environmental Risk Assessment and Management Procedure is designed to align with the BISI methodology to allow for consistent screening  of biodiversity risk across the enterprise.waterusing water  responsibly is integral  to our values,  environmental policy  and practicesConserving and protecting water resources is essential  for the communities where we operate and for our  busi?ness. Using water responsibly is an important part  of being a good partner in the communities where we work. We protect this critical natural resource through  our risk-based management systems, processes  and standards.chevron.com/waterfrom 15% to 0 decrease in the proportion of  fresh water used in MCBU’s  completions from 2016 to 2020from 0 to 29% increase in the use of recycled  produced water by MCBU since 2017We updated our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) to emphasize more visible linkages between risk,  assur?ance and safeguards and a streamlined approach to managing risk. Our Chevron Way values and OEMS expectations provide a solid foundation to guide our decisions and actions.  Our environ?mental principles integrate a risk-based approach to  drive continual improvement.We have a range of processes that evaluate and help us manage risks that may be associated with our water use. These processes focus on:•	Considering water conservation and efficiency in key decisions•	Striving to conserve, reuse and recycle•	Using appropriate metrics to report on water use •	Engaging with governments, partners, local communities and other stakeholders on significant water resource issues in areas where we operatereducing freshwater useOur Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) has a Surface Water  Use philosophy that aligns with Chevron’s water statement  in its goal to reduce the amount of fresh water used in operations. MCBU strives to cut freshwater use by using brackish water resources and recycled produced water instead of fresh water when possible. In the Permian Basin, the organization has decreased the proportion of fresh water used in their completions from 15 percent in 2016 to zero in 2020. Concurrently, they have increased the use of recycled produced water from zero in 2017 to 29 percent in 2020. These results demonstrate the unit’s practice of integrating a risk-based approach that assesses potential  social and environmental impacts across the life of their assets. operations and water variabilityOperating in an area of water variability, our Richmond, California, refinery meets its industrial water needs through a cooperative relationship with the East Bay Municipal District (EBMUD). EBMUD operates one of the largest industrial water reuse projects in California, with the capability to provide around 7.5 million gallons per day of recycled water for the refinery. The relationship is twofold. One operation involves the treatment  of secondary-treated wastewater to an even higher purity standard to supply four cooling towers at the refinery. In addition, the refinery receives recycled water from the Richmond Advanced Recycled Expansion (RARE) Water Project for use in its boilers to generate steam while manufacturing gasoline, jet fuel, diesel  and lubricants. Only high-purity water can be used in boilers for reliable operations. By using recycled water for most of its water needs, the refinery frees up enough drinking water to meet the indoor and outdoor water needs of more than 83,000 residents.balancing our water needs and those of societyOur Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture applied a robust risk- based approach to balance and forecast various water needs of their day-to-day operations, a major construction project (the Future Growth Project—or FGP) and the local community’s need  for potable water for drinking and recreational activities. TCO collaborated with Chevron Technical Center and the RAND Corporation to create a model that helped to explain the impacts of water shortages, the importance of seasonal spikes in demand, and the different constraints on potable and technical water (for use in TCO’s construction and operations). TCO then focused on increased conservation in their residential campus and contractor camps, a shift in water supply from potable to technical water in one village, and additional investment to ensure that existing wastewater treatment and recycling facilities were operating reliably. For their FGP construction, TCO used alternate water sources, including recycled or recovered water for most of their construction needs. Concurrently, TCO commissioned a wastewater treatment facility (WTF) and associated water recycling facilities (WRF) to focus on freshwater conservation and wastewater management. The treated wastewater from the WTF provides the WRF influent to produce high-quality water for operational purposes. Operation of the  WRF supports TCO initiatives related to freshwater conservation and wastewater management. Since the WRF was completed in 2016, recycled water from their operation has increased TCO’s  annual recycled water rate to over 30 percent of overall consump-tion. And the facility is a major component of TCO’s long-term, comprehensive water management program.Employee photoBhavana KarnikEnvironmental Program Manager,Environmental Risk and Processemployee spotlightI’m passionate about water management as an important component of Chevron’s broader environmental focus area. The company has evolved from managing water as an operational issue to recognizing it as a vital need for our entire society. We incorporate tools and guidance and collect data to include potential environmental, social and community impacts to inform decision-making. As someone with a Ph.D. in water management, the scientist in me is encouraged by Chevron’s strategy to drive data-based decision-making to best conserve, recycle and use water responsibly. Before taking on my current role, I was a Health, Safety and Environment specialist for our Mid-Continent business unit. My role provided perspective that helped me recognize  water as a local issue that had to be analyzed and managed  taking local factors into consideration. Additionally, deci??- sions need cross-functional engagement and alignment  for success?ful implementation. That understanding carries over into assessing water needs across our operations.  One number can’t be used to make all decisions about water manage?ment. We need to have the openness to recognize that one metric can mean very different things from one location to another. We are using a risk-based approach to protect people and the environment to guide decisions and safeguard selections for our enterprisewide water use.  We’re still learning. But I’m confident that we’re on a journey that’s worth making.a screenshot of water stress global mapSource: WRI Aqueduct, accessed on May 17, 2021, at aqueduct.wri.org.Recognizing that water stress models continue to evolve, in 2020 we conducted an initial review of our operated assets using the Water Resources Institute (WRI) Water Risk Atlas to increase our understanding of the baseline water stress in the areas where we operate. Because of the global nature of our business, our assets do not share the same physical attributes and would not be impacted in the same way across our portfolio. Our OEMS processes will help manage risks and develop safeguards that may be associated with our water use, while we continue to explore water indicators that effectively communicate our water use over time and track performance.IPIECAChevron, as a corporate member of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), collaborates closely with the Water Working Group (WWG) on several projects related to water management. Chevron has recently been involved in developing a peer-to-peer workshop to continue to promote awareness and implementation of WWG products in the wider oil and gas industry, which is scheduled to occur during the first half of 2021. Chevron is also collaborating on a study to understand and identify physical climate risk assessed by publicly available drought and flood risk tools and their application within the oil and gas industry. By actively leveraging our collective expertise, we’re helping to incorporate our environmental vision in the documents and products developed by this group.biodiversitywe support biodiversity through our values, performance, communication and engagementWe understand that humans and the natural environment interact with each other in various ways. Ecosystems  per?form many functions in supporting sustainable eco?- ?nomic development. Through our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), we work to identify and manage potential impacts our operations and activities may have on the natural environment and the ecosystem services relied upon by communities.chevron.com/biodiversityvaluesOur company’s enduring culture of operational excellence drives us to deliver results the right and responsible way. This includes placing the protection of communities and the environment among our highest priorities. It is this value that helps define and shape  our actions on biodiversity. performanceOur new Environmental Risk Management Process (ERMP), under OEMS, is designed to operationalize a risk-based approach to identify, assess and manage potential risks to the environment, including those related to biodiversity, across the life cycle of Chevron assets. This approach is guided by the principles of the mitigation hierarchy, which seeks to avoid, reduce, mitigate or offset potential impacts to the environment, including on sensitive species and habitats. schematic diagram showing  the implementation of the mitigation hierarchypreventiveavoidance•	Avoidance•	Site selection•	Design•	Schedulingminimization•	Physical controls•	Operational controls•	Abatement controlsCan potential impacts be managed adequately through remediative measures?noyesremediativerestoration•	Reestablishing  habitat types•	Reestablishing  biodiversity values•	Reestablishing  ecosystem servicesoffsets•	Restoration offsets•	Averted loss offsetsThe ERMP is designed to build on our existing OEMS processes and practices to:•	Incorporate biodiversity considerations into our business decision-making and management. This can include modifying how and where we design, build and operate our facilities •	Consider whether and how to operate in a protected or sensi-tive area based on area- and operation-specific circumstances, legal authorization, and ability to meet or exceed regulatory requirements, and capability to manage the risk of potential impacts by using appropriately protective operating practices•	Apply Chevron’s “Protective by Design” concept, which requires  the application of the principles of the mitigation hierarchy, where there are potential risks from our operations to sensitive  biological resources, and seek ways to make positive contri-butions to biodiversity conservation in the areatechnology to drive performanceTo understand and protect species and ecosystems on and surrounding our assets, we review available tools and technol-ogies for application in our operations. One such tool is environmental DNA (eDNA) technology, which detects DNA fragments in environmental samples and matches them to  known species’ DNA sequences in online libraries to identify  which species are present in an area. Enabled by recent  advances in DNA sequencing technology, eDNA is faster,  more cost-effective and more powerful than most conventional ecological measurement methods. eDNA allows a compre-hensive assessment of local environments and is highly sensitive  to detection of rare, threatened or invasive species.We have applied eDNA in a variety of environments, including  to understand and manage the potential risks of alien invasive species associated with marine transport operations; to test  for the presence of rare, endangered or invasive species prior to the commencement of new operations; and to provide a rapid baseline data collection approach for impact and recovery monitoring during a potential oil spill.collaboration between  the private sector  and the UNEP-WCMCThrough our collaboration in the Proteus Partnership, we  have access to global biodiversity data to support quality decision-making and risk assessments where we operate. Proteus is a voluntary collaboration involving the UN Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring  Centre (UNEP-WCMC), other major conservation organizations and private sector companies. Proteus partners share biodiversity data, participate in forums and training sessions, and collaborate on approaches to better understand, plan  for and manage potential biodiversity impacts.Employee photoAnargul KalelovaEnvironmental, Labor and  Community Team Lead,  Tengiz Field, Tengizchevroilemployee spotlightMy greatest privilege is working with the people committed  to managing Tengizchevroil’s (TCO’s) environmental, labor and community issues and seeking to reduce, or avoid  as much as possible, our footprint in our environment and community. I am proud I am working with them. Working with biodiversity experts, I have expanded my knowledge of the ecosystem here and of the importance  of conserving biodiversity, which involves our having  strong management plans. I am focused on conservation efforts to protect our natural areas and the flora and fauna that occupy them. TCO recently announced support for an exciting conser-vation project: to design and test a number of conservation measures that will be implemented to provide breeding conditions for the Sociable Lapwing. The Sociable Lapwing,  a bird listed as Critically Endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, breeds on open grassland  in the steppes. Kazakhstan is home to the main breeding colony of the birds, which annually migrate from their nesting groups to the Middle East, Eastern Europe, East Africa  and Asia.The project has five objectives, including working with farmers to safeguard nests at risk from plowing, satellite tracking of these birds, field research to understand changes in their nesting habitat, and raising awareness of the  Sociable Lapwing and its conservation status within local communities. TCO is proud to be a supporter of the project  to help an iconic bird of the Kazakh steppe.planting icon30,000 trees were planted on five sites  by our CBU in 2020  as a restoration activityprotecting speciesBiodiversity can also shape our decisions at the end of a project’s life cycle and can include restoration activities designed to  restore site habitat and biodiversity functions consistent with  the surrounding setting. For example, our Canada business unit (CBU) has been conducting restoration work in the Horn River area of British Columbia since they ceased activity on a natural gas site in 2019. At Horn River, CBU’s well-abandonment activity involved contouring the site area in a way that matched the surrounding environment.In summer 2020, work was completed on five sites, which included planting more than 30,000 trees, managing invasive species  and conducting final detailed site assessments. In 2021, Chevron will apply for our first Certificates of Restoration in British Columbia  on three sites, which involves demonstrating the trees have been established successfully.Paul Dziuba, environmental specialist at CBU, explained that  CBU’s goal is “that in the future you’ll never know any oil and gas activity took place on the lease.” He added, “We’re on the lookout for signs like sensitive species to use as a directional guide that we’ll achieve that goal.”CBU’s environmental team was rewarded with a sign of their success recently when the team spotted a caribou foraging in the area. “Caribou are what’s called an ‘indicator species’ because they are highly sensitive to disturbances in their habitat,” explains Dziuba. “Their presence on a restored location is a solid indication of success because a species as sensitive as caribou likely wouldn’t use the site were it not consistent with the surrounding area.”communication and engagementWe work to raise internal and external awareness of the importance of conserving biodiversity, to build partnerships around the  issue, and to support wider efforts in biodiversity conservation. These include:•	Communicating about our biodiversity-related activities to employees and outside audiences•	Engaging with government, local communities and others to understand and work to address significant biodiversity issues  in areas where we operate•	Participating in industry associations and other forums to share and promote information and awareness around biodiversity conservation•	Seeking to understand and, where appropriate, participate in development of external policy-making activities that affect our operations, such as those adopted under the UN Convention  on Biological Diversity and national, regional and local biodiversity policies and planscollaboration with  wildlife habitat councilThe Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) empowers companies to implement habitat conservation and education initiatives on company lands, and certifies these activities through its voluntary sustainability standard, WHC Conservation Certification.® In 2020, Chevron received Conservation Certification renewal for wetlands that were constructed  as part of the reclamation process at our former Cincinnati  Refinery. Additionally, Chevron is engaging with WHC to leverage WHC’s technical expertise in designing closure  plans to help establish sustainable ecosystems and improve wildlife habitat.