empowering peoplewe put people at the center of everything we doPhoto: As COVID-19 restrictions lifted, we recognized the value of a hybrid work model 
for greater flexibility while enabling us to 
continue to build our culture.health and safety 
managementour people are our most valuable resourceworkforce safetyRegrettably, we had five contractor fatalities and recorded 20 serious injuries in 2022. Fatalities and injuries have a profound impact on our families, communities and company. Protecting the health and safety of all those who work on our behalf is a core value. Chevron is committed to preventing serious incidents and fatalities.Enabling safe workTo prevent serious injuries and fatalities (SIFs), we focus on the planning and execution of high-risk activities. We identify and initiate action plans at both the local and enterprise levels to engage front-line leaders and workers and enable safe work. Cross-functional teams work to implement and scale our SIF prevention efforts. Lessons learned are shared throughout the company and applied in our daily practices. We believe the application of these practices and the execution of the Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) are key to the continuous improvement of our safety performance.Maintaining contractor safetyOur Contractor Operational Excellence Management (COEM) process establishes clear accountabilities, promotes active partnership and provides a consistent approach to help prevent SIFs. Best practices and early-adopter experiences 
are shared through our COEM Community of Practice. In addition, a complementary digital application, eCOEM, enables Operational Excellence (OE) diligence during each phase of the contracting lifecycle.Collaborating for safety improvementChevron partnered with other international energy companies and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) to host Safety Collaboration Forum 2022, Projects and Wells. The forum assembled strategic contractor partner companies with capital project and wells expertise. Agenda items included leadership’s influence on safety performance, proactive learning and Start-Work Checks as a verification tool for front-line worker SIF prevention. After the sessions, attendees discussed how they can drive changes within their organizations. This forum set a foundation for safety collaboration and emphasized improvement and human performance principles as a key to industry risk resiliency.Embracing human performanceHuman and organizational performance (HOP) principles 
and concepts help mitigate the risk of human errors. 
They encourage the workforce to capture and share innovations and key lessons learned from the field to accelerate continuous improvement. In November 2022, Saudi Arabian Chevron conducted a two-day SIF awareness and prevention workshop with industry peers and contractor companies. The workshop introduced HOP principles, 
such as a verification and validation program and coaching front-line workers performing high-risk work or potential 
high-consequence work.process safetyConsistent execution in operationsConduct of Operations (COO) encompasses the standards 
and practices used to structure operational practices 
and operations management tasks. Through COO, we can 
influence the performance of work activities in a deliberate way, reducing variation in outcomes to improve safe, reliable and consistent operational performance. We harmonized existing practices into an enterprisewide business improve.ment network (BIN) to reinforce strong COO, enable effective input on new standards development and promote sharing of 
best practices. COO BIN membership comprises operations 
specialists and process safety experts from across Chevron business units and technical functions.product stewardshipChemical management through technologyChevron manages over 1,500 chemicals in product formu.lations as part of our Operational Excellence Product Stewardship process. In 2022, we created more than 70,000 safety data sheets in 39 languages. Digital dashboards prioritize the chemicals based on concentration in the product, region of distribution and hazard classification. This provides our business units with the information needed to analyze 
how and where potentially hazardous chemicals exist in the value chain. It also allows our business partners to make informed decisions about the chemicals they use.safety technologyReal-time air modelingPart of being a good neighbor is being ready to act should 
an incident occur in a community where we operate. To 
maintain our vigilance, Chevron systematically tests technologies designed to keep the public and our workforce safe. The El Segundo Refinery piloted Industrial Scientific Corporation’s SAFER One® solution, a plume-dispersion modeling software that uses live meteorological and gas detection readings to update plume projections in real time. Incident managers can assess the immediate downwind impact from a point of release to make decisions and deploy resources that reduce potential risk to personnel and the surrounding community.healthPromoting workforce well-beingChevron recognizes that mental, emotional and physical health is paramount to workforce well-being. Our aim is to have resources proactively and readily available to the entire workforce and their family members prior to an individual experiencing an elevated emotional strain or a diagnosis of a mental or physical health condition. The meQuilibrium (meQ) app has been expanded to include employees’ adult dependents and made available in more languages, making a stress management resource more accessible to our global workforce and their families.Our annual Enterprise Health Index collects anonymized employee health measurements over eight different dimensions, including individual health and well-being. 
Overall scores increased as we returned to office locations 
and adopted hybrid schedules after the height of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. However, individual well-being scores have decreased in the stress management and work-life balance areas.Our mental health campaign strategy focused on setting boundaries at home and the workplace to establish balance and expectations that may mitigate stress and burnout. In 2022, many of our employee networks organized mental, emotional and physical well-being events and highlighted work-life services. Our Women’s Employee Network focused on burnout, and our XYZ Employee Network highlighted the importance of emotional and physical well-being. To help reduce employees’ anxiety about returning to office locations, the Chevron Health & Medical team addressed stigma and other emotional well-being factors through masking and vaccination messaging. The team also continued to provide COVID-19 testing and contact tracing services. The ergonomics team conducted workstation evaluations for both in-office and at-home workspaces to address physical discomfort and satisfy corporate standards.Combating infectious diseaseSoutheast Asia One Health University Network (SEAOHUN) universities are working together to develop the next generation of health professionals with the right set of 
skills and mindset to respond to infectious disease threats. We are collaborating with SEAOHUN on a program called “Strengthening One Health Education in Southeast Asia.” 
This program aims to improve public health literacy in children and lays the foundation for effective public responses to future infectious disease threats. The program provides opportunities for Chevron to engage with an extensive network of national, regional and international One 
Health stakeholders in the areas where we operate.To learn more, visit chevron.co/healthsafety.IOGP Chevron participated in an IOGP Safety Committee task 
force to understand the mechanisms that lead to serious injuries, referred to by IOGP as fatality and permanent impairment. In November 2022, the committee published definitions and concepts to support consistent reporting 
and measurement of actual and potential serious injuries. 
We believe the benchmarking data will help the industry further understand injury incidents and promote continued safety performance improvements through the provision 
of both lagging and leading metrics. The OEMS Workforce Safety and Health and Process Safety, Reliability and Integrity expectations 
enable consistency and standardization across the company. Everyone in the workforce contributes to 
our Operational Excellence culture and performance. examples of how we collaborate with nonoperated joint ventures to manage risk knowledge 
sharing For risk-based assessment and prioritization of nonoperated joint ventures (NOJV), Chevron 
utilizes an NOJV health, safety and environment (HSE) process. The associated tools and guidance 
apply consistency in the assessment of partners’ HSE capabilities. Where practical, Chevron 
seconds employees to NOJV operations to partner and share best practices. Chevron influences partners to: (1) eliminate fatalities, serious injuries and illnesses; (2) eliminate high-consequence process safety incidents and operate with industry-leading reliability; and (3) assess and manage significant environmental and social risks. partnership Brightmark RNG Holdings LLC, an NOJV partnership between Chevron and Brightmark Fund 
Holdings LLC, captures biomethane from dairy operations and updates it to renewable natural gas (RNG) used for transportation fuel. To influence safe and reliable operations, the Environmental, Health, Safety & Security (EHSS) committee, which includes members from both companies, reviews EHSS strategies, programs, compliance and performance. Together we work to mitigate potential 
risks through effective collaboration and best-practice sharing. workforce well-being Chevron is proud to be named among the 
Healthiest 100 Workplaces in America in 2022 by Healthiest Employers,® honoring organizations that prioritize employee well-being.Chevron received the 2023 Platinum Bell Seal 
for Workplace Mental Health by Mental 
Health America. The Bell Seal is a first-of-its-kind 
workplace mental health certification that recognizes employers who strive to create mentally healthy workplaces for their employees.partnering for health equity Health equity can be described as the state when every person can attain full health 
potential without being disadvantaged because of social and other factors. Chevron Health & Medical considers health equity when assessing workforce health strategies 
and in supporting prevention, education and treatment that may benefit the communities 
where we operate. We believe programs that are accessible, affordable, prevention-focused, and culturally and globally relevant can go a long way toward addressing equity issues. people and culturewe invest in people and foster a culture of belongingdiversity and inclusion at 
chevron are enabled by our strong corporate culture, empowering 
our employee workforce, advancing
racial equity, and focusing on talent recruitment and developmentour corporate cultureChevron invests in its workforce and culture, with the objective of engaging employees to develop their full potential to deliver energy solutions and enable human progress. A compelling employee experience supports the pursuit of meaningful careers. We promote resources for good health, well-being and work-life balance. Our focus is on strengthening the attraction of future employees and retention and upskilling of our current employees. We promote a culture of feedback within the workforce and develop leaders to sustain and strengthen our culture for the future.Employee engagement is an indicator of employee well-being and commitment to the company’s values, purpose and 
strategies. Chevron regularly conducts employee surveys to assess the health of the company culture. Recent surveys indicate high employee engagement. Our survey frequency enables us to better understand employee sentiment through.out the year and gain insights into employee well-being.empowering our employeesAt Chevron, employee networks are voluntary groups of employees that come together based on shared identity 
or interests. These networks seek to foster an inclusive and supportive work environment for all employees.Our Chairman’s Inclusion Council provides employee 
network presidents with a direct line of communication to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer, and the Enterprise Leadership Team. The council allows executives and network presidents to collaborate and discuss how employee networks can reinforce Chevron’s values of diversity and inclusion. As employees’ needs change, we evolve to meet those changing needs. In 2022, our Boomers Employee Network became the Stages Employee Network, recognizing the need to shift from a generation-based network to one that spans the stages of an employee’s career. In support of Chevron’s long-term employment model, the network is dedicated 
to sharing knowledge and experience among employees as 
they transition through their careers and lives.Chevron established an Equity Review Committee to 
review employee concerns with promotion or selections. 
The committee, which includes external experts, will offer external perspectives on whether our promotion and 
selection processes are yielding equitable results.attracting underrepresented, 
new and early talentChevron pursues the talent of underrepresented groups, including women and minority groups, through programs and partnerships. This includes developing strong relationships with universities and diversity associations. Our approach begins with our refreshed external careers website, including 21 country pages to highlight our diversity and inclusion efforts and attract multigenerational talent around the globe.Our intern program serves Chevron’s early-career talent pipeline. In 2022, the internship program was hybrid, providing virtual and in-person work opportunities. Our 
intern and full-time campus hires from underrepresented talent pools increased between 2020 and 2022.Looking beyond traditional talent sourcing channels, such as specific schools and universities, we’ve collaborated regionally with Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.® and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.® This expansion allows us to attract underrepresented candidates from historically African American organizations. Through these efforts we hired our first Corporate Compliance Law Function intern, who after their summer internship experience was offered and accepted a full-time position.Chevron’s University & Partnerships team hosted “Getting to Know Chevron” virtual sessions for our partners from histor.ically Black colleges and universities. Over 2,200 students 
demonstrated interest in Chevron, and 215 attended sessions on energy transition, technology and Chevron’s Horizons early-career development program.advancing our racial equity strategyIn 2020, Chevron made a $15 million pledge to support the Black community in the United States to address barriers to equity. Two years later, we continue our efforts to address racial barriers through community partnerships, education, job creation, and talent and leadership development.Diversifying talent sourcingWe continued our collaboration with the American Petroleum Institute (API) and Opportunity@Work to focus on skills-based hiring to broaden our reach and diversify our talent pipeline. Launched in 2022, the API SkillsReady job readiness program is designed to attract and train entry-level candidates and close industry skills and diversity gaps. Graduates receive an API Certificate endorsing their knowledge of industry operations. Our partnership with Opportunity@Work also helps us identify and source people they refer to as STARs (Skilled Through Alternative Routes). Rather than a bachelor’s degree, STARs obtain training through nontraditional paths such as community colleges, workforce training, certifications, military service or on-the-job learning. Investing with the Thurgood Marshall College FundAs part of our racial equity strategy, we support the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF).•	We partnered with TMCF on our Chevron Energy Innovation Summit, which featured a two-and-a-half-day case competition that covered design-thinking, business modeling and pitch instruction. Winners received scholarships and met with Chevron executives and senior leaders. For 2022–2023, one full-time offer and three intern offers have been extended to summit participants. Chevron Technology Ventures hosted panel sessions focused on careers and innovation in energy. •	Chevron is working with TMCF on the National Black Talent BankTM program, designed for select students with technical degrees from historically Black colleges and universities and predominantly Black institutions. Program participants complete technical training, upskilling and certifications that prepare them to enter the workforce in software and industrial engineering roles, including entry-level roles with Chevron, post training.Advancing our supplier diversityIn 2022, our Supplier Diversity Governance Board endorsed new strategies to increase spending with diverse businesses. We aim to diversify our supply chain by expanding our investment in technology and industry partnerships.Our work with the API supplier diversity task force seeks to increase minority-owned business participation in our sector. Industry-focused training and development provides an opportunity to improve the supply of capable, high-capacity providers and increase demand for diverse suppliers from member companies.Chevron is a member of the Greater Houston Partnership and its One Houston Together buyer’s cohort, dedicated to advancing racial equity and increasing spending on minority business enterprises. Our Chief Procurement Officer (CPO), Steve Freeman, participates in the cohort’s supplier diversity workstream, CPO Convening, aimed at expanding collaboration and increasing minority business growth.Racial equity auditIn 2022, Chevron commissioned an external review of our racial equity and diversity and inclusion initiatives. The resulting report recognizes our progress and offers recommendations for how we might continue to improve. 
For more information, visit chevron.co/2023rea.investing in our peopleWe believe in fostering leadership at every level, whether supervising a team or informally influencing peers. Our development programs are designed to help people achieve their full potential, accelerate leadership capabilities, and cultivate a diverse and robust talent pipeline in an ever-changing work environment.Because Chevron believes in developing leaders at all levels, we introduced a new coaching program to reach deeper into the organization, including front-line supervisors, managers and, more recently, individual contributors. The BetterUp platform offers live, one-on-one coaching sessions and Coaching Circles™ with small groups of peers. Since its 
launch in 2020, Chevron has provided coaching to over 
2,900 supervisors, managers and individual contributors 
in 45 countries and 18 languages.Chevron also offers multiple leadership development 
programs with a focus on self-reflection, continuous 
learning and strategic networking. Specifically for women, 
the Transformational Leadership® for Multicultural 
Women Program addresses headwinds faced by multi.cultural women in their leadership journeys. The Global Women’s Leadership Development Program, now in its 
third year, promotes acceleration of women’s leadership development and experience. Almost 100 women have 
participated in these two programs.In 2022, nearly 135 employees participated in Asian American, Asia-Pacific, Black, and Latino-focused leadership programs that address topics unique to each demographic group and enhance leadership and other skill sets essential to success.To learn more, visit chevron.co/diversityandinclusion.chevron employee networks in 202211networks˜19,000network membersMario LopezPricing Fuels Lead, 
Mexico, Colombia and 
Central America employee spotlightI’ve been fortunate to have opportunities for global collaboration and leadership at Chevron since 2001, both in Pricing and through volunteering with Somos. Somos is Chevron’s Latin American and Hispanic employee network. As their Integration Officer, I’ve focused on driving communication and professional development among chapters since 2019.Somos aims to help Chevron employees access equal career development opportunities. To support this goal, 
in 2022 we piloted an early career mentoring program 
in Argentina, where motivated Chevron leaders and 
employees were matched to develop their organizational 
capability and build relationships. Participants praised the program, commenting on the immediate value this mentorship provided for their current roles and near-term career planning.Our work with the Hispanic Outreach and Language Assimilation (HOLA) initiative, in collaboration with 
Chevron’s social investment efforts, supports community 
outreach and volunteering in the Hispanic communities where we operate. One area we’re passionate about promoting is science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Somos members in Central America have volunteered with a nongovernmental organization to implement STEM programs.In September 2022, we held our Global Somos employee network conference, which brought together Somos network leaders from across our business to meet in person and build leadership skills. Within Somos we apply a “Familia” or “one team” approach to our work. We believe collaboration across the enterprise helps us to achieve our full potential. internship talent pipelineIn 2022, 90% of the full-time 
offers extended to previous 
interns were acceptedleadership commitment Through external board appointments, Chevron contributes to diversity, 
equity and inclusion within our industry and the communities where we operate. 
Our enterprise leaders serving on external boards in 2022 are listed here. diverse supplier advocacyWe are long-standing partners and leading supporters of nonprofit organizations that have helped thousands of diverse businesses grow. These include:•	National Minority Supplier Development Council•	Women’s Business Enterprise National Council•	National LGBT Chamber of Commerce •	Disability:IN executive leadership council Through our four-year agreement with The Executive Leadership Council (ELC), Chevron has sponsored 
leadership development training for over 135 Black employees, with more than 40 attending in 2022. We’ve 
also partnered to develop the Chevron ELC Scholarship Program, a $675,000 multiyear investment where five 
rising sophomores in business or STEM majors receive $20,000 annually for three years. One scholar from the 
2021 group completed an IT internship in 2022 and accepted a second internship for 2023. A second group of scholars 
was announced in October 2022. human rightsenabling human progress 
begins with respecting human rightsstrengthening processesWe operationalize our commitment to respecting human rights by implementing processes, procedures and tools that enable us to identify and manage potential human rights impacts. This includes guidance on conducting risk and impact assessments as well as engaging with suppliers, contractors and other business partners.Within our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), our Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Manage.ment process continues to be the primary mechanism to put into action our respect for human rights in the communities where we operate. Most Chevron business units undergo an OEMS audit every three to five years and conduct annual assurance activities. Through our OEMS audit and assurance program, subject matter experts review the effectiveness 
of process and safeguard implementation. Safeguards such as grievance mechanisms and plans for stakeholder engagement, issue management, emergency response and social investment are systematically reviewed alongside the other OEMS focus areas. Where a business unit has a resettlement plan or engagement with Indigenous Peoples, these plans are also in scope for an audit.Since 2021, stakeholder-related safeguards have been formally audited across 18 business units and specific actions have been identified to continue improving their design, effectiveness and execution. chevron commits to 
respecting human rights as set 
out in the united nations 
universal declaration of human 
rights and international 
labour organization declaration 
on fundamental principles 
and rights at workindigenous peoples guidanceChevron aims to collaborate with Indigenous Peoples and their communities to build trusting and mutually beneficial relationships in a way that respects their history, culture and customs. In 2022, we reviewed our Indigenous Peoples Guidance and reaffirmed its alignment with The Chevron 
Way vision and values, Chevron’s Human Rights Policy, 
and our OEMS.respect in the workplaceFollowing the Australian Human Rights Commission 
Respect@Work Report and a Western Australia parliamentary inquiry into sexual harassment in the resources industry, 
there has been an increasing focus on inappropriate 
behaviors in Australia workplaces. Against this background, Chevron Australia commissioned a voluntary review of behaviors in its workplaces.A specialist consultant, Intersection, conducted workforce engagements across upstream worksites in the Pilbara and Perth, examined potential barriers to reporting and provided 24 recommendations across four key focus areas:•	Addressing the prevalence of any form of bullying, harassment and discrimination•	Uplifting leadership accountability•	Increasing diversity and inclusion•	Improving the response to reports of inappropriate behaviorsChevron Australia has accepted the recommendations and appointed a project manager, reporting directly to the Managing Director, to oversee implementation. Chevron Australia has also held business unit-wide “Stand Up for Respect” events to discuss the importance of everyone contributing to a workplace free from bullying, harassment and discrimination.innovative community engagementChevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) operations are in the 
Niger Delta region, home to multiple ethnic groups and 
known to be conflict-affected. In 2003, a violent interethnic conflict resulted in significant damage to company infra.structure. To move forward, CNL pursued a new approach 
to stakeholder engagement, leading to a global memorandum of understanding (GMoU).The GMoU is a multistakeholder partnership model. Clusters 
of ethnically similar communities organize into regional 
development committees that govern how CNL funding 
is allocated for the socioeconomic development of the 
area. The GMoU model is based on accountability, transpar.ency and unity among communities and demonstrable 
positive impact. Since its adoption in 2005, the model has been acknowledged globally for addressing community 
restiveness and peace building, and facilitating rapid, sustain.able socioeconomic development.we can learn from the 
Nigeria model as we advance 
our approach to operating in 
conflict-affected areasNigeria’s Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) of 2021 requires allocation of a percentage of operating expenditure to host communities’ development trusts. A key objective of the Act is to enhance peaceful and harmonious coexistence between companies and host communities. Leading up to and after enactment of the law, CNL broadly communicated our experiences working under the GMoU model. CNL shared the model with industry peers and the government. environmental justiceIn 2022, we published our Environmental Justice Principles. Since then, a cross-functional team has worked to advance our environmental justice approach. The team seeks to understand emerging environmental justice policy and related issues. In addition, the team offers tailored support to business units, which are assessing local context around environmental justice to engage with communities, lawmakers and regulators. Subject matter experts from our legislative and regulatory affairs and health, safety and environment functions continue to participate and engage externally. For example, they engage with API’s Environmental Justice Coordination Team and state and local trade associations. Our efforts to support our neighboring communities demonstrate our continued focus on environmental health and social performance.A group of employees has been trained to serve as qualified environmental and social facilitators. Facilitators aim to look across environmental, social and community health parameters to assess cross-cutting impacts, promoting conversations that help us better understand how social 
and environmental issues are interconnected.To learn more, visit chevron.co/humanrights.chevron human rights policy suppliersWe expect our suppliers 
and contractors to 
respect human rights and adhere to applicable international principlescommunitiesWe commit to regularly engage communities 
near our operational 
and project areas in meaningful conversationssecurityWe protect personnel 
and assets and provide 
a secure environment 
for business operationsother business partnersWe encourage our 
customers and business partners to respect 
human rights and to 
adhere to applicable international principlesemployeesWe treat all employees 
with respect and dignity 
and promote diversity 
in the workplaceThe OEMS Stakeholders Focus Area and Security Focus Area expectations state the desired outcomes 
to manage associated risks, of which human rights is a subset. The Stakeholder Engagement and 
Issues Management process identifies and manages social, political and reputational risks to the company 
and addresses potential business impacts.Chevron’s Indigenous Peoples Guidance provides an approach for effective engagement and its incorporation into Chevron’s Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management process and social investment plans. The guidance allows fit-
for-purpose approaches to manage local Indigenous groups’ concerns. To learn more, visit Chevron's Canada business unit: chevron.co/indigenousrelationspolicy
chevron.co/indigenouspartnerships partnership initiatives 
in the niger delta Through the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND), Chevron is helping to reduce conflict, promote peace, create new jobs and livelihood opportunities, enable access to clean energy, and stimulate the local 
eco.nomy. PIND facilitates investments from government, donors and private companies to advance socioeconomic development in the region. As of 2021, the initiative had 11,372 active peace actors working to reduce conflict and facilitated 10,562 full-time jobs in the agro-allied and renewable energy sectors. creating prosperitywe believe our business succeeds 
when our people and communities succeedour focus on people, environment 
and prosperity allows us to 
give back to our communitiespeopleProviding disaster reliefChevron provides aid to communities where we operate 
when they are impacted by natural disasters. When Bangladesh was affected by severe flooding in late spring 2022, our support of Bangladeshi communities included 
funds for food relief and water purification. After Hurricane 
Ian in Florida, we donated to the Volunteer Florida Foundation, Team Rubicon, the American Red Cross and the Fuel Relief Fund to assist in immediate relief and recovery. Chevron 
also matched employee donations to Hurricane Ian relief 
and provided grants to nonprofit organizations where employees have volunteered.Partnering for maternal and pediatric careWe are proud of our collaboration with the United Nations Population Fund to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality in Equatorial Guinea. Workers at 23 health facilities have received reproductive-health training focused on reducing maternal mortality.environmentConserving coastal wetlandsChevron has teamed with Ducks Unlimited to help preserve over 45,000 acres of wetlands in Louisiana. Many of the projects entail the construction of marsh terraces that will encourage the growth of aquatic vegetation, the food chain foundation for ducks, shorebirds, fish and other coastal wildlife. Our investment aims to fortify communities and protect the livelihoods of residents in South Louisiana. Contributing to nature-based solutionsIn 2022, we continued our partnership with Conservation Volunteers Australia in the Revive our Wetlands campaign, which seeks to protect and restore wetland environments through targeted conservation. Our sponsorship through 
2024 will also finance community volunteer and education events, such as local wetland and biodiversity restoration.prosperitySupporting young engineersChevron partners with and donates to the Heznek for 
Practical Engineers program to benefit underprivileged students in Israel. Aiming to advance workforce diversity and inclusion, the program has had more than 1,500 student participants to date. We also support a school for practical engineers, known as the Chevron-Ruppin Center for Energy and Natural Gas. The program emphasizes careers in oil 
and gas, which helps complement the work of Heznek. Most 
of Ruppin’s graduates go on to work in Israel’s energy industry, which needs certified practical engineers.Developing community spacesBuilding relationships in the communities where we operate 
is at the core of Chevron’s values. Through Tengizchevroil, our joint venture in Kazakhstan, and Eurasia Foundation of Central Asia, we sponsor the Public Spaces program. The program helps municipalities develop and construct shared spaces, such as playgrounds, sports grounds and recreation areas. Over 275 residents have participated with local governments in project development and management training with the aim to increase local partnerships. In 2022, 65 public space projects were implemented, directly and indirectly benefiting more than 21,000 residents.Assisting local schoolsChevron’s willingness to help took on sudden urgency in August 2022 when schools near our Richmond Refinery were vandalized. Over the summer, six schools were significantly damaged and lost valuable teaching supplies. Through our longtime DonorsChoose partnership, Chevron quickly provided supplies to teachers in the school district to begin repairs and progress teacher-requested projects ahead of 
the new school year.To learn more, visit chevron.co/creatingprosperity.Reem MoharamOffice Manager, 
Chevron Egypt Upstream employee spotlightI have always believed that education is the fundamental way to enhance people’s lives – to teach them to catch 
fish for themselves. In today’s world, that equates to 
teaching young girls they can master science, technol.ogy, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects that will help them compete for job opportunities.My main role has involved coordinating with the Corporate Affairs team on the logistics in Egypt. 
In Egypt, engineering has too often been seen as a males-only profession. Chevron introduced a “Girls Make” program to teach STEM to young girls. This program is not only about educating and inspiring the girls who participate, it’s also about changing mindsets to see daughters as innovators. Our Corporate Affairs team in Houston initiated the program, which our company in Egypt supports in collaboration with the Egyptian government.The selective program generated high interest and reached more than 150,000 individuals on social media. I’m excited by how this program can help give girls the confidence and skills to progress in this competitive field. chevron humankind program in 2022In addition to our enterprise social investment 
programs, Chevron Humankind is a 
way for U.S.-based employees and retirees 
to support causes they care about. 1,233charitable organizationsbenefited from volunteer time$34M+contributed to U.S. nonprofitsthrough a combination of employee 
and retiree giving and company matching fundsasia venture 
philanthropy network Chevron is funding the Asia Venture Philanthropy 
Network (AVPN), which brings together companies, investors and foundations to foster innovation and strengthen the nonprofit, social investment ecosystem in Asia. Our contributions to AVPN pooled funds include support for health care in vulnerable communities and 
gender equity in STEM education for girls and women.