Prioritizing Issues for Our Reporting The content for our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights and Chevron.com was determined by an issue prioritization process. First, a team of employees from across our business segments identiﬁed environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics relevant to our business. The team also considered issues covered by the IPIECA/API/OGP* 2010 Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting, topics addressed in previous Corporate Responsibility Reports, feedback received on the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report from internal and external audiences, media analysis, and industry peer review. Then, the team prioritized the identiﬁed issues based on an internal analysis of topics and their importance to our stakeholders investors, customers, host governments, local communities and our employees. Our prioritized content is aligned with IPIECA/ API/OGP indicators. For 2014, Chevron reported fully to all 33 indicators. An IPIECA/API/OGP content index is available on page 23 of this report. In addition to this Highlights report, our expanded reporting on these indicators can be found at Chevron.com/IPIECA. *IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmen.tal and social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. Our full reporting on ESG indicators can be found at Chevron.com/Reporting. The Chevron Way The Chevron Way explains who we are, what we do, what we believe and what we plan to accomplish. At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. We make this vision a reality by consistently putting our values into practice. The Chevron Way values distinguish us and guide our actions so that we get results the right way. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, protecting people and the environment, and high performance. Toread more about The Chevron Way, visit Chevron.com/ChevronWay. ON THE COVER Barrow Island–based Horizons program participants Kirsten Mander, Gorgon Project communications advisor, and Neb Drca, Gorgon Project jetty construction engineer, at the start of the 1.3-mile (2.1-km) liquefied natural gas jetty on Barrow Island, Western Australia. Horizons is an early-career employee development program that builds competency through technical training, assignments and mentoring. The program strengthens Chevron’s organizational capability, ensuring that we have the resources, the expertise and the knowledge transfer practices to effectively meet future business needs. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer May 2015 At Chevron, our vision is to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. To accomplish this, we’ve built our company’s foundation on our values, which distinguish and guide us in all we do. These values are laid out in The Chevron Way, a key corporate document that provides a framework for us to follow in getting results the right way. Our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report highlights three of our speciﬁ c values — partnership, diversity, and protecting people and the environment. We believe that business investments are the foundation of corporate responsibility. Not only do we produce reliable and affordable energy to enable economies, but also, in doing so we advance the communities in which we operate by purchasing local goods and services, creating jobs, and generating revenue. In 2014, for example, we spent more than $63 billion on goods and services globally. Of that, nearly $1 billion was spent on goods and services from women- and minority-owned businesses in the United States and more than $2.5 billion on goods and services from U.S.-based small businesses. Beyond our direct business investments, we make select social investments in three core areas — health, education and economic development — to develop skilled workers, improve access to health care, and boost local and regional economies. We know that healthy businesses require healthy communities. To this end, we’ve made approximately $1.7 billion in social investments to local communities over the past nine years. And in 2014 alone, we spent approxi.mately $240 million on global social investments. We make these business and social investments in partner.ship with local governments and communities, our busi.ness partners, and our stakeholders. Everywhere Chevron operates, we strive to build partnerships to create lasting prosperity. We work to identify community needs, and then we invest in solutions and programs that will create meas.urable and enduring value. Our commitment is to manage the effects of our operations and make strategic social investments throughout the life cycles of our projects. To ensure our people are well equipped to work with our partners, we are committed to building a workforce that represents the many countries where we operate. We believe that sustainable high performance is achieved by creating a culture that encourages and values people who offer a wide range of experiences and knowledge. In 2014, Chevron received prestigious honors and recognition for promoting a diverse and inclusive workforce. For the 10th consecutive year, we achieved a rating of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index, which ranks U.S. companies committed to equality in the workplace. We were the only company in the oil and natural gas industry to earn a perfect score. In 2015, Chevron received the Catalyst Award in recognition of our effort to attract, retain, develop and advance women. Valuing diversity in our workforce is key to achieving our vision to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. We know our continued success depends on our perform.ance. Our Operational Excellence Management System provides a disciplined approach to working safely, protect.ing the environment, and operating reliably and efﬁ ciently. In 2014, we delivered our best overall year in personal safety, as measured by recordable injuries and injuries requiring time away from work, and in process safety, as measured by loss-of-containment incidents. We also had record lows in our petroleum spill volume and motor vehicle crash rate. Our relentless focus on operational excellence — including efforts to strengthen process safety management and ensure the integrity of safeguards — contributed to the strong overall performance. Chevron is committed to meeting our goal of zero incidents and will continue to focus on achieving world-class performance in all measures of safety and environ.mental stewardship. You can track our efforts online at Chevron.com/CR, where we provide details about our efforts to invest in people, projects and communities that make our business possible. Chevron.com/CR Managing Operational Risk Ingrained in The Chevron Way is our commitment to protecting people and the environment, which includes developing energy safely and reliably. We strive to develop a culture in which everyone believes that all incidents are preventable and that “zero incidents” is achievable. Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is a comprehensive, proven means to systematically manage process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, reliability, and efficiency. Through disciplined application of the OEMS, we identify and mitigate risks by integrating operational excellence processes, standards, procedures and behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS is aligned with ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, as well as with the Center for Chemical Process *Safety’s Guidelines for Risk Based Process Safety. Within the OEMS, we use a management system process to drive continual improvement toward world-class performance. This process is linked to business planning and begins with defining a vision of success and setting objectives. Gaps between current performance and these objectives are identified during annual assessments. We develop plans to close the gaps, implement the plans and review plan implementation performance. We set high expectations for ourselves, which requires active leadership. Chevron’s Board of Directors and Board committees oversee Chevron’s risk management policies and practices. In doing so, the Board monitors the risk assessment and management sys.tems that are employed throughout the company. We also adopt and share best practices with our business and industry partners, and we continually take action to improve our practices and meet our commitments. In 2014, our Days Away From Work Rate for our employees and contractor workforce, at 0.02 per 200,000 work-hours, matched our 2013 record low rate. *According to Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd., our OEMS meets the requirements of the International Organization for Standardization environmental management system standard and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series management system speciﬁ cation. Chevron’s Operational Excellence Management System is how we system.atically manage process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, reliability, and efﬁ ciency. We audit our processes, stand.ards and regulatory require.ments to assure compliance, identify and manage risk of incidents, ensure preparedness for emergency response, and improve overall performance, focusing on ﬁ ve areas: Safety: Achieve an incident-and injury-free workplace. Health: Promote a healthy workforce and mitigate signiﬁ .cant workplace health risks. Environment: Identify and mitigate environmental and process safety risks. Reliability: Operate with industry-leading asset integ.rity and reliability. Efﬁ ciency: Efﬁ ciently use natural resources and assets. Our commitment to operational excellence extends beyond our employees to also include our contractor workforce, our supply chain partners and the communities where we operate. To learn about our Tenets of Operation and our Operational Excellence Management System, visit Chevron.com/OE. Chevron.com/CR Above: Nurlela, Sumatra Light Oil Operational Excellence/Safety and Occupational Health South team leader, near the Surfactant Pilot Project area at the Minas Field in Sumatra, Indonesia. Days Away From Work Rate* 0.20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Chevron ranking relative to independent oil Competitor range: company competitors, “1” being the lowest rate BP, XOM & RDS* *Source: The data are publicly available from each company’s annual sustainability reporting: British Petroleum plc (BP), ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM) and Royal Dutch Shell plc (RDS). XOM rates are lost-time incident rates. RDS rates are lost-time incident rates for injuries only. Competitor data for 2014 were not available at the time of publication. Chevron.com/CR 3 Protecting People At Chevron, everything we do begins with our fundamental commitment to safety. Our safety culture is based on two key principles: (1) do it safely or not at all; and (2) there is always time to do it right. Total Recordable Incident Rate* Incidents per 200,000 work-hours YEAR  10  11  12  13  14  Workforce  0.24  0.24  0.24  0.21  0.18  Benchmark  0.41  0.39  0.38  0.35  N/A  Employees  0.24  0.23  0.20  0.15  0.10  Benchmark  0.33  0.33  0.31  0.29  N/A  Contractors  0.25  0.24  0.25  0.23  0.21  Benchmark  0.45  0.42  0.42  0.38  N/A  *The American Petroleum Institute’s Benchmarking Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry data are used as industry benchmarks. Benchmark data on competitor-average performance in 2014 were not available at the time of publication. In 2014, as part of our drive for excellence, Chevron’s Zero Is Attainable program was enhanced to set the bar even higher. Our Zero Is Attainable Award for Personal Safety is granted to organizations that have completed a minimum of 1 million hours or 1,000 days worked without experiencing a work-related fatality, a Days Away From Work incident or a Restricted Duty incident. There were 66 organizations that met this goal in 2014. Our Zero Is Attainable Award for Process Safety was a new addition to the pro.gram in 2014. Organizations that achieve six consecutive months without a Tier 1 and Tier 2 loss-of-primary.containment incident are eligible. In 2014, 36 organiza.tions qualiﬁed for this award. For more information on Chevron’s workplace health and safety programs, visit Chevron.com/HealthSafety. Facing page: Jorge Bordon (right), production team leader at the El Trapial Field in Argentina, discusses facility safety procedures with the site safety warden. Chevron.com/CR Our Focus Areas and 2014 Highlights Product Stewardship Chevron works to minimize the risks and impacts associated with all aspects of the life cycle of our products, including manufacture, transport, use and disposal. We assess safety, health and environmental information, as well as compliance with product safety legal requirements both where our products are made and where they are sold or used. Our OEMS is designed to help assess compliance with product stewardship requirements around the world. The Globally Harmonized System of Classiﬁ cation and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) is being implemented in more than 65 countries. To meet 2015 deadlines in countries that include the United States and the 28 European Union member states, Chevron is classifying products and revising Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) under the GHS. In 2014, Chevron updated more than 14,500 SDSs in 37 languages to meet these new requirements and other compliance obligations. Workforce Health and Safety We are committed to protecting the safety and health of our more than 61,000 employees and our approximately 226,000 full-time.equivalent contractor workforce. We identify and mitigate risk by applying policies, processes and technologies to maintain our focus on having zero incidents. In 2014, our Total Record-able Incident Rate for our workforce was the lowest we have ever recorded, at 0.18 per 200,000 work-hours. Process Safety We apply our Operational Excellence Management System to manage process safety and work to prevent serious inci.dents, such as explosions, ﬁ res and accidental releases. Along with our ongoing operational focus, we conduct reviews of facilities to reduce risk, perform ﬁeld validation of safeguards to ensure they are effective, con.tinuously improve process safety operating procedures, and con.duct hazard analyses to identify ways to prevent injury and loss of containment. We saw a signiﬁ cant reduction in Tier 1 loss.of-primary-containment incidents,* from 38 in 2013 to 19 in 2014. Programs aimed at improving this metric involved enhancements to asset integ.rity management, effective operating procedures and risk management, process safety per.formance tracking, well safety, and the building of process safety competency at all levels. *American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 deﬁnes Tier 1 loss-of-primary.containment incidents as certain signiﬁ cant unplanned or uncontrolled releases of material from primary containment, including nontoxic and nonﬂ ammable materials. Chevron.com/CR Chevron.com/CR Protecting the Environment Chevron develops energy resources with a commitment to protecting the environment using world-class environmental practices and standards. For Chevron, getting results the right way happens throughout the life of our facilities — from planning and construction through operation and decommissioning. To achieve this, we use our Operational Excellence Management System to manage potential impacts from the activities that may affect the environment. Through the application of our Corporate Processes and Standards and our work with industry groups, our businesses identify meaningful information that enables them to prioritize and focus their continuous improvement efforts. Petroleum Spill Volume* Decreasing Over Time We work every day to review and improve our internal controls to prevent spills. These safeguards include assuring the integrity of our equipment design and main.tenance and the training of our personnel. In 2014, Chevron achieved a record low petroleum spill volume of 838 barrels. *Volume in barrels; spills to land and water that are greater than or equal to one barrel are included. YEAR  10  11  12  13  14  Total Spill Volume  9,602  10,169  1,703  2,135  838  Total Volume Recovered  8,225  6,071  1,212  1,378  396  Protecting people and the environment is one of our company’s core values, as detailed in The Chevron Way. In support of our values, we developed four environmental principles that deﬁ ne our commitment to doing busi.ness in environmentally responsible ways: Include the Environment in Decision Making: We all make decisions that may affect the environment. From our everyday actions to major capital investments, we make better decisions when we consider the environment. Reduce Our Environmental Footprint: We use our business processes to identify and manage risks to the environment and reduce potential environmental impacts throughout the life of our assets. Operate Responsibly: We apply our Tenets of Operation and improve reliability and process safety to prevent accidental releases. Steward Our Sites: We work to decommission, remediate and reclaim operating and legacy sites with the aim of beneﬁ cial reuse. Facing page: Park ranger Amir patrols the 1,250-acre critical ecological zone of the Mount Halimun Salak National Park in West Java, Indonesia. Chevron partners with the national park and wildlife groups to protect sensitive habitats. Chevron.com/CR Our Focus Areas and 2014 Highlights Biodiversity We recognize the importance of conserving biodiversity. We strive to avoid or reduce the potential for signiﬁ cant impacts on sensitive species, habitats and ecosystems. Chevron’s Salak opera.tion — one of the world’s largest geothermal ﬁelds — is situ.ated within one of Indonesia’s largest national parks. Since 2006, Chevron has worked with park rangers, international wildlife groups and other stake.holders to protect biodiversity through species monitoring and environmental education. In 2014, Chevron collaborated with Conservation International to use motion-activated cam.eras to identify and track Javan leopards and other rare and endangered species living in the contract area. In addition, as part of a ﬁve-year collaboration with KEHATI (Indonesian Biodiversity Foundation), a nongovernmental organization, Chevron supported and provided volunteers for the restoration of degraded forest corridors outside our operational area within the national park. Climate Change and Energy Efﬁ ciency We share the concerns of governments and the public about climate change risks and recognize that the use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs is a contributor to rising greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the earth’s atmosphere. We are taking steps to manage GHGs and other air emissions while supporting the growth of the global economy. Additionally, we apply cost-effective technologies to improve the energy efﬁ ciency of our base business operations and capital projects. We received an overall score of 95 points — the highest of all our integrated oil and gas competitors — in the 2014 CDP S&P 500 Climate Change Report. This score reflects Chevron’s transparency in disclosing our GHG emissions and our climate policies. Chevron is Kazakhstan’s largest private oil and gas producer, with a 50 percent interest in Tengizchevroil (TCO). Since 2000, TCO has invested approximately $3 billion in envi.ronmental projects and has increased gas utilization rates to more than 99 percent by using the produced gas as a fuel, reinjecting it into the Tengiz Field reservoir, or selling it on the domestic and export mar.kets. Gas utilization and other programs have increased energy efﬁciency and helped reduce total emissions generated per tonne of oil produced by 73 per.cent in the same time period. Chevron.com/CR Water We recognize that water, and particularly fresh water, is a critical resource for business, communities and the environ.ment. Although our industry is not among the largest users of fresh water in California, we continue to improve our water management practices as the state faces severe drought. Chevron’s California reﬁneries use recycled and reclaimed water for the majority of their water needs. Since 1999, recycled water has supplied more than 70 percent of water needs at our El Segundo Reﬁ nery. Today, approximately 60 percent of water used at our Richmond Reﬁnery comes from reclaimed municipal sources. In addition, our Kern River and San Ardo oil ﬁelds capture and treat pro.duced water* for agricultural use. For every one barrel of oil we extract in Kern County, the process generates 10 barrels of produced water, some of which we capture, treat and distribute to local farmers. *Water that is brought to the surface during operations that extract hydrocarbons from oil and gas reservoirs. Remediation and Restoration Established in 1998, Chevron Environmental Management Co. (EMC) leads our global remediation, reclamation and Below: Process engineers Avin Andrade (left) and Kayla Weston, at Richmond Refinery’s water recycling plant, a cooperative project with the local wastewater district. The plant uses treated wastewater to make steam in boilers throughout the refinery. Since we recycle the district’s nonpotable water for the refinery’s manufacturing processes, we reduce the use of the district’s limited drinking water. asset retirement work. EMC puts Chevron’s environmental prin.ciples into practice across the enterprise, working in more than 35 countries around the world. Chevron helped convert property at our former Louisville, Kentucky, lubricants plant, after a century of use, into a student parking lot for the University of Louisville. EMC provided oversight of the beneﬁ .cial reuse project, ensuring that the site was redeveloped in a way that protected public health and that solar-powered technol.ogies were used during the site remediation work. In 2014, Chevron became the first energy company to meet the Center for Sustainable Shale Development’s voluntary shale gas drilling standards. The 15 performance standards include surface water and groundwater standards that require maximizing water recycling and developing ground.water protection plans. Learn more at Chevron.com/Shale. 