2020  corporate sustainability reportfor complete reporting, visit  chevron.com/sustainabilityChevron Hallmark with WordmarkThe Human Energy Company, trademark symbol2020 ESG highlightsprotecting the environmentChevron Climate Change Resilience: Advancing a Lower-carbon Future coverhighlighted three action  areas for advancing a  lower-carbon future in our  Climate Change Resilience reportThe World Bank logojoined the  World Bank’s Zero Routine  Flaring by 2030 initiative40%targeted reduction in  oil carbon intensity26%targeted reduction in  gas carbon intensityWBCSD logojoined the  WBCSD’s Value Chain Carbon  Transparency Pathfinderempowering  people$15M increase in our investment  to address racial equityworkforce engagement icon12 networks 2020 marked the 20th  anniversary of our first  formal employee networkHuman Rights Campaign 2021 Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality, 100% Corporate Equality Index Rating logostress management icon51 years of our Employee  Assistance ProgramDuring the pandemic, it offered virtual programs for our employees and their families, including mindfulness and yoga instruction.getting results  the right way40%of our Board  were women$400M spent on woman- and  minority-owned businessesChevron 2020 Climate Lobbying Report coverissued our first  climate lobbying reportpartnership icon40%+of outstanding common  stock represented in substantive ESG engagementsEnvironmental, social and governance (ESG) data  are as of December 31, 2020, and exclude spend that  is ultimately shared with our partners.message from  our chairman and CEO“Over the past year,  we, like every company, navigated a world  facing the economic and  social impact of the pandemic, heightened demands for racial  equity, and an increasingly polarized political environment.” Chevron CEO Mike Wirth inside headquarters.In the face of this environment, our people responded with resilience, embracing adversity as an opportunity to learn and improve. Though we shared hardships, the lessons of 2020  made us a better company, and strengthened our ongoing commitment to help advance a better future for all.We believe energy enables modern life and powers human  progress. As the human energy company, we use our ingenuity  to solve problems, overcome obstacles and deliver solutions.  Our culture allows ingenuity to thrive and creates an atmosphere where diverse voices, ideas, experiences and backgrounds  are not only respected, but celebrated.We transform these beliefs into actions and meaningful  results through our environmental, social and governance  (ESG) priorities, which are based on three pillars: protecting  the environment, empowering people and getting results  the right way.protecting the environmentWe set ambitious goals and strive for actions that drive  measurable progress. Since 2016, we’ve reduced flaring by  more than 60 percent and methane emissions by nearly  50 percent. With these successes and the adoption of new  2028 carbon intensity reduction targets, we’re driving  our combined oil and natural gas carbon intensity to be about 35 percent lower than 2016 levels. We’re holding ourselves accountable by tying executive and employee compensation  to these shared goals.empowering peopleLiving by our social contract with employees and other stakeholders was perhaps never more important than it was  this past year. We strive to create an inclusive work environ-ment that values the uniqueness of each individual’s talents, experiences and ideas. With operations, business partners  and colleagues located around the world, we recognize  and encourage diverse voices—not only because it’s the best source of innovation, but because it’s the right thing to do.Chairman’s letter continues on page 2CEO photoAbove: Chevron CEO Mike Wirth works from home during the COVID-19 pandemic.This is a long-standing commitment, marked by the 20th anniversary of our employee networks—communities  that celebrate and promote diversity and work to attract,  retain and mentor Chevron talent.getting results the right wayWe aim to act with the highest integrity and operate with the highest ethical standards. We embrace the expectations of  our stockholders and stakeholders and hold ourselves accountable by transparently reporting on performance. We published our third Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)aligned report and released our first Climate Lobbying Report,  both of which detail governance, oversight and activities related to climate policy engagement. While 2020 was a year of unprecedented adversity, we believe the  prospects for human progress remain as positive as ever. The race  for a COVID-19 vaccine brought together scientific ingenuity, technological innovation and manufacturing agility to advance the common good. The same spirit of cooperation, goodwill and perseverance will enable us to address other global challenges.  We find that prospect energizing and encouraging.Michael K. Wirth's Signature Michael K. Wirth Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive Officer May 20212020 awards and recognition•	Forbes’ Just 100 and Best Employers For  Women lists•	Top 14 percent of 200 global companies receiving EDGE Certification for Gender Equality•	13th of 250 companies—and 1st among energy companies—on As You Sow’s Racial Justice  S&P 250 Scorecard •	National Business Inclusion Consortium: Best of the Best Corporations for Inclusion•	The American Chamber of Commerce Thailand: CSR Excellence Recognition Award (Platinum)•	100 percent on the Disability Equality Index  for the Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion•	100 percent rating: Human Rights Campaign Equality Index (15th consecutive year)•	Organization of the Year (Company) award  at the Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers Professional Conference•	Top Veteran-Friendly Company by U.S.  Veterans Magazine•	5-star rating in Employment and Governance,  The Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility •	Pink Petro presented Chevron’s Black Employee Network with the GRIT Award for the “Best of the Best” Affinity Group in the Energy industrymessage from our VP, strategy and sustainability Bruce NiemeyerVice President,Strategy and Sustainability Chevron executive photoLast year’s Corporate Sustainability Report highlighted the integration of the Chevron strategy and sustainability groups  into a single team.This shift has improved our ability to drive actions across a diverse, complex global organization, enabling us to identify new opportunities for progress on our sustainability priorities and achieve results faster. I’m proud to say that our accomplishments this past year have been the result of a companywide effort.This starts with engagement by Chevron’s Board of Directors.  At the highest level, the Board maintains focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues and leverages their diverse experience to challenge assumptions about the future. Their role is to provide oversight of Chevron’s efforts to build an enduring business—one that is capable of delivering strong financial  returns while meeting our sustainability goals.This Board-level approach is actively embraced by our leadership team, beginning with our CEO. Together, we create alignment across the company to drive progress through transparent, responsible performance.Chevron’s commitment to sustainability has never been stronger. This report demonstrates how our approach is integrated through?out our business to strive to protect the environment, empower people and get results the right way—today and tomorrow.The integration of teams, processes and value chains has accelerated our ESG progress,  as demonstrated by the following examples:•	Exceeding carbon intensity reduction targets and establishing new targets. We exceeded  our 2023 Upstream carbon intensity reduction targets three years ahead of schedule, announced lower 2028 targets and committed to zero routine flaring by 2030. Achieving these new goals will allow Chevron to remain a global top-quartile oil and gas producer.•	Making global supply chains more transparent. Chevron recently signed an agreement to supply carbon-footprinted liquefied natural gas (LNG)  to Singapore’s Pavilion Energy. Along with partners, Chevron is co-developing a greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodology  for LNG, so that each LNG cargo can be accom-panied by a carbon footprint value from wellhead to point of delivery. This standardized, data-driven LNG carbon footprinting methodology will be one of the first for the industry, creating the opportunity to deliver verified offset-paired LNG.•	Developing more diverse leaders. During Chevron’s 2020 reorganization, we advanced visible diversity. Through the design of a more efficient structure and the engagement of  broadly diverse leaders in the selection process itself, we increased the share of senior-level  jobs held by women and racial and ethnic minorities to 44 percent.•	Highlighting sustainability’s role in good governance. The Board revised the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee charter to clarify their leadership role among the Board committees in providing oversight of climate risks, policies  and trends that affect Chevron’s activities  and performance.board insighta conversation with the outgoing  and incoming chairs of the board’s public  policy and sustainability committeeChevron Board member photoDr. Wanda M. AustinOutgoing Public  Policy and Sustainability  Committee ChairChevron Board member photoEnrique Hernandez, Jr.Incoming Public  Policy and Sustainability  Committee ChairHernandez:.One of Chevron’s governance best practices is periodic rotation of Board committee assignments and Chair positions. As I step into my new role as Chair of the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC), I’m eager to get your insights from serving in this role for the past few years. What stands out to you about your time as Chair of PPSC?Austin:.I’ll start with how the Board and the company responded to the challenge of COVID-19. The PPSC’s charter calls for us to assist the Board in overseeing risks that may arise in connection with the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business and activities. COVID-19 posed a significant, real-world test of Chevron’s risk management approach and systems. I am proud of how Chevron’s leadership and employees maintained the company’s resilience throughout this challenging period. I believe this is a direct reflection of The Chevron Way. Hernandez:.What other achievements are most memorable from your time as PPSC Chair?Austin:.I am proud of the level of reporting and actions taken to position Chevron to thrive in the energy transition. When the company issued our first Climate Lobbying Report in December 2020, we demonstrated responsiveness to our stockholders’ concerns, par?-ticularly those relating to ESG and sustainability issues,  as we strive for more transparency. This, together  with our 2021 Climate Change Resilience report, shows the company’s actions to enhance our reporting on climate change risks and opportunities.Hernandez:.As a member of the PPSC for the past eight years, I share your view that the PPSC has been active in addressing these social and policy issues.Austin:.As I join the Management Compensation Committee (MCC), I’d appreciate your thoughts on linkages between the MCC and the PPSC.Hernandez:.You talked about how the PPSC and the entire Board responded to the COVID-19 pandemic. My experi?ence as recent Chair of the MCC reinforces that the Board has been mindful of the circumstances around compensation for 2020—and of the extraordinary commitment displayed by our employees in very challenging circumstances. The Board took decisive action to address the expectations of our stockholders on this issue. We believe we made the correct decision to provide no bonus for executives, while rewarding employees for contributing to stockholder value and upholding The Chevron Way.Austin:.Are there other aspects of your work with the MCC that link up with the PPSC?Hernandez:.One important aspect of our MCC role involves approving an executive compensation philosophy  that aligns with Chevron’s strategy and stockholder interests, including those related to sustainability and climate change risks and opportunities. That certainly pertains to the focus I’ll have with the PPSC.To learn more about our leadership and corporate governance,  visit chevron.com/investors/corporate-governance.our board of directorsCEO photoMichael K. WirthChairman and Chief Executive OfficerFormer Vice Chairman of the Board  and Executive Vice President of  Midstream & Development, ChevronBoard member photoRonald D. SugarLead DirectorRetired Chairman and CEO,  Northrop Grumman Corporation (2)Board member photoWanda M. AustinRetired President and CEO,  The Aerospace Corporation (2, 3) Board member photoJohn B. FrankVice Chairman,  Oaktree Capital Group, LLC (1)Board member photoAlice P. GastPresident, Imperial College London (2, 4)Board member photoEnrique Hernandez, Jr.Chairman and CEO, Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc. (4)Board member photoMarillyn A. HewsonRetired Chairman, CEO and President,  Lockheed Martin Corporation (1)Board member photoJon M. Huntsman, Jr.Former U.S. Ambassador to China, Russia; Former Governor of Utah (4)Board member photoCharles W. Moorman IVSenior Advisor to Amtrak;  Retired Chairman and CEO, Norfolk  Southern Corporation (2, 3)Board member photoDambisa F. MoyoCEO, Mildstorm LLC (1)Board member photoDebra Reed-KlagesRetired Chairman, CEO and President,  Sempra Energy (1)Board member photoD. James Umpleby IIIChairman and CEO, Caterpillar Inc. (2, 4)Committees of the Board (1) Audit:  Debra Reed-Klages, Chair(2) Board Nominating and Governance: Wanda M. Austin, Chair (3) Management Compensation:  Charles W. Moorman IV, Chair (4) Public Policy and Sustainability: Enrique Hernandez, Jr., ChairCOVID-19the pandemic demonstrated that effective  emergency response is part of our corporate DNAAs the human energy company, we aim to prioritize the health, safety and well-being of our people and communities every??- where we do business. The pandemic has presented challenges, forcing us to adapt quickly to dynamic and unpredictable circumstances. Effective emergency response is part of our corporate DNA and has served us well as we’ve dealt with this evolving risk.We entered the crisis with a robust existing response infrastruc?-ture and experience that has enabled us to deal with a diverse  set of unprecedented events—from earthquakes in our home  state of California to hurricanes and other extreme events in other  parts of our global operations. We learned to be agile and effective in dealing with other epidemics, from SARS1 and Ebola to HIV/AIDS. While the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated circumstances are unprecedented on many fronts, we utilized our experi?ence and preparation to execute an agile and effective emergency response. Chevron assembled a global Corporate Pandemic Response  Team (CPRT) to protect our workers, contractors and the communities where we operate from the rapidly spreading  SARS-CoV-2 virus. The CPRT consists of enterprise experts from multiple functional disciplines. Within the first three days, the  CPRT established plans to ensure our operations around the  world could continue to deliver the energy the world needs to support the response to COVID-19. We quickly identified workers  deemed “essential” to safely maintain onsite functions and facilities, such as offshore production platforms and refineries.  We established protocols to keep these essential workers  safe and switched the bulk of our workforce to remote work  to protect their health and safety.While the SARS-CoV-2 virus poses ongoing and evolving challenges, the CPRT remains dedicated to safety. To back up  that commitment, we benchmark ourselves to learn where  we excel and where we may become even more rigorous and effective in our response.maintaining financial strength The pandemic posed major challenges to our company’s financial position, following two years in which we simultaneously increased our dividend, funded our capital program, increased production and bought back shares,  all while further paying down debt. While 2020 was markedly different, both in financial and human terms, our financial priorities remained unchanged: growing the dividend, reinvesting to grow future cash flows, maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning excess cash to stockholders. We’ve responded to the COVID-19 crisis by focusing on the things we can control: reducing capital spending, deferring early-phase projects, curtailing production, reducing operating costs, releasing drilling  and workover rigs, and suspending well-completion pro?grams. Through these efforts, we increased our divi?dend, reduced our 2020 CAPEX from $20 billion to $14 billion  and maintained the strongest balance sheet among our peers. We are confident that these strategies will sustain  us through the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.reduce expenses icon$6B reduction we have reduced our 2020 CAPEX  from $20 billion to $14 billionworkforce icon27,000+TCO initiated a temporary  demobilization of more  than 27,000 project personnellocal economic impact icon$29M+committed to  local communitieskeeping major capital projects on trackWe are managing our major capital projects while safeguarding  our employees and contractors around the globe. For example,  our joint-venture Tengizchevroil (TCO) in Kazakhstan has worked  to balance safety and progress on the Future Growth Project  (FGP). At the beginning of the pandemic, TCO initiated a temporary  demobilization of more than 27,000 project personnel to reduce workforce risk and allow greater access to medical facilities, including critical care. Throughout this demobilization effort, production operations were not interrupted and critical logistics work for FGP continued. TCO also instituted “podding,” or compartmentalization, strategies across accommodations, facilities and worksites to prevent close contact between groups  of workers. To date, these efforts have been successful, allowing  TCO to remobilize 25,000 workers at site (as of March 31, 2021). supporting our communitiesChevron has a long history of contributing to crisis response and relief efforts. As of December 2020, we have committed over  $29 million to local communities specifically for COVID-19-related response efforts. providing for adequate health careEnsuring the health and safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate is a core value of The Chevron Way. One of the ways we demonstrate this is by providing  direct health care to our employees in Nigeria and certain other countries where we operate. During COVID-19, we expanded access for virtual medical appointments, particularly in locations where it was unsafe to visit a doctor. This pandemic has created stress for many of our employees, particularly those balancing work-life issues such as child care and elder care. In response,  we stepped up our mental health program and encouraged employees to utilize our Employee Assistance Program, which includes access to mental health and wellness resources, a substance abuse program, and a new resiliency app. employee pay and benefits related to COVID-19In 2020, an employee survey focused on the COVID-19 impact on employee well-being and the company’s response to the pandemic. The survey results positively reinforced some actions taken by Chevron and helped inform further actions to address the impact on employees and their families. We offered enhanced mental health and wellness support, financial assistance for unplanned child care needs, and remote learning resources,  among other efforts. We continue to offer expanded sick pay and family leave pay to assist employees with quarantine, school closures, family care obligations or other pandemic-related issues. In the United States, a new policy allowed paid time off for employees missing work as a result of family care or child care circumstances due to COVID-19. managing our supply chain The economic impact of COVID-19 on our industry threatened  the financial health of many of our suppliers. To safeguard operations and reduce disruptions, we increased monitoring of supplier financial risks and utilized flexibility to respond to our business partners’ needs. Our efforts are focused on supply assurance, commercial assurance and relationship management. For example, we shortened the payment cycle for suppliers encountering financial problems and have negotiated special  rates with key suppliers that may be disproportionately impacted by reduced drilling operations. These efforts have limited schedule disruptions and budget impacts on our major capital projects  and other base-business operations. applying the lessons we’ve learnedWe pride ourselves on being a “learn and improve” organization. While we had plans in place before COVID-19, we developed new safeguards and operating standards and updated existing protocols to adjust for the ever-changing conditions of this pandemic. We have also learned that the infrastructure adopted by CPRT can be applied, with modifications, to similar global-scale crises. Additionally, we’ve developed a “back to workplace” strategy, with paced, evidence-based stages. As with all events, lookbacks may provide more helpful emergency response insights.To learn more about our response to COVID-19, visit  chevron.com/COVID-19.Employee photoAngela BarrowEnterprise Manager,  Emergency Managementemployee spotlightShortly after the first cases of COVID-19 were reported in  China, our Pandemic Preparedness Alert System was activated. The team initially focused on returning nonnative and nonessential China-based employees to their home countries and on actively monitoring conditions and  the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. I remember, it was like watching the slow, yet inevitable, spread of an unabated wildfire. As confirmed cases of COVID-19 climbed, I was responsible for quickly activating Chevron’s Corporate Pandemic Response Team (CPRT) to proactively protect  our workers, contractors and global operations. We reduced operations to essential employees and became creative  in helping workers return home safely, overcoming obstacles like border closings, flight cancellations and other mobility challenges. Sometimes, we chartered or booked humani??tar?ian flights—a heroic effort by our Global Travel Team, coordi?nating  with governments and global partners.Responding to emergencies and crises, particularly over prolonged periods, can be truly demanding. We have  to look out for one another. Our CPRT employed a variety of  mechanisms to address fatigue and burnout, including rotating time off, mindfulness sessions, and acknowledg?ments for those that went the “extra mile.”emergency response iconin-kind donations worth $1.28MChevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) and joint-venture partner Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) partnered  to support coronavirus response efforts in Nigeria, with Chevron committing in-kind donations worth $1.28 million for an ambulance, ventilators, medical diagnostic equipment  and personal protective equipment.IPIECA/IOGPMembers of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and International Oil and Gas Producers’ (IOGP) Joint Health Committee, including Chevron, share best practices to ensure the well-being of workers and communities during the COVID-19 crisis. The issues range from  working in remote and offshore locations, to procedures related  to return to normal workplaces. The committee, which consists of professionals from across the oil and gas sector, has produced a range of relevant materials over the past year. These include a briefing document on the mental health impacts of the pandemic, a paper on COVID-19 testing, a position paper on  COVID-19 vaccination usage and a recent document that provides an update on approved vaccines.