Economic Development We believe that enhancing economic conditions improves the quality of life for people in the communities near our operations. Working with governments, development agencies, research institutions and other non.governmental organizations (NGOs), we establish programs that engage the local workforce, advance vocational training, and support local small businesses and suppliers. LOCAL WORKFORCE — In Australia, the Gorgon and Wheatstone natural gas projects, at peak construction, will generate as many as 16,500 jobs. VOCATIONAL TRAINING — In Indonesia, we built and sponsored two polytechnic schools to train Indonesian students for jobs in the industrial sector. More than 1,100 students have graduated from Politeknik Caltex Riau, the province s first polytechnic university. In 2012, the second class of students graduated from Politeknik Aceh, bringing the total number of graduates at that school to 314. SMALL BUSINESS AND SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT — In 2012, Chevron spent more than $60 billion on goods and services around the globe. We are committed to supporting economic growth by providing contracts and purchase orders associated with our develop.ment projects to local businesses. We also pursue thought leadership in this arena. In 2011, Chevron and the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) launched the Project on U.S. Leadership in Development, which is designed to generate innovative thinking on how U.S. public and private sectors can partner with NGOs and foreign governments to advance international economic and commu.nity development. Our partnership with CSIS includes the Chevron Forum on Development, a public dialogue on pioneering ideas and approaches to economic development, with a special focus on the business sector. For more details, please visit Chevron.com/EconomicDevelopment. Chevron Australia’s Mika Thuijs and Jim Rentschler review plans at the Wheatstone Project site in Western Australia. The project is expected to deliver energy, jobs and economic benefits for decades. Australia Contributing to Economic Growth Chevron’s $29 billion Wheatstone natural gas project is transforming the remote coastal community of Onslow in Western Australia, bringing new residents and investment in the town’s infrastructure and services. Our partnerships with the community, various levels of government and local suppliers will help shape the town’s future as we develop vast natural gas resources offshore. The remote town of Onslow is located in the Pilbara region on Australia’s northwestern coast, more than 800 miles (1,287 km) from Western Australia’s capital city of Perth. Onslow’s population usually peaks at approximately 900, when winter visitors come to escape the colder southern climates. “Onslow is off the beaten track,” said Sean Clarke, a Chevron contractor who has lived and worked in the region for 15 years. “Amenities here are limited; and the area outside of town is barren, but beautiful.” It is here that Chevron has become part of a fundamental transformation. The Wheatstone Project will extract natural gas to fuel growth and promote energy security in Australia and beyond. The project includes the country’s largest offshore gas processing platform and is expected to increase domestic gas supplies by 20 percent, providing an important new energy source for consumers in Western Australia. It will also add nearly 9 million tons of liquefied natural gas (LNG) annually to the rapidly developing Asian market. Since the project began, Chevron has been working with an array Above: Chevron is supporting the community’s vision of Onslow being a thriving place in which to live and work. of stakeholders to promote responsible development. “We recognize our responsibility to the Onslow commu.nity, and we are working with our partners to maintain safe and environ.mentally responsible operations,” said Eric Dunning, general manager of the Wheatstone Project. Continuing a History of Responsible Operations The Wheatstone Project is emerging at Ashburton North, just 7.5 miles (12 km) west of Onslow, and continues Chevron’s longstanding ties to Australia. In 1941, we began marketing petroleum products in the country and have been developing oil and gas there since the 1950s. Our nearly 50-year track record of producing oil on Barrow Island, 31 miles (50 km) offshore Western Australia, shows our commitment to responsible development. Barrow Island is a Class A nature reserve, the most highly protected type of public land in Western Australia. “Chevron has demonstrated that with proper management, development and conservation can coexist,” said Roy Krzywosinski, managing director of Chevron Australia Pty. Ltd. Just over three years ago, Chevron began developing Gorgon, the world’s largest natural gas project. The vast natural gas resources lie 43.5 miles (70 km) northwest of Barrow Island. At peak construction, Gorgon will provide direct and indirect employ.ment for approximately 10,000 people. Offering Economic Opportunity Similarly to Gorgon, the Wheatstone Project is expected to create as many as 6,500 direct and indirect jobs, according to independent estimates, 3,500 of which will be construction jobs. “Wheatstone is creating enormous employment and industry participation opportunities for the state and trans.forming Onslow, as well as cementing Western Australia’s status as a major global energy provider,” said Western Australian Premier and State Development Minister Colin Barnett. Thousands of jobs are being offered through the project’s contractors, from carpenters and crane operators to scaffolders and riggers. Many of these opportunities include training and apprenticeship programs. “We will continue to work closely with government and other stakeholders to enhance regional employment and training, indigenous employment, and opportunities for small business to participate in the project,” said Dunning. Since construction began, many local companies have grown. Already, we’ve committed more than $8 billion in contracts and purchases to Australian businesses. The Onslow-based civil engineering construction company NTC Contracting has grown from 40 to almost 70 employees, largely because of work for Wheatstone. Another Pilbara company benefiting from the project is Raw Hire, owned and operated by Sean and Lisa Clarke. The company supplies vehicles to meet Chevron’s specialized needs. “We started the company in 1998 with one vehicle. It’s been a process of doubling our fleet every year, and there are no signs we’ll be slowing down,” said Sean Clarke. Today, Raw Hire has a staff of 40 and more than 1,300 vehicles in its fleet of four-wheel.drive trucks, buses and water carts. The company provided 40 vehicles for Wheatstone, with more planned for delivery. Contributing to Onslow’s Growth Chevron began implementing its Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process Improving Hearing Chevron is partnering with Telethon Speech and Hearing Centre for Children to offer a mobile “Earbus” clinic in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, a program that screens infants to 12-year-olds for middle-ear health and basic hearing. Hearing impairment in Australia affects one in six citizens. Aboriginal Australians experience ear disease and associated hearing loss at up to 10 times the rate of other Australians, according to a 2010 government study. Research conducted in 2012 in the western Pilbara region found that 60 percent of the 600 Aboriginal children given a hearing test were unable to pass. “Early intervention in Aboriginal child health — particularly when there is a threat of hearing damage — can assist with school retention, education and training, potentially helping create life-changing outcomes for children with middle-ear infections,” said Peter Fairclough, Chevron Australia general manager of Policy, Government and Public Affairs. Today, the Pilbara program is screening approximately 720 children annually, which represents about 48 percent of the indigenous child population in the area. Children with confirmed problems are referred to the Earbus general practitioner. Telethon Speech and Hearing Centre former CEO Paul Higginbotham added, “Chevron’s investment in the future of Aboriginal children has allowed us to deliver ear health services and support into the region with confidence.” for Wheatstone in 2009. The ESHIA process is Chevron’s corporate require.ment for all new major capital projects. It is used to identify potentially significant negative impacts and to develop plans for avoiding, minimizing and mitigating them. Stakeholder engagement throughout the life of a project is central to the ESHIA process. From March 2009 through March 2010, we consulted more than 340 stake.holders about aspects of the community and its needs. We continue to main.tain regular communication with Onslow residents. Above: Jamie Paterson works on the Wheatstone LNG project’s desalinated-water pipeline. Seawater is used for construction activities and to supply the desalination plant, which provides potable water for the work.force. More than 1,200 workers are now onsite building the project’s basic infrastructure. After this extensive engagement process, Chevron’s Wheatstone Project and the Western Australian state government agreed that Chevron would provide more than $250 million toward community infrastructure projects, including upgrading Onslow’s roads, airport, power grid and water system as well as its health clinics, schools and recreational facilities. Additional plans include funding new emergency service facilities, a desalina.tion plant to improve the local water supply and a new gas-fired power plant. Chevron has also committed $20 million to the Onslow Community Development Fund, which received an additional $10 million state government contribu.tion. The fund will be used to improve existing infrastructure and sporting and youth facilities, in support of the community’s vision for Onslow. Minister for Regional Development Brendan Grylls said the Onslow infrastructure improvements are vital to address the needs that will come from the projected population growth. “This doesn’t mean just water and power — the community needs recrea.tional facilities, services and amenities that make a place enjoyable to live in,” said Grylls. “We want the people who move to Onslow to have a fantastic lifestyle, and the Onslow Community Development Fund will play a big part in achieving this.” Longtime Onslow resident Peta Wilson believes the changes to Onslow during the next five years will improve the community. “I see Onslow becoming a good place for families, better than it ever was before,” she said. Enhancing Community Partnerships In 2010, Chevron reached an agree.ment with the Thalanyji, the traditional landowners who live in the Onslow area. The agreement is a road map for how Wheatstone can create educational, employment, contracting and business opportunities for Aboriginal people. A range of Thalanyji businesses, from pipe laying to security and site services, have been awarded sub.contracts on the Wheatstone Project, which has generated further local job and training opportunities. “Our commitment to Aboriginal employment and partnerships has resulted in tangible outcomes, such as additional health workers in the region, and Aboriginal trainees and apprentices joining our opera.tions,” said Krzywosinski. In September 2011, six Onslow resi.dents, including five Aboriginal students, completed a work prepara.tion program at the local job training center and have since begun work on the Wheatstone Project. Student James Tittums said he became involved in the training program to further his work options in town. “I wanted a good local job in Onslow,” he said. “I’ve secured this concreting job now on the Wheatstone Project, so my skills will be put to good use. But, I also want to continue training while on the job.” Chevron is also supporting educational programs in Onslow that improve student retention and increase literacy and math skills. “The Wheatstone Project has a life span of more than 40 years, and we invest in partnerships with an aim of delivering lasting outcomes for the community,” Krzywosinski said. Meet one of our local suppliers in Australia at Chevron.com/CR2012/Australia. Overview Social Investment We have learned through decades of experience that Chevron’s business success is deeply linked to society’s progress. To promote social progress, we cultivate partnerships focused on health, education and economic development. All three are building blocks for improving the quality of life in communities. Since 2006, we have invested nearly $1.2 billion in more than 100 countries around the world to fund initiatives that invigorate and foster economic growth in local communities. In 2012, we invested more than $270 million in these programs. We work with local and national governments, nongovernmental organizations and com munity partners to establish trusting and mutually beneficial relationships. Taking time to understand the needs of communities first and then developing solutions together is critical to achieving success. HEALTH Chevron operates in areas of the world that are at the epicenter of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria epidemics. To advance global health, we support employee, family and community programs to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS and other diseases. We are a partner in the United Nations’ global plan to eliminate new HIV infections among children by 2015 and keep their mothers alive. EDUCATION Working with local communities and nonprofits, we seek to improve education from kindergarten through high school, as well as career and vocational training, to help foster opportunities for people in a 21st century economy. In 2012, we invested $45 million in education worldwide, which includes major funding for programs that emphasize science, technology, engineering and math education. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT We partner with governments and community organizations to create a strong environment for job creation and business investment. We invest in programs that promote self-sufficiency and we mentor businesses that become our suppliers. For more details, please visit Chevron.com/Community. Chevron sponsors Workplace Wellness presentations in Lagos, Nigeria. This peer education program includes HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis training for employees as well as members of the community. Health Partnering for an HIV/AIDS-Free Africa In Angola, Nigeria and South Africa, Chevron and its partners are combating HIV/AIDS to improve the health of the company’s workforce and local communities. Our commitment to fighting the virus continues with a focus on eliminating mother-to-child transmission of HIV in these countries by 2015. Dr. Chinwe Okala, Chevron’s public health physician in Nigeria, has colleagues and friends living with HIV/AIDS and has lost people close to her because of the disease. Each day she works to stem the impact of HIV/AIDS on employees and community members in a country where mother.to-child transmission of the disease is a stark reality. “In Nigeria, there are a disproportion.ate number of women living with HIV who are giving birth to HIV-positive babies. Chevron thinks that’s unaccept.able because it’s preventable, and we are fighting it with programs involving testing, treatment, education and support,” said Okala. Chevron partners with global, regional and local organizations to combat HIV/AIDS and implement programs in communities where we operate. We have been part of the fight against HIV/AIDS since 1986, when we joined 13 other companies in our home state of California to promote education and reduce stigma in the workplace. In the 1990s, we expanded our efforts internationally, and in 2005, we became the first oil and gas company to implement a global HIV/AIDS policy for its employees. From 2008 to 2013, we will have invested more than $29 million in HIV/AIDS-related programs in Angola, Nigeria and South Africa. Above: To support economic development for rural women in South Africa, Chevron partnered with USAID and the Small Enterprise Foundation to fund the Intervention With Microﬁ nance for AIDS and Gender Equity. In 2012, we announced an initiative to aggressively combat crisis-level mother-to-child transmission of HIV in Nigeria, Angola and South Africa by partnering with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), such as the Business Leadership Council; Pact; mothers2mothers; and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. These partnerships are part of our $20 million commitment made in June 2011 at the United Nations High-Level Meeting on AIDS to support the global plan to eliminate HIV infec.tions among newborns by 2015 and keep their mothers alive. “This is not a battle any of us can win alone. But together, we stand a chance,” said Rhonda Zygocki, Chevron executive vice president for Policy and Planning. The risk of mother-to-child transmis.sion is an unfortunate reality in Nigeria, Angola and South Africa. Reports by UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, reveal the challenges facing these countries. South Africa has the largest number of people living with HIV in the world, totaling 5.6 million HIV-positive people in 2009. South Africa’s 2012–2016 National Strategic Plan on HIV, STIs and TB reveals that one in five pregnant South African adolescents is HIV-positive. With approximately 3.4 million people living with HIV, Nigeria has the second-largest number of people living with HIV/AIDS in the world, and approximately 72,000 babies annually are born HIV-positive. In Angola, an estimated 7 percent of the country’s HIV cases are caused by mother-to-child transmission. Our company programs have made a remarkable impact. For eight years in Angola and 12 years in Nigeria, we have had no reports of mother-to-child trans.mission of HIV among our employees or their qualified dependents. “Chevron was one of the first companies to understand that stopping babies from being born with HIV is the best return for investment,” said Michel Sidibé, executive director of UNAIDS and undersecretary-general of the United Nations. “They understood that we will be able to completely stop the epidemic if we come together.” Expanding Care To address mother-to-child trans.mission of HIV at Chevron-owned and -operated clinics in African communities, we are expanding care facilities and providing doctors, nurses, midwives and psychologists. At our Angola clinics, 169 professionals focus on the health and well-being of our employees and their dependents. From 2011 to 2012, the clinics treated more than 140,000 patients. And in four Nigerian states, we donate essential drugs to five hospitals, two of which specialize in maternal and child care. We also built and donated a center at St. Kizito Clinic in Lekki, Lagos, to help fight infections in HIV/AIDS patients. “Our employees and their families are more knowledgeable about the disease and want to know their status. If needed, they can get immediate medical assistance,” said Dr. Judith Model Health Program to Fight Sickle Cell Anemia Chevron partnered with the Republic of Angola, Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children’s Hospital in 2011 to create Angola’s first comprehensive program to screen and treat newborns for sickle cell anemia. Sickle cell disease is an inher.ited disorder that causes susceptibility to infection, hemolytic anemia, sporadic blockage of blood vessels and organ damage. In Africa, no universal screening program for newborns exists. “In many countries in sub-Saharan Africa, sickle cell is a major contributor to child mortality, perhaps accounting for 20 or 25 percent of all deaths of children under five years of age,” said Dr. Mark Kline, physician in chief at Texas Children’s Hospital. “In the past, several programs without government support haven’t worked. In this case, the government, the Ministry of Health, and the First Lady of Angola were all behind the initiative. Chevron provided the catalytic funding, and without Chevron’s support, this program wouldn’t have gotten off the ground.” Chevron is providing $4 million over four years for the Angola Sickle Cell Initiative. The program began testing in July 2011 at two large maternity hospitals in Luanda, which each have 50 to 100 births per day. Over 18 months, the pilot program screened more than 33,000 babies, resulting in approximately 7,000 testing positive for the sickle cell trait. And 269 children have been referred for treatment of sickle cell disease. Angolans do the testing, laboratory work and clinical work. In addition to testing the babies, medical staff educate families about sickle cell disease. Babies with the disease begin receiving simple, cost-effective lifesaving treatments involving immunizations and penicillin to protect them against lethal bacterial infections. The program is considered a model that can be replicated throughout Africa and applied to diagnose other diseases. “The pilot program shows that comprehen.sive care can save lives,” said Dr. Patrick McGann, assistant professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine. Aguiar, Chevron clinic superintendent in Malongo, Angola. Chevron supports the participation of doctors in Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children’s Hospital’s Global Health Corps who provide care for mothers and children and train hundreds of health professionals in Angola and Liberia. The doctors focus on prevention, treatment and research for HIV/AIDS, sickle cell anemia, malaria, cancer and other diseases. Education Is Critical We believe that employee awareness is critical to combating HIV/AIDS. In Angola and Nigeria, we train employees as peer educators to encourage their colleagues and qualified dependents to know the facts of the disease and get tested. Chevron supplies baby formula and provides psychologists to work with new mothers. We also encourage confidential, voluntary testing for employees and qualified dependents, and we emphasize that there are no negative repercussions for getting tested and seeking treatment. “In the past, in South Africa, many people struggled to talk about HIV/AIDS,” said Miranda Anthony, social investment manager for Chevron South Africa. “Our partner.ships are helping communities face this struggle and create hope so they understand that the virus is not the end of the world.” Broadening Community Partnerships Chevron is advancing local-partnership models in South Africa, Nigeria and “Special attention is being paid to HIV-infected mothers who could transmit the disease through breast.feeding. In Angola, surveys found that because of cultural prejudice, mothers were afraid to not breastfeed their babies,” said Dr. Huma Abbasi, general manager of Chevron’s Health and Medical department. Angola. We collaborated with the Western Cape Department of Social Development, the nonprofit Heavenly Promise and community leaders to establish the Du Noon Community Home-Based Care Centre, which provides meals and services for homebound people with HIV/AIDS. We are also partnering with mothers2mothers, a sub-Saharan African NGO, to establish a mentor program in Nigeria. According to Dr. Mitchell Besser, medical director and co-founder of mothers2mothers, the staff is made up of former patients who found out they were HIV-positive and were fearful about their health and the health of their babies. “When they become mentor mothers, they’re employed, they have economic opportunities, and they become empowered in their households and their communities. They have opportu.nities that they may never have had before,” he said. We also approach community educa.tion by partnering with Nigeria’s National Agency for the Control of AIDS to mentor small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs) to complement national efforts in response to the HIV pandemic. We started with 10 SMEs in Lagos in 2010, and in 2012 extended the program to 20 new SMEs in the Federal Capital Territory, Kogi and Nasarawa states. Over 10 months, there has been a 64 percent increase of SME and community member participation in HIV counseling, testing and treatment referrals. We are supporting efforts of the Business Leadership Council, a private-sector initiative focused on ending transmission of HIV from mothers to children by 2015. Additionally, we are partnering with the nonprofit Pact to establish educa.tional programs in Nigeria’s Bayelsa State. “If a mother never knows she is living with HIV, she can do little to prevent infecting her baby,” said Mark Viso, Pact’s president and CEO. “That has to change, and Chevron is helping make that change possible.” Meet Dr. Huma Abbasi, general manager of Chevron’s Health and Medical department at Chevron.com/CR2012/Health. Executive Interview On Addressing Health Issues What is the role of multinational corporations in addressing public health issues? Multinational corporations such as Chevron recognize that our success is tied to the health and prosperity of the countries where we operate. When public health issues put employee productivity and community well.being at risk, it is a business issue that demands action. We can play unique roles in address.ing public health issues because of our size, global experience and long-term presence in the developing world. First, we must be role models in addressing workforce health issues. In 2005, Chevron was the first oil and gas company to institute a global HIV/AIDS policy for employees. Second, multinational corporations can play a role in convening health-related partnerships with community organizations and offering approaches to address local health concerns that have proven successful in other areas of the world. How does Chevron address these issues? Our approach is grounded in policy, partnerships and perseverance. This starts with a corporate policy to support employees. Some of our largest operations are located where the grip of AIDS is the strongest. We educate our entire workforce about prevention and testing for HIV/AIDS, and we provide access to treatment and care. We partner with global, national and local organizations, as well as host governments, to promote the health and well-being of the communities near our operations. Our clinics in Angola have treated 140,000 employees and community members in just the past two years. We partner with universities and hospitals to expand pediatric health care to medically underserved popula.tions in Liberia. Since 2008, we have invested more than $60 million in partnerships and programs related to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. And we sustain our commitment. We have been fighting AIDS for more than 25 years. What progress has Chevron helped make in combating disease? Change is not only possible; it’s happen.ing. In our company clinics and with our partners, we’ve produced remark.able results. There have been no reports of mother.to-child transmission of HIV among our employees or their qualified dependents during the past eight years in Angola and 12 years in Nigeria. To date, more than 11,000 employees have taken advantage of tools in our cardiovascular health program. More than 1,500 participants have collectively decreased their risk of developing coronary heart disease in the next 10 years by an average of 10 percent. Our sickle cell anemia partnerships in Angola are saving lives — in the first 18 months of the program, 33,000 babies were screened and 269 treated. This progress inspired our latest partnership. In 2011, we joined the global fight to eliminate mother.to-child transmission of HIV by 2015. We hope our experience inspires others to do the same. Progress Update Our partnerships and programs benefit our operations and local communities. Following are 2012 updates on regions covered in last year’s report. Colombia Chevron has a history of investing in Colombian communities near our gas production facilities in La Guajira to help people create a better future. We continue to support the Laachon Mayapo Ethno-Educational Center, which provides education to more than 1,200 children of the region. In 2012, we collaborated with the national oil company, Ecopetrol, and other organizations to continue work.ing in identified areas of need in Wayúu communities. Through our partner.ships, we help find and maintain water sources, fund educational and health programs, provide training in sustain.able agriculture and fishing, encourage an emerging tourism industry, and support small businesses. We have maintained our support to more than 640 fishermen near the Manaure municipality through technical training and financial assistance. Supporting and protecting the Wayúu heritage was also a major priority for us in 2012. Chevron continued to provide training and marketing support to more than 600 Wayúu weavers, who produce colorful handmade bags, hammocks and blankets. Chevron endorsed the Wayúus exhibiting for the first time in the Círculo de la Moda de Bogotá, a major fashion event. Nigeria Chevron provided seed-funding in 2010 for the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative (NDPI) Foundation, which was established to help alleviate poverty and promote peace in the region by building public-private partnerships in four focus areas: economic develop.ment, capacity building, peace building, and analysis and advocacy. In 2012, NDPI opened the Economic Development Center in Warri as a coordinating hub for development activity. Three pilot projects were launched to create jobs and increase income for Niger Delta residents within the aquaculture, cassava oil and palm oil sectors. Programs emphasize coordi.nation between farmers, producers, government agencies and banks. NDPI’s first Niger Delta Development Forum brought together over 180 par.ticipants from the government, private sector and development community to discuss measures to reduce poverty and promote economic development, capacity building and peace building. Chevron has endowed the NDPI Foundation with $50 million over five years, 2010 to 2014. NDPI has also generated an additional $50 million in funding commitments from other donor partners. U.S. Northeast To share expertise and improve practices for developing natural gas from shale, our Appalachian/Michigan business unit (AMBU) in 2012 hosted more than 150 technical experts at an international forum in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In Fayette County, Pennsylvania, and Marshall County, West Virginia, we formed advisory councils to inform citizens about our operations and listen to concerns. We gave drill site tours and presentations to community lead.ers, media and government officials. AMBU reuses 100 percent of the flow-back water, 100 percent of drilling water, and 80 percent of brine gener.ated from producing wells. Overall, AMBU is reusing 96 percent of all its water and is on track to achieve its goal of 100 percent reuse. In March 2013, Chevron became a founding member of the Center for Sustainable Shale Development, which seeks to certify compliance with more stringent operation standards in Appalachia. A coalition of energy companies, environmental organi.zations and philanthropies established the center, the first of its kind in the country. To learn more, please view Chevron.com/MarcellusBrochure. South Africa The Chevron Cape Town Refinery, working with Northlink College, is addressing the skilled-labor shortage in South Africa by funding training in nationally accredited trade-skills programs. In 2012, 71 Western Cape residents were trained in skills ranging from welding to mechanical fitting. These talents are needed in the local community and help the refinery find and hire qualified workers during periodic refinery maintenance shutdowns. Thirty-two individuals have since been hired to work on shut.downs in 2012 and 2013, and eight graduates have been employed by one of Chevron’s main contractors. Three graduates received direct contracts with Chevron. Indonesia In late 2011, Chevron Geothermal Salak, in collaboration with the Mount Halimun-Salak National Park Authority, local governments and the Indonesian Biodiversity Foundation, launched the Green Corridor Initiative. The initiative aims to empower local communities in restoring a critical ecological zone in the degraded forest — the “green corridor” — that connects Mount Salak and Mount Halimun ecosystems and serves as a wildlife crossing and water catchment area. The initiative plans to plant 250,000 trees over five years. In 2012, our employees and community members planted 20,000 trees, adding to the initial 5,000 trees planted in 2011. From January to March 2013, we planted 20,000 more trees in the forest corridor. Also in 2012, we facilitated local train.ing programs in integrated farming as an economic alternative to support conservation efforts for 40 farmers. We plan to broaden the program in 2013 by establishing an integrated farming and learning center to help ensure the sustainability of the farmers’ efforts. 