managing water resources chevron recognizes the value of water as a fundamental societal, environmental and economic resource and is committed to responsible water management learn more chevron.com/water fresh water withdrawn 100 75 as a global company, we know that access to water is essential for the communities where we Million cubic meters 50 operate and for our business To produce energy around the world, we rely on access to sufficient sources of water, including both fresh water and water of lower quality.* *Water of lower quality could include: seawater; brackish groundwater or surface water; reclaimed wastewater from another municipal or industrial facility; desalinated water; or remediated groundwater used for industrial purposes. 25 0 Our Upstream operations have reduced their fresh water withdrawn by 39 percent since 2013. See Page 24 for more on Chevron’s water usage. chevron.com/cr water risk management We have systems, processes and standards to manage this critical natural resource. The expectations in our updated Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) call for our organizations to conserve and protect water resources using a risk-based approach that addresses potential acute and cumulative impacts across the life of our assets. Organizations monitor and analyze performance to verify that the safeguards designed to conserve and protect water in water-constrained areas are in place. Our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process and our Upstream-specific Natural Resources Environmental Performance Standard (EPS) are two examples of how the water-related expectations of our OEMS are executed. Our Natural Resources EPS is applied across our onshore Upstream business and capital projects and calls for a water resources screening assess.ment. Together with our ESHIA process, these tools help to identify potentially significant environmental and social impacts associated with our water use. The water resources screening assessment evaluates and helps us manage the following risks that may be associated with our water use: • Water availability • Competition for water resources • Impact of water withdrawal on source water quality or quantity • Sociopolitical risks • Regulatory restrictions Where there is potential for significant impact, a water resources management plan (WRMP) is developed. The WRMP helps our operations identify and implement measures that reduce water withdrawals when possible. promoting efficient use of water Our operations promote the efficient use of water in water-constrained areas through conservation, reuse and recycling. Water-sharing agreements in Appalachia Our operations in Appalachia have created partnerships with select local operators to engage in water-sharing agreements. These agreements facilitate reuse of our produced water** by other operators for their drilling and hydraulic fracturing activities. This practice has multifaceted benefits, including maximizing water recycling to offset freshwater demands and limiting disposal to injection wells. Since the execution of agreements in March 2017, Chevron Appalachia has shared approximately 21 million gallons of water. Using brackish water in the Permian In the Permian Basin, we use brackish water in lieu of fresh water when possible. More than 95 percent of the water used in our well completions in the Permian Basin is from brackish water sources. water use in well completions permian basin 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Recycling industrial-used water in Singapore In 2017, Singapore’s national water agency awarded the Singapore Refining Company (SRC)*** the inaugural Water Efficiency Award in the Refining category for its efforts in water recycling. The SRC built a recycling plant that further manages treated wastewater that would otherwise be dis.charged to the sea. The plant uses ceramic microfiltration and reverse osmosis, removing suspended solids, oil, grease and other contaminants from the used water. Water from the new plant meets both industrial and potable water specifications and is recycled back to the refinery’s boiler feed water. The plant currently meets approximately 20 percent of the SRC’s water demand. **Water that is brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas. ***A 50 percent–owned joint venture. chevron.com/cr integrity and trust respectinghuman rights we respect the rights of our community members, the workers in our supply chain, our employees and other rights holders who may be affected by our operations learn more chevron.com/humanrights Guided by The Chevron Way, we conduct our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, respecting the law and universal human rights to benefit the communities where we work. Our approach to human rights is informed by the United Nations Guiding Prin.ciples on Business and Human Rights. Below are some of the enterprisewide policies, processes and procedures that embed our Human Rights Policy in the way we operate. labor relations policy Chevron s enterprisewide labor relations policy is con.sistent with the International Labour Organization s core labor principles concerning freedom of association and collective bargaining. If Chevron employees choose union representation, a Works Council or labor organization representation, Chevron s policy is to attempt to establish a positive, cooperative business relationship with the certified representative of choice. We seek to adopt labor relations strategies that foster cooperation, open com munication, and both employee and union participation in meeting the goals of the company. Our business units are expected to make labor relations decisions consistent with The Chevron Way, the business unit s strategies and business plans, and local government regulations. addressing potential community impacts We recognize that our operations have the potential to affect the well-being of the communities in which we work. That is why Chevron s Operational Excellence Management System includes an Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process, which applies to capital projects within Chevron s operational control. The ESHIA process provides a systematic and risk-based approach to identifying, assessing and managing potentially significant impacts, including human rights–related issues. The assessments consider potential impacts our activities may have on surrounding communities, natural resources, air quality, and community health and livelihoods. They incor porate human rights due diligence to help the company con sider how to safeguard the rights and interests of potentially affected communities. Obtaining input from communities and partners is central to the ESHIA process and occurs throughout a project s life cycle. If further assessment is needed, Chevron teams can conduct more detailed Human Rights Impact Assessments. When potential issues related to resettlement of com munities or engagement with indigenous peoples are identified, Chevron s Resettlement Guidance and Indigenous Peoples Guidance provide our business units with a road map for how to navigate those situations in a manner that respects potentially affected rights holders. Our Grievance Mechanism Guidance and existing operational-level griev ance mechanisms enable our business units to identify and respond to community concerns that may call for remedy. chevron.com/cr Above: Chevron is Colombia’s largest producer of natural gas, and much of it comes from La Guajira, home to the indigenous Wayúu people. Chevron supports the concept of free, prior and informed consultation as part of our work engaging stake.holders to foster trust and build relationships. our supplier expectations We expect our suppliers to adhere to the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. That means we expect our suppliers to have policies and practices in place that allow their employees freedom of association and that protect against forced labor, child labor and workplace discrimi.nation. We seek to implement this expectation through a variety of due diligence and performance management processes that we apply to current and potential suppliers. For example, in 2017, we disqualified two companies competing for a contract after learning of forced labor in their operations. 20,000+ Chevron launched human rights training in 2012. Since then, the training has been taken more than 20,000 times. chevron.com/cr partnership creatingprosperity we are committed to running our business the right way and unlocking potential for progress within the communities where we operate—we call this the business of progress learn more chevron.com/creatingprosperity $167 billion in total goods and services spent globally in the past five years In the United States in 2017, we spent approximately $600 million with woman- and minority-owned businesses and more than $1.5 billion on goods and services from small businesses. See Page 26 for further informa.tion on our goods and services spending. Above: John Page with NTC Contracting provides earthmoving and civil works services to Chevron’s Wheatstone asset. Due to this partnership, NTC has increased its capabilities, improved its health, environment and safety standards, and expanded its local workforce from about 30 to more than 120 during peak construction. chevron.com/cr Bringing our products to global markets generates direct benefits for the communities in which we operate. Chevron seeks to increase opportunities for these community members to earn a livelihood through local workforce development and hiring initiatives as well as supplier development and contracting programs. Through our strategic social investments, we also partner with communities to support fundamental economic development, education and health programs that contrib.ute to our mutual success. building local capacity Chevron’s supply chain and workforce investments are among our most powerful tools for creating prosperity. We spent more than $24 billion in total goods and services in 2017, much of it going to locally owned companies in the communities where we operate. With that often comes a further investment of our time and technical capabil.ities to help build the capacity of these local businesses, enabling them to win future work with us and other com.panies. Our investments can help these local businesses grow, creating new jobs and bringing more resources into the local community. Other direct investments benefiting the communities in which we work are our workforce development and job training initiatives. We strive to hire locally as much as pos.sible, which often means helping develop the skills of the local labor force. In 2017, 95 percent of Chevron employees worked in their home country. 25,000+ kazakhstanis employed In 2017, more than 25,000 Kazakhstanis worked on Chevron’s Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure Management Project, the newest megaproject in Chevron’s portfolio and the next phase of expansion for the Tengiz Field. To learn more, visit chevron.com/worldwide/kazakhstan. local economic impact Chevron contributes to local communities by creating jobs, developing and sourcing from local suppliers, and employing local workforces. This helps build local economies and improve livelihoods. richmond, california In 2016, Chevron spent $183 million with suppliers from western Contra Costa County, California, where the Richmond Refinery is located, bringing contracts with local suppliers to $485 million from 2012 through 2016. The refinery has a special focus on providing opportunities for small, minority-owned and woman-owned businesses. In 2016, the refinery spent $62 million on such businesses in the Bay Area and $86.5 million overall. In the nine Bay Area counties, 79 small businesses provided the refinery with services, of which 14 were woman-owned, five minority-owned and four veteran-owned. To learn more, read our case study at chevron.com/crcasestudies. Above: Sandra Escalante is the president and CEO of Laner Electric Supply, a certified small, woman-, minority- and LGBT-owned business. Clients include Chevron’s Richmond Refinery and the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. australia Chevron’s Wheatstone asset is one of Australia’s largest resource developments. Since 2009, we have awarded more than 300 contracts to Australian companies, spending $15 billion on local goods and services. To learn more, visit chevron.com/australia. chevron.com/cr social investment Chevron makes strategic social investments that focus on education, health and better access to economic development. By partnering with host governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and public and private international organizations, we believe we can achieve common goals and improve the quality of life in the communities where we work. Economic development We work with local partners to support projects that focus on removing barriers to economic development to help ease the cycle of poverty, improving the capacity of civil society institutions, and empowering businesses, workers and their families. In Venezuela, we created the Emprered program in partner.ship with Centro al Servicio de la Acción Popular–Banauge, a local NGO that provides microloans to small businesses. Over the past 10 years, Emprered has trained an average of 1,100 people annually in planning, marketing, finance and other skills needed to create a successful business. Chevron also sponsors the Empremujer Award to encourage women entrepreneurs to develop and implement business ideas. Above: In 2017 in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, 20 local women were each given a Holland Holstein calf, feed and a training course on how to raise her cow. This program, which is part of our overall contribution to economic development in the region, provides the women with financial resources and a unique skill set. Left: In Nigeria, Peer Health Educators (PHEs) discuss health issues and how they can help their colleagues overcome them. Chevron has 394 PHEs in Nigeria, Angola, London and Indonesia. chevron.com/cr bangladesh partnership initiative In 2014, Chevron announced a commitment to create the Bangladesh Partnership Initiative (BPI), a multiyear program to support economic development for com.munities in the Greater Sylhet region. By working with international development organizations, the BPI assesses local needs and establishes enterprise and workforce development programs. One program, the Uttoron Project, enrolled 475 local youths in vocational training, of whom 80 percent graduated and were placed in jobs. BPI’s Jibika Project is enhancing quality of life for about 18,000 people by promoting entrepreneurship and training. Chevron’s BPI commitment is one of the largest corporate social investments ever made in Bangladesh. Health Chevron invests in programs aimed at improving health to unlock potential progress and prosperity in the com.munities where we operate. We bring together the people, resources and expertise to deliver meaningful change. When public health issues put employee productivity and community well-being at risk, it is a business issue that demands action. One way we promote the health of our workforce is through peer-based education programs. Peer Health Educators (PHEs) are well-trained, motivated employees who volunteer time to provide their peers with health-related education and activities. PHEs are trained to address personal health holistically and can engage the workforce and their communities to increase awareness of personal health and its impact on safety and productivity. Education We believe our support for education helps whole commu.nities prosper and gives everyone partnership in the process. We bring together the people, resources and expertise to develop innovative programs that invest in tomorrow’s work.force by educating students, training teachers, providing classroom resources and preparing workers to excel in their jobs through workforce training. We do this because a trained workforce is needed to build our business, raise awareness of opportunities for youth, and give back in communities where we work. In 2011, Chevron Australia recognized the need to build its talent pipeline to help increase Aboriginal employment. We launched the Education to Employment (E2E) pathway, working with the Aboriginal community, schools, univer.sities and employment pathway providers to help develop the skills to commence a rewarding career. Since its launch, more than 160 Aboriginal Australians have participated in the E2E pathway initiative, and Aboriginal employment within Chevron Australia has increased from four employees in 2010 to 63 at year-end 2017. volunteerism and giving 273,700+ U.S. volunteer hours In the United States, Chevron encourages employee and retiree volunteerism and giving through Chevron Humankind. In 2017, 8,010 employees and retirees contributed 273,715 volunteer hours to 2,349 charitable organizations in the United States, and a total of $33.1 million was contributed to U.S. nonprofit organizations through a combination of employee and retiree giving and company-matching funds. In 2017, more than $5 million was directed to dis.aster relief and recovery efforts in British Columbia, Texas, Florida, California, Mexico and Puerto Rico through contributions made by Chevron and the Chevron Global Community Fund. Above: Stan Cross and other employees partnered with Houston Habitat for Humanity to build new homes after Hurricane Harvey. 