2015  corporate responsibility  report highlights getting results the right way for complete reporting, visit chevron.com/reporting the chevron way explains  who we are, what we do, what we believe and what we plan to accomplish At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy  company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. We make this vision a reality by consistently putting  our values into practice. The Chevron Way values distinguish us and  guide our actions so that we get results the right way. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, protecting people and the environment, and high performance. read more chevron.com/chevronway We partner with some of our largest international contractors to bring more local producers into their  supply chains. In Colombia, we are  collaborating with global food services contractor Compass Group and the nongovernmental organization VITAL on a partnership designed to help smallholder farmers meet Compass’s high standards of quality.  unlocking opportunities together As a result, many of these farmers now sell their fruits, vegetables and other products to Compass, which means Chevron Colombia employees are enjoying this locally grown food when they sit down to eat at our facilities. More important, those farmers are enjoying improved livelihoods thanks to the reliable demand and fair pricing that Compass offers as a customer. Currently, more than 90 farmers have taken part in the program. On the cover: By providing avocados from his La Guajira Province, Colombia, farm to Chevron through the Compass-VITAL partnership, Exavier Guerra has doubled his income and developed the technical and business skills needed to commercialize his surplus produce. learn more chevron.com/creatingprosperity a message from our chairman and  chief executive officer John S. Watson Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer For more than 135 years, Chevron has focused on safely developing affordable and reliable energy to enable global economic growth and make lives better. Our products  and services continue to be critical for economic progress, and our fundamentals remain strong. We also remain com.mitted to operational excellence (OE) and the communities in which we work. We are guided, as always, by The Chevron Way. This  road map underpins the character of our company and establishes the values by which we deliver our results.  Our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report highlights three  of our values—acting with integrity, protecting people and the environment, and engaging in partnership. It also illustrates our belief that corporate responsibility is about putting the values of The Chevron Way into action. We conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. We respect the law, support universal human rights, protect the environment and benefit the communi.ties in which we work. We strive to meet the highest ethical standards in all business dealings, and in 2015, we reinforced this with our service providers, underlining our expectation that they abide by our human rights policies. 2015 was one of our best years ever in preventing significant safety and environmental incidents. Our Days Away From Work Rate, Motor Vehicle Crash Rate and petroleum spill volume set record lows, and our Total Recordable Incident Rate matched last year’s record low. Chevron is committed to meeting our goal of zero incidents and will continue to focus on achieving world-class performance in all measures  of safety and environmental stewardship. This includes managing our use of freshwater resources and reducing natural gas flaring and venting to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Our Operational Excellence Management System provides a disciplined approach to working safely, protecting the environment, and operating reliably and efficiently. You can track our progress at chevron.com/cr, where we provide additional details about our efforts to partner with people, projects and communities to create prosperity and make lives better. Over the past 10 years, we have made approximately $1.9 billion in social investments in local  communities. In 2015, we advanced our strategic programs and partnerships with more than $233 million in global social investments. We focused these investments in three core areas—health, education and economic development— to develop skilled workers, improve access to health care, and boost local and regional economies. These social investments complement our investments in projects and local goods and services, creating jobs and generating revenues for the communities where we operate. In 2015, we spent $54 billion on goods and services globally. Going forward, our spending in this area will reflect our  continued commitment to the communities where we operate as well as the business environment. We thank you for your confidence and investment in Chevron as we continue working every day to achieve our vision of being the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. chevron.com/cr corporate responsibility at chevron for more than 135 years, chevron has proudly developed the energy that people and businesses depend on.—.helping to spur economic growth and improve the quality of life for communities worldwide We define corporate responsibility as putting the values of Business Conduct and Ethics Code, our Human Rights  The Chevron Way into action. These values place the highest Policy, and our Operational Excellence Management System. priority on maintaining ethical standards, respecting the  This framework of policies and processes provides a stand- law, supporting universal human rights, protecting people ardized approach that enables us to identify and manage and the environment, and benefiting the communities where the corporate responsibility–related risks we encounter in we work. Our focus on corporate responsibility is integrated our global business and to promote continual improvement into key business policies and processes, including our of our safety, environmental and social performance. Above: Students at Dossymov School #12 in Atyrau, Kazakhstan, participate in interactive life-skills training as part of the Atyrau Youth Development Initiative, a social investment program designed to prepare youth for future success in the workplace and society. chevron.com/cr prioritizing issues for our reporting focusing onwhat matters Our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on environ.mental, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter  to our business and our stakeholders—investors, customers, host governments, local communities and employees.  To select the content for our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights and the corporate responsibility section  of chevron.com, we used an issue prioritization process  that involved the following steps: Step 1: A team of employees from across our functions and business segments identified ESG topics that are salient to our stakeholders and our business. To do so, the team used internal and external sources, including international reporting guidelines and frameworks, ESG analytics, topics addressed in previous Corporate Responsibility Reports, feedback received on the 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights, media analysis, industry peer reviews,  and a range of stakeholder engagements. Step 2: The team conducted an initial prioritization of ESG issues based on their relevance to our business. Step 3: The team sought feedback on the initial prioritiza.tion of issues through dialogues with internal subject matter experts and external stakeholders. Step 4: The team determined the issues that are of highest priority for our reporting, and we discuss each in this report and on our website. Our prioritized issues reflect topics covered in the 2015 edition of the IPIECA/API/IOGP* Oil and gas industry  guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. For 2015, Chevron reported on all 34 indicators. An IPIECA/API/IOGP content index is available on page 29 of this report and  at chevron.com/IPIECA. *IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and  social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association of  Oil & Gas Producers. This Highlights report represents a snapshot of our 2015 performance. Our complete reporting on ESG issues and indicators can be found at chevron.com/reporting integrity achievingresults through strong governanceand ethics Among Chevron’s core values  is integrity, which means: We strive to meet  the highest ethical standards  in all business dealings. We are honest with  others and ourselves. We do what we say we will do. learn more chevron.com/ethicsgovernance chevron.com/cr Chevron holds its workforce to the highest standards of integrity and honesty and encourages employees to report questionable conduct.  We believe in being transparent with and responsive to our stakeholders at all times, and we strive to comply with the letter and the spirit of  all applicable laws when conducting Company business. board of directors Chevron is governed by a Board of Directors that oversees the Company’s business affairs and meets throughout the year. The Board is committed to strong corporate governance structures and practices that help the Company achieve business results—the right way. The Board has four standing committees, each composed solely of independent Directors: Audit; Board Nominating and Governance; Management Compensation; and Public Policy. Directors fulfill their responsibilities through Board and committee meetings and also through other communications with management. The Board monitors corporate perform.ance, the integrity of Chevron’s financial controls, and the effectiveness of its legal and political compliance and public policy and social programs. It also oversees management and succession of key executives and Chevron’s strategic and business planning process. board and committee oversight of risk Chevron faces a broad array of risks, including market,  operational, strategic, legal, political and financial.  To determine if appropriate risk management systems  are employed throughout the Company, the Board and its committees oversee Chevron’s risk management policies and practices. The Public Policy Committee assists the  Board in fulfilling its oversight of risks that may arise in connection with the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business  and the communities in which it operates. The committee discusses risk management in the context of, among  other things, legislative and regulatory initiatives, safety  and environmental stewardship, community relations,  government and nongovernmental organization relations,  and Chevron’s reputation. The committee reports its  discussions to the full Board for consideration and action when appropriate. governance For Chevron, good corporate governance means having structures and processes in place to make sure that the Company’s decisions and actions are in the best interests of our stockholders. It also means being transparent with and responsive to our stockholders. Through our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance departments, we engage directly with many of our stockholders in meetings to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy issues, and we engage with all of them through reports, press releases and the Company’s website. All stockholder communications addressed to the nonemployee Directors are available to the Board and reviewed by the Board Nominating and Governance Committee. business ethics Chevron takes the conduct of its employees seriously and encourages questionable conduct to be reported. This may include, for example, violations of Company policy or of the Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code, which contains a description of how we administer oversight of our compliance program and information about the avenues through which employees can report misconduct. One reporting method available to the entire workforce is the Chevron Hotline, which is operated offsite by Global Compliance Services (AlertLine®), an independent agent. In addition, our Global Office of Ombuds provides a safe, confidential environment outside formal reporting channels to resolve workplace concerns. Employees may contact an Ombudsman at any time, regardless of the stage of the concern or severity of the issue. chevron.com/cr integrity respectinghuman rights although governments have the primary duty to protect and ensure fulfillment of human rights, chevron believes that we have a responsibility to respect human rights and that we can play a positive role in the communities where we operate learn more chevron.com/humanrights In Rakhine State, Myanmar, Kayala Oo of Unocal Myanmar Offshore Co., Ltd. (a Chevron subsidiary) leads a social impact assessment meeting with local community members and other stakeholders. human rights policy Chevron’s Human Rights Policy, adopted in 2009, fosters greater awareness of human rights issues throughout  the Company and enhances our capabilities to identify  and manage human rights across our business. It focuses on evaluating how our operations may impact communities, engaging with suppliers on issues related to human rights, conducting responsible security operations and treating our employees in a manner consistent with The Chevron Way. The policy is governed by an executive leadership body and involves oversight by our Board of Directors. We operationalize our Human Rights Policy by disseminating processes, procedures and tools to Chevron practitioners, including guidance on training and conducting risk assess.ments, on managing relationships with communities, and on engaging with business suppliers and security providers. Our policy is consistent with the United Nations Guiding Prin.ciples on Business and Human Rights, which were developed through consultation with stakeholders, including Chevron. Our policy is embedded in the Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code compliance training for all employees.  We also provide various levels of training for individuals most likely to encounter issues related to human rights. communities Chevron identifies and manages potential community impacts through a variety of processes and tools, including social impact assessments and guidance on how best to engage with indigenous peoples and manage resettlement. In 2015, Chevron launched exploration offshore Myanmar.  We are committed to maintaining our respect for human rights throughout our operations. We engaged our seismic acquisition contractor in discussions on the management  of potential scenarios related to its offshore work that could involve human rights issues. In addition, we recently con.ducted a social impact assessment using an internationally respected third-party contractor with expertise in human rights. In 2016, we will report on the corporate responsibil.ity efforts we have undertaken in Myanmar in accordance with the U.S. Department of State’s Responsible Investment Reporting Requirements for Burma. suppliers Chevron spends billions of dollars every year on goods and services globally. We encourage our suppliers to treat their employees and interact with communities in ways that respect human rights. We require that our key suppliers adhere to all domestic laws and encourage them to align their practices with the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core principles of freedom of association, the right  to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and com.pulsory labor, the abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in the workplace. We also use regular  communication with our key suppliers to reinforce our human rights principles and to raise our suppliers’ aware.ness of potential human rights issues. In 2015, we sent a letter to the senior leaders of more than 400 goods and services companies. The letter, which is posted online at chevron.com/humanrights, outlined Chevron’s commitment to respecting human rights and our expectation that our business partners treat their employees and interact with communities in a manner consistent with our Human Rights Policy and the ILO’s core labor principles. security providers As a founding member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Initiative (VPI), which launched in 2000, Chevron has long demonstrated its commitment to responsible security. The VPI is a multistakeholder initiative  with government, civil and business participants. It pro.motes implementation of principles that guide extractive companies on how to provide security for their operations in a manner that respects human rights. These principles are embedded throughout Chevron’s global operations. Our Operational Excellence Management System provides a comprehensive framework to identify and mitigate security risk and helps align security operations with our Human Rights Policy. In 2015, we updated the process governing security guidelines and safeguards, helping us continue con.ducting security operations in compliance with our Human Rights Policy and applicable national and international law. employees We treat our employees with dignity and respect and pro.mote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Our Company policies and procedures adhere to all applicable domestic laws and are consistent with the ILO’s core labor principles. committed to diversity and inclusion In 2015, for the 11th consecutive year, we achieved  a rating of 100 percent on the Human Rights  Campaign Corporate Equality Index, which ranks  U.S. companies committed to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) equality in the workplace. Learn more about our diverse, engaged  and capable workforce at chevron.com/diversity. 