advancing environmental stewardship we conduct our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, respecting the law and universal human rights to beneﬁt the communities where we work learn more chevron.com/environment Our Natural Resources Environmental Performance Standard helps us consider and address potential impacts on species such as this South American gray fox (Lycalopex griseus) that was observed in our El Trapial Field in Argentina. Chevron places the highest priority on the health and safety of our workforce and protection of our assets, communities and the environment. We are committed to continually improving our environmental performance and reducing the potential impacts of our operations through the imple.mentation of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Similar to how we apply the OEMS to safe-work practices, our leaders are accountable for assessing strengths and gaps, completing risk-reducing actions, and enabling and delivering environmental performance. Chevron’s expectations for environmental stewardship address all Core Corporate Environmental Aspects* of our environmental performance across the life of our assets. These expectations are met through environmental processes and standards established at the corporate and sector levels and are implemented by regional and local management. The processes and standards provide our business with the ﬂexibility to focus on the potential risks and impacts to the environment most salient to the speciﬁc areas and communities where we operate. We continually seek risk-based, ﬁt-for-purpose opportunities to improve our environmental performance, and as such, we have developed desired states for each of our Core Corporate Environmental Aspects. To help us meet our desired states, we have also established objectives and actions that are speciﬁc to each aspect. Our current and future enterprise-level work focuses on pursuing these desired states. oil spills to land or water** Thousands of barrels Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chevron ranking relative to competitors, 1 being the lowest rate Competitor range: British Petroleum plc, ExxonMobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell maintaining high-quality environmental data We rely on our environmental data to understand our performance and help identify potential areas of improve.ment. We have invested in processes, systems and training to meet our objective of maintaining high-quality environ.mental data. For example, we conduct detailed onsite and desktop peer reviews of local data collection processes, with a focus on operations that contribute the most to our enterprisewide data. These peer reviews verify that all sources have been accounted for and reported in accord.ance with Chevron’s Operational Excellence Data Reporting Standard. Our peer review process and independent reviews by third parties continue to provide ongoing assurance of our data quality to enable informed business decisions. environmental principles We have four environmental principles that are implemented across the life of our assets: • Include the environment in decision making • Reduce our environmental footprint • Operate responsibly • Steward our sites Operating responsibly at our Pascagoula Reﬁnery Our reﬁneries periodically execute turnarounds, which are planned years in advance. These shut.downs are used to perform maintenance, test and replace materials, and repair and replace equip.ment. To mitigate potential environmental risks from turnaround activities, our reﬁneries prepare and execute comprehensive and detailed environ.mental turnaround plans that identify the speciﬁc actions that will be taken to minimize air emis.sions, ﬂaring, water use, wastewater discharge and waste generation. In 2016, a turnaround at our Pascagoula Reﬁnery Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Unit was successfully completed with no ﬂaring during shutdown, unit cleanup or unit startup. *Consistent with ISO 14001, we defined seven types of environmental activities, or Core Corporate Environmental Aspects: accidental release prevention and response, air emissions, energy efficiency and greenhouse gas, natural resources (including land, water and biodiversity), site residual impacts, waste, and wastewater. **Source: Annual company sustainability reports: British Petroleum plc (BP), ExxonMobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell. When needed, units converted to thousands of barrels (bbl) based on the following assumptions: 1 bbl oil = 0.134 metric tons = 0.159 cubic meters; 1 cubic meter = 1,000 liters. BP spill volume excludes oil recovered. chevron.com/cr As a global company, we know that access to adequate supplies of water is essential for the communities where we operate as well as for our ability to produce energy around the world. As users of this critical natural resource, we must manage it responsibly. Chevron strives to use the lowest quantity of fresh water practicable in its operations. We also seek opportunities to reuse water where operational, regulatory and business conditions permit. water management Our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process and our Upstream-speciﬁ c Natural Resources Environmental Performance Standard (Natural Resources EPS) help us manage our water use across the life of our operated assets. The ESHIA process is used by local project teams early in the life of the project to assess the potential impacts and beneﬁts of our activities on natural resources, including water. An important part of this process is assessing exist.ing environmental and social conditions, such as how local communities are using water. This information is used during project planning to help us consider and address potentially signiﬁcant water use by our operations in relation to local water availability. Our Natural Resources EPS is applied across all of our onshore Upstream businesses and capital projects and requires a water resources screening assessment to identify potentially signiﬁcant environmental and social impacts associated with our water use. Where there is potential for signiﬁcant impacts, a water resources management plan (WRMP) is developed. The WRMP helps our operations identify and implement measures that reduce water with.drawals when possible. water use in hydraulic fracturing Chevron strives to reduce the amount of fresh water used in our hydraulic fracturing operations. Using brackish water in the Permian In the Permian Basin, we use brackish water that is not suitable for human consumption or agricultural usage in lieu of fresh water, when possible. More than 90 percent of the water used in our well completions in the Permian Basin is from brackish water sources. Opposite: Employees inspect a remote terminal unit for the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition telemetry system. The unit monitors Chevron’s 1 million-gallon-capacity water storage tanks, which have eliminated the use of in-ground water storage pits in our Marcellus operations in Pennsylvania. water use in well completions permian basin 100% 75% 50% 25% Year 2015 2016 2017 By using brackish water, we were able to reduce the amount of fresh water used. Collaboration on water management in Argentina In the Loma Campana concession in Argentina, our activities required the use and disposal of large volumes of water in 2016. These operations were subject to stringent regulatory requirements around water management. In order to address these challenges, subject matter experts from Chevron’s Energy Technology Center and our Upstream Latin America business unit collaborated with our partner YPF, S.A., who operates the project. Through this work, ﬁ t-for-purpose, reliable and cost-effective alternatives were identiﬁ ed to treat and reuse the water that is brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas, in lieu of disposal. These alter.natives were designed to meet regulatory requirements and the needs of external stakeholders while also contributing to sustainable business development. chevron.com/cr integrity and trust respecting human rights chevron respects human rights and partners with host governments to complement their responsibility to protect human rights learn morechevron.com/humanrights respect for human rights Chevron’s Human Rights Policy applies to all of our em.ployees and operations and guides our respect for human rights across the business. Chevron regularly identiﬁ es and manages potential impacts through processes and tools, including global and context-speciﬁc impact assessments. Training provides guidance to our teams to help manage potential impacts in the communities where we operate, the provision of security, the administration of our work force, and the procurement of products and services. Our Human Rights Policy is governed by Chevron’s Global Issues Committee (a subcommittee of Chevron’s Executive Committee), involves oversight by our Board of Directors, and adheres to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. stakeholder engagement We build trusting relationships by collaborating with communities, governments, customers, suppliers and business partners. Chevron’s Stakeholder Engagement process requires that systems and plans be in place at the operational level to manage community input and issues, including the use of grievance mechanisms, as appropriate. Go to chevron.com/worldwide/myanmar to see an example of a grievance mechanism. provision of security As a founding member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Initiative* (VPI), Chevron has long demonstrated dedication to responsible security. Government, civil and business organizations work together within the VPI to empower security forces protect.ing assets to work in a manner that respects human rights. Chevron’s Operational Excellence Management System provides a comprehensive framework to identify and mitigate security risk and aligns security operations with our Human Rights Policy. In 2016, thousands of public and private security personnel associated with Chevron’s global operations received training on the Voluntary Principles. labor relations We treat our employees with dignity and respect and pro.mote diversity and inclusion. Our policies and procedures adhere to applicable domestic laws and are consistent with the International Labour Organization’s principles around supporting association and bargaining and prohibiting discrimination, forced labor and underage workers. contracting and procurement We contractually require suppliers to treat their employees and interact with communities in ways that respect human rights and adhere to domestic laws. We regularly communicate with key suppliers to reinforce our human rights commitment. *The VPI consists of governments, extractive companies and civil society organizations that join together to proactively implement security principles that prioritize respect for human rights. chevron.com/cr As critical stakeholders, Myanmar ﬁshing communities were frequently consulted during engagements around seismic exploration activities in 2015 and 2016. engagement with indigenous peoples in Canada Chevron Canada Limited works with approximately 40 Aboriginal groups across the proposed Kitimat liqueﬁed natural gas (LNG) and Kaybob Duvernay projects. Through these relationships, Chevron Canada has developed innovative agreements, programs and opportunities for Aboriginal communities to directly beneﬁt from our projects. For example, the proposed Kitimat LNG Project’s First Nations Limited Partnership has already provided 16 First Nation groups with signiﬁ cant beneﬁts, including economic beneﬁt payments, education and training programs, and employment and contracting opportunities. diversity and inclusion 100% In 2016, we achieved a score of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the 12th consecutive year. Learn more about our diverse, engaged and capable workforce at chevron.com/diversity. human rights– related guidance on community Indigenous peoples Chevron’s Indigenous Peoples Guidance outlines building blocks for effective management of relations with indigenous peoples, including: stakeholder identiﬁ cation, deﬁning the regulatory framework, pre-consult and determine the pre.ferred method of engagement, assess potential impacts and beneﬁts, conduct community consultations, and develop and implement indigenous peoples plans. Resettlement Chevron’s Resettlement Guidance provides a framework for projects and operations to utilize when considering resettlement, from assessment and planning to implementation. Resettlement objectives include informed business decision making, partner alignment and consultation with aff ected persons. Operational-level grievances Chevron’s Grievance Mechanism Guidance outlines steps for operations to design or update an operational-level grievance mechanism that strives to be legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent and rights-compatible. The mechanism should be based on engagement and dialogue and promote continuous learning. chevron.com/cr partnership creating prosperity we are committed to running our business the right way and unlocking potential for progress with our communities— we call this the business of progress $39B in total goods and services spent globally in 2016 In the United States, we spent more than $570 million with woman- and minority-owned businesses and more than $1.8 billion on goods and services from small businesses. See Page 28 for further information on our goods and services spending. Above: The Future Growth Project–Wellhead Pressure Management Project (FGP-WPMP) will leave a legacy of new capabilities for Kazakhstan’s future—in engineering, high-tech equipment servicing, project management, construction and fabrication. At peak construc.tion and fabrication, FGP-WPMP will generate around 20,000 jobs. chevron.com/cr At Chevron, we believe that our business succeeds best when the people we work with and the communities in which we operate succeed too. So we work to create pros.perity and contribute to progress everywhere we invest. The primary way we do this is by providing aff ordable, reliable energy. Supporting economic development, health and education is also fundamental to our mutual progress. Therefore, we bring together the people, resources and expertise to deliver lasting change on a local level through direct business investments, sourcing and hiring decisions, and strategic social investments. building local capacity Among Chevron’s most powerful tools for creating prosperity in our communities are our supply chain and workforce investments. Much of Chevron’s total goods and services spending is on goods and services provided by locally owned companies (local content). For example, in 2016, the Chevron-led Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture spent more than $1.9 billion on Kazakhstani goods and services. In Nigeria, we spent $2.5 billion on local content. This represented 65 percent of our total Nigerian goods and services expenditures for the year. Chevron invests in building the capacity of local companies to help them win new business from us and our major international suppli.ers. We do so through partnerships with national and local governments, national oil companies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and development agencies. Chevron employees work to enhance local suppliers’ capabilities to meet industry standards, especially when it comes to health, environment and safety performance. Chevron recognizes that the positive local impact of our supply chain investments can be ampliﬁed by the sourc.ing decisions of our suppliers. So we encourage our major international suppliers of goods and services to form joint venture partnerships with local businesses and to maxi.mize the purchase of local goods and services. These joint ventures create an opportunity for local businesses to gain access to new technology, bring their processes up to international standards and train their people on the latest industry practices. Chevron is also committed to investing in workforce training and job skills development in the communities where we work. Building the capabilities of local workforces not only helps us sustain a strong employee base, but also leaves a lasting positive impact on communities as they gain new skills and knowledge. *In 2015, Chevron commissioned a study independently administered by Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce in collaboration with the Fraser of Allander Institute to provide an assessment of Chevron’s overall economic impact in the United Kingdom. sourcing in Kazakhstan In Kazakhstan, the Chevron-led TCO joint venture has worked to increase the positive local impact of our supply chain investments by collaborating with our international supplier Nabors Industries Ltd., one of the world’s largest oil and gas drilling contractors. With encouragement from TCO, Nabors Industries has partnered with the Kazakhstani-owned KMG Drilling & Services. The new entity, KMG Nabors Drilling Company LLP (KMG Nabors), is one of the ﬁ rst Kazakhstani drilling companies to meet the standards and requirements of large operators such as TCO, and it has hired more than 100 Kazakhstani employees to support the contract with TCO. KMG Drilling & Services is also beneﬁting from the partnership thanks to improved safety processes and practices as well as signiﬁcant technology transfer; the local company now has two world-class drilling rigs, one of which is the most advanced in the region. local economic impact Beyond local sourcing and hiring, Chevron contributes to the growth of local economies in many ways, most funda.mentally by providing them with reliable, aff ordable energy. Taken together, our operations can contribute signiﬁ cantly to a country’s economic progress and prosperity. With the help of independent research and analysis ﬁrms, we can quantify those contributions to demonstrate the positive impacts we have on local economies and livelihoods. contributing in the United Kingdom* Chevron’s 50-year partnership with the United Kingdom continues to create a positive economic ripple effect throughout the country. In 2015, Chevron directly employed more than 1,000 people, indirectly supporting the equivalent of more than 51,700 U.K. jobs and adding around $2.7 billion to the country’s gross domestic product. In the 10-year period to year-end 2015, Chevron’s North Sea– related activities generated a tax contribution to the U.K. government of more than $5.9 billion. chevron.com/cr appalachia partnership initiative Chevron, along with regional partners, established the Appalachia Partnership Initiative (API) to address education and workforce development skills gaps in Pittsburgh’s Tri-State area (Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia). The API works with local partners to make investments in K–12 science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education as well as in post-secondary training and apprenticeship programs. For example, Chevron is working with ShaleNET, a workforce training program for the energy and advanced manufacturing industries, to provide scholarships to students at community colleges in the region. The partnership also focuses on connecting high school education programs and workforce training through career and technical curriculum resources, supply chain connections, post-secondary training programs, and trade certiﬁcations. The goal is to be a catalyst to enable generations of families to stay and thrive in their communities by preparing them for energy and advanced manufacturing jobs and careers. Above: Holly Schweitzer practices technical skills at Stark State College in North Canton, Ohio. This training program is supported by the Appalachia Partnership Initiative. social investment Chevron takes a collaborative approach to social invest.ment by partnering with NGOs, government leaders, and public and private international organizations. Through these partnerships, we offer funding, technical expertise, local capabilities and convening power to bring stake.holders together around common goals. In 2016, Chevron contributed more than $185 million around the world and has contributed more than $1.2 billion over the past ﬁve years. This level of social investment demonstrates our commitment to investing in programs that strengthen economic development, health and education, which together are the foundation of strong communities. Economic development We aim to foster economic stability and address local needs by making social investments in economic devel.opment programs that promote self-suffi  ciency and job growth. In Indonesia, our multiyear PRISMA (Promoting Sustainable Integrated Farming, Small Enterprise Cluster and Microﬁnance Access) program provides small grants, capacity-building training, technical assistance and access to loans through microﬁnance institutions to local farmer groups, small businesses and cooperatives in 11 regions throughout Indonesia. In total, the program supports more than 1,500 beneﬁciaries and offers assistance in 36 sectors, including agriculture, ﬁshery, processed food commodities, weaving and batik making, and eco-cultural tourism villages. Health Chevron is committed to supporting partnerships and programs that promote healthy communities by improving access to health care, strengthening health systems and helping ﬁght against infectious diseases. For example, we partner with the Baylor College of Medicine International Pediatric AIDS Initiative at Texas Children’s Hospital, which works to provide treatment and training to medically underserved populations in Africa and Latin America. This partnership helped create a ﬁve-year pediatric health care program in La Guajira, Colombia, that focuses on decreasing the high morbidity and mortality rates for mothers and children from the remote Wayúu indigenous community there. Prevention of HIV/AIDS continues to be a major focus of our health efforts, as some of our largest operations are located in countries where HIV is prevalent. We partner with organizations such as the international NGO Pact to help develop programs focused on prevention of mother.to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV. These initiatives work with community-based organizations and governments to provide education, testing services and capacity building. Since our partnership with Pact began in 2012, 735 individ.uals have been trained on state-of-the-art PMTCT approaches throughout the state of Bayelsa, Nigeria. chevron.com/cr Education STEM education is a key building block of employability and economic development. Working with our partners, we take a holistic approach to our investments in education by inspiring young people to pursue STEM careers and by supporting educational standards, proven curricula and teacher professional development. We bring together the people, resources and expertise to promote lasting change on a local level by championing educational programs from kindergarten through college, as well as career and technical training for the workforce. Visit chevron.com/education for more information on our global education partnerships and programs. Above: A Nigerian development practitioner supports cassava farmers as part of the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative’s economic development program, which builds the technical and business skills of agricultural associations to improve farming productivity. In 2016, more than 30,000 low-income households experienced increased income, and more than 1,900 jobs were created through the program. 314,500+ U.S. volunteer hours chevron humankind In the United States, Chevron encourages employee and retiree volunteerism and giving through Chevron Humankind. In 2016, 9,384 employees and retirees contributed more than 314,500 volunteer hours to 2,475 charitable organizations in the United States, and a total of $38 million was contributed to U.S. non.proﬁt organizations through a combination of employee and retiree giving and company matching funds. global involvement Chevron employees are also engaged in their communities globally. As part of the One Goal – One Team campaign in Thailand, more than 550 Chevron employees and family members joined community members to develop the ﬁrst Pa Sak Model learning center, which promotes natural resource conservation at Huai Krathaek in the Lopburi province. Employees in the Luanda Chevron Volunteer Opportunities program in Angola helped reduce exposure to malaria for 100 children by painting the Mama Muxima Orphanage walls with insect-repellent paint. 