2012 Corporate Responsibility Report On the cover: Sanchita Malakar received a solar panel to reduce energy costs with the help of a Chevron-sponsored livelihood program, which is featured as a sidebar in the Bangladesh case study. Until recently, the Malakars were unable to afford more than the bare minimum of kerosene for the household, so their children were unable to study after sunset. Now, thanks to the solar panel on the back of their home, the children are able to study after dark and are performing well in school. 15 Environmental Stewardship Our approach to minimizing environ.mental impacts Case Study: Kazakhstan 16 Working Together for a Brighter Future At Chevron, our top priority is to deliver affordable energy safely and reliably to support economic development and human aspirations for a rising quality of life. As a partner with governments, suppliers and communities, we contribute to health care, education and economic development for mutual benefit and progress. 19  23  27  32  Biodiversity  Economic  Social Investment  Additional Information  Protecting sensitive  Development  Contributing to  Progress Update  habitats and ecosystems  Creating jobs and  the social well-being  Performance Data  Case Study: Angola 20  driving economic growth Case Study: Australia 24  of communities Case Study: Health in Africa 28 Executive Interview 31  GRI and API/IPIECA Index Assurance Statement Glossary About This Report  How We Chose What to Include in Our Report In this report, we selected content that demonstrates our systematic approach to responsible energy development and to the challenges we face as a multinational company. We recognize that our ability to operate and to be selected as a partner of choice is dependent on our maintaining a track record of responsible operations and meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. This report highlights how our business engages and relies on our local workforce, community members, governments and nongovernmental organizations to seek solutions to existing and emerging challenges. The report covers topics that reflect the diversity and complexity of environments and places where we operate. We included case studies that highlight how we do business, with a focus on Operational Excellence, process safety, environmental stewardship, health, workforce safety and community development. These topics were identified during engagements with various stakeholder groups. The content also illustrates how partnerships, operations and social investment are enduring and interconnected aspects of our business model. Thank you for your interest in Chevron. We welcome your comments on this report and additional content on our website at Chevron.com/CR. Feedback can be sent to us at Chevron.com/Contact/EmailChevron. A Message From Our CEO “ Managing risk and executing with excellence are critical to our company’s success. Equally critical are the stability and vitality of the countries and communities where we operate.” For more than 135 years, Chevron has been focused on the same goal — safely developing the affordable energy vital to economic growth and development. Fulfilling our goal involves managing the risks inherent in our industry. We work tirelessly to mitigate those risks, even as the scale and complexity of our projects continue to increase. Fulfilling our goal also involves a commitment to responsible and ethical behavior, which is embedded in our system of values. And Chevron’s 58,000 employees around the world are committed to those values, which we call The Chevron Way. The expectations of our stockholders, our partners and communities have never been higher. They expect that we will live up to these values and that we will achieve our results the right way. Every single employee, including me, has the same expectations. Fundamental to everything we do is a constant focus on achiev.ing higher levels of operational, environmental and safety performance. We continue to be an industry leader in personal safety, as measured by injuries requiring time away from work. And in 2012, we delivered our lowest spill volumes ever. We are proud of our progress, but we are not at zero. We under.stand that the stakes are high and the tolerance is low for events that affect people and the environment. We are working to eliminate incidents. This report shares our progress toward world-class perform.ance in Operational Excellence, highlighting how we build a consistent safety culture, manage deepwater risk, eliminate flares, protect biodiversity in our global operations and improve the livelihoods of communities near our operations. These efforts are guided by our Operational Excellence Management System, which aligns with international stand.ards for safety and environmental performance and drives extensive use of tools — such as stop-work authority, by which every employee and contractor has the right and responsibility to stop work when noticing an unsafe act or condition; our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment, which is used before we begin and throughout the life cycle of our major capital projects; and active engagement with our stakeholders. Managing risk and executing with excellence are critical to our company’s success. Equally critical are the stability and vitality of the countries and communities where we operate. Chevron operates in some of the most challenging, complex and dynamic places in the world. In many locations, communi.ties must confront critical social and economic issues, includ.ing access to health care, education and the resources needed for sustained prosperity. We partner with local governments, our business partners and our stakeholders to enhance communities by generating jobs, supporting local supply chains and strengthening local economies. We also expand health and education capacity, support small businesses, train workers to industry standards, and invest in the local workforce. For example, in Angola, Kazakhstan and Nigeria more than 85 percent of our employees are nationals. In 2012, we purchased more than $60 billion in goods and services around the globe, providing a meaningful stimulus for local economies. And in the past seven years, we’ve invested nearly $1.2 billion in partnerships worldwide to build stronger, healthier communities. Our approach to partnership is showcased in this year’s report — in how we are partnering with local government and other stakeholders to help develop the economic future of the Onslow community in Western Australia, and how we partner with governments, communities and health organizations in the fight against HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. We’re proud of the work we do, and we’re always striving to be better. By being vigilant in maintaining a strong, healthy workforce; operating safely and responsibly; partnering to create value for our stakeholders; and providing energy the right way — The Chevron Way — we help meet the world’s energy needs and continue to foster economic development around the world. We hope you find the case studies and operational data in this report to be informative and useful. John S. Watson Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer May 2013 The Chevron Way The Chevron Way deﬁnes who we are, what we do and what we believe. At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. We make this vision a reality by consistently putting our values into practice. The Chevron Way values distinguish us and guide our actions so that we get results the right way. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, protecting people and the environ.ment, and high performance. To read more about The Chevron Way, please visit Chevron.com/ChevronWay. Operational Excellence and Risk Management At Chevron, we’re focused on safely delivering the energy the world needs to power human and economic progress. This requires constant attention to countless details and processes. Our Chevron Way values place the highest priority on protecting people and the environment. Chevron has a rigorous management system that translates this priority into world-class performance; we call this our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Chevron has built an Operational Excellence (OE) culture on the belief that incidents are preventable. We have policies, processes, tools and behavioral expectations in place to assist us in achieving this goal. OE is based on five objectives: • Achieve an incident- and injury-free workplace. • Promote a healthy workforce and mitigate significant workplace health risks. • Identify and mitigate environmental and process safety risks. • Operate with industry-leading asset integrity and reliability. • Efficiently use natural resources and assets. Our company has made significant progress in implementing our Operational Excellence Management System through focus, discipline and hard work. In 2012, we made great strides in our personal safety performance, and we placed even greater focus on process safety. We continued to reduce the number of personal injuries. From 2001 to 2012, our Total Recordable Incident Rate decreased by 71 percent. To accelerate progress on preventing process safety incidents, we launched workshops in managing process safety for executive leaders, who then cascaded this training to their organizations. Our Corporate OE Audit group assessed the adoption of process safety standards throughout the enterprise for asset integrity, operating procedures and technical codes. We also continued to build our companywide Compliance Assurance system and deployed new auditor training to improve the performance of the function. For more details, please visit Chevron.com/OE. As the Green Canyon 6A offshore platform ends its producing life, Chevron safely removes the structure. The lower 485 feet (148 m) of the platform’s support legs remain in place under water as an artificial reef, a habitat that supports a rich diversity of marine life. Protecting People and the Environment  We believe that every one of our employees  Richmond, California, refinery crude unit  taking will strengthen management oversight  and contractors, whether in offices or in the  remind us that we must do better. These  and add layers of process safety protection.  field, plays an important role in maintaining  incidents do not reflect the expectations we  safe and reliable operations. It s not just  have of ourselves or the expectations that  Chevron remains committed to zero inci. good for business; it s the right thing to do.  the community has of us.  dents. We are confident that our continual  improvements in the areas of process safety,  Incidents in 2012  the January fire aboard  We investigated the incidents and engaged  environmental stewardship and operational  the KS Endeavor drilling rig working  closely with regulators, which facilitated  discipline will significantly reduce the poten. offshore for Chevron Nigeria Ltd. and the  our implementation of improvements in proc. tial for future incidents and will keep our  August fire in the Chevron U.S.A. Inc.  esses and operations. The actions we are  workforce safe.  Executive Interview On Operational Excellence What are the greatest challenges to operating safely and responsibly? There are a number of factors that could increase our exposure to incidents if we don’t work consistently to manage risks properly. Chevron has a growing global workforce, with close to 260,000 employees and contractors through.out the world. Our portfolio is increasing in size and technical complexity. For example, today we use new technologies and equipment to find and produce natural resources in water depths that were unheard of 10 years ago. At the same time, some of our existing infrastructure is aging. Maintaining the integrity of these assets continues to be a focus area for us as we seek to improve resource recovery. We can manage these factors by being relentless in our efforts to reduce operational risks and to protect people and the environment. What is Chevron doing to improve safety in operations? Operational discipline — completing every task the right way, every time — is critical to the success of our business. In 2012, we initiated WELLSAFE, a certification program rooted in operational discipline that provides the maximum reasonable assurance that well control will be maintained at all times and further reduces the potential for an oil spill during drilling operations. We also intensified our focus on opera.tional discipline through the deploy.ment of coaches who verify workforce competency on safe-work practices, appropriate safeguards and controls for high-consequence activities. We know that achieving zero incidents is possible, having realized this goal in several areas of our company and with many contractors. In 2012, 50-plus groups achieved more than 1 million hours without a Days Away From Work incident. We also had our lowest-ever number and volume of spills. What is the role of leaders in reinforcing safety? Our mandate is to make sure that every member of our workforce goes home safe after his or her work shift. Leaders demonstrate their com.mitment to safety through personal engagement with the workforce. Leaders at all levels make site visits to identify potential hazards in our operations, check the existence and effectiveness of key safeguards, and reinforce the culture of personal and process safety in the daily work activities of employees and contractors. Leaders reinforce the workforce’s knowledge and application of good stewardship practices through training, certifications, onsite coaching, mentor.ing and safe-work activity verification. It takes all of us being vigilant about maintaining our safeguards and equipment to systematically eliminate incidents. 