Governance 26getting results the right way28prioritizing our culture of operational excellence30operating safely and reliably32engaging our stakeholders Governance Icon getting results 
the right waychevron is committed 
to strong governance and the 
highest standards of ethicslearn more. . chevron.com/corporategovernancea diverse board of  directors helps us  navigate the world’s energy transition 44% overall board diversity including 36 percent women and  36 percent ethnically diverse members governanceAt Chevron, good corporate governance means having structures and processes in place to ensure that our decisions and actions advance the best interests of shareholders. Our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance departments enable us to be responsive to shareholders while engaging with investors to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy issues. Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining shareholder trust and goodwill are core Chevron objectives.board of directorsOur Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business and affairs. One of the Board’s primary duties is to oversee Chevron’s policies and practices to ensure that appropriate risk management systems are employed throughout the company. 
The Board regularly considers critical risk topics through its normal business and Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process. 
For example, it annually reviews financial, operational, market, political and other risks. The Board has four standing committees, each composed solely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee fulfills important responsibilities to help Chevron manage risks 
and build long-term shareholder value. For example, the Public Policy Committee assists the Board in overseeing risks that 
may arise in connection with the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business.The Executive Committee is composed of corporate officers chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee 
has established five subcommittees that specialize in various matters important to the company, including strategy and compliance. One subcommittee, the Global Issues Committee, oversees strategic corporate responsibility issues including 
human capital management. Director nomination processAn experienced, talented and diverse board helps us drive innovation and solve some of the world’s most complex energy challenges. In identifying Director nominees, the Board Nominating and Governance Committee focuses on maintaining a balance of 
knowledge and experience across relevant disciplines. The com-mittee considers experience and expertise relating to leadership; environmental policy; science; technology; engineering; research or academia; governmental, regulatory, legal or public policy; finance; and global business or international affairs. The Board also seeks to achieve diversity of age, gender and ethnicity, and recognizes the need to bring in fresh thinking, as demonstrated 
by our current average Board tenure of less than five years.U.S. political activities Chevron engages with the executive branch, Congress and 
state officials to provide perspective on energy issues. We lobby ethically, constructively and in a nonpartisan manner. Chevron engages in the public policy process through direct and indirect lobbying and by participating in a diverse range of business and policy organizations that advocate positions designed to support free markets and fair, responsible energy policies. Chevron does not agree with every position of every industry, 
trade or policy organization in which we participate. At the 
same time, Chevron believes that continuous participation with 
these organizations provides the best opportunity to shape their positions to align with our values. On an annual basis, the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the policies, procedures and expenditures for Chevron’s political activities, including political contributions and direct and indirect lobbying.For more information about Chevron’s political contributions 
and trade association activities, visit chevron.com/politicalcontributions.business ethicsStrong financial results and an outstanding safety 
record were hallmarks of our performance in 2018. These successes were achieved through a commit-ment to The Chevron Way values:diversity and inclusion We learn from and respect the cultures in which we operate. We have an inclusive work environment 
that values the uniqueness and diversity of individual talents, experiences and ideas.high performanceWe are passionate about delivering results, and 
strive to continually improve. We hold ourselves accountable for our actions and outcomes. We apply proven processes in a fit-for-purpose manner 
and always look for innovative and agile solutions.integrity and trustWe are honest with ourselves and others, and honor our commitments. We trust, respect and support 
each other. We earn the trust of our colleagues and partners by operating with the highest ethical standards in all we do.partnershipWe build trusting and mutually beneficial relationships by collaborating with our communities, governments, customers, suppliers and other business partners. We are most successful when our partners succeed with us.protecting people and the environmentWe place the highest priority on the health and safety of our work  force and protection of our assets, communities and the environment. We deliver 
world-class performance with a focus on preventing high-consequence incidents.These values are the foundation of our culture. 
For more, visit chevron.com/chevronway. Web Link Icon additional resourceschevron.com/ESGreporting Governance Icon prioritizing our 
culture of operational excellencewe manage health, safety and 
environmental riskslearn more. . chevron.com/OE Two Chevron employees wearing hard hats. Full description on following page. Previous page: In 2018, we re-educated our Upstream workforce about safeguards—what they are, how we determine whether they are sufficient and how we assure  their continual practice. Colleagues pictured here on our Mafumeira Sul Project, off the coast of Cabinda province in Angola, took part in that initiative.Chevron values its culture of Operational Excellence (OE), which places the highest priority on the safety and health of our workforce while protecting communities, the environment and our assets. Our OE objectives and performance expectations guide us. They address workforce safety and health, process safety, reliability and integrity, the environment, efficiency, security, and stakeholders. We recognize that managing risk requires constant vigilance and companywide dedication across our global operations. In 2004, we established the Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) to manage health, safety and environmental risks. The OEMS enables us to assess risks, identify safeguards to mitigate them and implement programs to assure these safeguards are effective. In 2018, we updated the OEMS to be more specific in how we determine, implement and sustain safeguards, further emphasizing the key role leaders play in achieving OE results.improving employee safeguardsEmployee safeguards are intended to eliminate fatalities, serious injuries and operational incidents. In 2018, we re-educated our 
workforce about safeguards—what they are, how we determine whether they are sufficient and how we assure their continual practice. We improved visual depictions of safeguards to help our 
work force understand how they help us manage risk. We intro-
duced mobile verification apps designed to help frontline workers 
confirm that appropriate safeguards are in place and verified before the start of high-risk work. All of our updated and new systems are developed through a human performance lens 
(see Page 39), with the goal of reducing human errors.creating new standards for risk reduction at our facilitiesHalf of Chevron’s global production comes from 14 facilities on five continents. Identifying common characteristics of how these plants are built and how they operate provides us with opportunities to reduce operating and safety risks. In 2017, we formed the Complex Process Facilities (CPF) organization to improve performance in these facilities in process safety, reliability and integrity, and turnaround planning and execution. In 2018, the CPF organization deployed new protocols to respond to unplanned or uncontrolled leaks. Unless addressed properly, these incidents can potentially escalate, resulting 
in risks to people and the environment. The new standard will 
help ensure that the right people and guidelines are in place to help decision makers respond effectively and rapidly to a potential or an actual leak.managing risk in operational 
excellence focus areasOur Operational Excellence Management System enables us to systematically manage risk and comply with legal requirements across the following OE 
focus areas: Workforce Safety and Health Icon workforce 
safety
and healthEliminate fatalities, serious injuries and illnesses Process Safety, Reliability, and Integrity Icon process safety, reliability 
and integrityEliminate high-consequence process safety incidents 
and operate with industry-
leading reliability Environment Icon environmentAssess and manage significant environmental risks Efficiency Icon efficiencyUse energy and 
resources efficiently Security Icon securityPrevent high-consequence security and 
cybersecurity incidents Stakeholders Icon stakeholdersAddress OE business 
risks through stakeholder engagement and issues management Web Link Icon additional resourceschevron.com/OEMSchevron.com/healthsafety Governance Icon operating safely 
and reliablywe are committed to keeping 
our people, our partners 
and the environment safelearn more. . chevron.com/healthsafetyWorkers in a safety vessel on a dock. Full description on following page.Previous page: Our Operational Excellence Management System provides  a structure to identify risks, strengthen safety capabilities and reduce potential impacts should an incident occur. Colleagues are pictured being safely transferred from vessels at the end of a work shift in the Agbami Field, offshore Nigeria.The Chevron Way’s emphasis on protecting people and the environment drives our commitment to operating safely and reliably. Programs like Essentials Checklists in our Downstream business and Save Your Life Actions in our Upstream business 
help ensure strong safeguards are in place and functioning properly before work begins. Thanks to these programs and a deep respect for our safety culture, our 2018 OE performance was the best on record. 
We matched or outperformed all but one of our targets and set new record lows in our Total Recordable Incident and Motor 
Vehicle Crash rates. Managing Safe Work Icon keeping people safeOur Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS) provides a rigorous structure to identify risks, strengthen safety capabilities 
and reduce potential impacts should an incident occur. To improve operational performance 
and keep people safe, we analyze safeguards to test vulnerabilities in human judgment and evaluate equipment that is subject to degradation over time.We provide training on physical factors that affect performance, like fatigue, stress and distractions. 
To further improve performance, we provide resources that enhance the design and layout of work areas. record safety 2018 marks our best year 
on record in health, 
environment and safety.  Workforce Engagement Icon creating a culture 
of learning: 
everyone has a voiceOrganizational Learning is an integral part of our OEMS. Through Organizational Learning, we identify problems, share ideas to solve them and find safeguards to prevent risks. We have adopted industry-recognized human performance tools 
to help leaders promote open communication on safety issues and establish a culture of learning.One of those tools is Learning Teams, which brings together workers and creates a shared under-
standing of how specific jobs get done in the field. 
This makes it easier for the teams to understand the complexity of each worker’s tasks. When operational knowledge is shared, the Learning Teams discover strengths and potential vulnerabilities, all of which inform how we might enhance safeguards.  Web Link Icon additional resourceschevron.com/OE Governance Icon engaging 
our stakeholderswe are committed to working the 
right and responsible waylearn more. . chevron.com/OE Chevron executive and two Chevron advisors. In this feature, Dave Payne, vice president, Health, Environment and Safety, speaks with Lina Saenz (left), 
Risk Management advisor, and 
Sucheta Tiwari, Stakeholder Engage-ment advisor, about Chevron’s new approach to stakeholder engagement. 5 insights read the latest on chevron actions to safeguard against risk and operate the 
right and responsible way  Dave Payne 1.  Tell us about risk management and stakeholder engagement  at Chevron. Lina Saenz We recently updated our standardized, risk-based approach to managing Operational Excellence (OE)—or health, environment and safety—risk. As part of the update, we looked at how we engage with our stakeholders. We streamlined two related processes into one—the new Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management (SEIM) process. This helps business units identify, assess, prioritize and manage OE risk holistically, while thoughtfully considering likely stakeholders’ perceptions. Potential social, community, political and reputational risks and management strategies are identified throughout the process. Dave Payne 2.  What behaviors will make the SEIM’s application a success? Sucheta Tiwari In many ways, we’re strengthening our current behaviors. The SEIM process operationalizes 
our Chevron Way values such as trust, partner-ship and protecting people by designing our stakeholder engagement systems around them. We also provided a new mechanism designed to anticipate potential community impact throughout an asset’s lifecycle. This will help us proactively manage community concerns, grievances and expectations. Dave Payne 3.  How are stakeholders’ risks integrated with other OE risks? Lina Saenz Business units create a prioritized risk profile that integrates all the OEMS focus areas—workforce safety and health, process safety, reliability and integrity, environment, efficiency, security, and stakeholders. The integrated profile builds a common understanding of all risk, but also helps us highlight the stakeholder-related risk and measures designed to prevent 
incidents and mitigate consequences. Signifi-cant stakeholder risks are reported through our Enterprise Risk Management process, which presents an overview to the corporate-level leadership team and Board of Directors. Dave Payne 4.  The SEIM process has undergone changes in the past 12 months. Tell us about the business impact of the changes and the process. Sucheta Tiwari Most business units already have processes 
to request and respond to stakeholder feedback in a timely manner, but we added a grievance mechanism requirement in line with industry best practices. We also formalized how we communicate with our colleagues running day-to-day operations. This ensures we have the right safeguards in place to prevent and mitigate OE risks to our business and potential impacts to communities. For example, new traffic management plans have been created based on conversations that happened as a result of this process. It has led to a better understanding 
of community impacts with our operations team. Dave Payne 5.  How does Chevron track and analyze elements that might signal change, such as potential policy developments? Sucheta Tiwari As part of our day-to-day work, we continuously 
engage local, regional and national governments, 
communities, international development organizations, and business leaders to identify emerging issues and policy trends. We par-ticipate in multiple industry and business associations and benefit from memberships with policy think tanks and forums. We also use data analytics to monitor and assess public perceptions about our company and industry. Lina Saenz In each business unit, a leadership-level 
committee helps prioritize the social, political and reputational issues that emerge from 
these various inputs. At the enterprise level, there is a commit tee composed of executive leaders to address these ongoing and emerging policy issues.