focusing on environmental issues6protecting the environment8addressing climate change10managing water resources Environment Icon protecting 
the environmentwe protect the environment 
through innovative 
and responsible operationslearn more. . chevron.com/environment Mangroves, half above, half below water. Full description on following page. Previous page: Mangroves are a group of trees or shrubs in tropical coastal areas that are flooded at high tide. Their roots typically form dense thickets and support a wide variety of species. In Australia, our engineers developed a unique micro-tunneling technique to bore underneath the Ashburton River Delta and protect this habitat while connecting the Wheatstone production field with the liquefied natural gas facility.We are committed to pursuing innovations that improve our 
environmental performance and reduce the potential environ-mental impacts of our operations. This commitment is built into the way we manage our operations. Our Operational Excellence Management System establishes standards and objectives that extend from the corporate level 
to local management, allowing our businesses to focus on the 
risks and potential environmental issues that affect specific operating locations.innovating to reduce our environmental impactInnovative technologies help us assess and manage our environmental performance. Here are some examples from 
across our company.Leak imaging Leak imaging provides real-time visuals to help find gas and 
liquid leaks that might otherwise go undetected. Hand-held, port-able leak imagers, also called gas detection cameras, are used 
for proactive leak detection and regulatory compliance. Chevron is an industry leader in piloting new automated leak detection imagers that monitor around the clock. This technology enables earlier detection, more ground coverage and better source identification than traditional methods, improving Chevron’s environmental performance. Remote sensing Remote sensing from satellites and aerial platforms provides crucial data to support effective oil spill responses. In 2018, we conducted an oil spill drill in the Gulf of Mexico that tested remote sensing approaches to evaluate their capabilities and enhance 
our ability to respond. Technologies tested included:• Satellite radar and optical sensors•  A high-resolution real-time aerial imaging system• An airborne multispectral oil imaging sensor• Robotic aerial systems• Aerostat-based capabilitiesThis drill provided emergency responders with hands-on experience in how to use and incorporate these technologies 
into our operations. Double Helix Icon environmental DNAChevron uses biodiversity monitoring to identify 
and manage the potential impacts of our operations on sensitive biological resources. Traditional methods rely on observation or collection of species, both of which are labor-intensive and 
are representative only of the point in time they were taken. Recent advances in rapid DNA sequencing technology have unveiled a powerful biodiversity monitoring tool called environmental DNA (eDNA). 
By analyzing DNA fragments in seawater, fresh water, soil and sediment, eDNA can provide advanced warning of potential threats, such as invasive species and changes in biodiversity composition well before they could be detected by traditional methods. Chevron is using this technology to more efficiently and effectively: •  Develop pre-operational baseline assessments •  Detect rare, endangered and/or invasive species• Monitor subterranean faunaexplore how 
we protect the 
environment 
in australiachevron.com/habitat Person looking at Chevron website on iPad. Environment Icon addressing
climate changewe take prudent and cost-effective actions to 
manage climate change business risks, 
pursue opportunities to lower our emissions 
and develop lower-carbon energylearn more. . chevron.com/climatechangeexplore more on our 
ongoing efforts to 
address climate changeChevron Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making cover Chevron Update to Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making coveraddressing concerns about climate changeChevron shares the concerns of governments and the public about a rapidly changing climate. We integrate climate change into our business decisions to help us analyze potential risks and identify new opportunities to lower emissions and develop cleaner energy. In February 2019, we published Update to Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making. The update builds upon our two previous reports and describes our voluntary reporting on climate-related issues involving governance, risk management, business strategy, actions and investments. As the world’s energy needs grow and change, we remain focused on improving current sources of energy and scaling future solutions 
to deliver greater benefit to communities, with fewer environ-mental impacts.Managing greenhouse gasesWe’re seeking ways to reduce emissions while improving our operations. In 2018, our Board of Directors established greenhouse gas emissions performance measures, targeting a 20 to 25 percent 
reduction in methane emissions intensity and a 25 to 30 percent 
reduction in flaring intensity by 2023, in line with the first “stock-take” under the Paris Agreement. Beginning in 2019, we will tie compensation for executives and nearly all other employees to the results of these efforts. We will report our progress in the 2020 Annual Proxy Statement.Chevron has invested approximately $1.1 billion in carbon capture, utilization and storage projects. These projects are expected 
to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by about 5 million metric tons per year, roughly equivalent to the GHG emissions of 620,000 U.S. homes’ annual electricity usage. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a global collaboration to address energy industry climate change issues. Metrics for our GHG emissions are on Pages 35–36. Investing in emerging energy sourcesTo help us make the best decisions about emerging energy sources, we are conducting research and development and collaborating with government, academia and other stakeholders on alternative fuels and emission reduction opportunities. Renewable energy sources are part of the equation. Biofuels, such as renewable diesel, complement conventional transportation fuels and can help reduce overall carbon emissions. For example, in 2018 we began selling a renewable diesel product, R99, to commercial customers. It is made of nonpetroleum sources, such as natural fats, vegetable oils and greases.Chevron Technology Ventures established the Future Energy 
Fund to invest in emerging technologies that reduce carbon 
emissions. An initial commitment of $100 million launched the 
fund. A first investment went to ChargePoint, one of the largest operators of electric-vehicle charging networks, with 57,000 locations. ChargePoint is using this investment to expand its network in North America and Europe. We are scanning the landscape for the next opportunity to lower our emissions, discover smarter and cleaner energy, and apply talent 
and expertise to push the boundaries of energy’s next frontier. ~ (about) 45,000 of our employees around the world will have a portion of their variable compensation tied to reducing 
GHG emissions intensity through our flaring and methane metrics  Reporting environmental indicators icon See Pages 35–36 for climate-related 
performance data. Female Chevron employee writing on whiteboard.researching carbon 
capture technologiesBetty Pun (pictured), a carbon capture specialist in Chevron’s Energy Technology Company, is part of a team that researches carbon capture and storage as a way of effectively reducing the footprint of hydrocarbons. Her team focuses on capturing CO2 directly from the air, and they work with other oil companies on research they hope one day will have broad applications for industry.“We’re simply trying to put the carbon back where we got it from,” she says. The scale of the CO2 challenge will require more than one solution and more than one technology. “Our research could benefit everyone,” she says.Much of Pun’s work is on joint industrial projects, 
which involves strategic thinking to ensure good out-comes for all participating companies. Another part 
of her job is the evaluation of new technologies, including those funded by government, that need additional work before finding applications in oil and gas and other industries.“I like to look at things from many angles,” she says of the value she brings to the job. “That is how we find win-win solutions to complicated challenges.” Environment Icon managing 
water resourceswater is a societal, environmental 
and economic resourcelearn more. . chevron.com/water Two male Chevron employees at water's edge. Above: Our Upstream operations reuse approximately 75 percent of the water that is brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas. In California (pictured) and Indonesia, we reuse this water by heating and reinjecting it into another well to enhance production processes, rather than using fresh water.reducing fresh water useOur Upstream operations have reduced 
the amount of fresh water withdrawn from the environment by 25 percent since 2014. 
See Page 35 for more on Chevron’s water usage. Reducing fresh water use bar graph Our ability to partner with communities around the world and deliver affordable, reliable and cleaner energy depends on 
access to water. We employ management systems, processes 
and standards to manage this critical natural resource. To promote responsible management of water resources, we:• Integrate water conservation and efficiency into our 
decision-making processes.• Strive to conserve, reuse and recycle water in water-
constrained areas.• Use appropriate metrics to analyze water use.• Engage with governments, partners, local communities 
and other stakeholders to protect water resources in 
areas where we operate.• Build partnerships and participate in industry water 
resource initiatives to share and promote best practices, 
assist with the development of industry standards and 
shape relevant policy.creating sustainable water use strategiesIn Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO) developed a water use strategy that increased conservation, improved water recycling and enhanced the flexibility of the water system to meet local demand for potable water. To develop this strategy, TCO applied water system modeling and scenario analysis to evaluate water use in the region. Working in partnership with the regional water supplier, TCO analyzed infrastructure limitations, demand fluctuations and pricing issues that help ensure sustainable 
water use for the community, particularly in the summer months. 
Sharing TCO’s water management strategy and understanding regional issues have resulted in a valuable working relationship, benefiting both TCO and the regional population.collaborating with conservation international 
to limit biodiversity risksWorking with Conservation International, Chevron sponsored the design and development of an online tool that identifies biodiversity risks to freshwater species. With the new freshwater component in the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool 
(IBAT), users can learn about native species, the risks they face 
and how their habitat is connected to sites where we operate.reducing consumption through innovative 
water reuse practicesOur Upstream operations manage our water resources responsibly by reusing approximately 75 percent of the water brought to 
the surface when extracting oil and gas. In California and Indonesia, we reuse water by heating and reinjecting it into another well to enhance production processes, rather than using fresh water. 
In addition, most of our refineries around the world reuse treated wastewater at their locations. These and other practices enable 
us to reduce the amount of fresh water we consume.water use in 
well completionsIn the Permian Basin, more than 99 percent of the 
water used in our well completions in 2018 was 
from nonfresh and recycled produced water sources. Water use in well completions chart  99%+ nonfresh water used 
in well completions in 
2017 and 2018 