Social Icon 13valuing diversity and inclusion 16creating prosperity20contributing to the united nations sustainable development goals22respecting human rights Social Icon valuing diversity 
and inclusionour people are our 
most valuable resourcelearn more. . chevron.com/diversity Chevron executive and two Chevron employees. Rhonda Morris, vice president 
and chief Human Resources officer, discusses diversity and inclusion 
with Lee Jourdan, chief diversity 
officer, and Brian Chase, manager of 
strategy and planning for the Office 
of Global Diversity.Q&AChevron’s commitment to 
diversity and inclusion includes a set of initiatives 
to ensure all employees 
are empowered to realize their full potential. Rhonda Morris Q:   How does Chevron foster diversity and inclusion? Lee Jourdan A: Attracting and developing individuals 
with different talents, ideas and experiences is needed in order to solve the world’s most complex problems and challenges. After launching The Chevron Way in 1995, we accel-erated our journey and developed programs 
to leverage the talents of our diverse workforce and create a culture of inclusion. Among our many initiatives, we’re proud to be the first oil and gas company to offer same-sex domestic partner and transgender benefits to our U.S. employees. We also developed mentoring and sponsorship initiatives, as well as programs 
to help employees manage work-life priorities. 
This includes more flexible schedules and support for dual-career couples employed 
by Chevron. Brian Chase A: Accountability is also vital to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment. It is fundamental to ensuring the proportion of women and minorities in leadership increases. We hold ourselves accountable in a variety of ways. For example, diversity action plans are required for nearly every employee, including the chairman, and are part of annual performance reviews. In addition, each major business unit has dedicated committees responsible for talent development and 
job selection. first We were the first oil and 
gas company to offer 
same-sex domestic partner and transgender benefits 
to our U.S. employees.  100% 2018 marked the 14th 
consecutive year 
we achieved a score of 
100 percent on the 
Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index.  Rhonda Morris Q:  How do you describe 
Chevron’s performance 
in this area? Lee Jourdan A: We’re making progress, but we’re always working to do more. We are proud that for the 14th consecutive year, we achieved a 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index—a rating focused on LGBTQ workplace equality. We are committed 
to providing equal pay for equal work. In the U.S., women and minorities at Chevron earn 
99.9 percent of what men and nonminorities 
are paid. However, we recognize there is 
more work to be done.“We’re making progress, 
but we’re always 
working to do more.” — Lee Jourdan  Chief Diversity Officer Rhonda Morris Q:  How does Chevron develop 
a diverse talent pipeline? Lee Jourdan A: Our pipeline begins with investing in education with a focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics. We actively recruit diverse candidates from industry and our many university partnerships. We have instituted dedicated personnel committees responsible for identifying and developing our diverse talent. Employees have the opportunity to participate in a mentoring program and 
more than 20,000 are involved in employee networks that provide support, advice and team-building. Chevron also has more than 
15 diversity councils across its business units that help management align diversity and inclusion efforts with business strategies.  Brian Chase A: We hire the best and the brightest—
ranging from college students who enter our internship program, to candidates with experience outside Chevron. Through our University Partnerships and Association Relations program, we work with colleges and universities to attract and develop talented students who will become the next generation of leaders and problem solvers. We also partner with more than 30 diversity-focused professional associations, provide scholarships to students every year and have supported historically black colleges and universities for more than 40 years. Rhonda Morris Q:  Is Chevron doing anything unique to improve diversity 
and inclusion?  Brian Chase A: We are continually looking for ways to improve and build a more inclusive culture through innovative programs. One key initiative is Men Advocating Real Change (MARC), 
which engages men as partners and advocates in supporting greater gender inclusion. This is especially important in our industry, where men make up nearly two-thirds of the workforce. 
We expect to have 17 active MARC chapters in 
11 countries with around 3,000 members by the end of 2019, with plans to launch 12 more over the next two years on six different continents. We believe MARC has the power to create a more gender-inclusive workplace, not just at Chevron, but across the entire industry. Lee Jourdan A: Our commitment to diversity and inclusion includes our C-suite. In 2018, Mike Wirth and the leadership team held the first meeting with our Inclusion Council. This gave 12 employee network leaders representing the wide diversity of our workforce the opportunity to discuss diversity and inclusion issues at the highest levels 
of the company. We also launched our Inclusive Leaders Learning Series to equip leaders with 
practical tools to create a more inclusive work 
environment. More than 1,000 leaders partici-pated in these sessions, and we will expand the program even further in 2019.  Web Link Icon additional resourceschevron.com/culture Social Icon creating 
prosperitywe believe our business 
succeeds best when 
our communities succeedlearn more. . chevron.com/creatingprosperityThree women in confectionery store. Full description on following page.Previous page: Chevron’s Songkhla Old Town Renovation Project is committed to helping local businesses, such as this confectionery store in Songkhla, Thailand.  The initiative aims to draw local and international visitors to Songkhla Old Town by  reviving the recently deserted neighborhood into a tourist hot spot, helping existing local businesses and opening doors for new enterprises. Chevron has operated at  the Songkhla shore base since 1981. The company strives to drive economic and social  development in Songkhla Province, develop quality of life and empower people in  the local communities. $154 billion spent In the past five years, Chevron 
has spent $154 billion globally on goods and services, helping 
grow economies, create jobs and 
develop workforces.  See Page 38 for more information on  our goods and services spending.Our work has made human progress a reality for millions of  people in the communities where we operate by helping to reduce poverty, drive economic and social opportunity, and enable the benefits of modern life. We focus on building local capacity  and making social investments that help communities succeed.building local capacityChevron’s supply chain and workforce investments help develop the skills and capabilities needed to boost local economies and incomes for years to come. In 2018, we spent $25.1 billion on total goods and services, much of it on “local content” with companies based in the countries where we operate. We also complement  this spending with investments of time and technical capabilities  to help build the capacity of these local companies. Investing in Kazakhstan By developing and utilizing local goods and services, Tengizchevroil (TCO) helps drive Kazakhstan’s economic development. In 2018, TCO spent more than $3.5 billion with local businesses. Drill Site Manager Above: Drill Site Manager Gulzhan Abdukalikova is seen here working in the Tengiz Field. Abdukalikova is employed by one of our partners, Fircroft Engineering Services Limited, in Kazakhstan. Building Local Capacity Icon  $3.5 billion+ In 2018, TCO spent more  than $3.5 billion on  local goods and services. In addition to spending on local goods and services, TCO  also engages our strategic partners, such as Schlumberger, Weatherford, KISCO and Compass ESS, to support local development. In 2018, we supported local manufacturers that produce G-type cement, railcar sulfur covers and industrial chemicals. These local content partnerships not only improved community development and lowered costs, but they enable  a more responsive supply chain.local economic impactChevron’s Pascagoula Refinery in Mississippi generated a direct economic impact of more than $925 million in 2018. As Jackson County’s largest taxpayer, the refinery contributed $20.5 million in property taxes to the county and $26.8 million to the Pascagoula-Gautier School District for 2018.Cassava farmer in field.Above: NDPI works with cassava farmers, such as Kingsley Ojeah (pictured), 
to improve their practices, facilitate the adoption of new technologies, improve efficiencies and grow their businesses.social investmentBy partnering with host governments, NGOs, and public and private international organizations, our social investments can achieve our common goals and improve the quality of life in communities where we work. We focus on economic development, health and education.Economic developmentOur investments in economic development span the globe, including partnerships in communities as diverse as the Niger Delta, Myanmar, New Mexico and Appalachia. The Niger Delta Partnership Initiative (NDPI) helps break the 
cycle of poverty and conflict by creating strong and stable communities. We work at the intersection of economic develop-ment and peace because one cannot thrive without the other. Thanks to the NDPI, we have driven investment of more than 
$100 million within the delta, grown our local peace network to more than 7,000 members, facilitated the creation of more 
than 8,000 jobs and increased farmers’ income by $28 million. The NDPI also complements Chevron’s community empowerment program, known as the Global Memorandum of Understanding, 
in its neighboring communities.HealthChevron invests in programs aimed at improving health to unlock progress and prosperity in the communities where we operate. Over the past six years, Chevron and CrescentCare’s NO/AIDS Task Force have partnered to strengthen HIV/AIDS prevention, education and care in the greater New Orleans area. We support multiple programs, such as the mobile CareVan, which provides testing and education at various events throughout New Orleans. CrescentCare tests around 500 individuals annually in the medical mobile unit, which is powered and maintained by Chevron.Education We develop innovative education programs that help nurture 
and position the next generation of problem solvers to tackle 
the most complex challenges of the future.Chevron’s support for education has exceeded $480 million worldwide since 2013. Our Fuel Your School (FYS) program supports public education in local communities by helping 
teachers and students get the classroom supplies they need. During 2018 in the United States, FYS helped fund more than 
$5.7 million for classroom projects in 2,883 public schools, benefiting nearly 800,000 students. We also extended the program into Latin America, helping provide local teachers 
with the tools to prepare students for the jobs of the future. Meanwhile, in Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, Hong Kong 
and Singapore, FYS benefited approximately 43,000 people. In these countries, employees, family members, retailers and business partners recorded almost 1,400 volunteer hours.partnership with pact improves livesOver the past 16 years, Chevron’s partnership with 
Pact, one of the longest-serving international NGOs 
in Myanmar, has improved the lives of more than 
1.25 million adults and children through improved 
access to health care, sanitation and electricity, microfinance training for women, and the establish-ment of more than 1,400 village development 
funds. Chevron’s $9 million commitment catalyzed 
an additional $10 million from other organizations.livelihoods Livelihood Icon Almost 15,500 
women meet weekly 
in savings groups Livelihood Icon 1,476 village development funds have been establishednatural resource 
management Natural Resource Management Icon 339 villages 
use solar lampposts Natural Resource Management Icon More than 240,000 people have improved access to electricityhealth Health Icon Almost 19,000 malnourished children improved weight Health Icon More than 850,000 people have improved access to health carebolstering STEM educationthailand partnership initiativeThe Thailand Partnership Initiative, locally known as the Chevron Enjoy Science Project, is a five-year, $30 million public-private partnership to strengthen Thailand’s economic competitiveness 
and innovation. It promotes and improves vocational and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. The project 
has greatly exceeded its five-year targets for number of students reached (1.38 million vs. 425,000) and community members reached (615,000 vs. 31,700). In terms of teaching practices, the results are just as impressive: a benchmark study found that in all metrics, program teachers delivered better-quality output than their peers.appalachia partnership initiativeOur Appalachian business unit works with the nonprofit organi zation Project Lead The Way (PLTW) to support educational programs in southwestern Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia and eastern Ohio. PLTW provides transformative learning experiences for pre-K through 12th-grade students and teachers through curriculum and professional development in computer science, engineering and biomedical science.Chevron’s support of PLTW in the Pennsylvania/Ohio/West Virginia 
region forms part of its Appalachia Partnership Initiative, a long-
term, $20 million social investment that addresses educational and work force development challenges. To date, Chevron has provided more than $3.5 million in grants to sustain existing programs and implemented new PLTW initiatives in 107 elementary, middle and 
high schools.Chevron employees and contractors helping rescue at flooded caves, Chiang Rai.Above: The plight of a young sports team trapped in the flooded caves of Chiang Rai, Thailand, captured the world’s attention during summer of 2018. Sixteen Chevron employees and 18 contractors mobilized to the cave site and were supported by nearly 100 employees and contractors working remotely around the clock as part of the Emergency Management team. Within 24 hours of the Thai Navy SEALs’ request for resources, Chevron committed hundreds of oxygen tanks, dozens of tank packs and several gas detectors to monitor air quality in various cave chambers.volunteerism and giving Employee Commitment Icon  274,200+ U.S. volunteer hours In the United States, Chevron encourages employee and retiree volunteerism and giving through Chevron Humankind. In 2018, 7,301 employees and retirees contributed 274,217 volunteer hours to 2,185 charitable organizations in the United States, and contributed $35.2 million to U.S. nonprofit organiza tions through a combination of employee and retiree giving and company-matching funds. Web Link Icon additional resourceschevron.com/economicdevelopmentchevron.com/healthchevron.com/education Social Icon contributing to the 
united nations sustainable development goalsChevron is proud of its efforts to contribute to the 
United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). Chevron safely develops and delivers 
the affordable, reliable and cleaner energy 
that is necessary for social and economic progress.learn more. . chevron.com/SDGsA woman and a new solar home system.Above: A local resident of the Mway Pon Kan South village outside her home. The village is one of many in Myanmar to enjoy the benefits of new solar home systems. Small business owners are reporting greater productivity and efficiencies in their operations, while children 
are enjoying extended hours of education through improved energy access.our contribution to 
meeting SDG 7 7 Affordable and Clean Energy Icon ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy 
for allEnergy is critical for creating opportunity for all people. Emerging countries need affordable, reliable and cleaner energy to create jobs, provide access to health and education, and improve lives. Chevron plays a vital role in helping meet the world’s energy needs by improving energy access, increasing energy efficiency and supporting sustainable energy technologies. Our partnership with Pact in Myanmar (see statistical infographic on Page 18) has helped supply solar-powered lights to more than 10,000 house holds 
and connected more than 240,000 people to energy through solar home systems and electrified communal locations.We also contribute to the SDGs through our work in 
protecting people and the environment and through our 
investments in health, education and economic development. Here are some examples from across our company.our contribution to meeting SDG 3 3 Good Health and Well-being ensure healthy 
lives and promote well-being for all 
at all agesA child receives a hearing test.In Australia, we partnered with Telethon Speech & Hearing to improve ear health among aboriginal children, increasing school readiness and engagement across the West Pilbara. 
Since the partnership began in 2011, the 
number of aboriginal children under the age 
of 7 affected by middle-ear diseases in the Pilbara has dropped from 51 to 33 percent.chevron.com/creatingprosperityaustraliaIn Myanmar, our funding of Pact’s health programs empowered communities to adopt behaviors to improve their health status and increase access to livelihood opportunities. Through these partnerships, the programs reached more than 1.25 million people in the 
Dry Zone region of Myanmar, and trained 
more than 12,400 village-based volunteers, known as change agents, who now serve 
as health volunteers and village development fund managers. Of these change agents, 
9,200 health volunteers were specially 
trained to detect, refer and treat cases of tuberculosis, malaria and childhood illnesses.chevron.com/creatingprosperitymyanmarour contribution to meeting SDG 4 4 Quality Education ensure inclusive 
and equitable 
quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities 
for allA youth receives welding training.In 2016, Chevron Philippines launched the Caltex Training in Occupational Opportunities for Life Skills, or the Caltex TOOLS project. Caltex TOOLS provides world-class skills training in welding and scaffolding to disadvantaged youth from the host community of San Pascual, Batangas, where demand for these skills is high. Training is based on international standards to create highly skilled workers who will satisfy those demands. The program has a 95 percent passing rate and a 100 percent employment rate after graduation. Caltex TOOLS not only provides technical training to the scholars, but it also includes financial-management sessions to equip graduates with a well-rounded skillset.chevron.com/creatingprosperityphilippinesour contribution to meeting SDG 8 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth promote sustained, inclusive and sus-
tainable economic growth, full and 
productive employ-ment and decent work for allA farmer with livestock.The Jibika project, part of the Bangladesh Partnership Initiative (BPI), was launched in 
2015 to promote entrepreneurship and sustainable income among poor and margin-alized farming households located near 
our operations.chevron.com/creatingprosperitybangladeshBPI jibika projectsuccesses have included the following: 106 village development organizations (VDOs) have registered as cooperativesWomen make up 58 percent of those who serve on VDO executive committeesNearly 780 women received leadership trainingNearly 2,000 micro-entrepreneurs are supported with training and access to financing70 high-yielding plots have been  established and demonstrated44 health workers have been trained Social Icon respecting 
human rightsenabling human progress begins with 
respecting human rights learn more. . chevron.com/humanrights Classroom with female teacher and female students. Full description on following page. Previous page: Access to education is a fundamental human right and enables human progress. Since 2006, Chevron has provided merit-based scholarships 
for financially disadvantaged high school students in its gas-field communities in Bangladesh. In 2018, 63 percent of those scholarship recipients were girls.Respect for human rights is foundational to who  we are and our purpose of enabling human progress.  This approach applies  to all our employees and contractors and requires ongoing, proactive two-way communication with  community members in operating and project areas.Chevron’s Human Rights Policy complies with international standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work, that are applicable to business. We expect our busi-ness partners to demonstrate their respect for human rights by complying with these standards.Chevron supports the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and is committed to working with indigenous communities in a way that respects their history, culture and customs, within applicable legal and constitutional frameworks.protecting the rights of indigenous peoplesCanada Building mutually meaningful and beneficial relationships with 
the more than 40 indigenous groups with whom the Chevron Canada business unit (CBU) partners is consistent with our Chevron Way values. To enable a strategic, comprehensive and transparent approach to these critical relationships, the CBU developed its Indigenous Relations Policy (IRP). Employees and contractors are expected to support and implement the IRP, 
which is aligned with Canada’s constitution and existing legislation, Chevron policies, and industry best practices.A multifunctional working group manages the IRP, with over-sight provided by a steering committee composed of senior management. Success is measured against multiyear performance goals in indigenous employment and training, supplies and services procurement, social investment, environmental stewardship, and engagement.In acknowledgment that reconciliation can only begin with a recognition of the past, indigenous awareness training for all CBU staff is one of our performance goals.hearing and addressing community concerns 
across our companyChevron operates in many countries with one approach: we put people at the center of all we do and make human rights a priority. That approach is consistent from Kazakhstan to Bangladesh to 
the United States. United StatesIn 2016, Chevron’s Pascagoula Refinery implemented a com-munity complaint process, which provides an avenue for individuals in the surrounding areas to call the refinery if they 
have an environmental complaint. Scenario-based training, involving refinery leadership and local agencies, is held to test 
and evaluate processes and procedures. To read a feature on 
the initiative, visit chevron.com/pascagoula.Bangladesh The Bangladesh Profit Center (BPC) operates a community grievance mechanism that enables neighboring communities to report their complaints and concerns, which in turn enables the BPC to address community grievances in a timely, transparent manner, with resolution occurring because of collective efforts. Kazakhstan Tengizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron-operated entity in Kazakhstan, was one of the first Chevron business units to develop a grievance mechanism. TCO receives community input on its existing operations and major capital projects, including the next phase of TCO expansion, the Future Growth Project. After consulting with communities about the most effective manner for receiving their grievances, TCO implemented email, mail and comment box mechanisms, as well as Kazakhstan’s first toll-free telephone line. For a summary of Chevron’s Grievance Mechanism Guidance, visit chevron.com/grievancemechanism.chevron human rights policy 520our focus areas Employees Icon employeesWe treat all of our 
employees with respect 
and dignity, and 
promote diversity in 
the workplace.Our company policies and 
procedures adhere to all appli-cable domestic laws and are consistent with core international labor principles, including:• Freedom of association and collective bargaining•  Nondiscrimination at  the workplace• Decent working and  living conditions Security Icon securityWe protect personnel, 
assets and provide 
a secure environment for
business operations.We conduct our operations and execute our projects in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights. Communities Icon communitiesWe engage the 
community in two-way, ongoing consultation 
to build trust.We build upon our understanding of human rights issues in our operating and project areas as 
it relates to:•  Indigenous peoples •  Resettlement•  Grievances •  Livelihoods •  Environmental matters Suppliers Icon suppliersWe expect our suppliers to adhere to all applicable domestic laws as well as the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.We engage with key suppliers to reinforce awareness of potential human rights issues such as:• Working and living  conditions• Forced labor • Child labor • Trafficking• Conflict mineralsensuring secure operating environments Chevron’s Human Rights Policy ensures that we are especially cognizant of potential human rights issues in sensitive operating environments. We comply with the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights (the Voluntary Principles), designed 
to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of 
their operations within a framework that encourages respect for human rights.MyanmarIn Yangon and Naypyidaw, Myanmar, Chevron participated 
in workshops on the Voluntary Principles. The workshops were coordinated by the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. Representatives from government agencies, NGOs and private security companies attended.Chevron’s standard security services contracts incorporate 
the company’s expectations regarding training on the Voluntary Principles, background screening of contract personnel, 
and investigation of allegations of security and human rights incidents. The company’s contracts also reserve the right for Chevron to audit contracting companies to determine whether they adhere to these and other requirements.