getting results the right way
 Governance Icon we cultivate a culture of integrity 
and commit ourselves to do 
things the right and responsible way
 26 focusing on governance issues 31 building an enduring culture of safety 33 advancing operational excellence together Governance Icon focusing on  governance issues we believe good governance helps us apply the chevron way in all that we do learn more chevron.com/corporategovernance boardroom insight Q&A with wanda austin and mary francis A Chevron executive and a Chevron Board member in an office. Right: Independent Director Dr. Wanda Austin (right) discusses a range of topics including environmental, social and governance (ESG) trends, board oversight and energy transition. She is interviewed here by Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer Mary Francis. For Wanda’s biography, please visit chevron.com/about/leadership/wanda-austin. Employee PhotoFrancis: How has your prior experience  leading The Aerospace Corporation   informed your perspective as  a Director   on the Chevron Board? Employee PhotoAustin: One of the many reasons it’s exciting to serve on the Chevron Board is that, much like the aerospace industry, the energy sector is a demanding and high-consequence business. Chevron has a very clear focus on the mission and everyone on the team understands the importance of what they are doing. It improves the quality of life for everybody when we, the Chevron “we,” do a good job. So my experience in aerospace, my experience advising the President of the United States in science and technology and my experience on other boards all comes together at Chevron. Employee PhotoFrancis: What is the role of the Public Policy Committee (PPC) that you chair? Employee PhotoAustin: I have been PPC Chair since May 2018. The role of the PPC is to provide oversight in the areas of environmental, social, human rights, political and public policy matters as they affect Chevron’s business and the company’s ability to deliver on its purpose. We engage the management team in detailed discussions and reviews on subjects such as proxy proposals, corporate policies, lobbying, community engagement and showing up as the responsible corporate citizen that we are. Employee PhotoFrancis: How does the Board oversee ESG issues at Chevron? Employee PhotoAustin: As a board, we assess management’s policies, practices and performance. We rigorously review plans and proposals for the metrics set to measure ESG progress. We want Chevron to clearly outline its position on policy matters with external stakeholders so they understand those positions. We also engage with shareholders and stakeholders to better understand and respond to their interests. Employee PhotoFrancis: What does good governance of ESG issues look like? Employee PhotoAustin: Good governance is not just a label that we apply because it is currently a topical issue. Good governance is a rigorous, structured and consistent approach to strategically look at issues for the long term. This is how we do business every day. We continually focus on making sure we understand ESG impacts and how to continue to deliver our products in a manner consistent with transparent, sustainable and responsible performance. Employee PhotoFrancis: Have you experienced Chevron’s values when on the ground with employees? Employee PhotoAustin: Wherever I go in the world—and I’ve visited locations including Gorgon, El Segundo, the Permian and many others—there is a consistent focus on mission and a clear priority on safety and environmental protection among employees. This speaks to the culture. Everyone understands what they do is difficult, and they live Chevron’s core value to protect people and the environment. “We must be bold. We must 
be unsatisfied with the status quo. 
We must continually search for 
‘what’s next,’ ‘what else’ and ‘what if.’”
 — Dr. Wanda M. Austin Public Policy Committee Chair Employee PhotoFrancis: How is Chevron reporting on climate change risks and opportunities? Employee PhotoAustin: The company was one of the first to publish a TCFD-aligned report addressing governance, risk management, strategy and metrics. We communicate internally and externally about specific actions we are taking to reduce methane emissions, flaring and carbon intensity and achieve carbon sequestration. We set challenging targets and goals, measure our progress against them and incorporate those metrics into our compensation plan for employees so that they understand we need their innovation. Employee PhotoFrancis: Chevron has issued three climate reports in the last three years. What involve.ment does the Board and the PPC have in issuing those voluntary publications? Employee PhotoAustin: Our involvement begins before the reports are produced. We discuss the need for transparency and responsiveness. The manage.ment team knows we are supportive of its proactive approach and is aware that we are going to challenge them to think “what’s next” in their communications. The PPC reviews the reports and provides appropriate suggestions. These publications are critical tools that spark dialogue, help educate our key audiences, and explain the role companies play in address.ing the dual challenge of enabling economic development and addressing climate resiliency. Employee PhotoFrancis: How is Chevron preparing for the energy transition? Employee PhotoAustin: Chevron has always been in the energy transition business. Going forward, the opportunity is for us to improve our business as we know and understand it today but also to envision what it could be in the future through new technology and new tools. We must lead. We know our business inside out. If there is an opportunity to do something good for the future of the planet, I believe Chevron will figure out what that is. We must be bold. We must be unsatisfied with the status quo. We must continually search for “what’s next,” “what else” and “what if.” A collage of Chevron employees working. the
 chevron
 way
 Left: The Chevron Way explains who we are, what we believe, how we achieve and where we aspire to go. For more information, visit chevron.com/ thechevronway. governance structures Chevron believes strong governance is the foundation for delivering strong shareholder value. Our governance structures reflect our commitment to fostering long-term relationships, trust and goodwill with our shareholders, ensuring that our decisions and actions advance and respond to shareholders’ interests and supporting full transparency. Our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance teams focus on engaging with shareholders and investors on a range of key issues, including operations, finance, governance, executive compensation, environmental topics, safety and policy. board of directors Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business. As part of its responsibility, the Board approves appropriate risk management policies, practices and systems throughout the company and regularly considers critical risk topics in its deliberative decision-making process. Through Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, the Board annually reviews financial, operational, market, political and other risks inherent to our business. The Board has four standing committees: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee helps Chevron manage risks across the company and compete more effectively to build long-term shareholder value. For example, the Public Policy Committee (PPC) helps the Board manage risks related to the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business. The PPC reports its discussions to the full Board for consideration and action when appropriate. All committees include only independent Directors. Each committee is chaired by an independent Director who determines the frequency, length and agenda of the committee meetings and who has access to management, information and independent advisors as needed. Members of our Board of Directors possess relevant skills and qualifications, including leadership, operations, environmental, policy, regulatory and finance expertise. Their experience comes from the academic, business and technology sectors. This diverse set of perspectives helps ensure that the Board challenges itself and management on the variety of risks and opportunities Chevron faces and continues to hold itself to high standards. Employee PhotoSana Manjeshwar Global Principal Ombuds Manager “Chevron’s Global Office 
of Ombuds underlines 
our commitment to 
operating ethically and 
responsibly, which are core to The Chevron Way.” executive-level committees Under the oversight of the Board, Chevron’s Executive Committee is composed of the executive officers of Chevron and carries out Board policy in managing the business affairs of the company. The Enterprise Leadership Team (ELT) and Global Issues Committee (GIC) are subcommittees of the Executive Committee. The ELT is responsible for managing the composition, resource allocation and strategic direction of Chevron’s portfolio to achieve our objectives. In addition, the ELT oversees our ERM process. The GIC consists of members of the ELT, oversees Chevron’s policies and positions on issues of global significance, including climate change, and recommends appropriate responses. The GIC receives updates from internal and external subject matter experts to understand political and policy developments around the world, technological opportunities, and shareholder and stakeholder interests and concerns. The PPC is briefed on the work of the GIC by the Chair of the GIC, who also serves as the PPC secretary. This valuable link between the GIC and the PPC further enhances Board oversight. the environmental, social and governance team In 2018, Chevron created a dedicated team to engage on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues with investors, other stakeholders, framework developers—such as the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)—the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and ESG rating agencies. The ESG team and, when appropriate, senior executives, subject matter experts and our Lead Director regularly conduct in-depth discussions with investors and stakeholders. We aim to engage annually with our top 50 investors and other key stakeholders. Chevron gains valuable feedback during these engagements, and this feedback is shared with the Board and relevant Board committees. The ESG team regularly briefs the GIC on its efforts and supports the briefing of the PPC. business ethics Chevron’s reputation is built on the principles of responsibility, trust and integrity. Our values, which are reflected in The Chevron Way, include diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and trust, partnership, and protecting people and the environment. These values define our culture and underpin our business conduct. When we apply our ethical principles to our business decisions, the company is positioned for success. Every Chevron employee has a duty to uphold the company’s standing among the millions of people in the communities we touch. Our Business Conduct and Ethics Code is designed to help us fulfill this obligation. In addition, we expect our suppliers and contractors to conduct their businesses in a manner that protects people and the environment and complies with all applicable Chevron policies and environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. For more, see our Business Conduct and Ethics Code and Business Conduct and Ethics Expectations for Suppliers and Contractors, both available on chevron.com. director skills and expertise number of directors with relevant skills People Icon CEO/senior exec./leader of significant business operations: 9 Science/technology/engineering/research/academia: 9 Government/regulatory/legal/public policy: 9 Finance/financial disclosure/financial accounting: 11 Global business/international affairs: 10 Environmental: 8 Employee PhotoBunmi Fajusigbe International
 Government
 Affairs Advisor
 “I believe corporate advocacy is here to stay it’s a tool that’s imperative when evaluating business opportunities and issues.” public policy Public policy decisions can significantly affect Chevron’s strategies, capital investments, operations and, ultimately, shareholder value. Therefore, Chevron exercises its fundamental right and responsibility to participate in the political process and ensure lawmakers are informed by our expertise and insights when developing energy policy. Chevron does so through political contributions, direct and indirect lobbying, and participation in various business and policy associations that advocate for free markets and fair energy industry legislation and regulations. By participating in industry and trade associations, Chevron has the best opportunity to advance its perspectives and shape positions that better align with our values and the long-term interests of shareholders. On an annual basis, the PPC reviews Chevron’s political contributions and lobbying to assess the value of these activities and ensure alignment with Chevron’s positions and interests. Where appropriate, senior Chevron staff serve on trade association boards and advisory committees to directly engage the associations. However, Chevron may not agree with every position taken by the industry or the trade associations it supports. All trade associations in which a portion of funds are anticipated to be used for lobbying purposes go through a rigorous budgeting process. Chevron’s trade association memberships for which annual dues paid are $100,000 or more each and a portion of the dues may be used for lobbying are listed at right. Chevron adheres to the highest ethical standards when engaging in political activities, ensures these activities align with corporate goals, and complies with the letter and spirit of all laws and regula.tions governing lobbying activities and disclosure. 2019 trade association memberships* national/regional/local organizations (Expenditures allocated for lobbying are disclosed as required by the governing jurisdiction.) • American Chemistry Council • American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers • American Petroleum Institute • Business Roundtable • California Business Roundtable • California Chamber of Commerce • California Independent Petroleum Association • Civil Justice Reform Group • Consumer Energy Alliance • Greater Houston Partnership • Independent Petroleum Association of America • Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association • Louisiana Oil & Gas Association • Marcellus Shale Coalition • National Association of Manufacturers • National Petroleum Council • Natural Gas Supply Association • New Mexico Oil & Gas Association • Texas Oil & Gas Association • U.S. Chamber Institute for Legal Reform • U.S. Chamber Litigation Center • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • U.S. Oil & Gas Association • United Anglers • United States Council for International Business • Western States Petroleum Association See chevron.com/2019tradeassociations. *This list identifies Chevron’s 2019 trade association memberships where dues paid are $100,000 or more annually, and a portion of the dues may be used for lobbying. These organizations represent approximately 94 percent of the company’s annual trade association membership expenditures. Web Link Icon additional resources chevron.com/thechevronway Governance Icon building an enduring  culture of safety we strive to continuously improve our safety performance learn more chevron.com/workforce health and safety  question and answer with dave payne, katie jones and arian saffari  Chevron executive and two Chevron advisors. Right: Communications Specialist Katie Jones and Lead Environmental Engineer Arian Saffari (right) discuss Chevron’s culture of safety with Vice President of Health, Environment and Safety Dave Payne (left). Jones and Saffari are engineers who participate in Chevron’s Horizons program, a formal five-year training program for recent graduates to expand technical experience and job skills. “All innovation is driven by human inspiration, creativity and ingenuity—our people are behind the improvements we see in safety each year..”— Dave Payne  Vice President,  Health, Environment and Safety Employee PhotoJones: What is the key to sustaining a culture of safety in Chevron’s diverse operations across the globe? Employee PhotoPayne: The key to an enduring safety culture is consistent leadership at all levels of the organization. We work hard to share consistent expectations with leaders and then hold them accountable, including through our corporate Operational Excellence (OE) audit program. We incorporated Human Performance into our updated OE Management System (OEMS). Human Performance is the way of thinking about how people, culture, equipment, work systems and processes interact as a system. Human Performance is not a program, a single process or standard. Human Performance connects these components to proactively reduce human failure and its outcomes. “Our culture demands that we work to improve in safety performance every year.”— Dave Payne  Vice President,
   Health, Environment and Safety
 Employee PhotoSaffari: What innovations have helped us create an enduring culture of safety at Chevron? Employee PhotoPayne: Innovation is not what creates an enduring safety culture. An enduring safety culture creates innovation. Our culture demands that we work to eliminate serious injuries and fatalities and that we work to improve in safety performance every year. We cannot do that by simply getting better at doing the same thing. We must innovate, and we are constantly working to achieve that aspiration. Some innovation is technology-based, such as electronic work permits. Some is organizational, such as creating Operational Excellence Leadership Teams. And some is science-based, such as human performance. All innovation is driven by human inspiration, creativity and ingenuity—our people are behind the improvements we see in safety each year. Employee PhotoJones: How do we keep people motivated to work safely every day? Employee PhotoPayne: We motivate people by making safety personal, both for frontline workers and supervisors. We talk to workers about what is important to them—their family, co-workers, hobbies—and then discuss the potential impact of getting hurt or worse. We ask challenging questions like: What would happen to your family if you didn’t come home? These conversations shift the focus from compliance to something much more personal. For supervisors, we expect them to demonstrate authentic care and concern for their workforce. We want them to focus on safety because they truly care about people. When it’s personal, it’s easier to be consistent and make difficult decisions. Employee PhotoSaffari: Can you share an example of how we applied a lesson learned or a best practice across all of our operations? Employee PhotoPayne: One example of a lesson learned we applied across the business is the Learning Team tool, which was initially adopted in our refineries. This tool emphasizes giving workers a voice in their operations, and it has spread rapidly across the entire enterprise. A second example is our Verification and Validation (V&V) Coaching Program. This program was developed in our San Joaquin Valley business unit, was subsequently rolled out to all of our Upstream business units and is now being adapted for our Downstream operations. Both of these efforts promote leader engagement and learning from those closest to the work that is actually being performed. “Innovation is not what creates an enduring safety culture. An enduring safety culture creates innovation.” — Dave Payne Vice President, Health, Environment and Safety Governance Icon advancing operational  excellence together we continuously improve how we work to  reduce health, safety and environmental risks learn more  chevron.com/oe Employee PhotoOlukayode Alade Verification and 
Validation Coach, Business 
Services Department
 “Assuring critical
 safeguards are in place 
before starting a high risk 
task is an important 
step in prioritizing safety, 
so I coach employees 
and contractors to 
assess their work using
 standardized protocols
 before they begin.”
 Four Chevron employees outdoors. Above right: Personnel at our San Joaquin Valley business unit in California add another layer of safeguards by working with Verification and Validation coaches prior to beginning work on a specialized oil rig. Chevron’s leaders drive our culture of Operational Excellence (OE) by managing risk and learning from each other. We focus on performing every task the right way, every time, to keep our people, partners, communities and the environment safe. Our OE objectives and expectations guide our efforts in six key focus areas: workforce safety and health; process safety, reliability and integrity; environment; efficiency; security; and stakeholders. 2019 was our second-safest year in recent history. This success is a credit to the Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), established in 2004 to manage health, safety and environmental risks. The OEMS enables us to assess risks, identify safeguards and implement programs to assure these safeguards are effective. We constantly strive to learn and innovate to keep people safe. enhancing our culture of learning to improve safety Chevron is committed to continuously improving safety. We create tools to help leaders build more reliable systems, promote open communication on safety issues and establish a culture of learning. As part of these efforts, Human Performance was established as a common expectation in our 2018 update of the OEMS. Human Performance draws on the expertise of our people who have direct experience with high-risk work, helping to improve safety every day. In 2019, we deployed A Leader’s Guide to Human Performance Deployment. The guide is a companywide roadmap—developed by those closest to the work that is actually being done in the field—to help our teams achieve safe and reliable outcomes. It provides operational standards and best practices but also enables implementation to be adapted for localized needs. coaching program adds a new layer of safeguards Our OEMS relies on a layered approach to prevent incidents. For example, at oil rigs and natural gas facilities, our approach starts with written and digital checklists required for specific work, verification that safeguards are completed and a final review immediately before work begins. Our Verification and Validation (V&V) Coaching Program adds another layer of protection and training. Through V&V, coaches from more mature business units mentor less established ones and business unit leaders share best practices to improve safeguards. Since it began in 2018, the program has enabled 146 full-time coaches to provide safety training to workers and managers in more than 31,500 engagements. 146
 full-time coaches in the Verification and Validation Coaching Program add another layer of safeguards and training for our employees around the world An advisor wearing a hard hat. Above: A quarantine advisor at Chevron inspects equipment before it travels to Barrow Island, a Class A nature reserve. managing risk in operational   excellence focus areas Our Operational Excellence Management System enables us to systematically manage risk and comply with legal requirements across the following OE focus areas: Workforce Safety and Health Icon workforce   safety  and health Eliminate fatalities, serious injuries and illnesses Environment Icon environment Assess and manage significant environmental risks Security Icon security Prevent high-consequence security and cybersecurity incidents Process Safety, Reliability and Integrity Icon process safety, reliability   and integrity Eliminate high-consequence process safety incidents and operate with industry-leading reliability Efficiency Icon efficiency Use energy and resources efficiently Stakeholders Icon stakeholders Address OE business risks through stakeholder engagement and issues management Web Link Icon additional resources chevron.com/oems environment .social. governance
 progress 
and performance
 Progress Icon we demonstrate our commitment 
to transparency by reporting metrics 
and performance data annually
 36 contributing to the SDGs 38 performance data 46 additional information Progress Icon contributing to the SDGs
 we work to advance the UN’s sustainable development goals as part of our commitment to enable human progress around the world learn more chevron.com/sdgs Employee PhotoDee Bourbon Corporate 
Affairs Advisor
 “It is amazing to 
see what a difference 
our investments make 
in the community. 
It’s important work; 
we make valuable 
contributions to building
 strong, sustainable
 communities.”
 A group at an outdoor meeting. Above: The Jibika project, launched in 2015 as part of our Bangladesh Partnership Initiative, has provided leadership training and economic opportunities for nearly 800 women. We are proud to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which we view as a system of targets and objectives that build on each other to achieve a more sustainable future and make progress toward the global 2030 agenda. We believe the next decade will be full of partnership, action and growth, and we are well-positioned to be part of the solution: Chevron is a company full of doers with a long history of solving complex challenges, and we will continue to innovate for the future. Chevron touches all 17 SDGs through our day-to-day operations, partnership initiatives and social investment opportunities; however, we focus on five goals discussed on the following page that identify where we believe we can make our greatest contri.bution. We work with key partners, communities and industry groups to maximize positive outcomes and continually deepen our understanding of sustainable development. 2030
 Meeting the 2030 global agenda will require 
partnership, innovation and action; we 
are well-positioned to be part of the solution.
 SDG 3: good health and well-being ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Three Chevron partners talking outside. Chevron continually invests in programs that create local partner.ships and build capacity, such as Chevron Australia’s new Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). We partner with the Heart Foundation to support the Pilbara Aboriginal Heart Health Program and fight heart disease, which is the leading cause of death for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. We work with local leaders, such as Yorga Djenna Bidi graduates, and community groups to deliver culturally appropriate heart health activities and education to help reduce cardiovascular disease and close the gap in life expectancy among the Onslow, Karratha and Roebourne communities in Western Australia. SDG 4: quality education ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all A student investigates a 3-D model. Chevron invests in a comprehensive range of education activities. We encourage students to pursue STEM opportunities; we provide career, teacher and technical training; and we form innovative partnerships with universities and other stakeholders. Chevron’s Enjoy Science Project is a $30 million, five-year program to strengthen STEM and vocational education across schools in Thailand. Through collaboration with partners in civil society, academia, the private sector and government, the program is on track to improve STEM instruction at more than 600 schools, build capacity for approx.imately 10,000 teachers and directly impact 500,000 people. SDG 7: affordable and clean energy ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all A Chevron employee and a partner in a cow barn. At Chevron, we deliver the energy that improves lives and enables human progress. There are 7.6 billion people on the planet today. By 2040, there will be over 9 billion, leading to a 30 percent increase in energy demand. Yet even today, nearly 1 billion people have little or no access to affordable and reliable energy. We leverage our people and expertise to solve this complex problem by developing more energy while protecting the environment. SDG 8: decent work and economic growth promote sustained, inclusive and sustain.able economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Chevron employees at a presentation. In February, Chevron announced a $5 million grant to Catalyst, a global nonprofit advancing workplace gender equality with whom we partnered in 2016 to launch the Men Advocating Real Change (MARC) global program. The grant, the largest Catalyst has received in its more than 50-year history, will allow the organization to continue its groundbreaking research, programming, products and events aimed at accelerating gender inclusion across all industry workforces. SDG 13: climate action take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Two Chevron employees talking in an office. Chevron is working to address the impacts of a changing climate by delivering affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy; reducing our own emissions; and investing in lower-carbon energy breakthroughs. See pages 9–12 to learn more about our efforts to address climate change.