Chevron Hallmark with Wordmark The Human Energy Company, trademark symbol Chevron employee walking outdoors with two business partners. Full description on following page. 2019 corporate sustainability report for complete reporting, visit chevron.com/sustainability On the cover: We believe that together we can  solve some of the world’s most complex challenges.  Our partnership with minority-owned businesses  is an example of that, spending more than $3 billion since 2015. Julian Romero (right), a steam produc.tion technologist at Chevron, partners with Megan McCormick (left) and Ashleigh Pryor from McCormick  Biological. They use technology to evaluate and mitigate the impact on wildlife in areas where  we operate in the San Joaquin Valley business unit  in Bakersfield, California. the human energy company
 2019 sustainability highlights protecting the environment established four goals to reduce net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2023.. lower oil net GHG intensity 5–10%
 lower gas net GHG intensity 2–5%
 lower flaring intensity 25–30%
 lower methane emissions intensity 20–25%
 1 Based on 2016 emissions levelsIllustrated Map of Australia developed one of the world’s largest integrated carbon  capture and storage projects.. 2.Based on volume and rate of CO. injectionmethane emissions intensity in the permian basin. Bar graph comparing methane emissions intensity in the Permian basin between Chevron (approximately 0.2 tonne C O 2e/MBOE) and the Permian average (approximately 3 tonne C O 2e/MBOE) an industry leader in flaring reduction in the permian basin  3.Source: Methane emissions intensity Permian Basin data  based on EPAGHGRP (2018 data). Includes 68 producers who report to the GHGRP program.empowering people Diversity and Inclusion Icon  the first international oil and gas company with a Human Rights Defenders Statement 
  DEI Disability Equality Index Best Place To Work For Disability Inclusion Logo awarded 2019 Best Places to Work for People with Disabilities Partnership Icon $27B+
 chevron spent $27 billion on goods and services in 2019, contributing to the global economy getting results the right way Chevron Update to Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making cover proven commitment to transparency in reporting free cash flow yield (LTM).S&P 500 sectorsBar graph comparing free cash flow yield between Chevron (approximately 7.2%) and S&P 500 (approximately 3.9%)  4. Data provided by Siblis ResearchStakeholder Engagement Icon we carried out more than 
124 engagements with investors
 and stakeholders in 2019 This page: These data are as of February 20, 2019, and exclude spend that is ultimately shared with our partners. a message from our chairman 
and chief executive officer
 Chevron CEO Mike Wirth outside headquarters. Above: Michael K. Wirth, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, at Chevron’s headquarters in California. At Chevron, we work every day to provide the energy that makes modern life achievable for billions of people around the world. Affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy fuels human progress, empowering tremendous advancement in living standards by helping people enjoy healthier lives, achieve education, and pursue economic opportunities for themselves and their families. As I write this letter, the coronavirus pandemic is challenging the health of millions of people and the economic engine that sustains our way of life. Just as we have done in the face of past adversity, Chevron is working alongside our partners to confront and overcome the effects of the pandemic. During this difficult time, employees have demonstrated our Chevron Way values, proving why people have always been at the heart of our company. From rig workers and shipping mariners to refinery engineers and service station managers, the people of Chevron are delivering the energy needed to power homes and hospitals, transport medical patients and supplies, and maintain the essentials of daily life even as normal patterns of activity have been disrupted. We are fully engaged to protect the health and safety of our workforce and are donating funds and equipment to health care providers and first responders on the front lines of the pandemic response. In the communities where we operate, we are supporting relief efforts, donating Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and medical supplies, and offering teachers resources needed to conduct remote learning. Above all, we remain steadfast in our commitment to provide the energy that is necessary to move life forward. Enabling human progress takes human energy. And for 140 years, the people of Chevron have brought inspiration, creativity and ingenuity to developing solutions that help make our world better. This is both the legacy of our past and our promise for the future. We take our responsibility to society seriously and are committed to relentlessly imagining new ways of delivering the energy life depends on. Global demand for energy and stakeholder expectations for a lower-carbon future have never been higher. And Chevron’s sustainability commitment has never been stronger. This is evidenced by our support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and by the environment, social and governance (ESG) priorities that are integrated throughout our business. Three pillars underpin our approach to ESG: We protect the environment, empower people and get results the right way— The Chevron Way. In our 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report, we spotlight how our people, partnership and performance further humanity’s ability to thrive. Highlights include: The innovative and ongoing actions we are taking to advance environmental performance. We are lowering carbon intensity and increasing the use of renewables in our operations while investing in breakthrough technologies. For example, we have reduced methane emissions from Chevron’s U.S. onshore produc.tion operations by 85 percent since 2013; invested $1 billion in carbon capture and storage projects in Australia and Canada; been cited by third parties as the leader in flare minimization in the Permian Basin; pledged $100 million to the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Climate Investments fund; and committed $100 million to the Chevron Technology Ventures’ Future Energy Fund. Chairman’s letter continues on page 2 CEO Mike Wirth standing with 10 employees. Above: Wirth met with Chevron employees enrolled in our new partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to enhance workforce capabilities in data analytics and other in-demand technical skills. Our investment in people. Chevron employees are at the center of everything we do. We are committed to a diverse and inclusive work environment that empowers problem-solvers to tackle some of the world’s most complex challenges. We uphold universal human rights and partner with external stakeholders to make communities stronger. Over the last six years, Chevron has invested $137 billion in global goods and services and more than $1 billion in global social programs, including funding to improve access to health care, promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) training, empower women through education, and promote widespread economic growth and sustainable entrepreneurship. Getting results the right way. From our Board of Directors’ commitment to governance excellence to our enduring culture of operational excellence, Chevron delivers results the right and responsible way. We operate with the highest ethical standards and place the highest priority on the safety and health of our workforce and the protection of communities and the environment. Thanks to the past and present relationships Chevron has forged with partners—stakeholders and shareholders—we continue to enable human progress around the world. We could not be prouder of our workforce, and we embrace the opportunity to create a future of sustainable progress and prosperity. While there will be challenges, we know that the power of human energy will lead us to a brighter future. Mike Wirth Signature Michael K. Wirth Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer May 2020 Employee PhotoKristan Crapps Employee Network Coordinator “Chevron has a uniquely supportive and flourishing culture thanks to our leaders’ work to integrate diversity in thought and background into our workforce.” chevron awards and recognition corporate responsibility • American Chamber of Commerce Thailand CSR
 Excellence Recognition Award 
• Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility 
5-star rating in Employment and Governance
 • JUST Capital Top 100 U.S. Companies Supporting 
Healthy Communities and Families
 • Verdantix International Environmental Health and 
Safety Innovation Award recipient, Oil & Gas
 diversity and inclusion • 2019 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award of National Guard and Reserve employees, U.S. Department of Defense • American Indian Science and Engineering Society Top 50 STEM Workplaces for Native American Professionals • Asia Society, Best Asian Pacific American Employee
 Resource Groups
 • Forbes America’s Best Employers for Women • Women in Engineering ProActive Network Industry 
Trailblazer Award
 For a full list of awards, visit chevron.com/awardsandrecognition. strategy and sustainability
 at chevron, we work to deliver energy that improves lives while striving to meet social and environmental goals For more than 140 years, Chevron has strived to earn a distin.guished track record for operating with integrity and for holding ourselves accountable to the high expectations of our global stakeholders. We take this responsibility seriously and are proud of our role in delivering the affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy that is vital to human progress. We focus our sustainability efforts on addressing environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, including implementing strong environmental stewardship, putting people at the center of everything we do and achieving results the right way. These commitments reflect our culture of operational excellence, high ethical standards, strict capital discipline and transparent risk management. They also demonstrate our intent to lead responsibly in any environment. To reflect the importance our company places on sustainability, Chevron integrated the work of the Energy Transition and ESG Engagement & Sustainability teams into one corporate Strategy and Sustainability group. This development enables enterprisewide strategic alignment and more efficient decision-making, accelerates the pace of our work, and better integrates our operations to deliver results in a sustainable manner. Our commitment to sustainability is also evident in the new name of the report, Chevron’s Corporate Sustainability Report. Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Graphic the human energy company protecting the environment empowering people getting results the right way Employee PhotoBruce Niemeyer Vice President,
 Strategy and Sustainability
 “Throughout our history, social investment and sustainability have been part of the ethos of our company. The integration of our Strategy and Sustainability teams
 is an intentional acknowledgment of our long held belief that
 social investment, strategy and sustainability are united efforts.
 This is important because the world’s future energy needs
 require performance at the highest level in order to address
 global challenges and meet evolving stakeholder expectations.”
 Employee PhotoDaniel Droog Vice President,
 Energy Transition
 “We embrace the future of energy: a lower carbon future that includes oil and gas, new forms of energy and new ways of delivering energy. Today, we are taking action by reducing carbon intensity, deploying renewables and investing in technology that lowers greenhouse gas emissions.” 