Environmental Stewardship Our environmental stewardship efforts focus on minimizing our environmental footprint, from initial exploration through the life of an asset. Wherever we operate, our environmental stewardship process, part of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), helps us manage activities that have the potential to affect the environment. Consistent with ISO 14001, we defined seven types of environmental activities, or “aspects,” that we address: • Accidental Releases Management  • Legacy Sites Management  • Air Emissions Management  • Waste Management  • Natural Resources Management  • Wastewater Management  • Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Management Through the entire life cycle of a project from planning and construction through operation and decommissioning we review and adapt our environmental stewardship efforts annually as we reassess potential environmental risks associated with our activities. Our Upstream operations adopted uniform standards and operating practices, beyond applicable legal requirements in some instances, to minimize environmental impacts from offshore drilling fluids and cuttings (minerals and other materials removed from a borehole), associated-gas flaring and venting, air emissions, produced water, and waste. Based on the review of potential impacts and existing controls, operations are required to identify improvement opportunities and incorporate those that are the highest priority into their business plans. This ongoing review and identification of next steps is the continual improvement that is a core component of our OEMS and helps drive our business units to higher levels of environmental performance. For more about environmental stewardship, please visit Chevron.com/Environment. Near the Tengiz Field in western Kazakhstan, David Connell, former Second Generation Plant site manager, visits the Sarkamys village and Keneral Farms, where some people still herd camels, goats and horses. Other residents have found technical and manufacturing jobs with Tengizchevroil. Kazakhstan Driving Environmental Progress Chevron is Kazakhstan’s largest private oil producer, holding important stakes in the nation’s two biggest oil-producing projects — the Tengiz and Karachaganak fields. We are a 50 percent partner in the Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture, which operates the Tengiz Field. Through significant investments and environmental standards, TCO’s workforce is continually improving environmental performance. As Tengizchevroil employee Tatyana Afanaseva flew by helicopter over the oil and gas fields that rise from the Caspian Sea’s northwest shore, she recalled how the panorama below has changed over the past two decades. “In the early 1990s, you saw gas released and burned from flare stacks during oil production. There were also many large, square yellow sulfur pads created as a byproduct of the oil production process,” said Afanaseva, chief technologist of TCO’s Process Engineering department. “Today, we observe a very different picture.” The TCO joint venture was established in 1993 between Chevron, the newly independent Republic of Kazakhstan and other partners to produce oil in the western part of the country. TCO’s Tengiz Field is one of the world’s deepest developed oil fields and, along with the smaller Korolev Field, covers 970 square miles (2,500 sq km). Afanaseva is one of nearly 3,200 Kazakhstani citizens who make up 86 percent of TCO’s workforce. Working with the government and community, the joint venture has invested $2.5 billion since 2000 on projects that resulted in a reduction Above: Khairliyev Alibek is a unit operator at the Tengiz Field’s Second Generation Plant. The plant has allowed TCO to increase production and, through the use of advanced technology, improve environmental protection. of TCO’s environmental impacts, such as projects to eliminate continuous flaring, reduce sulfur storage, and conserve and treat water. Extinguishing Continuous Flares When TCO assumed control of the Tengiz Field in 1993, the field’s ongoing operations included the continuous flaring of natural gas. “Today, the only flaring remaining in TCO’s operations is intermittent flaring related to maintenance and repairs, or when necessary for safety,” said Nurlan Kaliev, deputy director for major capital projects. As TCO began to increase its oil production, the joint venture initiated a series of major capital projects from 2000 to 2012 that ultimately eliminated continuous flaring and reduced its overall flaring volumes by 92 percent. Recognizing the success of TCO’s efforts to reduce flaring, the Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership, a public-private partnership launched by the World Bank in 2002, awarded TCO the Excellence in Flaring Reduc.tion Award at its 2012 conference in London. “Flaring reduction minimizes environmental impacts. Our process improvements also allow us to capture gas that would otherwise be flared and to commercialize it to meet the demand for affordable energy,” said Mike Jennings, TCO’s general manager for Operational Excellence and Health, Environment and Safety. Reducing Sulfur Inventory Tengiz crude oil contains some of the highest concentrations of sulfur in the world. As a result, managing the large amounts of sulfur generated during oil and gas processing is a key operational issue for TCO. Historically, sulfur that was removed during oil and gas production was accumulated on large, open concrete pads. The scale of the pads led to the public’s perception that there were environmental and health impacts associated with sulfur handling and removal. “Through educational programs and independent health studies, TCO has been working for years with government entities and communities to correct misperceptions about the storage of sulfur on pads in the open air,” said Dastem Zhassanov, Regulatory Affairs coordinator for TCO. In 2006, TCO, the Ministry of Oil and Gas, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection created the Interdepart.mental Coordination Council (ICC) to study issues related to sulfur storage and identify methods to improve its management. The study was the first of its kind in Kazakhstan and included local government, the national oil and gas company, and independent research institutes from Russia and Canada. Understanding Flaring Flaring is the burning of natural gas in an open flame into the air. When crude oil is brought to the surface in the produc.tion process, gas associated with the oil rises with it. In locations where there is no market for the gas, a common historical practice has been to flare the gas so that it does not pose a hazard to workers or residents near the operations. Gas travels up tall metal pipes called flare stacks to the nozzle or burner tip located at the top. A pilot light or electronic igniter then ignites the gas. The World Bank reported a 9 percent reduction in flaring globally in 2010 at a time of increasing oil and gas production. In 2011, the World Bank estimated that total emissions from gas flaring repre.sented approximately 1.2 percent of global CO2 emissions. Efforts such as the Global Gas Flaring Reduction (GGFR) Partnership, a public-private partnership launched by the World Bank in 2002 and in which Chevron has been an active participant, are having a positive impact. Chevron has adopted a routine-flaring reduction standard that aligns with the World Bank’s GGFR voluntary standard. This standard requires, where feasible, that the majority of existing routine flaring of associated gas be eliminated and that all new capital projects be designed and operated without continuous routine flaring. We have invested billions of dollars in infrastructure projects in Angola, Kazakhstan, Nigeria and elsewhere to eliminate routine flaring and direct the natural gas to productive economic use. Since 2003, we have reduced the volume of gas we flare and vent in Chevron’s Upstream operations by 41 per.cent, as defined by our flaring and venting environmental-performance standard. We have simultaneously reduced green.house gas emissions from flaring and venting by 20 percent, based on the equity share of all Chevron’s global interests. Left: At a Tengiz Field processing unit, sour gas is separated from crude oil. Approximately one-third of the gas produced is reinjected to maintain pressure in the reservoir and eventually help recover more oil. “The study showed that sulfur pads in Tengiz had no impact on the nearest community and no measurable impact on groundwater, air or soil,” said Rzabek Artygaliev, TCO’s general manager for Policy, Government and Public Affairs. The results were published and presented at a public hearing in 2007. While this study showed no measurable impacts related to TCO’s activity, the ICC is using the results to inform the development of technical regulations and industry standards for better sulfur handling and storage. Upon comple.tion, these will be presented to the Republic of Kazakhstan for review and implementation as national standards. As part of its own sulfur management program, TCO has reduced the volume of sulfur stored on open-air pads by more than two-thirds from peak quantities in 2005. To shrink its sulfur inventory, TCO processes sulfur into a number of marketable products. As a result of these efforts, by the end of 2012, TCO had reduced its sulfur inventory to approximately 2.9 million tons, down from a peak volume of 9 million tons. By 2015, TCO expects to have reduced its sulfur inventory by 95 percent. Conserving and Treating Water TCO, like similar operations throughout the world, requires access to viable quantities and qualities of water in order to operate. “The availability of fresh water is critical to many industries, and the oil and gas industry is no exception. Global population growth and an increasing demand for fresh water are pressuring industry to achieve more sustainable operations and water use,” said Jan Slange of Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan, an engineering firm that works with TCO on water conservation. Fresh water is supplied to TCO by pipe.lines from Kazakhstan’s Kigach River, which is a tributary of the Volga River. The water traverses more than 310 miles (500 km) of an industrialized region of western Kazakhstan before arriving at Tengiz. TCO’s reliance on a single source of water was identified as a potential supply risk several years ago. TCO is addressing this risk by con.serving fresh water through reuse and recycling. This strategy is part of a water management plan that includes two facilities that are expected to reduce the volume of water required from the Kigach River by about 25 per.cent of the current volume. The first facility, to be completed in 2013, will treat an average of 1.6 million gallons per day of wastewater generated by TCO’s employee and contractor living facilities. The second facility will recycle water used for industrial purposes at TCO’s plants. When completed in 2014, the facility is expected to yield 950,000 gallons per day of recycled water for use at the Tengiz plant. “Water treatment and recycling facil.ities are examples of the sustained progress to protect and conserve natu.ral resources,” said Nick Thomas, the treatment facility’s project manager. “TCO looked at its water use and made changes that are mutually beneficial to its business and the environment.” Listen to TCO’s Ulzhan Shonataeva describe her development assignment at Chevron in California at Chevron.com/CR2012/TCO. Overview Biodiversity We believe that respecting the environment and biodiversity can be compatible with providing energy. The protective measures we take are based on our awareness of the value of the natural world and the importance of conserving the rich variety of life on Earth, its ecosystems, species and the ecological processes that support them. Chevron s Biodiversity Statement expresses our commitment to incorporating biodiversity considerations into the evaluations and decisions regarding our capital projects. Our employees work to protect habitats near our operations and share their best practices through the Chevron Biodiversity Network. Our Operational Excellence Management System includes our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process, which requires all new major capital projects to be evaluated in order for us to understand potential negative impacts and avoid, minimize and mitigate them where possible. The ESHIA process presence of habitats or fishing grounds, near our capital projects. shown here, to assess population demographics and nesting frequency. Angola Conservation Through Collaboration For more than 75 years, Chevron has played a major role in Angola’s energy sector. Whether operating during periods of stability or unrest, we have been contributing to the growth and prosperity of the country and its people. Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd., Chevron’s wholly owned subsidiary, is the country’s largest foreign oil-industry employer. Our offshore operations provide energy while conserving ecosystems and supporting the livelihoods of fishermen. Chevron environmental supervisor Margarida Peliganga is part of a team that protects endangered turtles that come ashore to breed, dig sandy nests and lay their eggs on the beaches at Chevron’s Malongo oil production facilities near Cabinda, Angola. “It’s inspiring to witness nature at work, starting with the adult turtles coming ashore and later seeing hundreds of hatchlings scamper toward the ocean for the first time,” said Peliganga. The sea turtle conservation program helps protect the endangered olive ridley sea turtle from poachers, dogs, flooding and erosion that can disrupt the turtles’ habitat. Annual counts of nesting turtles contribute to international research databases and environmental impact assess.ments. Since the monitoring project began nine years ago, program partners have documented approxi.mately 1,400 nests and more than 48,900 hatchlings. Sea turtle monitors tagged 157 turtles for tracking. The program is one example of Chevron’s environmental steward.ship efforts in Angola. Through Above: Humpback whales are often seen off.shore Angola when the species visits western Africa for mating and calving. conservation partnerships and collabo.ration, we implemented programs to manage our environmental footprint, such as locating facilities to safeguard sensitive habitats, protecting marine mammals through cooperative science and management, and reducing offshore flaring during the oil produc.tion process. Angola LNG Protects Habitats Chevron has a 36.4 percent interest in Angola LNG Ltd., a company that owns an onshore development to liquefy and export natural gas at the mouth of the Congo River Basin. When the location of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility was being determined, the Angola LNG joint venture used Chevron’s Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process to understand the area’s environmental and social conditions. Sheryl Maruca, senior scientist and former Health, Environment and Safety manager for the Angola LNG project, said the ESHIA results helped to identify a proposed site location that would minimize potential impacts to habitats, the local community and Above: Near Chevron operations, a sea turtle awareness campaign was initiated within the workforce and local communities. Researchers and their assistants from local villages regularly patrol the beach and protect nests on the Atlantic coastline. Sea turtles are identiﬁ ed and tagged in order to study their migratory paths and biological cycles. livelihoods. “The assessment identified mangrove areas and other sensitive habitats, culturally important sites, and areas used for farming,” she said. “This led to a proposed plant site on the north side of an existing service and supply base for offshore fields.” After removing vegetation and unexploded ordnance from past conflicts, we discovered olive ridley turtles nesting on the north side of the site. Through Chevron, Angola LNG partnered with the Wildlife Conserva.tion Society (WCS) to develop an areawide biodiversity action plan. This plan included a community-based monitoring and conservation effort to safeguard the turtles and their nests, as well as community education on the importance of preserving the marine turtle population. After two years, Angola LNG staff took responsi.bility for the program and today continue to manage more than 9 miles (14 km) of coastline. Monitoring Marine Mammals Marine animals, including coastal dolphins, West African manatees, offshore cetaceans and sea turtles, are increasingly under threat from activities such as overfishing and vessel traffic. As we explore for energy resources along Angola’s coast, we partner with local fishermen and biologists to monitor marine mammals during seismic operations and reduce potential disturbance from the sound waves used to detect oil and gas formations in the rock deep beneath the ocean floor. This monitoring involves continually watching for marine animals before and during seismic operations. The program also establishes an exclusion zone where operations are suspended when marine animals are spotted until they swim out of range. Chevron adheres to the Joint Nature Conservation Committee guidelines for minimizing the risk Malongo Laboratory Gets Results At our Malongo laboratory, 63 Angolan technicians test thousands of samples monthly to help protect water quality and ensure the integrity of our operations and the quality of our products. Each morning, samples of produced water from our onshore and offshore facilities are analyzed to make sure they are within our specifications and regulatory limits. Laboratory technicians test and certify Chevron products that are sold in Angola, such as crude oil and liquefied petroleum gas, as well as products used in our operations, such as jet fuel, diesel and kerosene. The lab also is equipped to identify the source of crude oil spilled in water based on its “fingerprint.” Because each type of oil is unique, the fingerprinting tech.nique uses biomarkers to determine the oil’s characteristics. A database helps match the oil to its source. Results are shared with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Petroleum and then become public. of injury and disturbance to marine mammals from seismic surveys. In 2008, Chevron partnered with WCS to introduce passive acoustic monitoring in the south Atlantic Ocean to assess humpback whale breeding activity. This surveying technique resulted in the first complete documen.tation of the full migratory timing and seasonal presence of humpback whales that spend their winters off the Angolan coast. During this period, WCS was also able to document the presence of blue whales through recordings of their species-specific vocalizations. These recordings provided the first modern evidence of this endangered species off Angola since the 1970s. Chevron is also collaborating with WCS to develop a more comprehensive assessment of marine mammals farther north along the Atlantic coast.line, where data on marine mammals are limited. Through these and other related studies, Chevron is helping to make available new information on vulnerable species in poorly researched areas. “Establishing baseline information in this region will be valuable as Chevron looks to improve mitigation and monitoring based on scientific information. More broadly, the infor.mation on marine mammals will be helpful for improving our understand.ing of how important these areas are for whales and dolphins,” said Howard Rosenbaum, Ph.D., director of WCS’s Ocean Giants Program. Reducing and Eliminating Flaring To minimize our environmental footprint, we have been eliminating routine flaring of natural gas at several offshore oil and gas production fields. The Cabinda gas plant became fully operational in 2010 and reduced onshore flaring by 7 million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d). At the Chevron-operated Block 0 concession offshore Cabinda, where we have a 39.2 percent interest, a gas management project completed in 2011 reduced flaring by 70 mmcf/d of natural gas. The project made modifications to flare and relief systems on 14 platforms in both the Takula and Malongo fields. With startup scheduled in 2013, the $10 billion Angola LNG project will capture and market offshore gas that is currently flared from producing blocks in Angola north and south of the Congo River Canyon. The Angola LNG plant is expected to receive 1 billion cf/d of natural gas for export and domestic use from a new 264-mile (425-km) network of offshore and onshore pipe.lines connected to areas that include the Chevron-operated Blocks 0 and 14 offshore Angola. Through Chevron’s ESHIA process, the local Soyo commu.nity was engaged to help identify nonintrusive pipeline routes. By 2015, a $2 billion investment at our North and South Nemba fields off the Cabinda coast includes plans to inject gas for enhanced oil recovery and to eliminate routine flaring. Supporting Livelihoods Fishing is a primary means of subsist.ence in Cabinda. In 2009, we launched a program to strengthen the capa.bilities of small-scale fishermen to increase the amount of their catch. The program is conducted in partner.ship with the Angolan Ministry of Fisheries and World Vision Interna.tional, a global humanitarian organiza.tion working to alleviate poverty. More than 3,000 fishermen and fish traders from Cabinda Province received training, tools and equipment. Another program helps fishermen reduce operating costs through access to credit, equipment and supplies. So far, 113 fishermen and 474 fish traders received microloans. “We collaborated with Chevron and its partners to help protect fishermen’s rights to sustainable livelihoods. We also worked to design and fund programs that allow fishermen to improve deep-sea fishing techniques and maintain equipment,” said Clemente de Oliveira Paulo of World Vision. “These projects will help Angolans now and in the future.” Historically, local fishermen have at times raised concerns about water quality and reduced fish levels. “We recognize that perceived negative impacts to fish will translate to a high level of concern from communities and regulators,” said Daniel Joao, Health, Environment and Safety supervisor for Cabinda operations. Since 2006, we have been assessing water quality and fish health in Cabinda to respond to community concerns. The program involves monitoring through the collection of water and sediment samples and the analysis of fish tissue. The analysis, conducted by an independent U.S. laboratory, assesses whether trace contaminants related to oil and gas operations pose a concern for human consumption or for the food chain. The analysis has found no such concern or link. 