managing operational risk understanding high-consequence risks, implementing safeguards, and assuring safeguards are in place and functioning learn more chevron.com/OE chevron operational excellence focus areas Chevron’s updated Operational Excellence Manage.ment System (OEMS) establishes 35 expectations that are organized into six focus areas with support.ing objectives. workforce safety and health Eliminate fatalities, serious injuries and illnesses environment Assess and manage signifi.cant environmental risks security Prevent high-consequence security and cybersecurity incidents process safety, reliability and integrity Eliminate high-consequence process safety incidents and operate with industry-leading reliability efficiency Use energy and resources efficiently stakeholders Address OE business risks through stakeholder engagement and issues management We strive to manage operational risk to eliminate high-consequence personal and process safety events. This means no fatalities or serious injuries and no fires, spills or explosions that can affect people or communities. To help achieve this objective, in 2017 we developed the first significant update to our OEMS since its deployment in 2004. operational excellence management system Through application of our OEMS, we work to understand and recognize hazards and risks in each area of our operations, implement appropriate safeguards, and then assure that the safeguards are in place and functioning. Our updated OEMS incorporates more than a decade of learnings and increases our focus on our risk and assurance programs, all in support of our continued efforts to prevent high-consequence incidents and impacts. Across our company, we’ve deepened the integration of risk management through our recently updated Operational Excellence (OE) Risk Management process. By applying this process, our business units consider a broad range of risks, including safety and health exposures, environmental issues, facility integrity, security of personnel and assets, and community and political issues. This evaluation includes assessing facility-, activity- and product-related risks across the life cycle of our business. Building on the culture established in The Chevron Way, we have also reemphasized the value of leadership as a critical success factor in achieving OE results. Leaders must cultivate and drive our OE culture through their values, competencies and behaviors. They are responsible for understanding and mitigating risks and maintaining and assuring safeguards for their business. At Chevron, we apply and sustain a variety of safeguards that interrupt a cause-event-consequence sequence, such as alarms and pressure relief systems. We have developed assurance programs to monitor these safeguards through testing programs, maintenance inspections, operator routine duty results, and internal and external audits. These programs are designed to recognize signs of safeguard weaknesses and trigger actions to strengthen them. Opposite: John Woodman and Sreejith Thekkeveedu perform ultrasonic testing to measure the thickness of a pipeline as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure safe, reliable operations. chevron.com/cr protect people and the environment preventingserious incidents and impacts everything we do begins with safe and reliable operations learn more chevron.com/healthsafety We prepare for emergencies and natural disasters through asset inspections and site-specific response plans. In the case of an approaching hurricane, our personnel are safely evacuated and facilities like Jack/St. Malo are secured in such a way as to minimize the potential for damage to the environment and company property.  chevron.com/cr 10  We are focused on providing a safe and healthy work.place for our employees and contractors. Our highest priority is to eliminate fatalities and prevent serious injuries and illnesses. personal safety In 2017, we matched the record low for our Days Away From Work Rate (0.16) and set a new record low for our Total Recordable Incident Rate (0.13). Regrettably, we experienced six fatalities in our Upstream operations. These tragedies remind us of the inherent risk in our work and our commitment to never be satisfied until everyone in our workforce goes home safely every day. Building on our ongoing efforts to prevent high-consequence incidents and impacts, our Upstream segment recently com.pleted a comprehensive review of critical workforce safety processes and safeguards. A series of verification tools were deployed to reduce the rate of human error during high-risk work. These tools are patterned after the Essential Check.lists tool used by our Downstream & Chemicals segment. We continued efforts to deploy industry-recognized Human Performance tools that decrease reliance on human actions as safeguards and reduce the risk of error. We also deployed an instructor training program, which has been adopted by several business units. For example, our Lubricants supply chain organization established learn.ing teams to complete a review step after work has been completed. This step enabled the teams to determine which safeguards worked and which ones needed to be improved, as well as the modifications that were needed while the work was being performed. process safety Since the early 1990s, Chevron has taken a management system approach to addressing process safety risks. Through ongoing execution of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), we have improved our personal and process safety performance to become an industry leader in several key areas. See Page 28 for our five-year health and safety performance data. In our drive to achieve zero serious incidents and fatalities and attain world-class performance in process safety, we accomplished two key milestones in 2017. First, we com.bined OEMS expectations for process safety, reliability and integrity into a unified focus area to help integrate all aspects of process safety across the life of our assets. Second, we created a Complex Process Facilities organization to provide technical expertise, promote best practices and strengthen global organizational capability across all such facilities in both Upstream and Downstream. chevron.com/cr emergency preparedness and response Chevron’s emergency management process addresses the safety of our workforce and the integrity of our assets. Regional crisis management committees (CMCs) composed of cross-functional experts report to our corporate CMC, and a robust emergency management community of practice contributes valuable input and learnings from around the globe. Each regional CMC is responsible for having an emergency management plan in place for all high-risk scenarios involving Chevron facilities and operations, including potential natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. These plans address three areas of preparation: • Risk assessment and scenario development • Business continuity, crisis management and response for all relevant scenarios • Assurance of safeguard effectiveness through regular exercises and drills Hurricane Harvey In 2017, our emergency management process was tested by Hurricane Harvey, the strongest storm to hit Texas in 57 years. As the storm escalated, Chevron promptly activated CMCs to monitor status of employees and operations and initiated 25 business continuity plans across the company. These well-planned actions enabled the company to sustain operations and minimize impacts. Most important, Chevron experienced no serious injuries or fatalities among employees. protect people and the environment addressingclimate change we believe that managing climate change risks is an important element of our strategic focus to return superior value to stockholders, and we take prudent, practical and cost-effective actions to address these risks learn more chevron.com/climatechange the following four principles guide our actions and policy views on climate change: 1  2  3  4  Reducing greenhouse gas  Policies should be balanced  Continued research,  The costs, risks, trade-offs  (GHG) emissions is a  and measured to ensure  innovation and application  and uncertainties associ. global issue that requires  that long-term economic,  of technology are essential  ated with GHG reduction  global engagement  environmental and energy  to enable significant and  and climate change  and action.  security needs are all met;  cost-effective mitigations  adaptation efforts must  that costs are allocated  to climate change risks  be transparent and openly  in an equitable, gradual and  over the long term.  communicated to global  predictable way; and that  consumers.  actions consider both GHG  mitigation and climate  change adaptation.  chevron.com/cr upstream methane intensity* 0.18% 0.12% 0.06% 0% *Total Upstream methane emissions divided by total oil and gas production (metric tons/metric tons). Direct (Scope 1), operated basis. Our Upstream operations have reduced their methane intensity by 47 percent since 2013. continuing the conversation Chevron strives to contribute to the ongoing conver.sation about climate change. To that end, we issued the report Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making in March 2018. In this report, we address Chevron’s governance, risk management and strategic decision making with respect to climate change. The report also highlights actions we are taking in the areas of energy efficiency, carbon cap.ture and storage, renewable energy, flaring reduction, methane emissions reductions, water resources management, and investment in the innovations and innovators of tomorrow. greenhouse gas management We are addressing the GHG emissions in our operations and integrating GHG emissions management into the execution of our business activities. Below is a summary of recent activities to reduce our emissions. Methane management Methane from process emissions, vented sources and com.bustion sources (including flares) accounted for 5.5 percent of Chevron’s total GHG emissions in 2017. Fugitive sources of methane comprised 1.6 percent.** Chevron is a founding partner of The Environmental Partnership, led by the American Petroleum Institute. The partnership is an industry initiative with the goal of accelerating improvements to reduce methane and volatile organic compound emissions. The voluntary initiative, which launched in December 2017, includes more than 25 operators. It will initially focus on reducing emissions associated with the removal of liquid buildup in wells; retrofitting high-bleed pneumatic controllers with low- or zero-emitting devices; and implementing the monitoring and repair of fugitive emissions. Flaring reduction In 2017, we reduced our enterprisewide flare gas volume rate by 18.7 percent, primarily due to improvements made in equipment reliability in our Australasia, Nigeria/Mid-Africa and Southern Africa Strategic business units. Since 2013, we have reduced flaring by 26.6 percent. Energy efficiency Chevron’s Pipeline & Power organization collaborates with the company’s Upstream and Downstream businesses to help lower their energy costs, test new technologies, achieve effi.ciency gains, manage emissions and improve power reliability. Biofuels Chevron is actively evaluating options for biomass proc.essing as part of our transportation fuels businesses, particularly in California. To date, our work, as well as that of others, to produce second-generation biofuels that are economical at scale without subsidies has not been success.ful. This included creating a joint venture with Weyerhaeuser, then the largest landowner in the United States, to try to commercialize cellulosic biofuels. We are exploring leverag.ing our current manufacturing facilities to produce biofuels along with our traditional petroleum products. See Pages 24–26 for climate-related performance data. **Process emissions, vented sources, combustion sources and fugitive sources are defined by API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2004, 2009); CO2-equivalent, direct (Scope 1), operated basis. chevron.com/cr protect people and the environment protecting the environment and community health we manage environmental and related community health risks across the life of our assets learn more chevron.com/environment To support our Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure Management Project (FGP/WPMP) in Kazakhstan, we designed and implemented conservation actions that contribute to the protection and conservation of key habitats and species. This included the removal of more than 5 tons of abandoned fishing nets from beaches and cargo transport routes in the Bautino Harbor and the Seal Archipelago. Protecting the environment and community health through responsible design, development, operations and asset retirement is the central purpose of environmental management at Chevron. We assess and manage our significant environmental and related community health risks and address potential acute and cumulative impacts of our operations through the implementation of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). The objectives of the Environment Focus Area of our OEMS are met, in part, through processes and standards estab.lished at the corporate and sector levels and are implemented by regional and local management. The processes and standards provide our business with the flexibility to focus on the risks and potential impacts to the environment and community health most salient to the specific locations where we operate. community health Air monitoring is one of the tools used to measure emissions and help the public better understand local air quality. Community air monitoring program in California Since 2013, our refinery in Richmond, California, has funded a community air monitoring program. The program, which is operated by independent expert Argos Scientific, pro.vides real-time data 24 hours a day about air quality in the community. Data are collected and reported from three stations along the Richmond Refinery’s fence line and three neighborhood stations—North Richmond, Atchison Village and Point Richmond. Since the launch of the program, the air monitors have continuously tracked air quality. Results show that air quality in Richmond is on par with other Bay Area communities, including the city of San Francisco and Marin County. biodiversity conservation We recognize the importance of biodiversity conservation and support it through our values, performance, communi.cation and engagement. Conservation actions in Kazakhstan To support our integrated FGP/WPMP in Kazakhstan, vessels will be traveling through the northeastern Caspian Sea to deliver cargo necessary for completion of the project. The northeastern Caspian is an area with high biodiversity value. We designed and implemented conservation actions that contribute to the protection of key habitats and species. For example, the endangered Caspian seal and five criti.cally endangered sturgeon species are present in the area. In partnership with government agencies and nongovern.mental organizations, Chevron has worked to support the protection of these species, including by working with the Ural-Atyrau sturgeon hatchery to increase the wild sturgeon population and by removing abandoned fishing nets that can entangle seals and other marine fauna. environmental management expectation The Environmental Management Expectation of the updated OEMS Environment Focus Area calls for our organizations to: Protect the environment and community health using a risk-based approach that addresses potential acute and cumulative impacts. Apply environmental design standards and the mitigation hierarchy to guide selection of safeguards that: • Prevent accidental releases • Reduce air emissions • Conserve energy and reduce greenhouse gases • Manage wastes and wastewater, including those disposed of at third-party facilities • Conserve and protect water and natural resources* • Retire idle assets and reclaim impacted sites. Conduct monitoring, analyze performance, and identify and address gaps. *Natural resources include land, water and biodiversity. 