protecting the environment
 Environment Icon we work to deliver the energy 
the world needs while 
protecting the environment
 6 focusing on environmental issues 9 addressing climate change 13 stewarding responsible water management Environment Icon focusing on  environmental issues we protect the environment through innovative and responsible operations learn more chevron.com/environment Employee PhotoMichael McDonald Environmental
 Team Lead
 “Success in environmental stewardship comes down to increasing effectiveness by reducing complexity and adding capability to help Chevron achieve clean, safe and reliable operations.” Two Chevron technicians wearing hard hats. Above: Chevron technicians Ginny Ng (left) and Liam Fleay inspect equipment from the Gorgon Project used to inject and store CO. into the Dupuy Formation, a deep reservoir unit more than two kilometers under Barrow Island. We pursue innovations that improve our environmental performance across our operations. This commitment to sustainability is built into the way we manage our work. Our Operational Excellence Management System establishes standards and objectives that extend from the corporate level to local management, allowing our businesses to focus on the localized risks and potential environmental issues at specific operating locations. innovating to protect the environment in Australia In 2019, we began operating our carbon dioxide injection system at the Gorgon natural gas facility on Barrow Island off the northwest coast of Western Australia. While standard industry practice for natural gas is to vent the separated CO. to the atmosphere, the Gorgon Project injects the reservoir CO. into the Dupuy Formation beneath Barrow Island. An ongoing monitoring program, including observation wells and seismic surveys, assists in managing the performance of the injected reservoir. The project is one of the world’s largest integrated carbon capture and storage projects. Our plan is to inject up to 4 million tonnes of reservoir CO. each year, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the Gorgon Project by approximately 40 percent. 4MM.tonnes
 of reservoir CO2 planned for injection
 at our Gorgon natural gas facility each year
 A rescued seal wrapped in a towel. Above: The biodiversity plan for our Tengizchevroil joint venture includes debris removal in the Caspian Sea to protect endangered wildlife. This Caspian seal was entangled in an abandoned fishing net, rescued, provided care and released. protecting marine life in the caspian sea Ghost nets are lost, abandoned or discarded fishing nets that can be deadly to marine life. Our Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture identified removal of floating ghost net debris from the Caspian Sea as a key initiative in its biodiversity action plan. The 2017 debris removal pilot achieved impressive results, and due to its success, TCO collaborated with the government of Kazakhstan and two nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to expand the program. As a result of these partnerships, 2,856 kg in nets and 6,496 kg in debris were collected in less than three weeks in 2019. Debris identified as suitable was recycled by incorporating it into cement and asphalt mixtures for road and pavement repair. Debris not suitable for recycling was disposed of by a licensed third-party waste contractor. TCO will continue working to increase awareness of the harm that ghost nets can do and encourage operators in the Caspian Sea to develop their own programs to protect marine life. Employee PhotoEddie Emmert Pipeline and Power Operations Advisor “I use technology 
to support Chevron’s 
operations at our 
wind farm and solar 
fields, deepening our
 understanding of solar solutions and reducing daily employee risk.” partnering with renewable energy innovators in california Chevron continues its commitment to increasing renewables in support of its business. In 2019, Chevron advanced its renewable power strategy in solar at our Lost Hills oil field in Kern County, California, where partnership and innovation are helping Chevron develop more energy at a lower carbon intensity. Construction is underway on a project containing a 29-megawatt system of solar panels that will deliver low-carbon electricity to our Lost Hills operations. We agreed to purchase the solar energy from commercial solar provider SunPower under a power purchase agreement (PPA). SunPower built the project, which is scheduled for completion in 2020, on Chevron land. Over the PPA’s 20-year potential term, the project is expected to produce more than 1.4 billion kilowatt-hours of solar energy and provide 80 percent of the power needs of Lost Hills oil field. When fully operational, it will be the largest solar electric system in California’s Net Energy Metering program. 80%
 Upon completion, the solar project 
is expected to provide 80 percent of the 
power needs of the Lost Hills oil field.
 Four Chevron employees wearing hard hats. Above: A Chevron project team reviews an installation of a solar array that helps to power our Lost Hills oil field in Kern County, California. achieving operational goals while protecting the environment Approximately 30,000 turtle hatchlings emerge from their Thevenard Island (TVI) nests during Australia’s summer months, December through March, and traverse the beach to the ocean. The 2018 migration coincided with the TVI Onshore Plug and Abandonment Project, which involved decommissioning 15 onshore wells after the TVI oil fields and production facility reached the end of their economic life. Three species of sea turtle inhabit the waters surrounding TVI, and all of them are sensitive to light. Several Australasia business unit (ABU) teams working together identified that the 24-hour well decommissioning cycle could pose a risk to the turtle behavior, as the lights associated with the rig could distract hatchlings from their seaward journey. The project was at risk for significant delay if the hatchlings could not be protected. To protect the turtles while adhering to the administrative schedule, the ABU partnered with regulators and fauna handlers to implement risk mitigation strategies. Turtle fences were installed around well pads, regular lighting assessments to assess the efficacy of lighting controls were conducted, hatchling movements were monitored and temporary rig shutdowns occurred during high-risk periods to protect the turtles. This quick response to the needs of the environment reduced risks to both the project and the turtles. “The ‘one team’ effort 
protected the hatchlings 
during their journey, with 
more than 470 at-risk 
hatchlings relocated to safer beaches away from well decommissioning activities.” — Blair Hardman ABU Lead Environmental Specialist Two turtle hatchlings on sand. Above: Chevron monitors green turtle hatchlings on Thevenard Island, Australia, as they journey from nest to ocean. We have measures in place to prevent the turtles from being disoriented by lights from onshore oil wells being decommissioned.  ~30,000 turtle hatchlings protected on their beach-to-ocean journey on Thevenard Island  Web Link Icon additional resources chevron.com/biodiversity Environment Icon addressing climate change
 we are committed to addressing climate change by lowering carbon intensity cost efficiently, increasing renewables in support of our business and investing in breakthrough technologies learn more chevron.com/climatechange Employee PhotoDaniel Droog Vice President,
 Energy Transition
 “We are seeking to change the energy equation while delivering affordable, reliable and ever cleaner energy. We will achieve this responsibly by managing costs, improving our operations and investing in breakthrough technologies.” Chevron facility at sunset. Above: Chevron’s CO2 Injection Project at Gorgon, one of the world’s largest integrated carbon capture and storage projects, will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 40 percent. addressing climate change by the numbers $100MM
 pledged to the Oil and 
Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI)
 Climate Investments fund 
$1B
 in carbon capture and storage project investments in Australia and Canada $100MM
 committed to Chevron Technology Ventures to set up the Future Energy Fund launched in 2018 85%
 reduction of methane emissions from Chevron’s U.S. onshore production operations since 2013 chevron’s energy transition focus areas are:
 1
 lower carbon intensity cost efficiently Decrease Icon Performance tied to employee compensation 2
 increase renewables in support of our business Partnership Icon Recently completed agreements and new partnerships 3
 invest in the future targeting breakthrough technologies Investment Icon Created Future Energy Fund and developed carbon capture and sequestration technologies in Australia Our priority of protecting the environment is 
not new to Chevron. It is deeply rooted in who we 
are and what we value: The Chevron Way.
 leading in the future of energy Chevron shares society’s concerns about climate change and is developing scalable solutions to address this global challenge. As a leader in the evolving future of energy, Chevron is committed to improving efficiency, driving collaboration and leveraging our generations of problem-solvers to manage climate risks. We support the Paris Agreement as a step forward and encourage practical actions that deliver tangible results in answering the world’s demands, including more energy and a cleaner environment. Chevron focuses on the following areas to address the energy transition and climate change: lowering our carbon intensity cost efficiently, increasing use of renewables in support of our business and investing in the future by targeting breakthrough technologies. enhancing transparency with investors and stakeholders Our strong governance practices provide a framework for enhancing transparency related to climate change. For example, in response to growing interest from our investors and stakeholders, Chevron voluntarily published three dedicated climate reports over the last three years, largely using the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These reports explain our strategic decision-making approach as it relates to climate change-related risks and opportunities, including our ongoing evaluations of our portfolio and future investments. As we’ve shared in our reports, these evaluations confirm that our mature and diverse portfolio is resilient in many scenarios and our asset mix enables us to be flexible in response to potential changes. Chevron facility at dusk. Above: In 2019, Chevron had one of the lowest venting and flaring rates of any company in the Permian Basin, located in Texas and New Mexico. Employee PhotoDon Puckett General Manager,
 Operations
 “We design, construct and operate our facilities with the goal of reducing emissions and flaring.” intensity reduction metrics for upstream* (2016–2023) 2–5% net reduction in GHG intensity for gas production 5–10% net reduction in GHG intensity for oil production 20–25% net reduction in methane emissions intensity 25–30% net reduction in flaring intensity *.Based on 2016 emissions levels lower carbon intensity cost efficiently We take active steps to reduce our carbon footprint. Chevron has established goals to reduce equity net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity from Upstream oil and natural gas. These reduction goals build on other actions Chevron is taking to address climate change by lowering our carbon intensity cost efficiently, increasing use of renewables in support of our business and investing in the future by targeting breakthrough technologies. We intend to lower Upstream oil net GHG emissions intensity by 5–10 percent and Upstream natural gas net GHG emissions intensity by 2–5 percent from 2016 to 2023. In addition, we tie GHG reduction metrics to compensation for executives and nearly all Chevron employees. Employee PhotoMark Trupp Subsurface Team
 Lead, Gorgon
 CO. Disposal
 “The Gorgon CO. injection system has set a precedent for other plants of its kind, reducing greenhouse gas emissions on an industrial scale.” “We proactively consider climate change risks 
and opportunities in our business decisions. We have the 
experience, processes and governance in place to manage 
these climate risks and opportunities, and we are 
equipped to deliver industry-leading results and superior 
stockholder value in any business environment.”
 — Mike Wirth Chairman of the Board and CEO Technology Icon explore more
 on our ongoing
 efforts to address 
climate change
 Chevron Managing Climate Change Risks: A Perspective for Investors cover Chevron Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making cover Chevron Update to Climate Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making cover increase renewables in support of our business We are increasing our use of renewables to power our operations. Efforts include renewable power purchase agreements for 65 megawatts of wind power in West Texas and 29 megawatts of solar power in Southern California. We work with partners like Novvi and San Francisco International Airport to deploy renewables to blend with our fuels and to develop renewable base oils for lubricants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also collaborate with Pacific Ethanol, Waste Management and CalBio to provide renewable transport fuels. In addition, we evaluate potential feedstocks such as algae, woods, grasses and trees that can be used as cleaner sources of fuel in the future. invest in the future by targeting breakthrough technologies We invest in breakthrough technologies that can deliver ever-cleaner energy on a global scale. Since its inception in 2018, Chevron Technology Ventures’ $100 million Future Energy Fund has pursued innovative technologies that could be a part of the future energy mix. Recent investments support technology development in the areas of energy efficiency, battery storage and management, autonomous vehicles and carbon capture. We committed $100 million to the over $1 billion Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) Climate Investments fund to lower the carbon footprint of the energy and industrial sectors. We have also invested over $1 billion in carbon capture, utilization and storage projects in Canada and Australia, which includes the Gorgon Carbon Dioxide Injection Project—one of the world’s largest integrated carbon capture and storage projects in operation. Web Link Icon additional resources chevron.com/technologyventures Environment Icon stewarding responsible water management we conserve and protect water resources using a risk based approach learn more chevron.com/water Employee PhotoAbdul Sule Water Operations 
Supervisor
 “Turning what was before wastewater into a reusable resource is good water management, is good for the Permian and is good for our business. It’s an exciting leap forward.” Four Chevron employees wearing hard hats at water’s edge. Above: Chevron personnel in the Mid-Continent business unit in Texas use our Water Operations Management Tool to enter water composition and volume levels, which captures when sufficient recycled water is ready for reuse in oil operations. protecting natural resources Clean water is a fundamental societal, environmental and economic resource. It is essential for the communities where we operate and our business. We protect this critical natural resource through our risk-based water management systems, processes and standards. Using water responsibly is an important part of being a good partner in the communities where we work. 99%+
 Today, in the Permian, Chevron uses  99 percent nonfresh water for completions, which now includes recycled water.To use water responsibly, we: • Consider water conservation and efficiency in key decisions. • Strive to conserve, reuse and recycle. • Use appropriate metrics to report on water use. • Engage with governments, partners, local communities and other stakeholders on significant water resource issues in areas where we operate. • Build partnerships and contribute to industry initiatives to promote best practices, develop industry standards and shape policy for water resources. Employee PhotoNorm James Water 
and Regulatory 
Specialist
 “At one operating site in the Kaybob Duvernay, we were able to use nearly 100 percent of the water produced that would have otherwise been disposed of as waste.” sharing expertise to use water responsibly In 2019, Chevron led multiple efforts to develop and share best practices in responsible water management both across our company and within the industry. Engineers and Health, Environment, and Safety specialists from our U.S. refineries joined with water specialists from Chevron Energy Technology Company to form a new network focused on sharing best practices to improve effluent treatment operations. For example: • Employees from our Latin American Unit in Argentina visited our Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) in the United States to learn about water transfer methods, including best practices for transferring brackish water, water produced during oil and gas extraction, and recycled water from containment structures. • At the 2019 Society of Petroleum Engineers Symposium in Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil shared freshwater management strategies with the industry to advance sustainable water practices in the region. managing water use responsibly Chevron strives to responsibly manage our water usage. For example, in the Permian Basin we have increased the reuse of water produced during oil operations. Chevron has implemented innovative produced water recycle strategies for drilling and completions that decrease reliance on other water sources. Research shows this reuse of produced water is not detrimental to well longevity because the chemistry of the underground formation undergoes fewer changes. Reuse of produced water for these operations is sensible and fit for purpose. Likewise, our Canada business unit invested in freshwater storage and pipeline infrastructure in Kaybob Duvernay, Alberta, to reduce our operational footprint and reliance on river water during low-flow periods in summer and winter. Aerial view of a Chevron facility. Above: Chevron is operating in the Duvernay shale formation near Fox Creek, Alberta, approximately 260 kilometers northwest of Edmonton, Alberta, applying best practices to reduce our operational footprint. Employee PhotoCarlos Algarra Chevron Argentina
 Facilities Engineering
 Manager
 “The future challenge is to identify reliable sources of water through an approach that includes water reuse and management strategies.” 