“at chevron, we approach the world’s 
energy challenges with optimism and confidence”Photo: Mike Wirth speaks with the Chevron workforce during global employee town hall.“we believe affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy 
is essential to enabling human progress” Chevron 2022 Corporate Sustainability Report6our culturethe chevron way guides how we work and establishes a 
common understanding of our culture, vision and 
values, including protection of people and the environment Our Operational Excellence Management System helps us systematically realize our values 
and achieve our vision. For more details, visit chevron.co/OEMSoverview.our values	• diversity and inclusion	• leading performance	• partnership	• people and the environment	• trust and integrityour visionto be the global energy 
company most admired 
for its people, partnership 
and performanceour purposewe develop the affordable, 
reliable, ever-cleaner energy that enables human progress board of directorsOur Board is committed to strong corporate governance structures and practices that help Chevron achieve business results the right way. Various elements of strategy are discussed at every regular Board meeting, as well as at meetings of the Board’s Committees. At least one Board meeting each year is dedicated to strategy. To assess perfor.m.ance against the plan, the Board receives regular updates 
on progress and execution and provides oversight and direction throughout the year. Meetings can also include updates from external subject matter experts on a range of issues pertinent to Chevron’s strategy.Presentations at Board and Committee meetings and tours of our operations facilitate ongoing Director education. Directors are encouraged and provided opportunities to talk directly to 
board insight with enrique hernandez, jr.A Chevron Director since 2008, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., chaired Chevron’s Management Compensation Committee before his latest appointment 
as Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) Chair. Hernandez 
received his law degree from Harvard Law School, beginning his career as 
an attorney before leading Inter-Con Security Systems’ growth into one 
of the largest security system providers worldwide.To learn more about our leadership and corporate governance, 
visit chevron.co/corporate-governance.looking back on the past year as chair of the 
board’s PPSC, what stands out for you?From the COVID-19 pandemic to geopolitical events, we’ve overseen an evolving landscape of social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy issues. These events remind us that economies need affordable energy to create prosperity and countries need reliable energy to enable progress. Quite simply, energy security and national security are linked. Against these myriad changes, the Committee continues to reflect The Chevron Way – acting with integrity and operating with ethical standards – to assist the Board in overseeing risks to Chevron’s business and activities.what is chevron’s approach to leading in 
lower carbon energy?Chevron’s primary objective is to safely deliver higher returns, lower carbon and superior shareholder value in any business environment. We are building on our capabilities, assets and customers. Chevron has long been committed to transparency and will continue to communicate progress on our performance through publications and reports like this Corporate Sustainability Report.how does the PPSC support board oversight 
of business threats and opportunities? The PPSC assists the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring public policy trends and environ.mental issues. We review and make recommendations for Chevron’s strategies related to corporate responsibility and reputation management. The work of the PPSC informs the full Board’s approach to these issues. External speakers provide independent perspectives to the Board on pertinent topics during expanded annual strategy discussions. In 2022, 
the Board received an external briefing on macroeconomic trends and geopolitical issues affecting the global energy markets and commodity price cycles. Board members are also encouraged to visit Chevron operations around the globe to discuss matters specific to those locations. In 2022, the Board visited our operations in Israel, where we engaged with stakeholders and employees on issues relevant to Chevron’s business in the Middle East. These engagements, in addition to regular reports and briefings, inform the Board’s direction 
to management.looking ahead, how is chevron positioned 
to navigate a rapidly evolving geopolitical landscape, such as the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine?The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine created global supply and demand imbalances. Our hearts are always with the people, families and communities directly impacted by conflict. The events of the past year have defined the energy challenge: meeting the energy demands of today while building the lower carbon energy system of tomorrow. Chevron’s leadership is ready to meet this challenge. The Directors’ depth of expertise and broad range of experience across so many disciplines will continue to be invaluable in providing oversight and advice to address evolving business and geopolitical environments and further Chevron’s efforts 
to safely deliver lower carbon energy to a growing world.focusing on 
what mattersengaging with stakeholdersThoughtful engage.ment on priority issues (sometimes called “material issues” in the context of ESG reporting frameworks.) helps Chevron assess and, where necessary, refresh our ESG focus areas.shaping our reportingWe identified the content for our 2022 Corporate Sustainability Report through monitoring of issues and trends, supplemented by engagements with stake.holders throughout the year.To gain insight into ESG issues and reporting trends, 
we engage with numerous third-party groups, including: 
the World Business Council for Sustainable Develop.ment, Business for Social Responsibility and Ipieca. 
We also work with Datamaran, an ESG risk identification and monitoring software company that uses artificial intelligence to identify, prioritize and monitor ESG issues. Their tool aggregates trends in ESG issues across a wide array of inputs, including: company financial filings and sustainability reports; global regulations; policy and framework proposals; Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards; and online news.Chevron actively engages with investors and other stakeholders on ESG issues, including our customers for whom we participate in numerous surveys as a supplier. We engage external consultants to benchmark our prior year’s reporting and participate in peer sustainability report reviews. Our ESG Rater performance is used to identify opportunities for potential disclosure enhancements. These interactions and survey results help us learn what matters to our stakeholders and refine our thinking on which topics to include in each year’s report.Members of the Enterprise Leadership Team and senior management, the Global Issues Committee and the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee have opportunities to provide input for our Corporate Sustainability Report. 1	For purposes of this report, the concept of “material issues” generally refers to ESG reporting guidance such as Ipieca and SASB and does not correspond to the concept of materiality used in the securities laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). With respect to the term “material,” individual companies are best suited to determine which information is material under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term, and whether to disclose this information in SEC filings.the table below provides select examples from 
2022 of how we engaged with our key stakeholder 
groups and responded to important issuesresponding to our stakeholders stakeholders how did we engage? how did we respond? employees •	Global Office of Ombuds•	Town halls•	Employee surveys •	Piloted an equity review committee to review employees’ concerns with promotion or job selection decisions•	Expanded access to well-being resources•	Sponsored additional leadership development programs contractors •	Maintained supplier relationship and service quality programs •	Advanced our deployment of Contractor Operational Excellence Management communities •	Local staff dedicated to community engagement•	Community advisory panels•	Employee network volunteering •	Social impact strategy for people, environment and prosperity responsive 
to community engagement governments •	Membership in industry and trade associations•	Engagement with all levels of government policymakers •	Advocated for carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) and hydrogen policy enablement•	Advocated for sound energy market policy 
for stable supply and energy security customers •	Customer councils•	Customer Connection Center•	Industry trade conferences •	Value chain strategy responsive to supply/demand•	Signed memoranda of understanding to 
help build an ecosystem for lower carbon 
technology•	Continued to develop lower carbon value chains investors •	Annual Meeting of Stockholders•	Quarterly analyst calls•	Executive and management engagements•	Chevron Investor Day•	Director engagements •	Issued Methane Report disclosing our 
ongoing work to reduce methane intensity 
and improve methane emissions inventories•	Held first Chevron Exchange, providing 
retail investors a venue to engage with management nongovernmental organizations •	United Nations working groups and other multistakeholder initiatives•	Think tanks and institutional organizations •	Influenced our positions on items ranging 
from CCUS to carbon pricing contributing to sustainable 
developmentchevron proudly contributes to health, education 
and economic prosperity within the communities where we operate across the worldThrough our membership in Ipieca, we worked with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to create a Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDG) Roadmap for the oil and gas sector. The SDG 
Roadmap identifies how Ipieca, as an industry associa.tion, and individual oil and gas companies can work toward a lower-emissions future while contributing to a healthier and more prosperous world aligned with the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Roadmap identifies 10 priority 
SDGs where the oil and gas industry can have the 
biggest impact. climateSDGs: 7, 8, 9, 12, 13natureSDGs: 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15peopleSDGs: 3, 7, 8, 9, 13, 16Photo on previous page: Worker on a platform located offshore Angola, where Chevron has 
been ramping up methane emissions reduction efforts. In 2022, we conducted a drone cam-
paign to advance methane detection and measurement technologies. protecting the environmentprotecting the environment 
while advancing a lower carbon futurePhoto: We work to protect biodiversity 
through our operating practices and innovative solutions. Biosecurity monitoring devices 
offer automated surveillance of rodents and geckos on Barrow Island, Australia.climate changemeeting the energy needs of today as we help build the energy system of tomorrowhigher returns, lower carbonAt Chevron, we believe the future of energy is lower carbon. Many published outlooks conclude that fossil fuels will remain a significant part of an energy system that increasingly incorporates lower carbon sources of supply for many years to come. As we have done for over 140 years, we will continue to evolve to help meet the energy demand that a growing world needs. To learn more, visit chevron.co/loweringcarbonintensity.capital allocation$8Bin lower carbon investments by 2028$2Bin carbon reduction projects by 2028our 
strategy 
is clearleverage our strengths 
to safely deliver lower carbon 
energy to a growing world71 g CO.e/MJportfolio carbon intensity 
(Scope 1, 2 and 3) by 202836 kg CO2e/boerefining carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) by 202824 kg CO2e/boegas carbon intensity 
(Scope 1 and 2) by 202824 kg CO2e/boeoil carbon intensity 
(Scope 1 and 2) by 2028This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections. For more information, see page 59.Optimizing carbon reduction opportunitiesWe seek to optimize carbon intensity reduction oppor.tu-
.nities for our assets and operations by leveraging our 
cross-functional capabilities and using the MACC process. 
This approach provides Chevron with a methodology to identify and prioritize a portfolio of GHG abatement opportunities across operations. Utilizing this process, we identified over 120 reduction projects for development 
and plan to spend more than $350 million on these projects in 2023. In 2022, we made progress on 90 projects and completed 13. We expect to spend approximately $2 billion total on similar projects through 2028.