CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTThe communities around our wind and solar facilities comprise one of our most important stakeholder groups, and as good corporate citizens, we are committed to help them thrive. We undertake a wide range of efforts and programs to give back to our host communities, and we prioritize their safety in the conduct of our operations. In 2019, we had no incidents that resulted in significant negative impacts to local communities.   Clearway Energy Group LLC is committed to being a good neighbor in the places where we live, work, develop and operate projects. It’s important to us that our presence is viewed as beneficial to the fabric of the community, and so we engage in a wide variety of outreach activities. We don’t have a “one size fits all” approach to community engagement—instead, we take the time to learn what makes each community unique and find ways we can have a positive impact.The development of a new wind or solar project is a multi-layered process with many opportunities for input from community members and other stakeholders. In addition to federal siting and permitting requirements, most states and many localities have their own requests and procedures, which we usually go well beyond. We welcome input on the location and design of our projects. We provide public notice of our plans, reach out to local elected officials and community leaders, and host open houses and public information sessions to give everyone the opportunity to join the conversation. If this extended dialogue reveals deeper concerns about a proposed project, we proactively seek to learn more about the source of the concerns so we can find ways to address it. We strive to contribute to the economic and social health and vibrancy of the communities that host our projects. In addition to participating in community events, and supporting local agricultural, environmental, educational, and community development causes, we also prioritize hiring locally and using local or regional businesses when possible. WRITING THE FUTURE – 
CLEARWAY COMMUNITY SOLAR ESSAY CONTESTIn 2019, Clearway Community Solar launched an essay contest for college students that asked applicants to write about ways to increase the contribution of renewable energy to the nation’s energy production. A diverse group of college students from across the country submitted essays. The first-place winner received $5,000 for use toward college expenses, and the second-place winner received $2,500. Click here to learn more about the winners and read their essays!SHARING THE GIFT OF (PORTABLE SOLAR) LIGHTLuci® solar lights are making a difference for millions of people around the world. Made by MPOWERD®, these portable, sustainably-made solar lights bring comfort and safety to people who lack access to reliable energy sources. In 2019, Clearway Energy Group LLC partnered with MPOWERD to deliver 250 solar-powered Luci lights to the Bahamas following Hurricane Dorian. The inflatable, waterproof, and highly durable Luci lights supported aid workers and families who were without power. Clearway was part of a larger effort that brought over 10,000 Luci lights to the impacted region.We also donated 400 Luci lights to people in need in Myanmar through World Vision International’s ENRICH program as well as to homeless Americans through Project I Am.COMMUNITY SOLAR IN NEW YORK STATEIn early 2019, Clearway Community Solar partnered with the Hudson Valley Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) Coalition to underwrite a fund designed to further CSA programming and begin development and research on a CSA offer for low-income families in the region. Clearway’s commitment to the CSA Coalition was designed to support the Coalition’s high priority projects and additionally aid exploratory planning to make CSA shares more accessible to low-income households. Clearway Community Solar also took an important step forward in increasing access to solar to customers, with two of its Hudson Valley solar farms dedicating subscriptions to the groundbreaking “Solar for All” program, providing community solar farm subscriptions to low-income households. Administered by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), the “Solar for All” program offers eligible low-income households the opportunity to subscribe to a community solar project in their area without any upfront costs or fees. Two of Clearway’s first community solar projects in the Hudson Valley, the Crans Mill and Underhill solar farms, will be supporting the program.PINNACLE WIND FARM – 
PITCHING IN AND GIVING BACKAfter a fire destroyed the football field house at Petersburg High School in West Virginia last November, staff from Clearway Energy Group LLC’s nearby Pinnacle Wind Farm joined forces with other local organizations to donate funds to help the team replace the gear and equipment lost in the flames.   Clearway’s employee-led contributions illustrate our commitment to the sustainability of the places where we work and live. For example, membership in local civic and business organizations helps us be an active participant in communities where we operate, and in early 2019 we hosted a tour of the Pinnacle facility for local county commissioners and state lawmakers so they could learn about the ways in which wind farms benefit the local environment and economy. We also focus on education. Staff at Pinnacle welcome students to shadow them and learn about what it’s like to work at a wind farm. This provides valuable learning and professional development opportunities for area youth, while helping us maintain an open line of communication with community members.Clearway wind turbine technicians are also frequent guest speakers at Eastern West Virginia Community & Technical College, which offers a wind tech training program that helped train some of Clearway’s own employees.At the heart of Pinnacle’s community efforts is its Community Benefit Fund, which has contributed $213,775 to projects that benefit the local community over its eight-year life. In 2019, it contributed $22,250 in funding to local projects through a grant program administered by the US Wind Force Foundation. Eighteen grants ranging from $250 to $3,000 were awarded to projects that include the renovation and repair of several local buildings, computer equipment, and support for education. EDUCATION PARTNERSHIPSAcross the country, Clearway Energy Group LLC’s project site teams are involved in both formal and informal community and education partnerships. In 2019, operations and maintenance staff at several of our wind and solar farms organized and participated in a series of educational activities:1.	Elkhorn Ridge & Crofton Bluffs, Bloomfield, NE—Sponsored county fair events and hosted multiple site tours. Delivered presentation on wind energy to local students.2.	Mountain Wind, Fort Bridger, WY—Hosted multiple onsite tours with various local schools and organizations from Utah and Idaho.3.	Spanish Fork, Spanish Fork, UT—Hosted multiple onsite tours with various local schools and organizations from Utah and Idaho. 4.	South Trent Wind, Sweetwater, TX—Donated to a local performing arts organization to support student art programs.5.	Lookout Wind, Berlin, PA—Sponsored a community fair event; displayed a model wind turbine and demonstrated safety equipment for local students. 6.	Pinnacle Wind, Keyser, WV—Onsite staff presented to wind program students on wind industry jobs, safety, and training, and then gave a site tour.7.	Kawailoa Solar, Oahu, HI—Launched a comprehensive internship program with Kamehameha Schools to provide hands-on job experience in engineering, development, and operations.
In 2020, Clearway will formally expand these activities with the launch of its Adopt-a-School program, under which every utility-scale project site we own and operate will adopt one or more schools and participate in three activities that support education or community service annually. 