Sustainability At ClearwayThe Board That Oversees Clearway Energy GroupClearway Energy Group’s CEOSustainability-ESG CommitteeExecutive SponsorsOur ApproachSustainability-ESG CommitteeAt Clearway, our commitment to sustainability begins at the top. In 2022, we restructured our Sustainability-ESG Committee and added formal oversight from and engagement with the executive leadership team such that ESG initiatives will receive support at the highest levels of the organization. These changes have enhanced the accountability, credibility, and transparency of our ESG program and will help ensure that we achieve our ESG goals as well as Clearway’s strategic goals. Comprising subject matter experts from each business unit, our Sustainability-ESG Committee serves as an intermediary between the board of directors, executive leadership team, and employees. The Committee takes high-level direction from the board and translates it into actionable items, ensuring that these items are deployed and executed throughout the organization. The Committee monitors the company’s progress toward goals, benchmarks our performance against peers to facilitate continuous improvement, and oversees our ESG-related reporting, disclosures, and communications.We have also initiated a process to reinvigorate our sustainability framework, which establishes the vision and parameters of Clearway’s ESG program. The sustainability framework comprises three pillars: environmental stewardship (E), societal good (S), and good governance and business excellence (G), and is in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).The framework will help Clearway articulate our integrated approach to sustainability and most importantly, demonstrate how ESG is already embedded into the way we work and operate. The Committee will work to further build out the details of the framework in 2023.All EmployeesESG Working GroupsOur Alignment With the UN SDGsPrioritizing Our Material TopicsClearway launched its sustainability reporting efforts in 2019 by conducting a stakeholder materiality assessment of Clearway Energy Group’s renewable energy development and operation activities to understand the ESG issues that have the potential to impact our business and identify the issues of greatest importance to our internal and external stakeholders. In 2022, we refreshed this stakeholder materiality assessment with a focus on our renewable energy development and O&M activities. This was accomplished by engaging our stakeholders through interviews and questionnaires where the process was based on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2018) to ensure that it was inclusive, material, responsive, and held us accountable for our impacts. The AA1000AP helps guide organizations through the process of identifying, prioritizing, and responding to ESG challenges, with the goal of improving long-term performance. Stakeholder Engagement and ResearchCEOs & ExecutivesCEG Employee Focus Groups Customers Suppliers NGOs Sponsors Industry Peers Investors Sustainability Frameworks ESG Raters/Rankers US Regulators & LegislatorsOur 2022 ESG stakeholder materiality assessment was conducted based on globally accepted standards and methodology. We began by identifying two dimensions of influence – our business and our stakeholders – and sought to examine our impacts holistically. Both quantitative and qualitative research methods were employed for data collection and analysis. The objective was to identify material topics using the company’s business strategy and strategic goals, guided by comparison with global sustainability trends and related institutions such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), UN Global Compact principles, TCFD, CDP Climate, and other internationally accepted ESG ratings or ranking methodologies. We also drew on the GRI Standards and SASB’s Materiality Map to ensure that all relevant ESG topics for which we may have impacts were included in the assessment.As a result of this process, among more than 110 potential ESG issues identified, 51 were deemed material to stakeholders. These were then grouped into 14 topics that were prioritized, producing a total of nine topics determined to be material for Clearway:Our 2022 ESG Stakeholder Materiality MatrixThe results of our 2022 stakeholder materiality assessment are presented below. Topics in the upper-right quadrant were deemed the most significant and are used to inform our ESG report and strategic framework. Topics in the medium and lighter yellow areas of the stakeholder materiality matrix will be actively managed and monitored. These results were validated by Clearway’s ESG Committee as well as by the board that oversees Clearway Energy Group, its CEO, and executive team.