Message From Our CEOsThe energy industry has undergone significant changes in recent years, and it continues to evolve. Companies, teams and individuals must be nimble to survive and thrive, and we believe that Clearway exemplified this capability in 2022.Policy is a key driver of our industry and was an area of momentous change in 2022. The Clearway team played a pivotal role in shaping the most transformational energy policies ever enacted by the US government – securing incentives that set the stage for a decade of profitable growth. As this legislation took shape, we continued to grow the company as well as our nation’s clean power capacity. At the end of 2022, we owned 8.1 gigawatts of generation, and our gross renewable operating portfolio totaled 7 gigawatts. Within this, the 5.6 gigawatts of wind, solar, and energy storage under Clearway ownership produced enough clean energy to power 1.7 million American homes and deliver 9 million metric tonnes of avoided CO2 emissions for our customers.Against this backdrop, our financial partners demonstrated their continued confidence in Clearway in 2022. We raised over $4.3 billion in capital in a single year and invested $2.3 billion in equipment and services. Enabled by those expenditures, we entered 2023 with 2 gigawatts of solar, wind, and battery projects in construction across multiple states. Looking ahead, we now are advancing a 28-gigawatt development pipeline, a third of which represents paired and standalone energy storage projects. The Clearway teams focused on renewable development and operations grew significantly in 2022 as we welcomed more than 200 new team members. Our commitment to prioritize the diversity of our workforce and inclusiveness of our company brought us to new heights, and 62% of our newly hired colleagues came from diverse backgrounds. Many of these individuals joined our site crews and supported a significant expansion of our construction, operations, and maintenance activities. In recognition of our paramount goal of ensuring worker safety, we crafted and published a multi-year roadmap designed to further develop the safety practices in our construction and operations activities and began implementing new significant injury prevention programs and contractor oversight systems. The next few years will surely continue to present bright new opportunities. We are confident the Clearway team will rise to the occasion, renewing and repowering our fleet for improved operations and higher output, developing new projects that are larger in scale and increasingly dispatchable to serve load reliably. We will also work to advance a resilient supply chain that prioritizes human rights and is increasingly domestic, craft new land use practices and end-of-lifecycle frameworks to reduce our environmental footprint and expand access to clean energy in communities where fossil fuels have historically been dominant. We are inspired by the knowledge that the capital we mobilize in developing and building our projects can help supercharge local economies and help the US achieve a resilient, reliable, and net zero energy economy.We are proud of what the Clearway team has accomplished in just a few short years and look forward to sharing additional achievements with our stakeholders in future reports.Craig CorneliusChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy GroupChristopher SotosChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy, Inc.Message From Our ESG Program Leads On behalf of Clearway’s Sustainability-ESG Committee, we are pleased to present our fourth annual ESG report. 2022 again brought significant growth to our company as a whole and our ESG program grew in reflection of this, as presented on the following pages.Organizationally, an important change was the creation of a new, full-time position dedicated to sustainability and ESG. Noelle Chantarasap joined Clearway early in 2022 and orchestrated a wide range of programmatic initiatives to strengthen and deepen our sustainability-related efforts.Chief among these efforts were the restructuring of our Sustainability-ESG Committee and the reinvigoration of our sustainability framework, both of which have served to make our overall ESG program more robust. Much of Noelle’s work in these areas has focused on creating more structure and broadening the perspective of our ESG program so it better aligns with international standards and practices. As discussed in the Sustainability at Clearway section of this report, restructuring the Sustainability-ESG Committee formalized the connection between it and Clearway’s executive leadership team, which helps ensure that the Committee’s work aligns with the company’s strategic goals, and that the Committee’s initiatives are supported at the highest levels of the organization. We believe that introducing more rigor to our sustainability approach will make us more effective, thus, maximizing our impact.In 2023, we will continue our work to more deeply embed awareness of the value our sustainability initiatives and achievements bring to our company and the communities where we live and work. We hope that each of our stakeholders not only perceives and understands the benefits we create, but also sees themselves as connected to our sustainability initiatives. As such, we will be increasing internal and external communications and seeking increased stakeholder input in the year ahead.Ray KellySenior Director EnvironmentalNoelle ChantarasapManager,Sustainability & ESGAbout This ReportThis report describes the environmental, social, and governance aspects of the activities of Clearway Energy Group and our public affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. (collectively, “Clearway”) for fiscal year 2022 (January 1 – December 31, 2022) and does not differ materially from our 2021 report. Topics related to Clearway’s portfolio are primarily focused on the renewable energy assets we own and operate. Where specified, selected information pertains solely to either Clearway Energy Group or to Clearway Energy, Inc. This is our fourth annual report, and while it references Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosures, it is not in accordance with the GRI reporting standards. No external assurance has been sought specifically for this report. We have no restatements to disclose. Additional resources related to our ESG reporting may be found at www.clearwayenergygroup.com/sustainability. In keeping with our commitment to communicate openly with our stakeholders, we welcome your feedback. PLEASE SEND YOUR COMMENTS TO: Zadie Oleksiw Head of Communications zadie.oleksiw@clearwayenergy.com  Clearway At-a-Glance  ESG SnapshotIn 2022, we continued to deliver on our vision to create a world powered by clean energy by providing affordable, reliable power from wind, solar, and battery storage. Highlights from the past year include:FIFTH LARGEST OWNER OF RENEWABLES IN THE US2022 Performance HighlightsEmploying nearly 800 people in clean energy jobs in 26 states and creating another 1,700 construction jobs on 2 GW of new projects being built in four states~28 GW under development across 24 states>350 operating assets across 26 statesInvesting in communities by contributing approximately $760,000 in charitable donations from Clearway and our employees in the places where we live and work, in addition to $59 million in property taxes and $16 million in landowner payments9.6 GW OPERATING PORTFOLIOiDeepening our commitment to creating a culture of safety by initiating a partnership with the Danish Wind Power Academy to further enhance the level of technical training we provide our wind operations and maintenance (O&M) teams2.6 GW Conventional~7 GW RenewablesRefreshing our stakeholder materiality assessment of Clearway Energy Group’s renewable energy development and operation activities to ensure our ESG reporting aligns with the needs and interests of our stakeholders8.1 GW OWNERSHIP PORTFOLIOiRestructuring our Sustainability-ESG Committee to include executive oversight, thereby providing enhanced accountability, credibility, and transparency both internally and externally5.6 GW Renewables2.5 GW ConventionalReinvigorating our sustainability frameworkto accommodate our fast-growing businessi 	Includes our renewable energy fleet and conventional assets.  ii 	Based on our net owned capacity of 5.6 GW. The net MWh figure in this report includes generation from projects owned by both Clearway Energy Group and Clearway Energy, Inc. (CWEN), and differs from the figure presented in CWEN filings and earning materials as the figures in this report were calculated using an equity control approach that includes the company’s equity method investments and estimated MWh related to economic curtailment.iii	Estimates based on 12 months of net generated electricity; figures are approximate and are not used in our formal emission inventories. Calculated using the US EPA Avoided Emissions and Generation tool (AVERT) and Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies’ Calculator. 15.2 MILLION MWH OF CARBON-FREE ELECTRICITY GENERATEDiiLeading an innovative solution to drive domestic solar manufacturing by helping to establish the US Solar Buyer’s ConsortiumAdvancing clean energy workforce development by partnering with a diverse array of organizations focused on worker training and education and embedding DEI principles into talent acquisition and retention processes at Clearway9 million metric tonnes CO2 avoided for our customersiiiEquivalent to powering1.7 million homesiii 92% clean energy generated2022 ESG goal highlights:92% of the electricity we generated (15.2 million net MWh) was carbon free.The implementation of our Clearway LEADS supplier diversity policy has enabled us to begin gathering ESG-related information for our direct suppliers and setting goals for sustainability in our supply chain.We instituted a more objective framework for interviewing employees, leading to a substantial increase in the percentage of underrepresented demographic identities in our employee base; 62% of our new hires in 2022 were diverse.We achieved 50% participation for qualifying sites in Adopt-a-School and made progress on qualifying sites with community engagement plans, increasing this to 75%.ESG Goal Dashboard  SUB-TOPIC2022 PERFORMANCEGOALTOPICEmissionsBy 2035, 95% of the electricity we generate will be carbon-free, and by 2050, Clearway will achieve net-zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.EnvironmentOn trackPortfolioBy 2030, Clearway will own 10 GW of net renewable capacity.EnvironmentOn trackGoals are a key part of our ESG strategy. They help us identify and focus on priorities, track our progress, and hold ourselves accountable. The table at right outlines our performance relative to our existing ESG goals:SocialCompleteSocialCompleteCommunityBy 2025, 100% of our renewable energy sites that are more than 50 MW in size will have community engagement plans and participate in our Adopt-a-School program.SocialOn trackExecutive LeadershipThe board that oversees the activities of Clearway Energy Group and Clearway Energy, Inc. is committed to active oversight of our ESG-related matters, and reviews the status and performance of our ESG initiatives periodically throughout the year.GovernanceOngoing2022 Clean Energy Milestones  JanuaryClearway is ranked as the fifth-largest owner of clean energy generation in the US, according to American Clean Power.FebruaryThe 115 MW Black Rock wind project achieves commercial operation in West Virginia. MarchClearway hosts customers and partners at a ribbon cutting for the 340 MW Mesquite Sky wind project in Texas. MayClearway’s sponsor, Global Infrastructure Partners, announces a 50% partnership with TotalEnergies. The Black Rock Community Benefit Fund announces the recipients of $133,214 in grants. JuneClearway announces creation of the US Solar Buyer’s Consortium, a $6 billion initiative to spur the creation of a domestic supply chain for solar modules. AugustThe Mililani I 39 MW solar + 156 MWh storage project – Clearway’s first solar + storage project in Hawaii – achieves commercial operation. SeptemberTotalEnergies’ 50% sponsorship of Clearway Energy Group completed.OctoberClearway signs two power purchase agreements with PacifiCorp for the 280 Two Rivers wind project in Wyoming and the 152 MW Cedar Creek wind project in Idaho. NovemberPinnacle Wind’s Community Benefit Fund announces $23,000 in awards, bringing the wind farm’s total donations to $273,305 since 2012.  Scaling Our Impact2022 brought a significant change to our ownership structure when TotalEnergies joined Global Infrastructure Partners as 50:50 co-owners of Clearway Energy Group, and by extension, Clearway Energy, Inc.One of the largest multi-energy companies in the world, TotalEnergies is deeply committed to decarbonizing the energy sector and becoming a world-class player in the energy transition by expanding the use of renewables and advancing related emerging technologies. The Clearway enterprise will benefit from their experience, and the financial support of our two sponsors will ensure we can continue to deliver at scale on our vision of creating a world powered by clean energy.GIP acquired NRG’s renewable platform and renamed it Clearway Energy Group GIP acquired NRG Yield and renamed it Clearway Energy, Inc.TotalEnergies and GIP enter into 50:50 sponsorship of Clearway Energy GroupAcquired Edison Mission Energy Portfolio(Formerly NRG Renew)(Formerly NRG Yield)20112014202220182016201320092023-20302021Acquired SunEdison PortfolioNRG Yield IPOContinued growth underpinned by a ~28 GW development pipelineBegan Operations Under NRG EnergyCWEN subsidiary issues two green bonds totaling $1.275B Ownership StructureClearway is supported by our strategic and financial sponsors TotalEnergies and Global Infrastructure Partners.50%50%Public InvestorsClass A & C Shares 58% Economic 45% VotingClass B & D Shares 42% Economic 55% VotingNYSE: CWEN$87BAssets$80BAnnual Revenues$146BMarket Cap$263BAnnual Revenues25Portfolio Companies130+Countries101KEmployees100KPortfolio Company Employees Data from publicly available sources, March 2023.GIP’s other current and historical renewable investments include:TotalEnergies’ business lines:SolarWindBiomassHydrogenOilNatural GasElectricityPositioned for Sustainable GrowthClearway entered 2022 ranked as the fifth-largest owner of clean energy generation in the US, and throughout the year we continued to chart a steady course of sustainable growth. We raised more than $4.3 billion in capital investments, and we invested $2.3 billion in equipment and services. We entered 2023 with 2,000 megawatts of solar, wind, and battery projects in construction across multiple states, and a development pipeline of nearly 28 GW, a third of which represents paired and standalone energy storage projects. 6.6 GWWind in
Development10.2 GWSolar in 
Development5.1 GWPaired Storage in Development5.9 GWStandalone Storage  in Development2 GWIn Construction 
Across Six Projects~7 GW Clean Energy Operating Capacity(5.6 GW under ownership) ~28 GW Development PipelineBy Project Type4.2 GW Wind2.3 GW Solar80 MW Energy Storage450 MW Community& Distributed Solar