SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXTCLIMATE CHANGE AND THE ENERGY INDUSTRYThe costs of climate change are significant and increasing. Extreme weather events like droughts, forest fires, flooding, and hurricanes damage our infrastructure and negatively impact our economy. Climate change presents a special dilemma for the energy industry. Abundant, affordable power is critical to modern society and a robust economy, and no individual, organization or jurisdiction can function without it. At the same time, electricity production is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. Finding ways to reliably generate thousands of gigawatt hours of sustainable energy annually is our industry’s defining challenge today. Clearway Energy Group LLC is dedicated to meeting this challenge by increasing the amount of electricity Americans get from renewable energy sources. Our experienced team ensures the wind and solar facilities we develop and operate are optimized to maximize clean energy generation at the lowest possible cost.CLEAN ENERGY GOALS IN 
THE UNITED STATESAcross the country, an increasing number of governments, businesses, and homeowners are choosing to make more sustainable energy choices. Some of this demand expands the market for renewable energy through voluntary purchases, but since the early 2000s, state renewable portfolio standards (RPS) have been the biggest driver of renewables growth in the U.S.As of 2019, 30 states have RPS programs, which require that a certain percentage of retail electricity sales be sourced from renewables. The percentages increase over time, and by 2030, meeting state RPS targets will require roughly 73 GW of renewable generation capacity. Today, RPS programs apply to 56 percent of all U.S. retail electricity sales, and Lawrence Berkeley National Labs predicts that by 2030, renewable energy sold to meet state RPS targets will comprise 12 percent of total U.S. retail electricity sales.U.S. cities are also stepping up to the plate, and more than 100 have made commitments to increase their use of renewable energy. In early 2019 the American Cities Climate Challenge Renewables Accelerator program was launched to help them meet their goals by procuring more than 2.8 GW of renewable capacity.Another big source of demand for renewable energy is corporations, many of which have set sustainability targets that include reducing their carbon footprint. Purchasing renewable energy is an efficient method for achieving their goals, and many of these companies have also been pleased to discover that they can use long-term renewables contracts to help manage their energy costs. The Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) reported that in 2019, corporations procured almost 9.3 GW of renewable energy, setting a new single-year record. In addition, RE100, a collaborative initiative by global companies that have set a public goal to source 100 percent of their electricity from renewable sources, has 221 member organizations and counting. Residential electricity customers are also becoming more aware of the impacts of their energy choices, and many people see renewable energy as one of the best ways to fight climate change. In addition to carbon-free electricity, renewables are seen as a way to increase our nation’s energy independence, create jobs, and boost the economy.DELIVERING DECARBONIZATIONAs concerns about climate change and the environmental impacts of electricity generation increase, consumers are turning to wind and solar energy for clean, carbon-free electricity. The U.S. is fortunate to have abundant renewable energy resources, but ensuring the availability of safe, reliable low-cost electricity requires more than ample supply.Our nation’s electrical grids are complex, highly engineered systems that must perform a wide range of interdependent, critical functions. While the generation characteristics of renewable resources like wind and solar differ from fossil fuels, when paired with energy storage technologies and a robust transmission and distribution system, renewables can provide 
the same reliability as fossil-fuel based generation, often at a lower cost. Energy storage is a key component of any electrical system that incorporates high percentages of renewables, because storage makes it possible to save electricity for release during periods of high demand. For example, storage can be used to capture excess solar energy generated during the middle of the day, and release it during the evening peak when consumers place extra demands on the system. Transmission is also critical to getting us closer to 100 percent renewables, because many of the country’s best renewable energy resources are in remote locations far from dense population centers. Transmission lines get electricity from where it’s generated to where it’s needed, and by relieving congestion on power lines, new transmission can reduce the need to build new power plants. Studies have shown that investments in transmission pay for themselves a few times over because improvements to the grid make it more flexible, resilient, and better able to resist cyber-attacks. Clearway Energy Group LLC is actively engaged in industry efforts to enhance and modernize our nation’s electrical grid in ways that will enable expanded use of renewable energy, and as discussed in the wholesale customer spotlight on Hawaiian Electric Company, energy storage is an important component of many of our solar projects.That said, in many parts of the country modern, efficient natural gas peaker power plants that are strategically situated in the electric grid will be key to supporting the reliable and rapid growth of renewables. While energy storage and transmission will play a critical role, we believe that reliably and cost-effectively meeting clean energy targets will require retaining existing clean peaking natural gas generation in our country’s playbook for the next two decades.CLEARWAY ENERGY GROUP LLC’S DEVELOPMENT PIPELINEIn 2019, our Origination team closed power purchase agreements for just over 1 GW of future projects in the development pipeline. That’s enough clean energy to power 550,000 American homes, and it will enable our customers to avoid 3.7 million tons of CO2 annually–the equivalent of taking 700,000 cars off the road for one year.2019 Development Highlights•	Achieved equity investment in and commercial operation of 418 megawatts (MW) via Hawaii Solar 1.0, Repower 1.0, and DG investment partnership projects•	Commenced construction on the 144 MW Rattlesnake Flats and 419 MW Mesquite Star wind projects, as well as six community solar projects totaling 14.5 MW•	Diversified portfolio with 1 GW of new construction wind opportunities in the Western Electricity Coordinating Council (WECC)•	Executed 1 GW in revenue contractsGETTING TO WORK: TOWARD A SUSTAINABLE FUTURETransforming our nation’s electricity grid into a more sustainable system requires commitment and vision. The Clearway team is dedicated to developing and operating clean, reliable, cost-effective renewable energy facilities that provide clean, responsibly generated power to our customers while meeting the needs of the environment and society at large. As we continue to grow our company and expand our operations, we look forward to playing a leading role in meeting the sustainable energy challenges of the next decade and beyond.UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSIn 2015, the United Nations Member States adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which charts a course toward reducing poverty and inequality, and seeks to improve the lives of the world’s people while tackling global challenges like climate change and environmental degradation. Central to the 2030 Agenda are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which focus on addressing critical issue areas. Clearway Energy Group LLC’s contributions fall primarily under SDG7, Ensuring Access to Affordable, Reliable, Sustainable and Modern Energy for All, which is perfectly aligned with our vision and mission. The 4.3 GW of wind and solar energy projects in our portfolio provide clean, reliable power to our customers across the U.S., and help reduce overall carbon emissions. We plan to continue to expand our operations and to contribute to a significant increase in the percentage of U.S. electricity that is produced by non-emitting renewable energy sources.