Creating Societal GoodOne of the three pillars of Clearway’s sustainability framework is the creation of societal good, which we define as “working toward a just, equitable and sustainable society by focusing on creating long-term economic value; promoting diversity, equity and inclusion; safeguarding health and wellness; and respecting the human rights of our people, community and global society.”Our nearly 800 employees uphold these values every day as they contribute to our company’s success and work to advance the clean energy transition. We strive to create a welcoming, inclusive work environment where employees can achieve their professional and personal goals and believe that this is central to our success in attracting and retaining top industry talent.Who We AreClearway’s nearly 800 employees work across five main offices and more than 350 solar and wind sites nationwide. We are proud of our team, which is composed of top talent in the areas of operations, engineering, project development, investment, finance, environmental permitting, asset management, and more.Safety Culture at ClearwayThere is nothing more important to our company than ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, and the communities in which we work and operate. Our vision of organizational safety is to establish and promote a safety culture based on prevention, capacity, and continuous learning where employees feel comfortable reporting incidents and are empowered to exercise stop work authority if they are unsure about something or identify a safety concern.  Failing SafeIn recent years, the safety industry has shifted from behavioral-based safety to a focus on human performance and “failing safe.” This approach acknowledges that to err is human and seeks to build the capacity to fail without causing harm. Central to this philosophy is a focus on mitigating risks associated with activities with the potential for serious injury and fatalities. At Clearway, our safety program is rooted in identifying and assessing risks, and we have further refined our approach to reflect the following principles of human performance: Human Performance PrinciplesIn 2022, we experienced significant growth as a company, welcoming more than 200 new team members to the Clearway family. At all levels within the company, this influx of new personnel was recognized as having the potential to impact safety outcomes, and we responded proactively by changing our organizational structure and ramping up our training and certification programs.To ensure we maintain a continued focus on safety, we consolidated corporate, construction, and O&M safety teams into a single centralized safety department to facilitate standardization of our policies, programs, and procedures, and provide improved administration and oversight. This change was complemented by the establishment of an official Executive Safety Steering Committee that includes our CEO and members of the executive team and is emblematic of our commitment to safety at all levels of the organization.People Make MistakesTo err is human, and even the best of us make mistakes.Failure Can 
Occur Safely It’s not if, it’s when. We plan and execute work as if failure will occur.Context Influences Behavior Workers do what they do for a reason that makes sense to them at the time.Violations Are Rarely, if Ever, MaliciousBlame fixes nothing.Incidents Can Stem From Normal Deviations How we imagine work takes place is different from how work actually gets done.Management’s Response to a Failure MattersManagement shapes how the organization responds and learns from failures by their response to it.Learning Is a Deliberate Improvement StrategyLearning from an incident is a strategic and operational choice for improving performance.Based on “The 5 Principles of Human Performance” by Todd Conklin.Our Safety Metrics  2022 Clearway Energy Group Safety Metrics Worker Hours 1,446,576 OSHA Recordable Injuries 11 OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 1.52 Fatalities 0 Lost Time Injuries 3 Lost Time Injury Rate 0.41 Days Away/Restricted Duty or Transfer (DART) Injuries 4 DART Rate 0.55 First Aid Incidents 22 Data is for Clearway Energy Group renewable energy operations and maintenance employees and contractors under day-to-day direction from our staff. 2022 Clearway Energy, Inc. Safety Metrics Worker Hours 155,128 OSHA Recordable Injuries 0 OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0 Fatalities 0 Lost Time Injuries 0 Lost Time Injury Rate 0 Days Away/Restricted Duty or Transfer (DART) Injuries 0 DART Rate 0 First Aid Incidents 2 Training Our Teams for SuccessBuilding on the training program partnership we entered with the High Plains Technology Center (HPTC) in Woodward, Oklahoma in 2021, in 2022, we initiated a partnership with the Danish Wind Power Academy (DWPA) to further enhance the level of technical training we provide our wind O&M teams. Members of Clearway’s O&M teams will benefit from multiple levels of training and certification that will be provided as part of their employment and based on customized curricula developed specifically for Clearway by the DWPA.Operations and maintenance activities at CWEN’s conventional facilities are conducted by employees and contractors under day-to-day direction from a third-party service provider.Diversity, Equity & InclusionAt Clearway, diversity, equity, and inclusion are core values that we strive to uphold in all aspects of our business. We seek to be in the top decile in our industry for workplace DEI, and to cultivate an environment where dedicated, mission-driven people can thrive. In 2022, we achieved several goals related to DEI, laying the groundwork for further advances in this area in 2023:Strengthening Our Team Within our organization, a key element of our DEI strategy involves showcasing Clearway’s position as an employer of choice for demographic groups that have been historically underrepresented in the energy sector, as well as supporting an equitable experience for all candidates. To this end, in 2022 we established a standardized interviewing process to ensure our hiring practices are as objective as possible. Throughout Clearway, we continue to work to build an inclusion-first culture that ensures equitable access to robust growth and development opportunities within the company. Recent accomplishments in this area include: •	Embedding DEI principles into processes related to talent acquisition and retention, such as promotion reviews, performance reviews, and strategic workforce planning•	Launching five new learning and development programs, including:•	Training more than 100 managers and executives in inclusive leadership•	Providing unconscious bias training for all employees and achieving over 90% completionIn 2023, we will continue our efforts in these areas and seek to achieve the following:•	Increasing the diversity of candidates considered for open positions•	Increasing demographic representation within the Clearway team, particularly among women, Black, and Veteran populations•	Increasing accountability for inclusive leadership practices and regional demographics•	Offering targeted, equitable career development opportunities•	Launching Allyship training as well as reprising our popular mentorship program, “Evolve!” •	Continuing to position Clearway as an industry leader in DEI GoalResultIncrease demographic representation62% of our new hires were from historically underinvested-in groups.Participation in our employee inclusion groups increased >5%.We introduced five new employee learning programs that target all levels.Support talent development for all employeesImplement and meet the goals of our supplier diversity policy (LEADS)In 2022, 5.9% of our expenditures across our corporate functions, facility operations and maintenance, and balance of plant contracts associated with the development and construction of each of Clearway’s projects went to local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses.Align with our customers’ DEI goalsOur leadership in implementing DEI programming for our employees and roll-out of the Clearway LEADS policy aligns Clearway with the DEI commitments our customers expect of their partners.Increase access to community solar for low- to moderate-income customersWe continued to support advocacy and policy efforts in this area.Supporting Our CustomersOur customers are one of our most important stakeholder groups, and we seek to uphold our commitment to DEI principles in two key ways:Advancing DEI within our organization and supply chain and designing our programs to align ourselves with our utility-scale customers’ goals and partner selection criteriaAddressing DEI issues within our community solar customer base by highlighting the need for accessibility among low- to moderate-income (LMI) customers12Through our partnership with NYSERDA, Clearway Community Solar participates in Solar for All, New York State’s utility bill assistance program. In 2022, 1,250 LMI customers received a total of $1.3 million in credits on their electricity bills from two Clearway Community Solar projects participating in Solar for All.In terms of our community solar customer base, Clearway’s external affairs team works to advocate for policy changes at the state level that will further enable the financing of LMI community solar customers. We also work with community solar fund investors to negotiate more flexible financing terms that will enable the product development necessary to broaden and diversify our customer base. Examples of these activities include:•	Ensuring our programs employ best practices that increase access to the benefits of community solar for subscribers and communities •	Adopting a guaranteed saving product for residential customers•	Advocating for utility billing systems that provide timely and accurate solar credit applications, which expands the number of customers who can participate in community solar programs•	Advocating to formalize net crediting in Massachusetts, New York, and IllinoisSupplier DiversityIn 2022, we implemented our Clearway LEADS policy, which promotes purchasing from local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses, increases the sustainability of our purchasing process, and reduces the environmental impacts within our supply chain. Clearway LEADS is applicable to all our major equipment and service providers, and we gather the information listed below from our Tier 1 (direct) vendors. We are now turning our attention to collaborate with these vendors on statistics regarding our expenditures with Tier 2 (vendors who supply our Tier 1 vendors). Tier 1: Direct Partners and Vendors•	Diversity categorization or certification (Minority Business Owned (MBE), Women Business Owned (WBE), Disabled Veteran Owned (DVBE), LGBTQ+ Owned (LGBT), Veteran Owned (VBE), Disabled Owned (DBE).)•	Environmental efforts (GHG emissions, solid waste, water and energy conservation)•	Vendor independence•	Local proximity to a Clearway siteTier 2: Partners and Vendors of Our Tier 1 Suppliers•	Reported expenditures with diverse suppliersClearway VoicesOur annual Clearway Voices employee engagement survey helps us gather important feedback from our employees. Our 2022 survey included new questions focused on DEI issues. Respondents indicated they hold strong positive sentiments about Clearway’s leadership, learning and development opportunities, and the company’s outlook – highlights from the results include:87%participation rate across the company (+10% YOY) 81%favorable employee sentiment across 70+ questions 88%inclusion & belonging scores91%of respondents feel their direct manager demonstrates care for their wellbeing91%of respondents are proud to work for ClearwayCreating the Diverse Energy Workforce of the Future The transition to 100% clean energy will depend on an equitable and inclusive workforce and increasing diversity within our industry is an overarching objective for Clearway. In 2022, we partnered with American Clean Power and the broader renewable energy industry to help lead the Energy Transition for All initiative which is designed to expand opportunities for workers, create value in communities, and ensure that diversity, inclusion, and representation are at the center of this work. We also initiated recruitment partnerships with WRISE, and Hiring our Heroes, an initiative led by the US Chamber of Commerce Foundation to help connect the military community with American businesses. In addition, we launched targeted recruiting efforts on Circa and LinkedIn.Recruitment PartnershipsEquity, Partnership and Inclusion CouncilLaunched in 2020, our Equity, Partnership and Inclusion Council (EPIC) is tasked with charting Clearway’s progress relative to our DEI strategy. In 2022, we made progress in terms of evaluating diversity and measuring change across Clearway by implementing metrics to drive accountability and achieve our goals. We enhanced the tracking and evaluation of diverse slates of candidates in our recruitment process, which resulted in a significant increase in the percentage of people of color and women hired.Clearway’s Employee Inclusion Groups Our seven EIGs – Allies, Asian Inclusion Group, Black Inclusion Group, Latinx Group (Hola!), Proud@Clearway, VETRN, and Women’s Equity & Inclusion – continued to grow in 2022, creating multiple opportunities for our employees to engage with colleagues and bond over shared experiences as well as learn from others with different backgrounds. Key EIG metrics for the past year include:Clearway and its EIGs have contributed to several charitable organizations aligned with their areas of interest, donating a total of $44,500 to the following organizations and causes in 2022: Historically Black Colleges & Universities FoundationSupport to improve access to higher education for Black youth The King CenterAdvancing the racial equity work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.Operation Honor GuardSupport for the families of deceased military veterans to provide a burial with full honors for their fallen loved onesOutRightInternationalSupport for LGBTQIA+ individuals escaping the Russian invasion of Ukraine 5%The Asian Pacific Resiliency & Recovery FundSupport for Asian Pacific communities recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic Open Doors OutdoorsSupport for opportunities for veterans and their families to connect and heal through healthy outdoors activitiesALPFA Scholarship FundSupport for increased access to professional development opportunities for Latino professionals throughout AmericaPercentage change in participation between 2021 and 2022Our Diversity Metrics Diversity data for Clearway Energy Group and Clearway Energy, Inc., as of December 31, 2022.Between 2020 and 2022, diverse representation increased significantly across our organization; although it dipped slightly at the executive level, we continue to experience a leadership diversity level consistent with the organization’s overall representation. Clearway is committed to continuing to increase representation at all levels in 2023 and beyond. Engaging Communities Across the CountryCommunity engagement at Clearway starts with listening to the interests and needs of local communities, with our site teams taking a leadership role. One of our ESG goals is that by 2025, 100% of our renewable energy sites that are more than 50 MW in size will have community engagement plans and participate in our Adopt-a-School program. In 2022, with help from our employees, Clearway contributed approximately $760,000 in charitable donations to the communities where we live and operate, in addition to $59 million in property taxes and $16 million in landowner payments.As of 2021, 62% of our qualifying sites had community engagement plans, and 50% participated in Adopt-a-School. In 2022, we kept pace with our growing operating fleet, with 50% of our qualifying sites participating in Adopt-a-School and 75% implementing community engagement plans.The next two pages highlight several examples of how our site teams engaged with local communities by making donations, sponsoring local organizations and activities, hosting groups, and/or contributing volunteer hours.In California, Clearway was the primary sponsor for training in EV extrication conducted by the Silver Valley Fire Alliance in San Bernadino County. More than 50 career and volunteer emergency responders from local fire departments participated and learned how to respond safely to crashes involving electric vehicles. The seminar’s webpage reassures readers that “no Teslas were hurt” during the training.In California, Arizona, and Texas, our offices hosted food drives or volunteered at local food banks and other area nonprofits. Our Scottsdale office hosted a volunteer event at the St. Mary’s Food Bank in downtown Phoenix, loading cart after cart with groceries and distributing them to more than 930 cars!In Hawaii, we held a traditional blessing ceremony to celebrate the completion of our Mililani I solar + storage project. Governor David Ige and the state’s Chief Energy Officer Scott Glenn spoke at the event, which was attended by local elected officials and community members, environmental advocates, labor union representatives, and alumni of Clearway’s local internship program with Kamehameha Schools, as well as members of the Clearway team and our partners who made the project a reality.In Washington State Clearway hosted Governor Jay Inslee for an Earth Day event at our Rattlesnake Flat wind farm, along with representatives from organized labor and a group of local high school students studying mechanical science. Later in the year, Rattlesnake Flat hosted a group of second and third-grade students from the towns of Lind and Ritzville. The students were given a presentation on “A Day in the Life of a Wind Technician,” after which the technicians demonstrated some of the tools and equipment they use, the kids asked questions, and then the group visited an actual turbine so the students could look inside.In New Mexico, the San Juan Mesa wind project has been operational since 2005 and the site team supports the local community in many ways, from volunteering to install siding at a school playground to supporting youth sports in the town of Elida. The site also hosts informational tours for juniors and seniors from the local high school. Clearway’s three West Virginia wind farms have community engagement programs and were very active in 2022.In April, Clearway hosted a preview tour for the National Defense University’s Dwight D. Eisenhower School for National Security & Resource Strategy. Nearly two dozen US and international military officers, along with senior civil and foreign service officials, visited Black Rock and Pinnacle and engaged in in-depth discussions about energy security and reliability.  In May, we hosted a ribbon-cutting ceremony for our Black Rock wind farm that was attended by hundreds of local residents as well as county, state and federal leaders. As part of our commitment to strengthen and enhance the communities that host our projects, the Black Rock Community Benefit Fund donated more than $133,000 to a total of 21 grant recipients, and the Pinnacle Wind Farm Community Benefit Fund donated $23,000 to another 16 grant recipients. Collectively, these community benefit funds have contributed nearly $400,000 since their inception.  Our site teams in Texas were also very active in 2022, particularly at our Mesquite Sky and Mesquite Star wind farms:•	Eastland County, Texas is located just east of our Mesquite Sky wind farm. In 2022, several of our Texas site teams and our Field Services Group (which provides O&M services to multiple sites in Texas) rallied to provide support to the Eastland County Volunteer Fire Department, which only has one fire truck (the other was destroyed by fire). •	Mesquite Star site team members also visited the local junior high and high schools to speak with students about wind energy, and have built a partnership with Texas State Technical College (TSTC), a community college that offers a wind energy technology training program. •	Each year, TSTC hosts an annual activity day for eighth graders who are attending technical high schools in the area. The Mesquite Star team ran the climb lab with TSTC, which allowed students to try climbing a model wind tower. The day also included a hands-on activity for students led by KidWind. •	The South Trent team supported the Rattlesnake Gravel Grind in June, a bike ride supporting five local volunteer fire departments. The route for the bike ride went through the South Trent site, and the site team staffed a water and refreshments station. The event attracted over 100 cyclists from several states and raised $6,000 for each of the fire departments. KidWind is a non-profit organization dedicated to helping educators and students explore renewable energy. In October, Black Rock hosted a KidWind workshop for dozens of students, parents and teachers. In addition to learning about how renewable energy works and its many benefits, the students got to visit the wind farm and see the advanced turbine technology up close. Clearway’s Mount Storm wind farm contributed $10,000 each to two local elementary schools to support science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education, as well as $13,000 to help one of the schools refurbish its weight room. The donations were made through our Adopt-a-School program, and the site will also offer tours of the wind farms, classroom visits, job shadowing opportunities, and more.We are especially proud of Clearway’s longstanding partnership with Eastern West Virginia Technical & Community College. In 2022, Clearway formalized an internship program that offered post-college job placement to Eastern graduates and provided free technical and safety certifications to help students quickly transition into well-paying jobs. Clearway is also committed to helping students pursue wind technology training, and has created a special scholarship fund to help Eastern students defray the cost of their education and increase enrollment in the wind tech program.Photo: The future science lab room at the Union Educational Complex in Mount Storm, WVClearway’s Hawaii Internship ProgramIn June and July, five college students participated in Clearway’s Hawaii summer internship program, which is supported through a partnership with Kamehameha Schools (KS) in connection with Clearway’s projects on lands owned by KS. Each intern completed a research project on the topic of their choice with guidance from a Clearway mentor. The program gives participants an overview of clean energy career opportunities through various training sessions with Clearway’s engineering, development, asset management, origination, construction management, and operations teams. By partnering with the local community, we are able to grow Hawaii’s clean energy workforce while helping the Aloha State achieve its goal of using 100% renewable energy.Before this internship I had no idea the hands it takes to keep renewable energy running, and after finding that out it honestly gave me better insight on a possible career in the future.Shanelle-Louise Nakila-Torres“Evolution of Clearway’s Hawaii Internship Program2019 - Mainland Office Experience•	First of its kind at Clearway•	Hosted six interns on the mainland (San Francisco and Scottsdale offices) with site visits to ASU, Flagstaff, and Agua Caliente•	Series of in-office presentations that included quizzes and/or homework2021 - Construction/O&M Focus•	Hosted four interns on Oahu•	A joint effort between the O&M and construction teams•	Included remote learning sessions with various groups2022 - Clearway/DESRI Joint Effort•	Hosted five interns on Oahu•	Four weeks with Clearway’s O&M team and two weeks with DESRI•	Included remote learning sessions with various groups