Supply ChainMaking Energy Storage SustainableAs members of the Energy Storage Association (ESA), we play a leading role in efforts to develop industry best practices regarding the safety and sustainability of batteries. We are actively involved in the ESA’s Corporate Responsibility Initiative (CRI), and we signed the Corporate Responsibility Pledge in 2019. We also participate inthe CRI Task Force, whichworks to establish bestpractices regardingpotential operationalhazards, end-of-life, andrecycling, as well asresponsible supply chainpractices.Our mission is to play a leading role in decarbonizing the electricity sector with cost-effective, reliable renewable energy. We procure technology with the mindset of an owner and therefore a focus on longevity, which is critical to improving a site’s benefit-to-cost ratio. We work with reputable suppliers and collaborate with our peers to find solutions to industry challenges. Clearway’s approach to our supply chain is guided by our technology road map, a 5-year plan that is maintained by our engineering team and updated quarterly. The road map is informed by quarterly business reviews with our top-tier suppliers and EPCs, as well as by data from our operating fleet. Major equipment purchases are overseen by our Technology Business Council, which draws on the expertise of leaders across our risk, finance, O&M, engineering, and procurement teams, among others. The Council evaluates new technology and product suppliers based on internal assessment of the product, the supplier’s financial strength, independent engineering reports, and third-party testing. Recycling Solar PanelsClearway seeks to minimize the waste associated with the construction of our solar sites by reusing modules wherever possible throughout the project lifecycle and ensuring component extraction prior to disposal. We are also actively engaged in efforts with the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) to advance material extraction processes so that they reach commercial scale 10-15 years from now when the solar panels in use today begin to reach the end of their useful life. Clearway is committed to ensuring that the disposal of solar panels installed at our sites follows procedures that are fully compliant with or exceed national and state requirements.SUPPLY CHAIN2020 Supply Chain HighlightsProactively responding to supply chain impacts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that our construction schedules and targets could be met. We benefitted from the robust supply chains in the U.S. and Asia but had to negotiate supply terms and delivery windows affected by delays related to COVID-19.Close coordination among our external affairs, engineering, and procurement teams, which has enabled us to successfully navigate a complex and shifting environment shaped by diverse and evolving laws, regulations, and market requirements, as well as a constantly changing technology landscape. This coordination allows us to manage our suppliers, contract partners, and contract specifications in response to changes in the broader market and policy environment. Working with a core set of industry stakeholders to develop a whitepaper on End-of-Life Management of Lithium-ion Energy Storage Systems. This whitepaper provides a summary of the challenges and opportunities associated with sustainable end-of-life management of batteries used in large-scale stationary energy storage.Ensuring use of industry-wide best practices by developing and publishing Guidelines for End of Life and Recycling of Lithium-Ion Battery Energy Storage Systems with industry partners. These guidelines provide a reference for manufacturers, integrators, developers, financiers, asset owners, and others to inform product development, project planning, execution, and policy related to battery recycling. We used these publications to inform requirements for the procurement of over 2,000 MWhs of energy storage equipment in 2020.Our participation in both of these efforts occurred through our involvement with the Energy Storage Association’s Corporate Responsibility Initiative (CRI).Working with two of the largest stationary energy storage providers to help them design products that meet all applicable commercial requirements, industry codes, and standards for safe and reliable integration. These collaborations help ensure Clearway is able to deliver the most reliable and efficient battery storage and renewable energy sites in addition to accelerating the adoption of quality industry standards and best practices.Confirming that our site systems and components comply with cybersecurity certifications IEC 62443, a series of standards for cybersecurity management, in response to Executive Order 13920, “Securing the United States Bulk-Power System” which was issued earlier this year. The EO “prohibits Federal agencies and U.S. persons from acquiring, transferring, or installing bulk power system equipment in which any foreign country or foreign national has any interest and the transaction poses an unacceptable risk to national security or the security and safety of American citizens.”In addition to conducting an internal review of cybersecurity protocols at our sites and their control stations and substations to assess their vulnerability to a foreign cyberattack, we have also ensured that a firewall exists between our battery management systems and site control systems. Contributing to Clearway’s assessment of enterprise-level risks. Potential supply chain risks include procuring flawed or defective equipment, issues related to supplier performance and creditworthiness, disruption of sources or supplies, and import tariffs or bans. We have a robust set of mitigants and controls in place to counter the potential consequences of these risks. Launching Coupa, our online supplier and payment portal. The new cloud-based procurement system will improve the efficiency and accuracy with which we manage our suppliers. We are working to implement a supplier diversity program in 2021.Completion of our project management manual. Clearway’s Project Management Manual went through two revisions in 2020 to capture important updates to internal personnel, tools, and processes. The Manual provides a consolidated reference guide for all personnel who are directly or indirectly involved in the lifecycle of the solar and wind projects Clearway develops. The Manual articulates the roles, responsibilities, and requirements for project approvals, communication, and hand-offs. In addition, it identifies the tools, systems, and other resources to be used in developing and executing projects in compliance with Clearway’s policies and procedures, and all applicable laws and regulations.SUPPLY CHAINA Closer Look Accurately Defining “Low Carbon Solar” In 2020, our 1.6 GW combined utility-scale and distributed generation solar fleet displaced enough fossil fuel generation to avoid an estimated 2.4 million metric tons of CO2 for our customers. While the “embedded carbon” emissions associated with the manufacture of solar panels are an important factor, they’re only one piece of the equation – many other aspects of a solar site’s components and design influence its lifetime carbon footprint.  Factors that contribute to the low carbon signature of our solar sites include:•	The exclusive use of ground-mounted bifacial modules on all projects constructed from 2019 onward. Bifacial modules have a longer lifespan than mono-facial modules and can produce as much as 10% more electricity per installed watt •	Single access trackers, which typically yield 15-30% more kWh per pound of steel and 15-20% more energy per watt than fixed-tilt installations •	Industry-leading resource analysis and project siting that results in highly productive solar sites•	A company-wide commitment to designing, operating, and maintaining our assets for maximum longevityOur new solar sites are designed to operate for 35-50 years, and their lifespans can be further extended with repowering. We believe that our solar fleet has one of the fastest carbon payback times in the industry, and as panel manufacturing efficiencies continue to improve, this timeframe will become increasingly shorter.About Bifacial Solar PVBifacial PV systems utilize modules that are able to accept light from both the front and rear faces of a solar panel, including light reflected off the ground, diffuse light from the sky, direct sunlight, and light reflected from adjacent rows of panels.Bifacial solar offers many advantages over traditional solar modules. Because power is produced from both sides of the panels, total energy generation is boosted, sometimes by as much as 10%. This increased production capacity can make it possible to reduce the footprint of a solar array and, when combined with bifacial solar modules’ improved durability, can help reduce the effective cost of generated electricity. 