Our Projects & CustomersHelping Our Customers Achieve Their Sustainability Goals In March 2022, we hosted a ribbon-cutting ceremony at our 340 MW Mesquite Sky wind farm to commemorate our partnership with two key clean power customers, Deere & Company and Whirlpool Corporation, both leading organizations with ambitious sustainability goals:Mesquite Sky is a major piece of John Deere’s long-term renewable energy strategy, supplying the equivalent of more than 20% of the company’s global electricity footprint and contributing to the company’s validated science-based targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by an additional 50% from 2021-2030.  Whirlpool Corporation’s commitment to purchasing clean power from Mesquite Sky accelerates the company’s progress toward achieving its goal of net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions in its plants and operations by 2030.Mesquite Sky joins Clearway’s growing fleet of wind farms creating local investments, good jobs, and reliable power in West Texas. Constructing the project created more than 450 jobs and generated hundreds of thousands of dollars in local spending. John Deere equipment was used during construction, reflecting our broader commitment to partnering with customers and using their products and services.  Powering PacifiCorp’s Clean Energy PortfolioBuilding on our longstanding relationship with PacifiCorp, in October 2022 we announced two new long-term, clean power purchase agreements totaling 432 MW that will help PacifiCorp deliver additional carbon-free, affordable electricity to its customers. The 152 MW Cedar Creek Wind project is located in Idaho, and the 280 MW Two Rivers Wind project, which is being jointly developed by and is co-owned with BluEarth Renewables, is located in Wyoming. Our Cedar Creek and Two Rivers projects will support PacifiCorp in achieving the goals described in their most recent integrated resource plan, in which the company outlined an ambitious path to substantially increase renewable energy capacity while delivering cost savings to its customers.Our portfolio with PacifiCorp now totals more than 1,100 MW across Wyoming, Idaho, and Utah. John Deere equipment onsite at Mesquite SkyMililani I Solar + Storage Shines in HawaiiIn July 2022 we brought our Mililani I 39 MW solar + 156 MWh storage project online. With abundant solar resources and the country’s first-ever 100% renewable portfolio standard (RPS), the Aloha State is home to many solar projects – but Mililani I is the first project on Oahu to combine solar with 156 MWh of energy storage, which gives the project the ability to continue providing clean, renewable power even after the sun goes down.The project is providing sustainable power to Hawaiian Electric’s customers on Oahu and is helping the utility achieve its Climate Change Action Plan, which commits to net zero emissions by 2045. By transitioning to clean energy, Hawaiian Electric is on track to reduce carbon emissions by as much as 70% by 2030.CLICK HERE to watch a video about our Mililani I Solar + Storage Project!Hawaiian Electric began procuring renewable energy resources in 2018. At the end of 2021, nearly 40% of its electricity was sourced from renewables, which are helping to stabilize the cost of electricity for its customers by generating electricity at one-third the cost of oil.Developing renewable resources is an especially high priority for Hawaii, which has the highest retail electricity prices in the nation due to its reliance on imported fuel. However, many renewable energy projects faced supply chain challenges in 2021 and 2022, and solar projects had the additional hurdle of dealing with tariff issues related to panels and equipment. Fortunately, we were able to avoid any delays, and in fact brought Mililani I online ahead of schedule!This was an important and timely achievement, because Hawaii’s only coal-fired power plant was retired at the end of August 2022. In early 2022, recognizing that a range of issues were conspiring to prevent planned renewable projects from coming online in time to replace the coal plant, Governor David Ige launched the Powering Past Coal Task Force to help facilitate the transition to clean energy. Elements of this initiative enabled us to advance Mililani I’s start date from November to July. Meeting the new timeline required a lot of work, but our development, procurement, and construction teams sprang into action, and we worked closely with our suppliers and contractors to find ways to fast-track their deliveries. Thanks to everyone’s hard work and support from the state’s regulators, Mililani I is playing an important role in powering Hawaii’s clean energy future, and the five solar power plants developed by Clearway, totaling 185 MW, generate enough clean electricity to power more than 45,500 Oahu homes each year. Clearway Community SolarClearway Community Solar offers homeowners, renters, and businesses the opportunity to participate in the clean energy transition by sourcing their electricity from one of our many community solar installations in Massachusetts, New York, Minnesota, Colorado, and Illinois. Our 22,000 customers support local renewable energy and receive solar credits that are applied to their monthly utility statements and reduce their electricity bills – credits that totaled more than $72 million in 2022 alone.Sunny Side UpClearway Community Solar was a finalist in the US Department of Energy’s Sunny Awards for Equitable Community Solar, which recognizes community solar projects and programs that use or develop best practices to increase equitable access to community solar for subscribers and their communities. Clearway’s Illinois Guaranteed Savings Program was selected because it guarantees customers will receive solar credits that result in net savings on their electricity bills. By making solar accessible to customers of all income levels, the program creates opportunities for equitable participation in creating a clean energy future.In 2022, our community solar portfolio grew with the addition of 15 projects totaling 87 MW in Massachusetts and Illinois, bringing us to a total of 457 MW of community solar projects that produce more than 480 million kWh of clean power annually and making us the leading provider of community solar nationwide. This is the environmental equivalent of powering 42,850 average American homes for a year or charging more than 41 billion smartphones.ii Approximate figures based on the US EPA Avoided Emissions and Generation tool (AVERT) and Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies’ Calculator.