Our People Our employees are key partners in the long-term sustainability of our company, and we believe that when an employee succeeds, Clearway does as well. We strive to make our team members feel valued, and to uphold our values of teamwork and integrity in all aspects of our interactions with our workforce.Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc. share a common human resources team. Together, the two companies have more than 900 employees spread across five U.S. offices and several operating fleet locations. Our team offers a diverse range of experience, including leaders in the solar, wind, and thermal energy industries, engineers, project developers, and investment specialists, as well as experts in environmental issues, permitting, interconnection, transmission, and power plant operations.OUR PEOPLE2020 Workforce HighlightsExpanding our employee wellness program by launching an online wellness platform. This platform supports all aspects of health and wellbeing with live and on-demand fitness and meditation classes as well as resources for eating well, stress reduction, and social opportunities for coping, especially during the COVID pandemic. Employees can participate in competitive internal wellness challenges and have fun while caring for their overall wellbeing. Launching our charitable contribution matching program, through which the company matches up to $150 per year per employee in donations to qualified 501(c)(3) nonprofits. The program is managed through an online platform where employees can create profiles, browse and select organizations, and donate directly, or upload receipts for offline donations and matching.Providing our team members with ongoing professional development opportunities, including:•	Continuing our plant manager development program, which is designed to help new managers, supervisors, or anyone interested in moving to a management role learn skills.•	Adapting many components of the plant manager program to begin building a new management training system for employees in other parts of the business. In addition to mandatory training on items like our Codes of Conduct, we offer recommended training on topics such as how to give and receive effective feedback, how to communicate effectively, and how to improve efficiency by effectively delegating work. Creating a “Clearway Connection for Managers” monthly newsletter for leaders to keep them informed about new developments related to human resources, as well as answer frequently asked questions and provide guidance on leadership best practices. Each edition also includes micro-learning opportunities for managers to improve their effectiveness.Conducting a “voice of the employee” interview process that looked more broadly at effectiveness within the organization, as well as our engagement with key stakeholders such as the board of directors. This process added to our overall listening strategy, which includes our annual employee engagement survey, post-recruitment surveys, exit interviews, and more.Launching a new talent acquisition system and expanding our online survey platform to include candidate surveys. The new talent acquisition system greatly enhances and optimizes both the candidate experience for applicants, as well as the recruiting process for hiring managers and recruiters. Our candidate survey goes to anyone who has had a live touchpoint with someone at Clearway in order to gain continuous feedback on our talent acquisition process. Designating one workday each month as a “quiet day” when employees are encouraged not to schedule meetings. This allows employees to focus on what matters most, whether that’s making headway on a strategic initiative or taking a day off without concerns of missing important meetings.2020 ESG Report  |  29 OUR PEOPLEOUR DIVERSITY METRICSDiversity data for Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc., as of December 31, 2020.Office-based EmployeesEmployeesSite EmployeesExecutive OfficersBoards of Directors**Clearway’s two governing bodies are made up of 11 individuals, four of whom serve on both boards. The diversity metrics for both boards are the same.