SPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIASpotlight: Leading the Transition to a 
Clean Energy Economy in West VirginiaClearway is helping to lead the transition to a clean energy economy in West Virginia. As the largest owner-operator of renewable energy assets in the Mountain State, we have 1.26 GW of wind and energy storage in operation or under development. Our facilities help place West Virginia at the forefront of the clean energy transition, creating living-wage jobs and helping make the grid stronger and more reliable.Our investments in the state’s clean energy infrastructure are helping to power its workforce, economy, regional tax base, and local communities. In the communities where we operate, Clearway ranks as one of the largest taxpayers, with $3.3 million combined state and local taxes paid annually. We have also fostered more than 60 long-term community partnerships with local nonprofits, educational institutions, and organizations.Each new wind farm provides an opportunity to further enhance communities, and we look forward to finding even more ways to give back.Workforce TrainingOur Wind Technician pilot apprenticeship program offers paid training to workers transitioning out of the coal industry and an opportunity to start a rewarding career in renewable energy.Community GivingThrough the Clearway Community Benefit Fund, we create opportunities to enhance local infrastructure, provide new programming, and form educational partnerships.SPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIAClearway’s West Virginia Wind FarmsWe’re helping place the Mountain State at the forefront of the clean energy transition.Black Rock WindLocation: Grant and Mineral CountiesProject Size: 115 MW$5.7 million  in property taxes to Grant and Mineral counties over Black Rock wind's operating life200 union jobs created in partnership with the West Virginia building and construction trades$50,000 donated to local nonprofits annually through the Black Rock Community Benefit FundPinnacle WindLocation: Mineral CountyProject Size: 54 MW$3.7 million in West Virginia business and occupancy taxes over Pinnacle Wind’s operating life 50 union jobs created in partnership with the 
West Virginia building and construction tradesOver $250,000 in grants to local community organizationsMount StormLocation: Grant CountyProject Size: 264 MWUp to 264 MW of clean energy generated for the Mid-Atlantic power gridAn average of 600,000 MWh of wind electricity generated each yearSPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIA(Re)powering West Virginia’s Economy with Wind EnergyIn December 2021, we were proud to announce completion of the repowering of our 54 MW Pinnacle Wind Farm in Mineral County, West Virginia. This $90 million capital investment replaced the site’s 23 turbines with modern equipment, which now produces nearly 16% more clean energy. In keeping with our commitment to optimize local hiring and spending, the repowering project created approximately 50 full-time construction jobs under project labor agreements with West Virginia construction trade unions.Clearway is already one of the largest taxpayers in the county, currently generating $500,000 in property taxes each year. The repowering will increase Clearway’s tax payments to Mineral County and extend the number of years Clearway supports the local tax base. In addition, Pinnacle will contribute $3.7 million in West Virginia business and occupancy taxes over its newly extended operating life. The repowering also extends the life of the Pinnacle Wind Community Benefit Fund, which is overseen by a committee of local residents who understand the community’s unique needs. The Pinnacle Wind Farm is owned by CWEN and contracted under long-term power purchase agreements with the Maryland Department of General Services as well as an academic institution. Expanding Our Clean Energy FootprintIn January 2021, we commenced construction on the 115 MW Black Rock wind farm, which spans Grant and Mineral counties. Building the 23-turbine project created 200 local construction jobs and generated significant spending in the local community.  Black Rock’s construction was completed at the end of 2021 and its clean energy production is equivalent to the needs of 55,000 homes. The project’s power is being purchased by Toyota, which will use the generation at its West Virginia plant to help achieve carbon neutrality at its manufacturing facilities by 2035, and by AEP Energy Partners, which will include Black Rock’s generation in the carbon-free energy they supply to their customers.Clearway will pay $5.7 million in property taxes to the counties and $9 million in Business & Occupation taxes to the state over the life of the project, making us a leading taxpayer in Grant and Mineral counties. In addition, the Black Rock Community Benefit Fund will donate $50,000 to local nonprofits every year throughout the project’s lifespan.SPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIAGiving BackClearway is committed to giving back to the communities where we work and live. For each of our projects, we strive to find ways in which we can benefit local organizations and non-profits in ways that help build healthier communities and positive relationships with our project neighbors.The Clearway Community Benefit Fund is the cornerstone of our support for local nonprofits. In 2021, the Pinnacle Community Benefit Fund awarded eleven grants totaling $25,000 for brick-and-mortar projects related to education, historic preservation, public safety, economic development, and public recreation. Since its inception, Pinnacle has provided $255,275 through the Community Benefit Fund. Beginning in 2022, the Clearway Community Benefit Fund will extend to Black Rock wind and provide an additional $50,000 in annual contributions. The Pinnacle and Black Rock Community Benefit Funds are overseen by committees of local residents who review the grant applications and select the recipients. Clearway is proud to have invested $460 million in West Virginia in 2021 alone – and we are just getting started. As we continue to grow West Virginia's energy economy and labor force, we look forward to forging more community partnerships and finding more ways to support the communities we call home.Local residents who are members of the Pinnacle Community Benefit Fund Allocation Committee and direct funding activity.Clearway sponsored the 2021 Mountain Streams Music & Arts Festival in Fort Ashby, West Virginia.SPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIAMinimizing Our Environmental Impact: Pinnacle Blade Recycling Modernizing the Pinnacle Wind Farm involved removing the original 23 turbines, strengthening the existing foundations, and installing entirely new towers, nacelles, and blades. While the total number of turbines didn’t change, the new equipment is more efficient and will generate 16% more clean power without requiring any upgrades to the transmission system. In keeping with Clearway’s commitment to reduce our environmental impacts, an estimated 85% of the materials (by weight) from the decommissioned turbines was repurposed or recycled, yielding approximately 7,400 tons of steel and 495 tons of fiberglass, in addition to approximately 18,500 gallons of combined hydraulic fluid and coolant that were recovered. Significant quantities of aluminum and cabling were also recovered from each turbine. Some of the turbine components, including three blades and nine generators, were repurposed for use at other wind farms. The scrap metal products were transported to nearby recycling facilities predominantly located in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Virginia. The fiberglass blades were transported to Georgia and recycled by FibREtech. Because the repowering activity occurred within Pinnacle’s existing project footprint, construction impacts were minimized. At the end of the two-to-three-day deconstruction process for each turbine, a focused clean-up effort was conducted to reduce the possibility of any debris being left in the area. Workers cut sections of the old towers removed from Pinnacle Wind to prepare them to be recycled.SPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIAFacilitating the Transition to 
Clean Energy JobsRenewable energy is one of the fastest-growing sectors of the economy. Driven by increasing demand for low-cost wind and solar power, the transition to renewable energy is creating hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country. West Virginia has a proud history in the energy sector and has been known for its coal production since the mid-1800s, but cleaner and less costly sources of electricity have reduced demand for coal, reducing employment in this industry. Fortunately, the state has abundant wind and solar resources that will help build the next-generation energy economy while creating new, family-wage jobs, particularly in rural communities that have been hit hardest by the transition. Working in clean energy requires many of the same skills needed in the coal industry, creating an opportunity for interested individuals to jumpstart their careers in an expanding field.According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, wind turbine technician is the second-fastest growing occupation in the country with jobs projected to grow 68% between 2020-2030. In 2021, Clearway launched a pilot wind technician apprenticeship program that offers paid training to qualified individuals who have been impacted by the decline in West Virginia’s coal industry. The program is designed to provide an opportunity to start a new career in renewable energy by delivering approximately $20,000 in essential training needed to become a wind technician, including:•	Basic electrical, mechanical, and hydraulic principles •	Safety training and certification in tower climbing and rescue•	Technical training (provided by the wind turbine or solar inverter manufacturer)•	Travel and lodging, as neededAfter successfully completing the training, a competitive offer may be made for employment at a Clearway wind or solar energy facility.Clearway held job fairs in Grant and Mineral counties to help spread the word about the West Virginia Wind Tech Apprenticeship Program, which is creating new careers for individuals displaced from the coal industry. SPOTLIGHT: WEST VIRGINIAPartnering to Develop Skills and JobsEastern West Virginia Community and Technical College (Eastern) in Petersburg, West Virginia started a Wind Energy Technology program in 2010. The college offers a two-year Associate Degree in Applied Science as well as a one-year certificate for students looking to work in the renewable energy industry. Students in the Wind Energy Technology program learn the skills necessary to service and troubleshoot modern wind power generation equipment while acquiring the background knowledge needed to advance their careers in the power generation field. Eastern has also designed its programs to comply with all American Clean Power Association (ACPA) standards and capitalize on West Virginia’s position as a new leader in the wind industry.To support these activities, Clearway is partnering with Eastern to create education and workforce development opportunities for local graduates. In 2021, we hired five recent graduates of the program to support the operations and maintenance of our 115 MW Black Rock wind site and our 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site. Along with our 240 MW Mount Storm Wind site, we’re now the largest owner-operator of wind farms in the state.Lead Wind Technician James Adkins is joined atop a nacelle at Mount Storm Wind by new hires Austin Locklear, Andrew Cosner, and Ian Guckavan. All four men are graduates of the Eastern West Virginia Community & Technical College wind tech program.