THE FUTURE OF SUSTAINABILITY AT CLEARWAYTHE ROAD AHEADAs a young company, we are still in the process of developing our sustainability framework. In 2020 and beyond, we look forward to building on the solid foundation we’ve established and improving our procedures to enhance our governance practices and more fully account for our environmental and social impacts.As the renewable energy industry continues to grow and evolve, bringing advances in both technology and the marketplace, managing technological risk is a core element of our sustainability strategy. In keeping with our commitment to be an industry leader and provide our customers with cutting-edge solutions, we strive to be at the forefront of such changes. We actively track trends and technological advancements that have the potential to reduce costs and boost the performance and reliability of our wind and solar facilities. This helps ensure that we’re positioned to leverage innovations that can impact our industry.INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY: 
BIFACIAL SOLAR PVOne example of technological innovation we’re actively embracing is bifacial photovoltaics (PV). A bifacial PV system utilizes modules that are able to accept light from both the front and rear faces of a solar panel, including light reflected off the ground, diffuse light from the sky, direct sunlight, and light reflected from adjacent rows of panels.Bifacial solar offers many advantages over traditional solar modules. Because power is produced from both sides of the panels, total energy generation is boosted, sometimes by as much as 10 percent. This increased production capacity can make it possible to reduce the footprint of a solar array if needed, and when combined with bifacial solar modules’ improved durability, can help reduce the effective cost of generated electricity. Adopting technological advancements aligns with our commitment to increase the production of clean, renewable energy while helping to drive down its cost.INNOVATIVE CONTRACT STRUCTURESAt Clearway Energy Group LLC, we’re focused on increasing the amount of electricity our nation produces from clean, renewable resources. One of the ways we’re doing this is by making it easier for our customers to meet their goals by providing options like virtual power purchase agreements and community solar subscriptions in addition to physical power purchase agreements. Under all of these types of contracts, our customers purchase both the electricity generated by our renewable energy assets, as well as the associated environmental attributes (typically referred to as renewable energy credits or RECs), which include things like avoided emissions and other environmental benefits.COMMUNITY SOLAR SUBSCRIPTIONSClearway Community Solar projects offer universal access to the benefits of solar to residents, businesses, schools, hospitals and municipalities—no roof required. Our program makes supporting renewable energy easy and practical. We create power in numbers by pooling a community of customers to make locally produced solar energy a reality. Community solar allows customers to participate in bringing additional renewable energy to the local utility grid. Customers enter into a subscription to a specific community solar project within the same utility service territory as the customer’s load. PHYSICAL POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (PPAs)Under a traditional wholesale or physical PPA, a customer contracts to purchase power from a specific generation asset. Physical PPAs enable our wholesale customers to achieve their renewable energy procurement goals as outlined within the renewable port.folio standards set forth by states as well as the requirements established by integrated resource plans for investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, cooperatives, community choice aggregators, and competitive retail providers. As of 2019, Clearway has executed over 50 unique wholesale PPAs.VIRTUAL POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (VPPAs)Many organizations have committed to reducing their carbon footprints through the purchase of emission-free renewable energy. Innovative contracting structures like virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) are key to making this possible. VPPAs are a type of contract in which the buyer purchases all the benefits associated with renewable energy generation from a specific facility without taking physical delivery of the power. VPPAs offer a flexible contracting option for large corporations and government entities. Companies and municipalities with smaller electricity demand can also take advantage of the economies of scale offered by large solar and wind projects by aggregating their buying power through a VPPA.