CLEARWAY COMMUNITY SOLARClearway Community SolarAvoiding a year’s worth of emissions for >155,000 cars>1 Billion kWh of Community Solar Power GeneratedOur community solar portfolio continues to expand with an additional 94 MW of completed projects in 2021. We currently serve more than 25,000 customers across Colorado, Illinois, Minnesota, Massachusetts, and New York, and have generated more than $139 million in solar bill credits for our customers. Clearway Community Solar has also delivered more than a billion kWh of clean power, making us the leading provider of community solar nationwide. This is the environmental equivalent of:Growing >11 million tree seedlings for 
10 yearsChanging >27 million standard lightbulbs to LEDsCLEARWAY COMMUNITY SOLARClearway Community Solar’s “Bright Ideas” Blog Wins AwardIn 2021, the science experiments section of Clearway Community Solar’s “Bright Ideas” blog won first place in the “topic-specific” category of the Content Marketing Awards, an annual recognition of the use of content strategy in effective and engaging manners. The blog features monthly science experiments for elementary and middle school students. Designed by a teacher, the activities are matched to specific grade levels and focus on clean energy education. Our "Bright Ideas" blog is one of the highest-traffic sections of our website and offers a way to educate the next generation about the importance of making smart choices about energy. Expanding our 
Community Solar PortfolioIn 2021, we placed 38 community solar projects totaling 94 MW into service. These projects will serve 8,500+ commercial and residential customers and bring the total community solar projects in service to 435 MW across Colorado, Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, and New York. In addition, we completed over 60 rounds of funding to raise capital in support of 114 MW of community solar projects.Community Solar Policy Development in IllinoisClearway led the industry in our efforts to improve Illinois’ community solar program through the passage of the Climate and Equitable Jobs Act (CEJA). This legislation mitigated and resolved risks related to the value of renewable energy credits that had been created by the previous statute and allows for a very significant expansion of the state’s community solar program. The more stable, pro-community solar policies introduced by CEJA have allowed us to use alternative underwriting scenarios, thus driving value for our customers while expanding our project footprint in the state.  