Environmental Stewardship Clearway’s focus on clean energy production is rooted in a desire to protect and conserve the natural resources around us. Our commitment to environmental stewardship begins with understanding the potential and actual impacts of our projects on animal, bird, and plant species, and preventing or mitigating these impacts when they occur. Environmental performance at our operational sites is tracked through our environmental management system, which is also used to monitor and report incidents, and ensure we are in compliance with relevant laws and regulations. Material information including key performance indicators (KPIs), metrics, and if applicable, any incidents, violations, inspections by agencies, or the emergence of potential risks is reported to senior management on at least a monthly basis, and in turn to our Board of Directors. In addition, numerous quarterly and annual performance metrics are reported to our owners. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL METRICSClearway Energy, Inc. METRIC TONS OF CO SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 2018 1.2 million 0.1 million 2019 1.2 million 0.1 million 2020 1.2 million 0.1 million Clearway Energy Group (Renewable Assets)2020 Fuel consumption (vehicles)ii 103,422 gallons Electricity use (offices and buildings) 12,029 MWh Water use 1,090,502 gallonsiv Hazardous waste None Other non-hazardous waste 851,400 pounds Oil recycled 19,450 gallons162,213 pounds i  Amounts are based on data available and tracked in 2020.   ii  Fuel type consisted of 80% unleaded and 20% diesel.iii  This was the amount used to wash solar panels and does not represent our total usage.iv  Water use is tracked at 51% of our sites.Mesquite Star Wind 419 MW, TexasThis site was constructed and achieved commercial operation in 2020. The preconstruction site survey found two potential wetlands, which could contain environmentally sensitive areas or wildlife habitat. To ensure that these areas remained undisturbed during the construction process, they were protected with fences and signs, and will be regularly inspected by Clearway environmental staff. 2020 ESG Report  |  37 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP2020 Environmental HighlightsVirtual site assessments. Our environmental team visits each operational site at least once a year to guide site managers through environmental regulatory requirements and identify performance achievements, as well as areas for improvement. In 2020, COVID-19 safety protocols meant these self-assessments – which include visiting areas of the site and looking at specific issues – were conducted virtually.Review of our environmental programs. The environmental programs we implemented in 2018 and 2019, our first full year of operations as a standalone entity, were originally created when our company separated from NRG Energy, Inc. In 2020, having tested these programs for two years in the field, we drew on our experiences to review and adjust them to more closely reflect Clearway’s activities. Restructuring of our waste management program. We streamlined our waste management documentation to create a holistic program and added a waste minimization/pollution prevention plan that aligns with the requirements of the State of California and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The plan helps operational site managers reduce waste with guidance on procedures for recycling pallets, cardboard, and other waste materials, including defective solar panels. A key benefit of this new plan is that it has helped us identify materials left over after construction and ensure these materials are removed by the contractors for reuse or recycling, thereby dramatically reducing the amount of excess material that remains on site. In addition, the use of a standardized plan across all of our operational sites helps ensure consistent adherence and promotes best practices. Collecting data on office energy use. Our corporate offices are in buildings shared by other occupants, so we are not able to precisely quantify the amount of electricity we use. However, in 2020 we created a system to estimate usage based on square footage, and we also implemented a program to track electricity consumption by the operations and maintenance buildings at our sites. We look forward to using this information in the future to understand our energy use and identify areas where we can improve our energy conservation.Ongoing wildlife incident reporting and awareness training. All of our field employees are trained in our wildlife incident reporting procedures and receive supplementary species-based awareness training tailored to the site(s) at which they work. They are required to refresh their training annually, and in 2020 we began offering these trainings virtually through our learning management system.Ongoing support for wind-wildlife research. As part of our effort to ensure clean energy production can expand while protecting biodiversity, in 2020 we joined the board of the American Wind Wildlife Institute, and we’re also founding members of the Wind Wildlife Research Fund. The Fund is an innovative, industry-led initiative that pools resources to develop science-based solutions to wildlife challenges faced by the wind industry, enabling companies to optimize both wildlife conservation and wind energy production. In 2020, we helped fund another round of research projects on critical issues and were pleased to see the results of the Fund’s first projects published in peer-reviewed journals. Mountain Wind 2 80 MW, WyomingIn 2019, we installed an IdentiFlight system at this site. IdentiFlight is an optical, machine-learning technology designed to detect and track eagles and send a signal to temporarily stop individual turbines in the eagle’s path, avoiding the need for more extensive curtailment. This highly sophisticated system has been proven to be as effective as trained human observers and is one of many innovative technical solutions developed to protect wildlife while harnessing the power of the wind. Mountain Wind 2’s IdentiFlight system was operational throughout most of 2020, and its use enabled us to produce more clean power generation than would have been possible with less targeted curtailment. We plan to install another IdentiFlight system at Mountain Wind 1 in 2021.  /var/folders/75/chb1w3ls4b75ntlk53x3v5mc0000gn/T/com.microsoft.Word/Content.MSO/ADCBFB35.tmp/var/folders/75/chb1w3ls4b75ntlk53x3v5mc0000gn/T/com.microsoft.Word/Content.MSO/C0A1480B.tmpENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPA Closer Look Minimizing Our Impact at Rosamond Central SolarLocated in Kern County, California, the 192 MW Rosamond Central solar site achieved commercial operation in late 2020 and is expected to generate enough clean energy to power 71,000 homes annually. Some parts of the Rosamond site footprint contain habitat suitable for Swainson’s hawk and the western burrowing owl, both of which are protected, so when construction began in late 2019, a 560-acre conservation easement was created for these two species. During the construction phase of any project, we retain biologists to monitor the site for potential new or unexpected impacts to wildlife. After construction had begun at Rosamond Central, the biologists discovered a female San Joaquin kit fox had established a natal den (a den containing newborn pups) within the project footprint. Construction in that area was immediately halted and a protective zone was established around the den. After approximately three weeks, the mother fox moved the pups to a new den outside of the project footprint. A biologist inspected the natal den to ensure it was empty before construction in that protective zone was resumed. Water for Wildlife on the Carrizo PlainLocated in southeastern San Luis Obispo County, California, about 100 miles northwest of Los Angeles, the Carrizo Plain is the largest single native grassland remaining in California, and home to many protected or vulnerable species. The Carrizo Plain National Monument is managed by the Bureau of Land Management, and contains the historic Goodwin House, which is managed by the Carrizo Plain Conservancy (CPC). In 2020, Clearway donated $12,000 to enable CPC to purchase and install a solar array for the well that supplies water to the Goodwin House. The CPC also intends to restore a non-functioning wildlife water supply from the well as part of the project.  Whooo’s on Critter Patrol?Clearway Community Solar has several sites nestled in Minnesota farmland, which is home to abundant populations of squirrels, mice, and other small rodents. The solar farms offer convenient structures for nesting, protection from predators, and shelter from Minnesota’s cold winters – as well as lots of wiring to gnaw on. The resulting damage to the sites’ cabling can cost tens of thousands of dollars annually.Clearway Community Solar’s operations andmaintenance team decided to turn to MotherNature to help keep local rodent populations incheck. With guidance from the environmentalteam, owl nesting boxes and perches wereinstalled at each of the sites in the fall of 2020.It is hoped that the boxes will attract barred owls and possibly eastern screech owls, and that the perches will attract great horned owls – and that more owls will mean fewer rodents and fewer cables to repair! To monitor owl activity at these nest sites, wildlife cameras were installed to observe each nest and determine whether it becomes occupied. 