OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIESOrigination & Business DevelopmentOur Business ActivitiesProject DevelopmentThe Clearway enterprise is a full-scope renewable energy development and operations platform with 5 GW of wind, solar, and energy storage under ownership and more than 10 GW of renewable energy under development as of December 31, 2020. We actively participate in every stage of the lifecycle of our projects – from origination and development, through construction and financing, to commercial operation and long-term ownership. Clearway strives to create an enduring platform for our customers, counterparties, partners, affiliates, and stakeholders.  Engineering & ProcurementA 5 GIGAWATT RENEWABLE FLEET Construction ManagementRenewable Portfolio Growth (MW) in 2020Project FinanceCommercial OperationsOUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIESABOUT CLEARWAYClearway is one of the largest renewable energy companies in the United States.Our 2020 Renewable Energy FootprintClearway’s Renewable Portfolio5 GWUnder Ownership & In Operation5 GWUnder Asset Management1.3 GW Solar5 Main Offices3.2 GW Wind300 MW Community& Distributed Solar3.6 GWUnder Self-OperationsClearway’s Conventional and Thermal Portfolio10 GWIn Development & Construction$9.3 BCapital Raised(Cumulative)ConventionalThermal** To better reflect its value as a comprehensive energy solutions provider and to the communities it serves, as of 2021, Clearway Energy, Inc.’s thermal portfolio has been rebranded as Clearway Community Energy.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Development Highlights4.7 GW of wind and wind repowering projects under development across eleven states, including 460 MW of projects that commenced construction in 2020 and are expected to begin operations in 2021.3.7 GW of utility-scale solar projects under development in nine states. In 2020, our development team was successful in securing discretionary land use permit applications for more than 842 MW of utility-scale solar projects.1.5 GW of battery energy storage under development in California, Hawaii, Massachusetts, and Texas, including new solar-plus-storage projects, standalone storage projects, and battery retrofits for sites in our existing solar fleet.150 MW of community solar projects under development sites in Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, and New York, including 98 MW of projects that commenced construction in 2020.A ROBUST DEVELOPMENT PIPELINEComprised of experienced project developers and subject matter experts in transmissionand market strategy, land use permitting, and real estate transactions, Clearway EnergyGroup’s development team works closely with property owners, local governments,utilities, state and federal environmental agencies, technical consultants, and otherstakeholders to ensure our projects are responsibly sited and developed. We ended2020 with a development pipeline of more than 10 GW that includes over 100 projects inmore than 20 states.Clearway Energy Group’s 10 GW Development PipelineBy Project Type (MW)Wind Repowered WindUtility-scale SolarDistributed SolarEnergy StorageBy Project Stage (MW)ProspectEarly IntermediateAdvanced Construction16  |  2020 ESG ReportOUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIESUtility-Scale SolarEXPANDING OUR PORTFOLIO In 2020, we expanded our renewable energy fleet by more than a gigawatt by achieving commercial operation on 192 MW of new utility-scale solar and 579 MW of new wind sites, in addition to repowering 321 MW of wind sites.We also brought 26 MW of community solar online, and we entered the storage market by completing 12 solar-plus-storage sites in Massachusetts totaling 30 MWh of battery storage.Delivering Clean EnergyIn 2020, we built more than 1.1 GW of wind and solar sites, quadrupling the amount we built in 2019.Technology 2019 2020 Utility-scale solar 110 MW 192 MW Community solar 39 MW 26 MW Wind -- 579 MW Repowered wind 122 MW 321 MW Total  271 MW 1,118 MW Rosamond Central Solar192 MW, CaliforniaUtility-Scale WindMesquite Star Wind419 MW, TexasRattlesnake Flat Wind160 MW, WashingtonWind RepowersWildorado Wind161 MW, Texas Langford Wind160 MW, TexasOUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Portfolio HighlightsRosamond CentralvideoAt the end of 2020, we achieved commercial operations at the 192 MW Rosamond Central solar site located in Kern County, California. Rosamond Central is contracted under power purchase agreements with East Bay Community Energy and Clean Power Alliance, both community choice aggregators providing a diverse range of power options to regional customers, and the City of Palo Alto Utilities, which has administered Palo Alto’s electric power system for 120 years. Comprised of approximately 609,000 individual solar panels, the site created more than 600 jobs during construction and will sustain several permanent operations and maintenance jobs. Rosamond Central also represents a $5 million investment in Kern County through tax revenue to support area public services and will generate enough clean energy to power more than 71,000 homes each year. In 2020, Clearway partnered with East Bay Community Energy to distribute $250,000 in grants to more than two dozen community-based organizations in Alameda County providing emergency relief and to purchase personal protective equipment for area frontline workers and at-risk community members during the pandemic.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Portfolio HighlightsMesquite Star WindvideoIn June 2020, we commenced operation of the Mesquite Star wind farm. Located in one of the windiest corridors of West Texas, Mesquite Star is a 419 MW site in Fisher County, Texas, that is expected to generate enough clean energy to power 130,000 homes annually. The site has also had a positive impact on the local economy, creating more than 300 jobs during construction, more than a dozen ongoing operations and maintenance jobs, and generating millions of dollars in local investments.Mesquite Star is contracted under an aggregation of five long-term virtual power purchase agreements with corporate and institutional customers, enabling each of them to help achieve their sustainability goals and meet their carbon-reduction targets:•	Ecolab will offset 100% of its U.S. electricity demand in North America and achieve a 25% reduction in global GHG emissions with its 100 MW virtual power purchase agreement, an important step in Ecolab’s journey to halve its carbon emissions by 2030.•	Lowe’s has a goal of reducing its emissions by 40% by 2030. Lowe’s purchased 100 MW of Mesquite Star’s capacity, enough clean energy to power the equivalent of all 143 Lowe’s stores in Texas.•	Cisco’s portion of the project will provide approximately 40% of the electricity annually at Cisco’s data centers in the cities of Richardson and Allen, Texas, and reduce Cisco’s Scope 2 GHG emissions in Texas by more than 18,000 metric tons per year.•	Intuit’s participation in the project enabled the company to hit its goal of sourcing 100% of its electricity from renewables 10 years early, spurring its sustainability team to set a new climate goal.•	Brown University has a goal of getting to net zero carbon emissions by 2040. Its contracted portion of Mesquite Star will offset about 30% of campus electricity use, cutting net campus emissions by 15%.Helping Our Customers Meet Their Sustainability GoalsAs organizations around the world have committed to making their operations more sustainable, demand for renewable energy among corporate and institutional buyers has grown. In the U.S. corporate buyers of renewable energy have emerged as a defining market force, procuring more than 30 GW cumulatively between 2015 and 2020, and almost 11 GW in 2020 alone.In 2020, the number of companies committing to take climate action by setting science-based targets surpassed 1,000 worldwide, and more than 280 companies globally have committed to powering their operations with 100% renewable energy. In the U.S. they’re joined by over 170 cities, more than ten counties and eight states that have set similar goals for their communities.We’re proud to count many of these buyers among our customers, and to play a role in helping them achieve their sustainability targets. As of 2020, we’ve signed over 140 agreements totaling more than 1,300 MW with businesses, corporations, educational institutions, and governments across the country.In 2020 alone, we signed more than 650 MW of new renewable contracts with corporations, universities, and municipalities. This represents an increase of more than 500% compared to similar contracts signed in 2019, and points to an important trend that we believe will continue to benefit our business for many years to come.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Portfolio HighlightsRattlesnake Flat WindvideoIn December 2020, Clearway expanded its clean energy footprintinto Washington State with Rattlesnake Flat, a 160 MW wind farmin Adams County that will generate enough electricity to power38,000 homes. The 57-turbine site created 250 union jobs duringthe construction phase and will sustain 10 permanent operationsand maintenance jobs. During construction, Rattlesnake Flatcontributed $12 million to the local economy through wages andlocal expenditures, and a further $350,000 will be invested eachyear during operations in the form of landowner payments, localexpenditures, and other area investments. In addition, the sitewill contribute $1.5 million in property tax revenue in its first yearof operation, followed by an average of approximately $700,000each year for the next 30 years.Rattlesnake Flat is contracted with Avista Corporation under a 20-year power purchase agreement. The site was constructed with additional measures in place to keep workers safe and healthy amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and Clearway donated funds to local food banks and community organizations providing relief to those in need, including a $20,000 joint donation with Avista as part of the site’s virtual ribbon-cutting ceremony. Rattlesnake Flat was the first to benefit from the 100% sales tax exemption provided under Washington State’s Clean Energy Transition Act, legislation that requires that 100% of electricity sold in the Evergreen State come from clean energy sources by 2045.The December 15, 2020 ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Rattlesnake Flat wind farm was a virtual event. Leadership from Clearway and Avista were joined by Washington State Governor Jay Inslee, Commissioner of Public Lands Hilary Franz, Adams County Commissioner John Marshall, and Adams County Development Council Chair David Baumann, as well as Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy CEO Shannon Sturgil.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Portfolio HighlightsWildorado Wind RepowerIn early 2020, we completed our second repowering project inTexas. The 161 MW Wildorado wind farm is located in OldhamCounty and was originally constructed in 2007. RepoweringWildorado with more modern turbine equipment extendedthe site’s life, increased its production, and lowered operationsand maintenance costs. The project created nearly 100 jobsduring construction and generated hundreds of thousands ofdollars in local spending. The 198 old blades removed duringthe repowering will be recycled in the first quarter of 2021. Theblades will be crushed and shipped to cement kilns where theywill replace coal as a fuel source. Wildorado generates enoughclean energy each year to power 57,000 Texas homes, and iscontracted with Xcel Energy. Langford Wind RepowervideoIn early December 2020, we completed the repowering of the Langford wind farm, our third repowered wind project in Texas, increasing its nameplate capacity by 10 MW to 160 MW. Located in the town of Christoval, Langford will now produce enough clean energy to power nearly 75,000 Texas homes. Langford originally achieved commercial operations in 2009, and the repowering will increase its operational life by more than 10 years. The Langford repowering created more than 200 jobs during construction and will support several permanent onsite operational positions. Construction activities also drove more than $700,000 in spending at local businesses and helped raise an additional $48,000 in food drive contributions.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Portfolio HighlightsCommunity SolarClearway has become a market leader in community solar with 300 MW of community solar and distributed solar projects nationwide serving more than 20,000 customers. Massachusetts Massachusetts’ SMART program is designed to incentivize solar paired with battery storage to boost grid reliability and climate resiliency. In 2020, we brought 9 projects online, adding 24 MW paired with 30 MWh of storage. This brought the total community solar capacity we’ve installed in the state to 90 MW, making Clearway one of the largest operators of community solar in the Commonwealth.The towns of Stoneham, Winchester, and Natick subscribed to Clearway’s new community solar projects, all paired with energy storage. Combined, these subscriptions will generate enough renewable energy each year to offset carbon emissions from burning 12 million pounds of coal. The towns are among the first customers to subscribe to Clearway’s Cranberry Lane portfolio of community solar farms, which includes eight projects delivering a robust investment of over $120 million in Massachusetts’ electricity infrastructure.Community solar subscriptions will help the Commonwealth achieve its renewable portfolio standard of 35% by 2030, as well as its target of 1,000 MWh of energy storage by the end of 2025. The projects also advance the clean energy workforce and economic impact, driving millions of dollars of investment in 
the state.Illinois In 2020, we expanded into Illinois by starting construction on a 40 MW portfolio comprised of 19 projects that will be located throughout the state, a significant economic investment that will create more than 70 jobs during construction as well as permanent positions once the sites are operational. The clean power generated will be the equivalent of removing 12,000 cars from the road each year, planting over 70,000 acres of forest in the U.S., or offsetting emissions from burning 60 million pounds of coal.Fifteen of these projects totaling 30 MW were under construction by year end and are expected to be online in 2021, when they will serve more than 11,000 residential and commercial subscribers in the ComEd and Ameren service territories.Customers subscribed to these projects through the Illinois Shines Community Solar Program, which was designed as part of the Future Energy Jobs Act. Notable commercial subscribers include OSF HealthCare, the Village of Fox River Grove, and Northwestern University, Clearway’s single largest community solar customer in the state. Community solar will support Illinois’ goal of supplying 25% of overall electric sales with cost-effective renewable energy resources by 2025.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIESCLEARWAY ENTERS THE 
SOLAR-PLUS-STORAGE MARKET2020 marks Clearway’s entry into the energy storage market with 26 MW of solar-plus-storage projects completed in Massachusetts. Adding batteries to renewable energy sites greatly enhances their contribution to the electrical grid by helping to mitigate intermittency, making it possible to time-shift energy generation to help meet peak demand and reducing strain on the electric system during times of high demand and low power production. Our development pipeline includes more than 1.5 GW of new energy storage projects across the country that total more than 6,500 MWh cumulatively.Clearway’s Battery Storage Development PipelineMWhs by Region and Targeted Year of Operation2020 Solar-Plus-Storage HighlightsMassachusetts We completed the development of 9 solar-plus-storage sites totaling 24 MW of solar and 30 MWh of storage in Massachusetts as part of the state’s SMART program. Hawaii In 2020 we advanced two solar-plus-storage sites in Hawaii that will provide 300 MWh of energy storage as part of the second phase of Clearway’s utility-scale solar projects in Hawaii contracted with Hawaiian Electric. Construction on these projects will begin in 2021.California In 2020, we received approval to construct one of the largest solar-plus-storage projects in California and were awarded a contract with PG&E for 61 MW of energy storage capacity. Known as the Daggett complex, the site will include 482 MW of solar paired with 450 MWh of storage. Daggett will create significant local economic benefits, including 500 construction jobs, an estimated $18.5 million in additional property tax revenue, and $210 million in local spending during construction. 2020 ESG Report  |  23 OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 O&M HighlightsDelivering exceptional contract availability, including achieving 100% availability at 29 sites on a single day in September, 2020.Responding to the COVID-19 pandemic by establishing a backup control center in Phoenix and assigning separate teams to work at each location. Under normal circumstances, all of our utility-scale sites are run by our control center in our Scottsdale offices. We created a separate backup control center to reduce contact between employees and provided redundancy to ensure business continuity in case a team member became ill. Advanced air filtration systems were installed at both control centers, and employees observed safety protocols by maintaining social distancing and wearing masks.Boosting clean energy production with self-performance O&M. Although a small number of our sites are under legacy third-party O&M contracts, in 2020 we self-performed O&M on approximately 90% of the renewable assets we manage for Clearway Energy, Inc., and this percentage will continue to rise in future years as we bring new sites online. This focus on self-performing O&M has yielded significant benefits, including reducing O&M costs and increasing fleetwide average availability. Increasing the value generated by our solar panels by using forward-looking estimates to optimize cleaning schedules based on actual soiling and potential revenue. This was particularly effective at sites that benefit from time-of-day pricing, and it allowed us to ensure that our solar sites were able to maximize their clean energy production when it mattered most.INDUSTRY-LEADING ASSET MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCEClearway’s 350-person operations and maintenance (O&M) team is a core factor in our success as an independent owner and operator of renewable energy sites. The O&M team is tasked with ensuring that Clearway’s wind, solar, and energy storage assets safely and cost-effectively generate as much clean energy as possible. Our in-house experts begin adding value early in the process of transitioning projects from construction to operations by implementing robust testing protocols as well as stringent safety and performance requirements during commissioning. During the operational lifespan of our sites, our experienced and conscientious team delivers superior environmental and safety performance as they work to maximize production.Maximizing Clean Energy ProductionWe want our renewable energy assets to generate as much clean power as possible for as long as possible. Our approach to O&M seeks to boost availability and extend the life of our sites with preemptive maintenance.Closely monitoring the performance of our fleet enables us to identify problems, conduct root cause analyses, and find ways to avoid or reduce similar issues in the future. We work to minimize “lost energy,” which is electricity that theoretically could have been generated based on weather conditions but wasn’t produced for a variety of reasons. While external factors like curtailment are beyond our control, we analyze issues that we can address, like excessive vibration or extreme temperatures that could lead to component failures or reduced equipment performance. Maintenance on our wind sites is scheduled at times when low wind speeds ensure the work won’t impact availability or result in production losses. We use drones to inspect the condition of wind turbine blades and identify degradation that requires corrective maintenance, as well as to survey our solar sites for hot spots or failed panels.OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIESOPERATIONAL EXCELLENCEClearway is a world-class asset owner-operator of renewable generation with 5 GW under ownership and asset management and 3.6 GW under self-operation.Asset Management•	5 GW under asset management•	350 projects, 7 RTOsOperations CenterOur in-house team manages all contractual arrangements for Clearway’s portfolio of operating projects. As an owner and operator, Clearway has a 
track record of maximizing the value of our projects.Onsite MonitoringState-of-the-art 24/7 operations center with cutting-edge monitoring and analytics at Clearway’s office in Scottsdale, AZ.Operations & Maintenance•	3.6 GW under self-operation •	Includes >1,200 solar inverters, >1,100 wind turbinesWind O&MClearway hires best-in-class technical operators in-house to serve our operating assets and to optimize fleet performance.Solar O&MClearway’s team includes experts in corrective and predictive maintenance, plant design, interconnection, regulatory compliance, and performance analytics.Smoke from the 2020 fire season reduced the sun’s intensity at our solar sites in Utah and California, resulting in minor production losses. Dust and ash from the fires also resulted in unusual levels of soiling on the solar panels at our California Valley Solar Ranch (CVSR) site, making it necessary to perform a second, additional cleaning. We switched to dry panel cleaning at CVSR in 2019, a decision that saved 750,000 gallons of water in 2020.2020 ESG Report  |  25 OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES2020 Financing HighlightsFINANCING A CLEAN ENERGY FUTUREClearway’s renewable development growth will be fueled by more than $2.7 billion in committed capital raised in 2020 to support our development and construction pipeline. Our capital markets team has extensive experience,working with over 25 tax equity investors and lenders, allowing us to fullyfinance each project we develop.Utility-Scale Wind & SolarIn 2020, Clearway Energy Group closed on financing to support 10 utility-scale projects across its portfolio. This included 749 MW of solar, 1,355 MW of wind, and 395 MW of storage projects located in Washington, California, Texas, Hawaii, and West Virginia, in addition to 321 MW of repowered wind in Texas. This financing represented more than $2 billion in committed funds from over 20 different counterparties. $2.7 Billion in Capital Raised in 2020Wind 
Utility-scale Solar
Distributed Solar
Community SolarIn 2020, we also closed financing on two Community Solar Funds. Community Solar Fund 5 is comprised of 21 projects totaling 76 MW across Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, and New York, most of which were placed in service in 2020. Community Solar Fund 6 is comprised of 19 projects totaling 66 MW that will serve commercial and industrial customers and around 5,000 residential customers across Illinois, Massachusetts, and New York. The majority of these projects will be placed in service in 2021.Construction Debt
Tax Equity
Cash Equity
Term Debt
OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIESA Closer Look The Lighthouse PortfolioAccelerating the Shift to Zero-Carbon Electricity In December 2020, Clearway Energy Group announced the sale of a 1.6 GW portfolio of windand solar projects – combined with 1,580 MWh of energy storage – to our public affiliateClearway Energy, Inc. and Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital, Inc.The transaction began to take shape in early 2020 as remote communications were quickly becoming the norm due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Inspired by one of the original forms of long-distance communication, we named it the “Lighthouse” portfolio. Comprised of seven renewable energy projects located in four states, the portfolio represents a nearly $3 billion investment in carbon-free power. The transaction was our largest to date, as well as our most geographically and technologically diverse. Together, the projects – some of which are already operational – will generate enough affordable, clean energy to power the equivalent of 640,000 U.S. homes each year, while avoiding carbon emissions equivalent to taking 820,000 cars off the road.The projects’ economic benefits are equally significant. This portfolio will create an estimated 2,500 construction and operations jobs and contribute an estimated $464 million in landowner, state, and local tax payments over the projects’ operational lifespans, illustrating the tremendous opportunities created by investments in renewable energy. Our hope is that the pathbreaking size and structure of the Lighthouse portfolio will serve as a beacon that leads the renewable energy industry toward financing the deployment of wind, solar, and energy storage at the scale and speed necessary to address climate change. Various targets have been proposed for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the U.S. power sector, and they all rely on increasing the percentage of electricity delivered by clean renewable energy. Corporate and institutional customers are one of the fastest-growing drivers of demand for renewable energy, and their choices are reshaping the industry. Brown University, Cisco, Ecolab, Intuit, Deere & Company, Lowe’s, Toyota, and Whirlpool Corporation have all entered into long-term agreements to sustainably power their operations with renewable energy from projects included in the Lighthouse portfolio. Several investor-owned and municipal utilities, retail suppliers, and community choice aggregators – AEP Energy, City of Palo Alto, Clean Power Alliance, East Bay Community Energy, and Hawaiian Electric – have also contracted with projects included in the portfolio to supply renewable power to their customers.A transaction the size of Clearway’s 1.6 GW Lighthouse portfolio demonstrates that market forces are aligned to deliver sizeable transactions that support an aggressive trajectory toward achieving meaningful change. We are committed to growing our development portfolio at scale to meet America’s demand for renewable energy and long-term solutions to climate change. 