COMMITMENT TO OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCECLEARWAY’S STANDARDS AND VALUESClearway Energy Group LLC is committed to sustainability in all aspects of our operations and governance. We are guided by five operating principles, in conjunction with a robust framework of policies that ensure our actions are fair, balanced, and ethical. HOW CLEARWAY MANAGES SUSTAINABILITYAt Clearway Energy Group LLC, we consider sustainability a core element of our business. 2019 was our first full year of operations, and under the leadership of our CEO we began the process of collecting data and reporting on the sustainability of our operations in alignment with the GRI framework. In addition to providing greater understanding of our impacts, this will help establish a performance baseline that will guide us toward improved sustainability and position us to benchmark future achievements.   We intend to formalize our sustainability reporting process in 2020. This report provides information about our sustainability performance in 2019, during which time our policies and procedures related to health and safety were based on the ISO 45001 standards, and our environmental policies and procedures followed the ISO 14001 standards. ETHICS AND ACCOUNTABILITY We consider ethics and accountability to be of the utmost importance. Our Code of Conduct addresses ethics matters and expectations, and employees are encouraged to bring concerns to their supervisor, the General Counsel, or the Vice President of Human Resources. We also offer a telephonic Ethics Helpline and a web-based Ethics Alertline, which are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They are administered by an outside company to ensure confidentiality and anonymity, if desired. Calls are not traced or recorded, and the company does not keep any identifiable information regarding the sender of an online communication. All legitimate concerns are objectively investigated and, where appropriate, remedial measures are taken. We prohibit retaliation of any kind against individuals who report concerns in good faith. GOVERNANCEBOARD OF DIRECTORSClearway Energy Group LLC is governed by a Board of Directors comprised of 6 individuals and chaired by Jonathan Bram, a founding partner of Clearway’s parent company GIP who serves on GIP’s Investment and Operating Committees. Our company’s purpose, values, and strategy are determined by the Board of Directors and our leadership. The Board of Directors, Clearway officers and employees are committed to our shared mission, values, and operating principles.Our leadership team is comprised of 17 executives and department-heads that have extensive experience across their specific disciplines as well as deep expertise in the renewable energy industry. Every individual brings knowledge, perspective, and an innovative mindset to our initiatives and goals. With every idea, and each effort across departments, we come together as a unified team.The decision to report on our sustainability performance was initiated by our CEO in coordination with our Board of Directors. They invited our leadership team to undertake the task of delivering this report and reviewed and approved it prior to its release.  RISK MANAGEMENTRisks to the long-term viability of our business include the availability and price of major project components like wind turbines, solar panels, and batteries, as well as future price trends and technological advances related to those components. The international, national and state-level policy and regulatory landscape also has the potential to impact our business.Risks to the viability of specific projects include the ability to interconnect to the regional electric grid, as well as the availability of capacity on the transmission lines used to deliver the electricity produced from our facilities to end users.Clearway Energy Group LLC’s Board of Directors and senior management facilitate the effective management of risk through proper organizational structure and reporting relationships; demands for timely and meaningful performance, compliance and risk reporting; and by integrating themselves into an appropriate governance hierarchy regarding risk issues.We have a robust risk policy that serves as the foundation document for our risk control infrastructure. The policy provides the framework and controls necessary to ensure the identification, evaluation, quantification and management of risk associated with delivering the objectives of our Board of Directors and senior management, and employees are required to acknowledge they understand it. Our risk policy identifies the roles and responsibilities of key actors in Clearway Energy Group LLC’s risk management structure, which include the:•	Board of Directors•	Audit and Risk Committee•	Risk Management Committee •	Capital Committee•	Compensation Committee•	Chief Financial Officer•	Chief Compliance OfficerZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTIONClearway Energy Group LLC does not engage in bribery, kickbacks or other acts of corruption. We’re scrupulous in our business dealings and equally careful in our interactions with public or government officials. We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations governing political activities and communications, including accurate reporting of lobbying activities, campaign contributions and gifts to public officials.Corruption in all its forms has serious legal consequences for the companies and individuals who become involved in it. More importantly, it is a terribly destructive force that distorts markets, stifles economic development and wreaks havoc on local communities. We strictly comply with the letter and spirit of all applicable antibribery and anticorruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). In 2019, there were no incidents of corruption identified within our organization.COMPETITION AND ANTITRUSTClearway Energy Group LLC is committed to competing lawfully based upon the merits of our products and services. We comply fully with antitrust and competition laws everywhere we engage in business. These laws vary from country to country, but in general, they protect consumers by prohibiting competitors from acting together to control prices or to reduce competition. In 2019, there were no incidents of, or legal actions taken against us for, anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices.CONFLICTS OF INTERESTAs a company, we commit to make business decisions based upon the best interests of Clearway Energy Group LLC, and not allow these decisions to be influenced by personal considerations. Our Code of Conduct discusses the potential for conflicts of interest or the appearance thereof, and provides clear guidelines for how employees and our suppliers should avoid, disclose, or report such conflicts.  DATA PRIVACYIn the course of work, our employees and suppliers may have access to non-public, confidential information regarding Clearway Energy Group LLC, its employees, customers and other third parties. Our Code of Conduct requires our employees, suppliers and their subcontractors to keep this information safe and secure. In 2019, we had no known breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data.ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTSASSESSING OUR IMPACTSWe rely on a robust set of criteria when determining the potential impact of our activities, and our environmental practices are aligned with ISO 14001 standards. Assessments are performed in the course of siting and permitting new developments, as part of the evaluation of proposed expansions or introduction of new activities to existing facilities, and in the context of due diligence for new acquisitions. As a result of our team’s consistent application of this approach and our implementation of safeguards to ensure compliance with local, state and federal regulations, in 2019 we did not experience any unplanned project delays related to ecological impacts.The goal of impact assessments is the avoidance and minimization of impacts to sensitive natural and community resources. Impact assessments help guide our activities and reduce our footprint. Consideration is given to a wide range of factors, including:•	Land use compatibility and surrounding land uses•	Biological resources, including state and federally-protected plant and animal species •	Hydrological resources, including jurisdictional wetlands and other water bodies•	Geological resources, including erosion considerations•	Cultural and historical resources, including archaeological sensitivity and protected historical places or structures•	Flood plain management•	Community considerations, such as visual impacts, noise and shadow flicker, as applicable•	Notifications to the Federal Aviation Administration and Department of Defense, as applicable•	Federal, state or local permitting requirements unique to the asset and jurisdiction
Where applicable, the following United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) guidance documents are incorporated into the impact assessment and permitting process to establish monitoring and mitigation measures: •	USFWS Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines (2012) •	Eagle Conservation Plan Guidance - Module 1 - Land-Based Wind Energy (2013)•	Indiana Bat Section 7 and Section 10 Guidance for Wind Energy Projects (2011)•	The Migratory Bird Treaty Act (1918), where applicable •	Other agency guidance, as availableCLEARWAY ENERGY GROUP LLC’S ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING PROGRAMClearway Energy Group LLC believes that comprehensive training is crucial to the success of our company and enables us to meet our global environmental commitments. Our environmental training program delivers orientation and initial training of both new and internally transferring personnel, as well as ongoing refresher training for all personnel. All staff and contractors working under the direction of Clearway undergo training to carry out the environmental responsibilities associated with their positions. Third-party contractors are required to have their own training programs that assure the safety of their personnel and compliance with all legal requirements. In some cases, we may share our environmental training program with third parties to help align program expectations and best practices.Employees and contractors are required to comply with all applicable federal, state and local legal requirements at all times. MEASURING WHAT MATTERS: 
KPIs AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTAt Clearway, we recognize the importance of creating environmental KPIs (key performance indicators) to manage our environmental impacts and upholding our commitment to continuous improvement in this area. As a newly formed company, we are in the process of identifying leading indicators and developing environmental KPIs that will: •	Set portfolio-wide environmental targets that align with Clearway’s strategic plans/goals•	Drive improvement in environmental programs (e.g., training, inspections, etc.) or performance (e.g., waste generation, greenhouse gas emissions, water use, etc.)•	Focus on measurable outcomes whenever possible (e.g., waste generated and disposed of) •	Set timeframes of one or more years with interim milestones, as long as continual improvement can be monitored and demonstratedThe creation of KPIs involves developing and implementing action plans, tracking and reporting on progress, and taking steps to address underperformance. We look forward to 
sharing our KPIs and our achievements in meeting them in future reports. ENVIRONMENT OVER PRODUCTIONOne of our most fundamental commitments is embodied in our “Environment Over Production” policy, which establishes that energy production never takes precedence over environmental compliance. Clearway Energy Group LLC is serious about operating in an environmentally responsible manner, and the expectations we communicate with our staff and contractors are as follows:All site workers shall perform work activities in compliance with Clearway environmental policies, federal, state and local environmental laws/permits, and plant design limits.All site workers shall communicate any condition or behavior that could jeopardize the environment, or plant and/or animal species.This policy applies to all facilities owned and operated by Clearway Energy Group LLC and presents the basic guiding policy for all of our facilities, departments, managers and employees. In 2019, we did not have any instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations that resulted in significant fines or non-monetary penalties for non-compliance.GHG EMISSIONSAs a newly-formed company reporting on our first full year of operations, we do not yet have mechanisms in place to track electricity consumption and the associated greenhouse gas emissions for all of our offices and the generation facilities that we own. Work to develop these tracking mechanisms is underway, and we look forward to sharing this information in future reports.An important metric we are able to report is that in 2019, our 4.3 GW portfolio of wind and solar assets allowed our customers to offset an equivalent of approximately 6.95 million metric tons of CO2, which is equivalent to taking 1.5 million passenger vehicles off the road for a year. We also place emphasis on the sustainability of our workspaces—our Houston, Scottsdale and San Francisco offices are all in LEED Gold-certified buildings.WATERIt is important to note that wind and solar facilities do not use water to generate power. This means the renewable generation assets we own and operate don’t put a strain on scarce water supplies needed for agriculture, drinking water, or sanitation. Our water consumption occurs at our corporate offices and the generation facilities that we own and operate. Our corporate offices are in buildings shared by other occupants, so we are not able to quantify the amount of water used by our office-based employees, and we do not yet have mechanisms in place to track or estimate water consumption at all of our facilities.A major use of water that we are able to quantify is for rinsing dust from solar panels at the solar facilities we own and operate so they can produce the maximum amount of clean energy. In 2019, washing solar panels used 25,100 gallons. Our storm water and wastewater management policies comply with federal, state, and local regulations, and are designed to minimize impacts to the natural environment and the communities that surround our project sites. Clearway Energy Group LLC does not use water for any of its industrial processes, and so no discharge permits are required.WASTEClearway Energy Group LLC promotes the minimization of waste generation wherever practical in order to create a sustainable work environment for our personnel, the surrounding community, and the environment at large. All of our waste management procedures comply with federal, state, and local regulations. We also promote the substitution and/or minimization of the use and storage of chemicals wherever practical in order to create a safe work environment for our personnel, the surrounding community, and the environment. Our procedures for handling and storing chemicals also comply with federal, state, and local regulations. All of our procedures related to waste apply to all Clearway personnel, temporary workers, and contractors.In 2019, we generated 107.1 metric tons of non-hazardous waste across our fleet that consisted of used industrial oils, oil filters and oil-contaminated materials. Of this, an estimated 127,000 pounds of oil was recycled. We did not dispose of any hazardous waste, nor did we have any significant or reportable spills in 2019.In our offices, we promote the use of reusable items like coffee cups and refillable water bottles and discourage the use of single-use plastic items. We also use or are transitioning toward the use of compostable kitchenware in several of our locations. All of our office locations recycle standard items like paper, plastic and glass, and with the exception of our Carlsbad office, the building management offers free recycling of electronic goods. BIODIVERSITYClearway Energy Group LLC’s focus on clean energy production is rooted in a desire to protect and conserve the world around us. We are committed to understanding the potential and actual impacts of our projects on animal, bird and plant species, and to correcting or mitigating these impacts when they occur. In the U.S., all power generation projects are required to go through extensive environmental review and permitting processes at the federal, state, and local level. This can include comprehensive environmental impact assessments that evaluate a project’s potential impact on air and water quality, wildlife habitat, biodiversity, and other aspects of the natural environment.Our robust environmental policies and procedures ensure that our development process for new projects meets or exceeds federal, state, and local environmental requirements, and that our existing generation assets operate within the scope of their permits and regulatory approvals.Leading Efforts to Understand 
Wind-Wildlife InteractionsAs part of our effort to ensure clean energy production can expand while protecting biodiversity, we are partners in the American Wind Wildlife Institute, a first-of-its-kind collaboration that brings industry partners together with researchers and conservation organizations to conduct and support scientific research to better understand wind energy’s risks to wildlife and develop solutions to avoid, minimize, and offset those impacts. We’re also founding members of the Wind Wildlife Research Fund, an innovative, industry-led initiative that pools resources to develop science-based solutions to wildlife challenges, enabling companies to optimize both wildlife conservation and wind energy production.Biomonitoring to Protect
Sensitive SpeciesSome of the wind farms in our operations portfolio have the potential to directly affect protected species. These include California condors, bald eagles, golden eagles, whooping cranes, and bats (including hoary, Indiana, big brown, eastern red and tricolor bats). In keeping with our commitment to preserve and protect biodiversity and avoid harming wildlife, we implement rigorous biomonitoring and curtailment protocols at facilities that could impact these species.Under a program managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, California condors are outfitted with lightweight transmitters to track their movement and survival status. These same transmitters can be used to determine their proximity to wind turbines, enabling the stoppage of individual turbines to ensure the birds’ safe passage. These transmitters emit VHF radio signals or GPS location data, enabling trained monitors equipped with special hand-held receivers and binoculars to verify the condor’s location and flight path. If it is determined that the condor’s location and direction of travel could cause it to intersect with one or more wind turbines, the monitors direct operations staff to stop the turbine(s) to protect the condors. For facilities where bald or golden eagles have the potential to interact with wind turbines, human-based monitoring and curtailment is considered the industry best practice and is the method we use most frequently. As with the California condor, eagle monitoring involves specially trained personnel watching the skies and alerting operations staff if an eagle is approaching. However, we’ve gone a step further and in 2019 began the installation of an IdentiFlight system at one of our facilities. IdentiFlight is an optical, machine-learning technology designed to detect and track eagles and send a signal to temporarily stop turbines in the eagle’s path. This highly sophisticated system has been proven to be as effective as trained human observers and is one of many innovative technical solutions developed to protect wildlife while harnessing the power of the wind.Some of our facilities in the Midwest lie within or near a 200-mile wide migratory corridor used by the Aransas-Wood Buffalo population of whooping cranes, which winter in the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge in southeast Texas and migrate to Wood Buffalo National Park in Alberta, Canada to nest. Although whooping cranes typically fly at altitudes well above the reach of wind turbines, the potential exists for individual birds to fly at lower altitudes, or even be on the ground within the project boundary. As such, our facilities in or near this migration corridor have procedures in place to stop turbines as needed during the spring migration (usually from mid-March to mid-May) and fall migration (usually from mid-September to mid-November). These procedures were implemented at the Buckthorn Wind facility in Texas, which began commercial operation in 2019.We have one wind facility in an area with significant bat activity, and we employ “seasonal curtailment” to minimize its impacts. During the summer and fall seasons when bat activity is the highest, the facility’s turbines are stopped if wind speeds are below 5.0 meters per second—if wind speeds are above this cutoff, bats are unlikely to be flying. This approach, which has been shown to help reduce bat mortality, was developed based on a multi-year study and in consultation with a technical advisory committee comprised of federal and state environmental and wildlife agencies. RESTORING NATIVE SHRUBLAND AT CALIFORNIA VALLEY SOLAR RANCHCalifornia Valley Solar Ranch (CVSR) is a 250 MW solar photovoltaic facility operated by Clearway Energy Group LLC that is located on 1,650 acres of open grassland in eastern San Luis Obispo County, California. As part of the development and permitting process, more than 9,000 acres of lands in the vicinity of the site were protected from future development through a series of conservation easements. The lands covered by the conservation easement are monitored and managed by Sequoia Riverlands Trust. Because much of the land in the surrounding region had been previously degraded through grain farming, livestock grazing, and the introduction of invasive plants and weeds, it was determined that a project to restore a portion of this area to its native shrubland would be highly beneficial. In 2019, we implemented an initiative to restore portions of the land in the conservation easement to its natural state through the re-introduction of native grasses and shrubs. The goal of the restoration project is to create a mosaic of shrubland and grasslands that will ultimately provide enhanced habitat for native wildlife species such as the giant kangaroo rat, San Joaquin kit fox, San Joaquin antelope squirrel, and pronghorn antelope. We will continue to monitor and report on the success of the initiative for a period of seven years and may conduct additional plantings if needed.CONSERVING THE BURROWING OWL The Alpine Solar project is a 66 MW solar photovoltaic facility owned by Clearway Energy Group LLC. The project is located in the Antelope Valley of northern Los Angeles County on land that includes Western burrowing owl habitat. The Western burrowing owl is a small ground-nesting bird that uses burrows dug by other animals—usually ground squirrels—for nests. Once extremely common throughout California, burrowing owl populations have declined sharply over the past 50 years, primarily due to extensive habitat loss from the expansion of urban development and agriculture.The Alpine Solar project began commercial operation in 2013, but prior to construction we determined, in coordination with state and local wildlife agencies, that a habitat conservation plan for the burrowing owl was needed. The resulting Burrowing Owl Mitigation and Management Area is a 50-acre conservation easement within the project site that was created to protect land suitable for the restoration and enhancement of burrowing owl nesting and foraging habitat. In 2011, environmental consultants Bloom Biological, Inc., in consultation with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, passively relocated burrowing owls from the project site to the conservation area. The conservation easement is managed by Sequoia Riverlands Trust, which performs quarterly site inspections, reports on its findings, and takes actions as needed to benefit the burrowing owl population, such as removing invasive vegetation and encouraging the growth of native plants. In 2019, they reported that the site is in good condition, with increased coverage of native plant species, and found seven dens that showed signs of use by burrowing owls. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTOur development, construction, operations and maintenance, and asset management teams engage with Clearway Energy Group LLC’s stakeholders on a daily basis. We tailor our development, construction, and maintenance practices to align with our priorities of protecting natural resources and creating positive and lasting relationships with our projects’ landowners and neighbors.Clearway works closely with property owners, local governments, utilities, state and federal environmental agencies, qualified technical consultants, and other stakeholders to ensure our projects are responsibly sited, developed, constructed, and operated. During the project development phase, we may host or attend neighborhood “town halls” to share project details and discuss concerns with local residents. We work with experts in environmental and cultural resources to identify protected species, artifacts, and habitat and implement means to minimize or avoid impacts. Most of our projects require public hearings and permits issued by town councils or county supervisors, who take the economic benefits from our projects (increased tax revenue and the creation of construction and operations jobs) into consideration when determining if this type of development is appropriate for their community.These benefits can be substantial. In 2019, the wind and solar facilities owned and operated by Clearway contributed more than $30 million in property taxes and more than $10 million in landowner payments to their host communities.CLEARWAY ENERGY GROUP LLC STAKEHOLDERSInternal•	Employees  External•	Project lenders and equity investors•	Customers and off-takers •	Vendors and suppliers •	Insurers and guarantors•	Participating landowners •	Non-participating landowners •	Project area communities •	Federal, regional, and local governments •	Permitting authorities •	Regulators and government agencies •	Industry associations •	Non-governmental organizations •	Industry subject matter experts and academics OUR STAKEHOLDERSCustomersClearway Energy Group LLC’s customers range from some of the country’s largest investor-owned utilities and Fortune 500 companies to public sector entities and individual homeowners. We value the trust they have put in our ability to meet their clean energy needs, and we strive to exceed their expectations.  LandownersOur work would not be possible without the partnership of our landowners. As long-term owner-operators of our projects, we prioritize building strong relationships with landowners to ensure a lasting and positive experience for all stakeholders.Local CommunitiesThe communities that host our wind and solar projects are one of our most important stakeholder groups. The sustainability of our business depends on their support, and we strive to create and maintain open lines of communication regarding their needs, expectations and concerns. We also seek to contribute to the success of our host communities through donations, mentoring opportunities, and support for educational initiatives. EPC PartnersClearway Energy Group LLC applies a rigorous set of evaluation criteria to our Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) partners. As part of our EPC Contractor Qualification Assessment program we ensure all our partners adhere to Clearway’s standards of safety, experience, financial strength, and respect for the communities we serve. All of our EPC contractors and sub-contractors are required to hold valid licenses and certifications prior to commencing work. Our large portfolio allows us to continue long-standing relationships with the most capable EPC firms across the country.Equipment SuppliersOur comprehensive and holistic approach to system engineering and design focuses on optimizing durability, longevity, and system uptime over the life of the asset. Clearway Energy Group LLC is incentivized to build systems that will operate as expected and maximize the renewable resource for our customers and the communities we serve. We ensure equipment performance by using only top-tier and proven technologies backed by equipment warranties with robust aftermarket support from the original manufacturers.Development PartnersIn addition to developing renewable energy projects, Clearway acquires utility-scale solar and wind development projects nationwide and community solar projects in specific U.S. markets. We are always interested in learning about development-stage projects to add to our portfolio.SUPPLY CHAINOur company was formed on August 31, 2018 as the result of the sale of NRG Energy, Inc.’s renewables platform. As a result, the majority of our current supply chain reflects the vendors and associated qualification history that were inherited from our prior owner. In 2019, there were no significant changes to our organization’s structure, ownership, or supply chain. However, our organization did increase in size in 2019, growing from 478 employees to 575 employees.Clearway Energy Group LLC seeks suppliers who integrate principles of sustainable development into all areas of their business. We strive to always act in an ethical, transparent and responsible manner, and expect our suppliers as well as their subcontractors to do the same. SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS AND OBLIGATIONSAll of our suppliers agree to abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct as part of our qualification process. The Code includes requirements regarding labor practices, human rights, environmental impacts, safety, and rare earth and conflict minerals. New suppliers are screened through either our Technology Business Council process or the vendor qualification program, depending on the type of goods or services they provide. Major equipment purchases are guided by the principles established by our Technology Business Council, which pertain to the environmental impacts associated with the manufacture and transport of the equipment. For purchases of services and goods that are not major equipment, we have a vendor qualification program that evaluates prospective suppliers based on their ability to meet the requirements of our internal policies. In 2019, none of our suppliers triggered any red flags for negative environmental impacts during the supplier screening process. However, we disqualified one vendor for failure to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct due to a refusal to affirm fair labor practices.We request that our suppliers utilize green products and services to the maximum extent practicable, and that they use best efforts to purchase products that are sustainably sourced whenever such products are available at the same or a lesser total cost than products that are not sustainably sourced. A GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAINOur supply chain comprises hundreds of companies that provide both major equipment as well as a wide range of services. Major equipment purchases include wind turbines, solar panels, and batteries, as well as balance-of-plant equipment such as substations and transformers. We procure an equally wide scope of services that include engineering, construction, environmental, permitting, IT, legal and 
financial services.The majority of companies that supply services to Clearway Energy Group LLC are U.S. based, but much of the major equipment we procure is sourced internationally from global providers. This is particularly true in the case of solar panels, which are produced almost exclusively in Asia. The inverters we use with these solar panels are typically sourced from Spain, Germany, or China.MAKING SUSTAINABLE CHOICESOur suppliers may not manufacture or subcontract for the manufacture of any products for which “conflict minerals”–such as cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold, and wolframite, or derivatives of these minerals, including tin, tantalum and tungsten–are necessary to the functionality or production of that product.The batteries we procure use lithium-ion technology, which depends heavily on cobalt, a rare earth mineral that has significant negative environmental and social impacts associated with its mining and production. As such, we are engaged in ongoing efforts with our suppliers to both reduce the amount of cobalt used in the batteries we procure, and we require our suppliers to prove that the cobalt they use was sustainably sourced.As members of the Energy Storage Association (ESA), we play a leading role in efforts to develop industry best practices regarding the safety and sustainability of batteries. These include the U.S. Energy Storage Operational Safety Guidelines, as well as a report on Lithium-Ion Fire and Thermal Event Safety. We are actively involved in the ESA’s Corporate Responsibility Initiative (CRI), and along with many of our industry peers we signed the Corporate Responsibility Pledge in April 2019,  signaling our intent to “engage in a good-faith effort to optimize performance, minimize risk and serve as an exemplary corporate citizen in the manufacturing, deployment, implementation and operation of energy storage projects across the United States.” In 2019, the CRI published its first product, the Energy Storage Corporate Responsibility Initiative Emergency Response Plan. We also participate in the CRI Task Force, which works to establish best practices regarding potential operational hazards, end-of-life and recycling, and responsible supply chain practices.  In 2020, we will continue to work on battery recycling and end of life best practices, as well as the sustainability of the battery supply chain.