Industry LeadershipIn keeping with our commitment to expand the production and use of renewable energy, we maintain active memberships in several industry trade associations. Where appropriate, we seek to play a leadership role and to leverage these associations’ resources to advance initiatives that will make our industry more sustainable.We also recognize the importance of good public policy to our industry, and we engage in advocacy on issues that are important to us, such as renewable energy and climate change. This includes supporting political candidates at the state and federal level who are working to advance legislation on these issues. Clearway Energy Group LLC sponsors a non-connected political action committee (PAC) that makes financial contributions to selected candidates, party committees, or other PACs that support issues that directly impact our industry and our company. The PAC is governed by a board comprised of employees from several departments across the Clearway enterprise, and the board votes on proposed contributions. The PAC operates according to all applicable federal and state laws and is funded entirely by voluntary contributions.In 2020, Clearway’s Political Action Committee and Clearway Energy Group made approximately $150,000 in political contributions to more than 100 candidates who stood for action on climate. This support helped drive policy outcomes that were critically important to our industry’s success, whether at the federal level where we successfully advocated for an extended construction window for wind projects amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, or at the state level where we advocated for a range of laws and regulations that support renewable energy. GOVERNANCEGovernanceRisk Management at ClearwayRisks to the long-term viability of our business include, among others, the availability and price of major project components like wind turbines, solar panels, and batteries, as well as future price trends and technological advances related to those components. The international, national, and state-level policy and regulatory landscape also has the potential to impact our business. Risks to the viability of specific projects include the ability to interconnect to the regional electric grid, as well as the availability of capacity on the transmission lines used to deliver the electricity produced from our sites to end users.Clearway’s leadership facilitates the effective management of risk through proper organizational structure and reporting relationships; demands for timely and meaningful performance, compliance, and risk reporting; and by integrating themselves into an appropriate governance hierarchy regarding risk issues. Our robust risk policies serve as the foundation for our risk control infrastructure and provide the framework and controls necessary to ensure the identification, evaluation, quantification, and management of risk associated with achieving our business targets. Accountability, transparency, and good governance are fundamental to the Clearway enterprise. Our purpose, values, and strategies are determined by our leadership, and our officers and employees are committed to our shared mission and operating principles.Important governance functions like accounting and internal audit are shared across the Clearway enterprise. As such, although Clearway Energy Group is privately owned, our policies, financial controls, and business controls adhere to the same standards (including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) expected of our publicly traded affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. Our financial performance and an analysis of enterprise-level risks are regularly reported to the boards of both companies as well as to our owners. Monthly reviews of our company and department-level budgets, variances, and multi-year forecasts are conducted to ensure that we are managing our financial resources wisely.GOVERNANCE2020 Governance HighlightsRefining and updating our risk management system to document and track risks at the enterprise level. This process involves identifying potential risks across a range of categories and assessing their causes, possible consequences, and appropriate mitigants. In addition, we created and filled a new position of Director of Risk. Launching a contract lifecycle management system to create an organized library of all executed agreements and improve the efficiency of our business activities. In 2021, we will finalize implementation of the system across the company.Conducting routine and timely audits of various departments and processes to evaluate the needs of the business and ensure that we are identifying and managing risks appropriately across the organization. Ensuring that our newly launched online customer enrollment portal for community solar was designed with robust safeguards to protect customer privacy while providing a contactless, convenient enrollment option to customers. Regular communication with our employees regarding Clearway’sexpectations regarding ethical behavior. We also implemented an internally designed training program on our Codes of Conduct. New employees and subcontractors are required to undergo the training, and employees refresh their acknowledgment of the Codes on an annual basis.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSAcknowledgmentsThis effort wouldn’t have been possible without the support of many helping hands. The following individuals played a role in providing information and data, developing and shaping Clearway’s 2020 ESG Report.Akil Marsh  
Manager, Investor Relations 
Clearway Energy, Inc.Alec Goetz 
Proposal WriterAlex Anich
Senior Manager, Renewable Market IntelligenceAlicia Stevenson
VP, Business Operations & StrategyAmanda Brooks
Finance Supervisor, FP&AAmelia Houser
Renewables Site AdministratorAustin Heying
Wind Site Supervisor, LaredoBenjamin Campbell
Safety/Construction Execution ManagerBenjamin Fairbanks
Senior Director, U.S. Wind Development & StrategyBrandon Miller
Wind Turbine Tech II, LaredoBrian Dawson
RENOM Training ManagerBrian LaMay
General Manager, Plant Infrastructure, 
Strategy & EngineeringChristina Moore
Senior Counsel, Consumer RetailDan Hendrick
Head of External Affairs, East RegionDan Quinn
Operations DirectorDana Brazel
Wind Site Manager, ElkhornDaniel Casselman
Safety SpecialistDaniel Dedrick
Head of Project Technical ServicesDaniel Keyes
Manager, Business DevelopmentDaniel von Allmen 
Manager, Project DevelopmentDavid Kumm
Wind Site Supervisor, ElkhornDoug Vance
Wind Site Manager, LookoutEric Nicks
Director, FP&AEric Toth
Safety ManagerEvan Dubail
Senior Analyst, Capital MarketsHayley Tabuena
Senior Manager, ProcurementJackie Effenson
Senior Manager, Sales & RetentionJames Idzorek
Environmental MangerJeffery Court
Director, Safety & TrainingJennifer Hein
General Counsel
Clearway Energy Group LLCJim Brencic 
Director, ConstructionJohn Martinez
VP, OperationsJulia Zuckerman
Head of External Affairs, West RegionJulie Babcock
Senior Manager, EnvironmentalKassie Barrett
Director, Strategic MarketingKevin Malcarney
SVP, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Clearway Energy, Inc.Krishna Patel
Senior Director, Sales & RetentionLindsey O’Neal
Manager, Customer OperationsLogan Granger
VP, Engineering & Development ServicesMark Schneider 
Engineering Manager Michael Brown
Assistant General Counsel & Assistant Corp. Secretary
Clearway Energy, Inc.Michael Woods
Analyst, Capital MarketsMonique Menconi
VP, Asset ManagementNatalie Jackson
Head of Capital MarketsNick Benjamin
Director, Project DevelopmentNicola Park
Contractor - Origination & DevelopmentPatrick Sullivan
VP, DevelopmentRay Kelly
Senior Director, Permitting & EnvironmentalRay Long
SVP, External AffairsRoss Heiman
Senior Director, EngineeringRyan Nielsen
Environmental ManagerScott Barr
Director, Sales & MarketingScott Stephens
Head of TechnologyShanna Zampino
Senior Analyst, Inventory OptimizationSheila Maguire
Safety SpecialistStacy Colby-King
VP, Human ResourcesTrevor Norton
Human Resources AnalystTyler Moore
Senior Manager, Real-Time OperationsValerie Wooley
VP, OriginationVanessa Moran
Senior Director, Human ResourcesWill Carleton
General Manager, DG & Community SolarWilliam Shisler
Director, Technical ServicesZadie Oleksiw
Director, CommunicationsAPPENDIXPhotos and CreditsFront	The 419 MW Mesquite Star Wind site, Fisher County, TX4	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA5	The 3 MW Poughkeepsie Solar site, Poughkeepsie, NY6	The 55.2 MW Pinnacle Wind site, Keyser, WV8	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA10	The 3 MW Chisago Solar site, Chisago County, MN11	EPC Food Drive for Kern County, CA	Spanish Fork Donation to Tabitha’s Way14	The 947 MW Alta Wind site, Mojave, CA, photo by Daniel Casselman 16	The 114 MW Daggett 1 Battery Storage site, San Bernardino County, CA22	The 1.28 MW Spencer Road Community Solar site, Spencer, MA23	The 114 MW Daggett 1 Battery Storage site, San Bernardino County, CA25	Clearway’s Operations Center, Scottsdale, AZ	The 161 MW Wildorado Wind site, Vega, TX	The 250 MW California Valley Solar Ranch (CVSR), 
Santa Margarita, CA26	The 55.2 MW Pinnacle Wind site, Keyser, WV	The 1 MW North Adams Solar site, North Adams, MA27	The 419 MW Mesquite Star Wind site, Fisher County, TX28	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA	Grandson of Ann Bennett, site administrator in Fischer County, Texas29	The 419 MW Mesquite Star Wind site, Fisher County, TX31	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA33	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA34	The 3 MW Chisago Solar site, Chisago County, MN36	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA37	The 49 MW Kawailoa Solar site, Oahu, HI	The 419 MW Mesquite Star Wind site, Fisher County, TX39	The 5 MW Waterford Community Solar site, Northfield, MN, photo by Will Carleton40	The 947 MW Alta Wind site, Mojave, CA, photo by Daniel Casselman 41	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA42	The 3 MW Chisago Solar site, Chisago County, MN43	The 290 MW Agua Caliente Solar site, Dateland, AZ43	The 947 MW Alta Wind site, Mojave, CA, photo by Zadie Oleksiw44	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, Kern County, CA, photo by Benjamin Campbell45	The 3 MW Poughkeepsie Solar site, Poughkeepsie, NY46	The 160 MW Rattlesnake Flat Solar site, photo by Daniel CasselmanBack	The 290 MW Agua Caliente Solar site, Dateland, AZ, photo by 
Daniel CasselmanAppendixFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Safe HarborClearway Energy Group LLC’s and Clearway Energy, Inc.’s (collectively, “Clearway”) 2020 ESG report contains forward-looking statements regarding the intentions, beliefs, expectations, or predictions for the future held by the companies’ management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “plan,” “believe” and similar terms. Although Clearway believes that the expectations of its management are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Clearway undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.