2021 PORTFOLIO HIGHLIGHTS2021 Portfolio Highlights2021 was a year of significant growth for Clearway. We added over 800 MW of wind, solar, and energy storage to our ownership portfolio, with an additional 600 MW of clean energy capacity in construction. As of year-end, our ownership portfolio has grown to 5.6 GW, and our development pipeline has expanded to over 19 GW.Innovative Products and Technology Help Our Customers Reach Their Goals Many of Clearway’s customers are working toward a zero-carbon footprint. Our renewable energy projects are an important piece of helping them achieve their goals, but we’re also supporting advances in many other facets of the energy sector that are necessary to deliver a clean energy future. This includes work on policy innovations, efforts to create a smarter grid, and the use of energy storage that makes it possible to convert intermittent wind and solar generation into flexible, dispatchable assets that can increase the reliability of the grid while reducing the need for baseload fossil fuel capacity. Growth of CCA CustomersCommunity Choice Aggregation (CCA) programs allow local governments to enroll their municipalities under a single energy supplier. CCAs, which are only available in deregulated markets, are growing in popularity because they offer customers the ability to get a higher percentage of their power from sustainable sources than they would from their local utility provider. CCAs have a deep commitment to community investment, workforce development, supplier diversity, and responsible procurement, as well as benefits that go beyond energy – including resiliency, energy security, cost reduction, education, and environmental benefits. Through our partnerships with CCA customers, Clearway offers tailored benefit packages to support the communities where we and our customers work and live.CCAs are very common in California, and in November 2021, the California Community Choice Association (CalCCA) announced that the 24 CCAs operating in the state had reached almost 10 GW of power purchase agreements to serve their more than 11 million customers. 2021 PORTFOLIO HIGHLIGHTSClearway’s ten CCA contracts represent 1.2 GW of this total servicing the needs of six CCAs across Northern and Southern California including Central Coast Community Energy, Clean Power Alliance, East Bay Community Energy, MCE, Peninsula Clean Energy, and Silicon Valley Clean Energy Authority – here’s what some of them said in 2021: “““Clearway’s Arica Solar + Storage project represents our green energy future. The solar panels create 100% renewable energy during the daytime and the batteries store energy for use in the evening creating reliable clean electricity to meet our customers’ high demand for renewable energy. Because it’s located in Riverside, it will create green jobs in the Southern California region.”Matt Langer, Chief Operating Officer, Clean Power Alliance“The Daggett project allows Clean Power Alliance to provide clean, reliable electricity to more than three million people throughout Southern California. By repurposing land previously occupied by a fossil fuel plant and using local union labor to construct the project, Daggett is a prime example of the kind of transformative and equitable development we are strongly promoting.”Ted Bardacke, Executive Director, Clean Power Alliance“““The Arica project is an important tool to help us reach our goal of providing 24/7 renewable power to our customers. The ability to produce and store emission-free solar power that can be used day or night, in the summer and winter, is one of the most consequential actions we can take to help our region address a rapidly changing climate.”Jan Pepper, CEO, Peninsula Clean Energy Solar plus storage projects in California are a source of low-cost renewable energy that provide power when we need it most. EBCE is happy to partner with other load-serving entities and Clearway to bring this critical project online to serve our customers, increase reliability of the electric system, and continue EBCE’s trajectory toward 100% carbon-free electricity by 2030.”Nick Chaset, CEO, East Bay Community Energy “““This long-term solar plus storage contract with Clearway in partnership with SVCE marks another step forward for Central Coast Community Energy’s pathway to 100% clean and renewable energy by 2030. The Victory Pass project also marks important progress for the State of California and the collective effort by CCAs, our customers, and business partners to stabilize the Western Grid and support the growth of reliable clean energy resources on behalf of the communities we serve.”Tom Habashi, CEO, Central Coast Community Energy “The Victory Pass project not only provides solar energy capacity but carries great value with the 4-hour discharge battery pairing. As California summers continue to bring extreme heat and high electricity demand, the ability to discharge energy during peak hours is critical as we transition to a clean grid.” Girish Balachandran, CEO, Silicon Valley Clean Energy Authority2021 PORTFOLIO HIGHLIGHTSCorporate Demand for Clean Energy Continues to GrowDemand for carbon-free power from corporate customers continues to grow. The Clean Energy Buyers Association announced that renewable energy purchases by corporate customers in the commercial and industrial sector in 2021 supported more than 100 projects totaling more than 11 GW of capacity, a 4.3% increase over 2020. From 2008 through 2021, corporate customers have contracted more than 47 GW of clean energy.“Clearway is proud to help several leading companies achieve their clean energy targets. We’ve signed contracts to deliver more than 1.1 GW of wind and solar to corporate customers – here’s what some of them have said: “Sourcing renewable energy is a critical part of our journey to net-zero. We are proud to announce our plan to work with Clearway Energy Group on a power purchase agreement that will provide clean energy for our US operations. Today and every day, PepsiCo is proud to further our progress with the help of our incredible partners in scaling renewable energy projects across the globe.”Roberta Barbieri, Sustainability Vice President, PepsiCo““Toyota continues to aggressively shift to renewable energy sources for our operations while also working to improve the lives of the people in communities where we work and live, all a part of our efforts toward carbon neutrality.” Kevin Butt, Regional Environmental Sustainability Director, 
Toyota Motor North America2021 PORTFOLIO HIGHLIGHTSCustomer Spotlight: Toyota Pursues Zero Carbon with ClearwayClearway and Toyota Motor North America (Toyota) have signed two virtual power purchase agreements (vPPAs) to enable Toyota to make significant progress toward achieving its goal of carbon neutrality at its manufacturing facilities by 2035 and its global Environmental Challenge to eliminate all carbon emissions from its operations by 2050.The first contract between Clearway and Toyota was signed for a portion of the Black Rock wind farm, a 115 MW facility located in proximity to Toyota’s manufacturing plant in West Virginia. Black Rock wind reached commercial operation in 2022.“We value partners like Clearway that share our vision for improving lives within communities, including those where our team members work and live, like West Virginia,” said Chris Reynolds, Chief Administrative Officer, Toyota Motor North America. “Toyota is making significant investments in and aggressively pursuing environmental technologies to achieve our goal of carbon neutrality at our manufacturing facilities by 2035.”In 2021, we were pleased to build upon our partnership with Toyota by announcing a second vPPA to support our 100 MW Wildflower Solar project in DeSoto County, Mississippi, also located in proximity to Toyota’s plant within the state. 