Environmental StewardshipAt Clearway, regenerative development is a proactive attitude at every project stage (development, construction, and operations) that seeks to push beyond community and environmental stewardship.Our holistic process will implement regenerative development strategies on project sites as well as offsite to create positive feedback loops between physical, natural, economic, and social domains that can regenerate natural ecosystems, enhance biodiversity, and sequester carbon.Environmental stewardship is another pillar of our sustainability framework and includes reducing and eliminating our environmental and climate impacts while identifying opportunities to restore, revitalize and regenerate ecosystems wherever possible.In keeping with our commitment to minimize impacts to sensitive resources, we implement environmentally conscious best management practices during project development, construction, and operations. In 2021, we recognized the need to go further and identified regenerative development as the desired approach for our future activities. This led to the creation of Clearway’s regenerative development standard.Regenerative DevelopmentRegenerative development refers to the practice of using natural and human resources in a way that builds capacity for future growth. It goes beyond merely seeking to reverse the degeneration of the Earth’s natural systems and looks for ways to design human systems that can coevolve with natural systems and generate mutual benefits. Regenerative development encourages a holistic approach and the formation of positive relationships that benefit stakeholders and the environment by creating systems that are strong, flexible, and able to adapt to changing circumstances.•	Setbacks from sensitive habitats•	Preserving topsoil and minimizing erosion•	Reseeding temporarily disturbed areas with native vegetation•	Mowing, rolling and compacting sites instead of grading to maintain existing root structures and facilitate vegetation regrowth after construction•	Efforts to control, minimize or eradicate invasive species and noxious weeds•	Capturing and conserving rainwater while maintaining existing drainage paths •	Creating gardens or enhanced landscaping around site buildings or on land owned by Clearway•	Identification of regionally specific vegetation for pollinators and implementation of our pollinator program (Clearway’s Bee Team)•	Evaluating opportunities for multiple uses on a site such as grazing and potential for agrivoltaics•	Working with landowners to incorporate habitat improvements (i.e., windbreaks, fence removal, native vegetation, improved stormwater flow) into project designThis philosophy and mindset are guiding our vision for future activities centered around regenerative best management practices based on the location of and technology used in each project. Examples of management practices we will consider include:In 2023, we look forward to continuing to implement and enhance our regenerative development program within Clearway and sharing it with our engineering, procurement, and construction partners to further improve the natural environment in the communities in which we work. Industry Engagement on Environmental IssuesClearway plays a leading role in industry associations focused on the potential environmental impacts of renewable energy. In 2022, we continued to serve as a board member of the Renewable Energy Wildlife Institute (REWI), as well as supporting the Renewable Energy Wildlife Research Fund (REWRF) research projects focused on understanding and reducing the impact of wind energy on bats, eagles, and sage grouse. In 2023, the REWRF will expand its scope to include research on the impacts of solar energy on wildlife and habitat. In 2022 we co-chaired the American Clean Power’s siting conference and continued our participation on various wildlife and permitting committees. In addition, Clearway continues to participate in the Avian Solar Working Group.Advancing Eagle ConservationProtecting and conserving bald and golden eagles has been a priority for the wind industry for many years. In 2022, the US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) released a proposed rule regarding incidental take of eagles that has the potential to significantly improve eagle conservation while also facilitating wind energy development. The rule would create a general permit option as an alternative to the project-specific eagle take permits available under current regulations. A central goal of this approach is to reduce the time and costs associated with obtaining a permit, which have been prohibitively high and have resulted in relatively few wind projects seeking permits.That said, it will still be possible to pursue project-specific permits – a key update to this part of the program is the removal of five-year reviews. Instead, the USFWS commits to “holding the amount of take authorized under a specific permit constant over its 30-year lifespan unless the permittee requests an amendment, or unless the service determines that an amendment is necessary.”Another area with important revisions is compensatory mitigation. Thus far, the only approved compensatory mitigation strategy for offsetting eagle take has been retrofitting transmission power poles. The draft environmental assessment accompanying the proposed rule contemplates adding reductions in vehicle collisions and lead abatement as mitigation options.Through our involvement with industry organizations, Clearway is actively supporting the USFWS’s efforts to create a new eagle general permit process and the expansion of compensatory mitigation to include other successful measures. Conserving the California CondorThe California Condor is an iconic species that once could be found across western North America from Baja California, Mexico to British Columbia, Canada. These long-lived birds have low rates of reproduction, and throughout the 1900s experienced significant population declines due to anthropogenic sources of mortality that include lead poisoning from ammunition fragments in scavenged carcasses, collisions with power lines, illegal shooting and egg collecting, and wildfires.In 1978, the population had fallen to just 25 condors; in 1986 and 1987, the US Fish and Wildlife Service captured the remaining wild condors to ensure their safety and preserve genetic diversity of the species and placed them in a captive breeding program.Today the program is known as the California Condor Recovery Program, an international multi-entity effort that has succeeded in dramatically increasing the number of condors in the wild – a welcome outcome that paradoxically also increases the potential risks to the birds, because as their population grows and their range expands, some condors may spend more time in and around wind farms. This is a concern because some of the nation’s best wind resources are located in the Tehachapi Wind Resource Area in Kern County, California, which is within the condors’ current and historic territory. Although there are no recorded instances of a California condor being injured or killed by operating wind turbines in the Tehachapi Wind Resource Area, the possibility that a California condor could one day be harmed by a collision with a wind turbine or wind project-related structure is something many wind project owners and operators within the Tehachapi Wind Resource Area are seeking to proactively address.Clearway has joined seven other companies to form the Wind Energy Condor Action Team (WECAT). WECAT in turn has worked in close coordination with USFWS to develop a proposed condor conservation plan to address the increasing risk of injury or mortality of the species and provides mitigation that will fully offset these impacts and ultimately benefit the California condor. We look forward to sharing more information about this initiative in future reports.Generating Clean Energy in the DesertIn 2022, two Clearway solar + storage projects, Arica and Victory Pass, became the first projects approved as part of the US Bureau of Land Management‘s Desert Renewable Energy Conservation Plan (DRECP), a collaborative effort between the California Energy Commission, the US Bureau of Land Management, and the US Fish and Wildlife Service. DRECP serves to facilitate landscape-level planning for renewable energy development while also conserving desert ecosystems. DRECP focuses on 10.8 million acres of public lands in the desert regions of seven California counties and is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to permit at least 25 GW of wind, geothermal, and solar energy projects on public lands by 2025, which will help achieve the administration’s goal of a carbon pollution-free US electricity sector by 2035.The Arica and Victory Pass projects will be located near the city of Desert Center and total 463 MW of solar with 186 MWh of storage. They represent an investment of approximately $689 million in California’s clean energy infrastructure and are expected to generate enough clean electricity to power 132,000 homes, as well as $5.9 million in annual operational economic benefits. Building the projects will support up to 1,000 construction jobs.As with our nearby Daggett Solar + energy storage project, we are working closely with Tribal governments for the Colorado River Indian Tribes, the Soboba Band of Luiseño Indians, the Cahuilla Band of Indians, and the Quechan Tribe. Tribe members are employed as monitors during the construction process to ensure that any sensitive resources are protected. If any artifacts are discovered, the Tribal monitors coordinate with the archaeological team assigned to the project to either repatriate them on site or remove them safely to an appropriate repository.In addition, Clearway’s environmental teams have taken precautions to protect any Mojave desert tortoise in the area. To prevent desert tortoise from entering the sites, which could put them at risk of encountering moving vehicles, both site perimeters have been fenced, and all nine site entrances are equipped with tortoise guards to prevent tortoises from entering. In addition, tortoise shelters are installed every 1,000 feet along the fence line to provide shade and protection from the elements for any tortoises that encounter the fence line.Images, clockwise from top: a tortoise guard at a vehicle entrance, a Mojave desert tortoise, and a tortoise shelter outside the projects’ fence line.Managing Waste, Cradle-to-CradleClearway seeks to minimize the generation of waste wherever practical in order to create a sustainable work environment for our employees, the communities that host our projects, and the environment at large. All our waste management procedures comply with local, state, and federal regulations.To ensure our wind and solar projects generate the maximum amount of clean energy, we replace items that become damaged or exhibit degraded performance. This includes repowering older wind projects by retrofitting the site with turbines that produce more power.While it is possible to recycle a high percentage of the materials used in both wind turbine blades and solar panels, the infrastructure necessary to do so cost-effectively and at scale are still being developed across the US. Creating sustainable, cradle-to-cradle supply chains that prioritize resource recovery and waste minimization is a priority for the clean energy industry, and Clearway is actively pursuing avenues to increase the amount of project-related waste we recycle. We look forward to reporting on our progress in this area in our 2023 ESG report.Conserving the Bakersfield CactusThe Bakersfield cactus is native to Kern County, California, and is named for the city in which it is most commonly found. Southern California’s dry desert climate is ideal for the species but faced with multiple threats that include habitat loss due to farming and grazing, human development, off-road activities, invasive species, and even air pollution, the plant has dwindled in numbers and is now both a federally listed endangered plant species as well as a California endangered plant species. Our seven Alta Wind projects (Alta I-V and Alta X-XI) were built between 2010 and 2014. When we acquired the projects in 2016, we assumed responsibility for post-construction mitigation to offset any impacts to the local landscape, including helping to conserve the Bakersfield cactus.Two Bakersfield cactus ecological preserves were established in association with the Alta Wind facilities, which are maintained in perpetuity by Corvus Ecological Consulting. In 2022, we entered into an agreement with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife to secure more than $200,000 to pay for re-fencing an additional Bakersfield cactus ecological preserve elsewhere in the state, as well as for extra warden patrols to prevent trespassing in the preserve. Our Environmental MetricsConventional AssetsCO2 Emissions(Millions of metric tonnes)Scope 1Scope 22020 0.84 0.01 2021 0.62 0.01 2022 0.65 0.01 Renewable AssetsCO2 Emissions(Metric tonnes)Scope 1iScope 2ii2022 2,424 8,611 i Tracked at 84% of our renewable sites.  ii Fuel consumption from company vehicles only.202220212020iFuel consumption (vehicles)ii 227,348 gallonsiii 244,450 gallons 272,810 gallons Electricity use (offices and buildings) 12,029 MWh 11,717 MWh 19,906 MWh Water useiv 1,090,502 gallons 734,190 gallons 1,343,145 gallons Federally designated hazardous wastev None None None Other non-hazardous waste 851,400 pounds 596,200 pounds 336,422 pounds Oil recycled 19,450 gallons162,213 pounds 13,918 gallons 116,076 pounds 5,888 gallons 49,110 pounds i  Amounts are based on data available and tracked in 2020.   ii  Fuel type consisted of 80% unleaded and 20% diesel.iii  Figure has been revised from what was presented in the 2020 report.iv  In 2022, water consumption was tracked at 84% of our renewable sites; uses included landscaping, dust control, grazing, module washing and sanitation in our operations buildings. This figure represents the sum of GRI disclosures 303-4 and 303-5 and does not include water use at our corporate offices.v Refers to waste as defined under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).