CORPORATE CITIZENSHIPIn 2020 Clearway donated almost $1 million to nonprofit organizations in the communities where we live and operate.Corporate CitizenshipThe communities where we live and operate our sites are one of our most important stakeholder groups, and we undertake a wide range of efforts and programs to help them thrive.When the economic and social impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic began to emerge early in 2020, one of the first questions our employees asked was what the Clearway team could do collectively to help. Many cited Clearway’s stability as a company as further reason to provide relief where we could, and across the business our employees took the initiative to reallocate resources and tighten budgets to free up funds that could be used for charitable purposes. Thanks to these efforts and the generosity of our employees, by the end of 2020 Clearway had donated nearly $1 million to nonprofit organizations in the communities where we live and operate. Team members across the company stepped up to identify and recommend local organizations that were working to combat food insecurity by providing meals and support to those in need, supporting education, assisting elderly and youth populations, creating job training and job assistance resources for veterans, and providing many other much-needed services. This company-wide participation made it possible for Clearway to scale its impact and contribute to scores of organizations across the country. We were proud of our employees’ desire to help others during this crisis and the work they did to make this happen.In 2020, the renewable energy sites owned and operated by Clearway contributed $35.4 million in property taxes and $12.6 million in landowner payments to their host communities.CLEARWAY COMMUNITY SOLAR’S SCHOLARSHIP CONTESTIn 2020, Clearway Community Solar held its second annual scholarship contest for college students. Participants were asked to write an essay on the following topic:The climate crisis is among the most critical existential threats facing humankind. But today, we are also facing a new global crisis: the COVID-19 pandemic. Are there similarities in the threat of these two crises? How has the urgency of combating the climate change crisis been impacted by the COVID-19 crisis?The first-place winner received $5,000 for use toward college expenses. Two candidates tied for second place, and each received $2,500. Click here to learn more about the winners and read their essays!2020 ESG Report  |  11 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP2020 Community Outreach HighlightsPartnering to Support Local COVID-19 
Relief EffortsIn May 2020, Clearway partnered with East Bay Community Energy (EBCE) to create a community benefit fund to support COVID-19 relief efforts in Alameda County, California. $250,000 in grants was allocated to more than two dozen community-based organizations and also enabled the purchase of personal protective equipment for area frontline workers and at-risk community members.In 2019, EBCE signed a power purchase agreement for a portion of Clearway’s 192 megawatt (MW) Rosamond Central solar energy project, and EBCE and Clearway also established a community benefit fund to invest in Alameda County. The fund was deployed in early 2020 to meet the urgent need for support.Feeding the HungryFeeding America is the largest hunger-relief organization in the United States. Through a network of 200 food banks and 60,000 food pantries and meal programs, the organization provides meals to more than 40 million people each year, in addition to supporting several other programs focused on reducing hunger. In 2020, Clearway Community Solar contributed $23,000 to Feeding America as part of a customer incentive program. Community solar subscribers who elected to enroll in our automatic payment program received a bill credit, and we donated $50-$100 per customer to Feeding America on 
their behalf.From Intern to Wind TechThe Northeast Community College in Norfolk, Nebraska offers a wind energy program that requires students to do an internship during the last semester of classes. In 2019, Clearway’s Laredo Ridge wind farm began hosting interns from the college as part of our Adopt-a-School program. Brandon Miller was the first student to intern at Laredo Ridge, which is near his hometown of St. Edward, and had the opportunity to gain hands-on experience operating and maintaining a wind farm. He apparently liked the experience, because after completing his internship and earning his diploma he applied for an open position at the site. Today, Brandon is a Wind Technician II at Laredo Ridge, where he leads crews performing day-to-day maintenance and repair work. Brandon is excited to be able to help supply clean, renewable energy to the community in which he grew up.   Clearway’s Adopt-a-School Program In 2020, we formally launched our Adopt-a-School program, which is designed to help young people in the communities that host our wind and solar sites learn about renewable energy. Operations and maintenance staff from every utility-scale wind and solar site we own and operate will partner with local schools to organize and participate in a series of educational activities.Although school closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic prevented us from achieving a full rollout of our Adopt-a-School program in 2020, we were able to adopt 20 schools. In total, 14 Clearway sites contributed nearly $16,000 and approximately 80 hours to the program, which reached 159 educators and 1,547 students. We look forward to completing the program’s rollout in 2021.Educating the Next Generation of 
Clean Energy Leaders Kamehameha Schools (KS) is a private charitable educational trust endowed by the will of Hawaiian princess Bernice Pauahi Bishop (1831-1884), the great-granddaughter and last direct descendant of King Kamehameha I. KS’ mission is to improve the capabilities and well-being of Hawaiians through education, which they achieve by operating an educational system serving over 6,900 students of Hawaiian ancestry at K-12 campuses on Oahu, Maui and Hawaii island, and at 30 preschool sites statewide.KS owns significant land holdings across Hawaii. Clearway’s 49 MW Kawailoa Solar site is located on land owned by KS and, as part of that agreement, in 2018 Clearway entered into a 10-year collaboration with Blue Planet Foundation, a non-profit organization working to transition Hawaii to 100% clean energy, to provide educational programing to KS students. Program activities include:•	Development of a clean energy curriculum for local schools, covering pre-K through 12th grade. Although the first classes held in early 2020 were in-person, the curriculum was quickly adapted to a remote learning format. The curriculum includes educational content and games that help students of all ages learn about solar energy and Hawaii’s energy systems.•	An annual summer internship for Hawaiian high school graduates to help them prepare for careers in clean energy. The students are selected by KS, and we host them at our Kawailoa Solar site to provide hands-on job experience in engineering, development, and operations. Clearway hosted the first group of interns during the summer of 2019 but did not host any interns in 2020 due to the pandemic.•	Sponsoring Blue Planet’s annual Student Energy Summit, a multi-day event that educates and motivates middle and high school students to find clean energy solutions to issues within their own communities. The 2020 Summit topic was “Road to Recovery.” Held in a hybrid-virtual format, it centered around the topic of working together toward a clean energy future.Brandon MillerStudents and thank-you notes from Bloomfield Elementary, near Clearway’s Elkhorn Ridge Wind Farm in Nebraska.CORPORATE CITIZENSHIPA Closer Look 2020 Community Outreach HighlightsPowering Local Economies in West VirginiaWest Virginia’s diverse topography includes farmland, rolling hills, national forests, and rugged mountains that benefit from a strong, steady wind resource, particularly in the northeastern part of the state. In 2020, we began pre-construction activities for the 115 MW Black Rock Wind Farm, which straddles Grant and Mineral counties in the state’s northeast corner and is scheduled to reach commercial operations in 2021. Our 55 MW Pinnacle Wind Farm – which is just a few miles away on the same ridge but located exclusively in Mineral County – is slated for a separate modernization project in 2021. Combined, these activities represent a nearly $300 million capital investment in the two counties. Much of this project funding will be directly injected into West Virginia’s economy through expenditures on local goods and services, including construction materials (concrete, rebar, gravel), construction equipment, site security, road maintenance, trucking, vehicle fueling and repair, groceries, office supplies, hardware, restaurants and lodging, as well as real estate, legal, forestry, environmental, and engineering design services. During the construction phase, the Black Rock Wind Farm is expected to create at least 200 union jobs, generating $52 million in direct spending on local payroll and services. Once operational, the site will create 6-10 locally based, permanent operations and maintenance jobs and will routinely procure services from area businesses. Clearway donated 8,000 masks to Mineral County Emergency Management for use in the community.