ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEnvironmental StewardshipTo succeed in our ESG efforts, we commit to:•	Track, manage, and establish meaningful targets for important environmental metrics deemed material to the business•	Understand, minimize, and report on GHG emissions •	Adopt principles of regenerative development in our approach to land management, and seek to restore, revitalize, and regenerate the lands occupied by our facilities as well as their immediate surroundings•	Reduce waste and increase our landfill diversion rate across all facilities•	Understand, assess, and organize around important climate change-related risks and opportunities for the company•	Increase the reuse and recycling of end-of-life renewable energy system materialsOur approach to environmental stewardship is based on striving to ensure that Clearway’s activities reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect, conserve, and enhance biodiversity and natural resources. We are committed to taking a sustainability-first approach to building a world powered by clean energy. It is our responsibility and duty to operate in a way that promotes and helps create a sustainable world for future generations. Our Environmental MetricsClearway Energy, Inc.Conventional Assets
 Scope 1 Scope 2 2019 0.76 0.01 2020 0.84 0.01 2021 0.62 0.01 Clearway Energy Group (Renewable Assets)2019 2020 2021 Fuel consumption (vehicles)ii Not reported 227,348 gallonsiii 244,450 gallons Electricity use(offices and buildings) Not reported 12,029 MWh 11,717 MWh Water use 25,100 gallonsiv 1,090,502 gallons 734,190 gallonsv   Hazardous waste None None None Other non-hazardous waste 236,115 pounds 851,400 pounds 596,200 pounds Oil recycled 127,000 pounds 19,450 gallons162,213 pounds 13,918 gallons116,076 pounds i Amounts are based on data available and tracked in 2020.   ii Fuel type consisted of 80% unleaded and 20% diesel.iii Figure has been revised from what was presented in our 2020 ESG report.iv This was the amount used to wash solar panels and does not represent our total usage.v Water use is tracked at 73% of our renewable sites; this figure does not include water use at our corporate offices.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPWildlife Thrives 
at CVSR Our 250 MW California Valley Solar Ranch (CVSR) facility is located in eastern San Luis Obispo County, California. In 2019, we implemented an initiative to restore portions of the land to its natural state through the re-introduction of native grasses and shrubs with the goal of creating habitat for native wildlife species. Ongoing monitoring of the facility has shown that populations of three protected species – the giant kangaroo rat, San Joaquin kit fox, and San Joaquin antelope squirrel – are all successfully reproducing and thriving within the project footprint. New IdentiFlight Installation at 
Mountain Wind Following the successful 2020 installation of an IdentiFlight system at our 80 MW Mountain Wind 2 site in Wyoming, in 2021, we expanded this installation to include the adjacent 61 MW Mountain Wind 1 site. IdentiFlight is an optical, machine-learning technology designed to detect and track eagles and send a signal to temporarily stop individual turbines in the eagle’s path, avoiding the need for more extensive curtailment. By optimizing curtailment, the system has made it possible to maximize clean energy production at Mountain Wind 1 and 2 while also protecting and conserving wildlife. We also employ human biomonitors at the Mountain Wind sites, and in 2021 we installed an observation tower for these individuals, who would otherwise be stationed in vehicles at strategic locations around the perimeter of the wind farms. The tower eliminates the emissions associated with driving and idling these vehicles, and the viewing platform sits 30 feet above the ground, giving the monitors a clear 360-degree view of the area.San Joaquin antelope squirrel, giant kangaroo rat, and San Joaquin kit fox at the CVSR facility.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPSustainable Vegetation Management Through Solar Grazing“Solar grazing” refers to the practice of grazing sheep at solar facilities. Sheep farmers benefit from having access to additional grazing for their flocks, and the solar facility benefits from an effective means of vegetation management. We use solar grazing at both our CVSR and Avenal facilities. At CVSR, the sheep are particularly helpful in terms of weed control, and by reducing the amount of potential herbaceous fuel, they lower the risk of wildfire spreading among the solar panels. At Avenal, the landowner plants oats to provide nutritious grazing for the sheep.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPPreserving Native Culture at Daggett Solar + Storage Construction on the Daggett Solar + Storage project began in Fall 2021. The facility, which is composed of three phases, is located on approximately 3,500 acres five miles east of the town of Daggett in San Bernardino County, California.  Both the desert kit fox and the Western burrowing owl are present within the site footprint. Surveys and biological monitoring have been actively conducted throughout the construction process in an ongoing effort to ensure these species are protected and conserved. Portions of the Daggett footprint include ancestral lands of the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians. On behalf of the San Manuel Band, members of the Morongo Band of Mission Indians have actively monitored the construction process to ensure that any sensitive resources are protected. The monitors coordinate with the archaeological team assigned to the project to identify any artifacts and either repatriate them on site or remove them safely to an appropriate repository. Sheep graze among the solar panels at CVSR. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPIndustry Engagement on Environmental IssuesClearway plays a leading role in industry associations focused on the potential environmental impacts of renewable energy. In 2021, we continued to serve as a board member of the American Wind Wildlife Institute and helped guide that organization’s decision to expand its mandate to include solar. As a result, AWWI became the Renewable Energy Wildlife Institute, or REWI, in 2022. We participated in the planning committee for REWI’s first Solar Symposium and were a gold-level sponsor of the event.We’re also founding members of the Wind Wildlife Research Fund, which in 2022 became the Renewable Energy Wildlife Research Fund. The Fund is an innovative, industry-led initiative that pools resources to develop science-based solutions to wildlife challenges faced by the renewable energy industry, helping renewables to expand while also conserving wildlife and habitat. In 2021, Clearway contributed funding to the Fund’s six research projects focused on understanding and reducing the impact of wind energy on bats, eagles, and sage grouse. As founding members of the Avian Solar Working Group (ASWG), we participate in the ASWG organizing committee and contributed funding and solar facility access to advance a USGS-led study on the potential “lake effects” of solar projects, the results of which will be published in 2022.A red tailed hawk lands on a raptor perch.GOVERNANCEGovernanceAccountability, transparency, and good governance are fundamental to the Clearway enterprise. Our purpose, values, and strategies are determined by our leadership, and our officers and employees are committed to our shared mission and operating principles. Important governance functions like accounting and internal audit are shared across the Clearway enterprise. As such, although Clearway Energy Group is privately owned, our policies, financial controls, and business controls adhere to the same standards (including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) expected of our publicly traded affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. Our financial performance and an analysis of enterprise-level risks are regularly reported to the boards of both companies as well as to our owners. Monthly reviews of our company and department-level budgets, variances, and multi-year forecasts are conducted to ensure that we are managing our financial resources wisely.More information on our governance and approach to risk management can be found on our website. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSAcknowledgementsAkil Marsh 
Director
Investor Relations
Clearway Energy, Inc.Amanda Brooks
Manager, FP&AAmelia Houser
Renewables Site AdministratorAmelia McKeithen
Assistant General Counsel & Assistant Corporate Secretary	Clearway Energy, Inc.Anisa Kapasi	
Manager, Sales & RetentionAustin Welch
Senior Manager, 
Corporate Accounting	
Clearway Energy, Inc.Barry Matchett
Head of External Affairs, 
Midwest & Gulf Region	Christina Moore
Senior Counsel, 
Consumer Retail	Dan Hendrick
Head of External Affairs, 
East Region	Daniel Maul
Regional Safety Manager, 
North & ESG
NRG EnergyDarrell Blanton
Contractor
CEG ConstructionDoug Vance
Wind Site Manager, PinnacleElizabeth Laine
Director, DEI & Talent Development	Eric Toth
Safety Manager
Clearway Energy, Inc.Erik Nicks
Director, FP&AFrank Velasquez
Marketing Automations AnalystHayley Tabuena
Senior Manager, ProcurementJack Guevara
Senior Manager, Strategy Jeffrey Court
Director, Safety & TrainingJennifer Hein
General Counsel	John Martinez
VP, Operations	Julia Zuckerman
Head of External Affairs, 
West RegionJulie Babcock
Senior Manager, EnvironmentalKaryn Sallis
Project AdministratorKassie Barrett
Director, Strategic MarketingKatherine Jackson
Senior Training SpecialistKelley Biskey
Senior Manager, 
Asset ManagementKevin Malcarney
EVP, General Counsel & 
Corporate Secretary
Clearway Energy, Inc.Krishna Patel
Senior Director, Sales & RetentionMelissa Steinway
Manager, Procurement OperationsMichelle Dolfi
Manager, EnvironmentalMonique Menconi
VP, Asset ManagementNick Benjamin
Director, Project DevelopmentRandall Hickok
Chief Operating OfficerRay Kelly
Senior Director, EnvironmentalRay Long
SVP, External Affairs	Ryan Browne
Analyst, Capital Markets	Ryan Nielsen
Manager, EnvironmentalSarah Rubenstein
Chief Accounting Officer
Clearway Energy, Inc.Sheila Maguire
Safety SpecialistStacy Colby-King
VP, Human Resources	Trevor Norton
HR Operations SupervisorValerie Wooley
VP, OriginationVanessa Moran
Senior Director, Human ResourcesZadie Oleksiw
Director, CommunicationsThis effort wouldn’t have been possible without the support of many helping hands. The following individuals played a role in providing information and data, developing, and shaping Clearway’s 2021 ESG Report.APPENDIXAppendixForward Looking StatementsSafe Harbor Clearway Energy Group LLC’s and Clearway Energy, Inc.’s (collectively, “Clearway”) 2021 ESG report contains forward-looking statements regarding the intentions, beliefs, expectations, or predictions for the future held by the companies’ management. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and typically can be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “plan,” “believe” and similar terms. Although Clearway believes that the expectations of its management are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially. Clearway undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.Photos and Creditsi	The 160 MW Rattlesnake Wind site, 
Adams County, WA	ii	The 160 MW Rattlesnake Wind site, 
Adams County, WA	4	The 160 MW Rattlesnake Wind site, 
Adams County, WA	7	The 130 MW Taloga Wind site, 
Dewey County, OK	9	The 264 MW Mount Storm Wind site, 
Grant County, WV	11	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, 
Kern County, CA 	12	Julia Atkins, contractor, at the Black Rock wind site, Grant and Mineral Counties, WV	13	The 340 MW Mesquite Sky wind site, 
Callahan County, TX		The 340 MW Mesquite Sky wind site, 
Callahan County, TX	14	Team members in Clearway's Houston office: Mellennie Rodriguez, Nick Gavenas, Oscar Romero, Susan Bollinger, Manny Camacho, Paul Felix, and Abraham Galvan	15	Clifford Bauman	16	Abraham Galvan20	Youth Leadership Association participants tour the Mount Storm Wind site, WV		Clearway's recruitment booth at the Spring Mountain Festival in Petersburg, WV		Ray Kelly and Nina Christensen at 
Black Rock wind, WV	23	The 264 MW Mount Storm Wind site, 
Grant County, WV	24	The 340 MW Mesquite Sky wind site, 
Callahan County, TX	25	The 130 MW Taloga Wind site, 
Dewey County, OK	26	The 115 MW Black Rock wind site, 
Grant and Mineral Counties, WV		The 115 MW Black Rock wind site, 
Grant and Mineral Counties, WV	27	The 3 MW Chisago Solar site, 
Chisago County, MN 		The 3 MW Chisago Solar site, 
Chisago County, MN 	29	The 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site, 
Mineral County, WV
Photo by Andy Scelfo	31	The 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site, 
Mineral County, WV
Photo by Andy Scelfo	32	The 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site, 
Mineral County, WV
Photo by Andy Scelfo	33	The 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site, 
Mineral County, WV
Photo by Andy Scelfo	34	The 115 MW Black Rock wind site, 
Grant and Mineral Counties, WV	35	The 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site, 
Mineral County, WV
Photo by Andy Scelfo	36	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, 
Kern County, CA 	37	Wildlife photos courtesy of 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 38	The 482 MW solar + 394 MW storage 
Daggett site, CA
Photo by Brian Holmes		Wildlife photos courtesy of 
H. T. Harvey & Associates 	39	The 264 MW Mount Storm Wind site, 
Grant County, WV	40	The 192 MW Rosamond Central Solar site, 
Kern County, CA 		Paul Felix and Abraham Galvan41	The 54 MW Pinnacle Wind site, 
Mineral County, WV
Photo by Andy Scelfo	42	The 15 MW Mililani Solar II site, HI