MESSAGE FROM OUR CEOs2020 was a year unlike any other in our lifetimes. Our world, our country, and our values were tested repeatedly and on multiple fronts. The Clearway team rose to meet many of these challenges, as an organization and as individuals – and we ended the year more resolved than ever to fulfill our essential purpose as a company.We view that purpose in a number of dimensions, but first and foremost it is to ensure that our actions today will benefit future generations. We’re motivated to effect positive change, and we’re committed to doing the work necessary to achieve our goals. As we continue to build on our efforts, we’re pleased to share this report of what we’ve accomplished during the past year in service of this mission and to summarize some key highlights. First, with respect to our role in protecting the environment…For many of our employees and the communities we serve, 2020 was a year when climate change was no longer an abstract concept, but rather became part of daily life. Our people, our customers, and our neighbors experienced firsthand the reality of a changing climate in the form of severe storms, floods, and wildfires. We drew from these experiences a renewed determination to help reduce the climate impacts of electricity generation by expanding our fleet of clean, renewable energy assets, and to continue our support for educating the next generation of Americans about the monumental challenge of climate change and the imperative to address it. Clearway is one of a number of enterprises that are committed to delivering solutions to this challenge. We have one of the lowest-carbon fleets in America – in 2020, 83% of the electricity we generated came from emission-free resources. Our renewables fleet is one of the largest in the nation, and our thermal and conventional assets are some of the most efficient. As we ramp up the growth of our renewable portfolio, our carbon intensity will continue to fall.We believe that deal structures like our 2020 Lighthouse transaction – which efficiently assembled capital from a range of sources to finance a diverse and reliable 1.6-gigawatt portfolio – represent the approach necessary to transition to a clean energy future. The numbers speak for themselves: This single transaction, in which ownership of seven renewable energy assets is shared between Clearway Energy, Inc. and Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure Capital, Inc., equates to a 12% increase in Clearway’s existing renewable fleet and a 0.1% increase in the nation’s current carbon-free generation capacity. 
We aim to do more.Successfully delivering low-carbon generation at scale requires us to expand and manage our fleet in a way that considers our environmental impacts beyond reduced carbon emissions alone. For this reason we develop, construct, and operate our facilities in ways that prioritize conservation and minimize our environmental footprint. Furthermore, we’re also leading industry initiatives to develop best practices regarding the upstream and downstream impacts of the technology we use, from the materials that go into solar panels and batteries, to the materials that can be reclaimed at the end of a wind or solar asset’s life. Second, with respect to social issues…As the intensity and urgency of calls for social justice increased during 2020, the full extent of our aspirations as a company became clear, and the importance of fulfilling them felt more compelling than ever. In response to that calling, our employees led the way in creating our diversity, equity, and inclusion program under the auspices of our newly formed Equity, Partnership and Inclusion Council (EPIC).The EPIC program stands on three pillars – Our People, Our Product & Customers, and Our Purchasing – and we were inspired by how many of our employees stepped up to identify innovations and changes to our business practices that position Clearway to do our part in rebalancing social equities through our policies and practices.Among these, perhaps the most significant innovation was the creation of employee inclusion groups and encounter-based sessions where employees learn about one another’s backgrounds. The Clearway community has come together through these forums, which give us new perspective on ways we can support each other and be a force for positive social change. The EPIC program will continue to expand and take shape in 2021 and beyond, but we believe the craftsmanship and attention to detail that went into designing and refining it speak to the commitment and dedication of all involved.Lastly, with respect to the importance we place on good governance…The critical connections among environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations are central to every decision Clearway makes as a company, and this focus is reinforced throughout all levels of the enterprise. Clearway Energy, Inc.’s Corporate Governance, Conflicts and Nominating Committee has taken an active role in reviewing emerging ESG trends and developing the company’s strategies, activities, policies, and communications regarding ESG matters. Additionally, in 2020 Clearway Energy, Inc.’s Board of Directors adopted a formal Board Diversity Policy, driven by the view that the Board should include members with diverse backgrounds, skills, and experience.  This is our second report on our ESG performance, and although we acknowledge that the pursuit of a more sustainable and just world is an ongoing journey, we believe that what Clearway has accomplished thus far is noteworthy. This report is a testament to the hard work of the Clearway team over the past year – we are both humbled by their actions, and proud to share this information with you. Craig CorneliusChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy Group LLCMESSAGE FROM OUR CEOsChristopher SotosChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy, Inc.Craig CorneliusChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy Group LLCChristopher SotosChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy, Inc.MESSAGE FROM OUR ESG PROGRAM LEADMESSAGE FROM OUR ESG PROGRAM LEADClearway was introduced to investors in 2018, when it was formed as a result of the sale of NRG Energy, Inc.’s renewables platform to Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP). While still a young enterprise, a focus on ESG topics has been a high priority for Clearway 
since Day 1.In 2019, our first full year as a standalone company, we were still in the process of establishing the basic programs and procedures necessary to run the organization – but we demonstrated our commitment to sustainability by issuing our first report. In 2020, the Clearway enterprise deepened this commitment by releasing additional climate risk disclosures and amending the Corporate Governance, Conflicts and Nominating Committee charter for the Clearway Energy, Inc. Board of Directors to add a provision noting the Committee’s responsibility for reviewing and addressing ESG issues. Further, Clearway is establishing an enterprise-wide ESG committee, which I am privileged to lead.Clearway is committed to creating a more sustainable world for future generations, and we feel it is our responsibility and our duty to operate in a way that promotes and helps achieve this. We seek not only to power the world with clean energy, but also to harness the power of our people to effect real and lasting change. Our ESG strategy is based on environmental stewardship, positive societal impact, and good governance. Using this framework as a guide, the ESG committee will work to ensure that Clearway’s activities protect, conserve, and enhance biodiversity and natural resources, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, enhance the wellbeing of our employees, promote social awareness, and create positive impacts within the communities where we live and operate.Ray KellySenior Director, EnvironmentalABOUT THIS REPORTAbout This Report This report describes the environmental, social, and governance aspects of the activities of Clearway Energy Group LLC and our public affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. (collectively, “Clearway”) for fiscal year 2020 (January 1 – December 31, 2020). Topics related to Clearway’s portfolio are primarily focused on the renewable energy assets we own and operate. This report differs from Clearway Energy Group LLC’s 2019 report in that it includes additional information that pertains to Clearway Energy, Inc.; where specified, selected information pertains solely to either Clearway Energy Group LLC or to Clearway Energy, Inc. This is our second annual report, and while it references GRI disclosures, it is 
not in accordance with the GRI reporting standards. No external assurance 
has been sought specifically for this report. We have no restatements to 
disclose. Additional resources related to our ESG reporting may be found at 
www.clearwayenergygroup.com/sustainability. In keeping with our commitment to communicate openly with our stakeholders, we welcome your feedback. 
Please send your comments to: Zadie OleksiwDirector, Communicationszadie.oleksiw@clearwayenergy.com2020 ESG Report  |  4 ABOUT CLEARWAYAbout Clearway OUR COMPANY STRUCTUREClean EnergySnapshot*Clearway’s 5 GW of wind and solar deliver benefits equivalent to:Clearway is leading the transition to a world powered by clean energy. A full-scope development and operations platform, we participate in every stage of the lifecycle of our projects – from origination and development, through construction and financing, to long-term ownership, management, and operations. In everything we do, we strive to create an enduring platform for our customers, counterparties, partners, and stakeholders.Clearway Energy Group LLC and our public affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. own and operate over 7.5 gigawatts (GW) of renewable and conventional energy assets, as well as several district energy systems across the country. As we develop our 10 GW pipeline of new renewable energy projects nationwide, Clearway’s 5 GW of wind, solar, and energy storage assets – one of the largest renewable fleets in the country – is estimated to offset the equivalent of nearly 8.8 million metric tons of carbon emissions for our customers annually. Clearway Energy Group LLC is owned by Global Infrastructure Partners III (GIP). Global Infrastructure Management, LLC is an independent fund manager that invests in infrastructure assets in the energy and transport sectors, and Global Infrastructure Partners III is its third equity fund. Through GIP’s ownership, Clearway Energy Group LLC has a controlling interest in, and serves as the supporting sponsor of, Clearway Energy, Inc.  Clearway Energy, Inc.’s Class C and Class A common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols CWEN and CWEN.A, respectively.  8.8 million metric tons of CO2 avoided for our customers1.9 million cars taken off the road each year1.3 million homes powered by clean energy each year*Based on the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies CalculatorPUBLIC INVESTORSOUR VISION, MISSION, AND VALUESOur Vision, Mission, And ValuesClearway’s CommitmentOur strength depends on our promise to each other to live by our values and operating principles as we go about the tasks of fulfilling our mission and acting as stewards for our stakeholders. That promise is reflected in our companies’ Codes of Conduct, which apply to all Clearway employees as well as in our Supplier Codes of Conduct. Our commitments include:•	An ethical business culture that includes working collaboratively with a spirit of trust•	Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as with our Codes of Conduct•	A safe, fair, and respectful workplace•	A positive work environment free of harassment, bullying, and intimidation•	Decisions that are made in the best interests of Clearway, without personal conflicts or bias•	Confidence that reports of all kinds, made in good faith, will be taken seriously and investigated appropriately, and that those reporting will not face retaliationOUR VISIONClearway’s vision is a world powered by clean energy. Our employees work every day to make that vision a reality by operating wind, solar, energy storage sites, and district energy systems in more than 25 states and Puerto Rico and developing new clean energy projects across many more. Together with our customers, affiliates, and partners, we are leading the way to a clean energy future.OUR MISSIONOur mission is to produce clean, reliable, competitively priced renewable energy. We strive to do right by our customers, our communities, our environment, and our people, and we are dedicated to operating a sustainable company that makes all these things – and more – possible. OUR VALUESQuality: We focus on near-, medium-, and long-term impacts and outcomes when developing our projects, our partnerships, our people, and our business.Respect: We value diverse backgrounds and perspectives, work to see things through new lenses, and communicate thoughtfully.Possibility: We seek to realize the potential in our people, our partners, and our projects.CLEARWAY’S 2020 ESG SNAPSHOTCLEARWAY’S2020 ESG SNAPSHOTThis year we launched our Equity, Partnership and Inclusion Council (EPIC), which focuses on our diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy and charting the company’s course toward progress in 
these areas.Clearway donated almost $1 million to nonprofits in the communities where we live and operate.Safety information and trainings are communicated to all employees on a regular basis. In our annual employee engagement survey, our highest scores were in the category of safety.In 2020, the renewable energy sites owned and operated by Clearway contributed $35.4 million in property taxes and $12.6 million in landover payments to their host communities.In 2020, 83% of the electricity we generated came from EMISSION-FREE RESOURCESOUR 2020 RENEWABLE ENERGY FOOTPRINT5 GWUnder Asset Management3.6 GWUnder Self-Operations5 GWUnder Ownership & In Operation$9.3 BCapital Raised(Cumulative)10 GWIn Development & ConstructionDelivering Clean Energy Utility-scale Solar  192 MW Community Solar 26 MW Wind 579 MW Repowered Wind 321 MW Total 1,118 MW OUR ESG GOALSEMISSIONS
By 2035, 90% of the electricity we generate will be carbon-free.DIVERSITY EQUITY & INCLUSION
By 2022, we will establish all our planned employee inclusion groups and adopt board-approved measures to deliver progress on our three key pillars of people, products & customers, and purchasing.SUPPLY CHAIN
By 2022, we will establish a Sustainable Procurement Policy that will be applicable to all our major equipment and service providers.COMMUNITY
By 2025, 100% of our renewable energy sites ≥50 MW in size will have community engagement plans and participate in our Adopt-a-School program.GOVERNANCE
The boards of Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc. are committed to active oversight of our ESG-related matters, including reviewing the status and performance of our ESG initiatives at least semi-annually.ACCELERATING THE SHIFT TO ZERO-CARBON ELECTRICITYOur 2020 Lighthouse transaction represented a nearly $3 billion investment in carbon-free power and involved the sale of a 1.6 GW portfolio of wind and solar projects combined with 1,580 MWh of energy storage.Key metrics include:•	7 renewable energy projects located in 4 states•	Annually, clean energy benefits equivalent to -	powering 640,000 U.S. homes -	taking 820,000 cars off the road •	The projects will create an estimated -	2,500 construction and operations jobs-	$464 million in landowner, state, and local tax payments over their operational lifespansRESPONDING TO 2020’s CHALLENGESResponding To 2020’s ChallengesTHE COVID-19 PANDEMICFor our nation and the world, 2020 was a year defined and shaped by a devastating public health crisis. Countless lives have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and entire sectors have had to recalibrate the way they do business. The health, safety, and well-being of our colleagues and communities will always remain our top priority. As the uncertainty surrounding the novel coronavirus grew, we took several steps to prepare and protect employee safety and business continuity. Early in 2020, we formed a task force comprised of team members from a range of functions that include executive leadership, operations, human resources, and safety. They met daily to determine, implement, and communicate the policies and measures we took as a company. The task force immediately established COVID-19 mitigation and response procedures. We implemented new safety protocols to protect our onsite essential workers, including supplying PPE, implementing staggered shift schedules, providing extra vehicles to minimize close contact, closing our sites to all but essential visitors, and implementing stringent new safety protocols for individuals who did visit. In addition to social distancing and enhanced cleaningprocedures, onsite contract workers were required to submitCOVID safety plans in alignment with CDC guidance. We also closed our corporate offices and provided office-based employees with the equipment and technology solutions necessary to perform their jobs from home.Central to these efforts were our company communications across a number of channels. We created an employee resource COVID-specific intranet site that includes current work resources, policies, health and wellness information, guidelines, and more. We host and continuously evolve virtual meetings for employees to hear from and speak directly with the leadership team and to remain connected. We also took many measures to give employees the time and flexibility needed in case they or their loved ones became exposed to the virus. We implemented the Families First Coronavirus Response Act and extended the Emergency Sick Leave (ESL) and Emergency Family Medical Leave (EFMLA) provisions of the Act to all employees. While the Act expired in 2020, Clearway will continue offering ESL and EFMLA benefits into 2021.RESPONDING TO 2020’s CHALLENGESCOVID-19 
Response HighlightsIdentifying essential workers and instituting new procedures to maintain onsite health and safety and implementing remote work for all remaining employees.Establishing enhanced site safety protocols that include social distancing, enhanced cleaning procedures, and PPE supplies. All onsite contractors are also required to submit COVID-19 safety plans that align with CDC guidance. Supporting our employees, particularly those in rural locations with limited healthcare infrastructure and testing, with access to a third-party occupational health provider with a COVID-19 hotline they could call to speak with medical professionals and access guidance. This third-party provider was an innovative approach that helped us with case management and contact tracing in the event of exposure. In 2020, nearly 13% of our employees across the U.S. used the service to get answers and guidance. Changing our paid time off (PTO) policy for 2020. Recognizing that many employees may have had to cancel vacation plans or may not have been able to use their PTO for other reasons, we adopted a special policy to pay employees for up to 40 hours of “lost” PTO. Employees who purchased PTO in 2020 were also refunded contributions associated with any unused balances.Assessing the safety of our office spaces, including their ventilation systems and the buildings’ COVID response plans, to ensure they align with CDC guidelines and our own requirements once we reopen offices. We have prepared plans for office reopening that include occupancy limits, physical distancing, enhanced cleaning procedures, and other protocols to ensure a safe environment. Between April 27 and May 3, 2020, we conducted an employee survey regarding Clearway’s COVID-19 response and planning efforts. 70% of our employees responded and we received high marks (≥90%) for business continuity, leadership, communication, and our attention to employees’ wellbeing and health.“I appreciate the care leadership has demonstrated in their response to the crisis. They have shown an abundance of caution in protecting employees, empathy for individual circumstances, genuine care for overall employee wellbeing, proactive planning in constantly evolving circumstances, and a desire to be as transparent as possible in their communications.”  –Survey respondent..A Closer Look Expanding Community Solar Access During COVID-19Clearway Community Solar offers access to local clean energy choices and bill savings for households, businesses, municipalities, and others. We operate 59 community solar projects with more than 20,000 residential customers and are developing more than 50 new projects across Illinois, New York, Massachusetts, and Minnesota.The COVID-19 pandemic brought unexpected challenges to our community solar door-to-door sales activities when in-person solicitations were restricted in markets where we have new projects coming online. The community solar team adapted in several ways.Prior to the onset of the pandemic, we had begun developing an online customer enrollment portal. When in-person sales were restricted, we ramped up efforts to complete the enrollment portal and were able to deploy it within weeks. In addition to making community solar subscriptions available to more potential customers through this self-service option, the enrollment portal also helped enable the expansion of in-market partnerships.We also expanded our suite of community solar communication materials to address frequently asked questions and common customer service inquiries, and we utilized webinars and virtual presentations to support both new enrollments and existing customers. In places where it became possible to resume door-to-door sales, we introduced COVID-specific safety protocols for our community solar field agents and in-market vendors, as well as daily safety screenings and safety protocol-focused training.The successful implementation of these creative approaches and safety protocols resulted in Clearway Community Solar’s sales teams delivering solid performance in a challenging year while ensuring their own safety as well as that of prospective customers. RESPONDING TO 2020’s CHALLENGESA Closer Look Clearway’s Equity, Partnership and Inclusion Council (EPIC)Diversity of perspective, background, and experience are highly valued at Clearway, and our commitment to inclusivity and belonging is integral to who we are as a company. In 2020, we launched our Equity, Partnership and Inclusion Council (EPIC). The Council focuses on our diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy and charting the company’s course toward progress in these areas. The Council is sponsored by the CEOs of Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc., led by two co-chairs, and comprised of individuals from various levels, roles, and disciplines across the company.BUILDING AN EPIC VISION OF DEI AT CLEARWAYThe EPIC Planning Team reports to the Council and is made up of colleagues who arepassionate about having a direct impact on diversity, equity and inclusion in the 
workplace and beyond. The Team focuses on how Clearway addresses DEI in three 
key business areas:1.	Our People – how we recruit, retain, engage, and train our employees2.	Our Products & Customers – how we can better partner with and understand the needs of underserved markets, as well as diversify our customer base3.	Our Purchasing – how we establish and maintain non-discriminatory practices in our purchasing as we lay the groundwork for a full-fledged supplier diversity program and endeavor to set ourselves apart as a leader within the industry around supplier diversityEPIC’s work in these areas will be guided by input from several employee-led inclusion groups formed around common communities and shared experiences. In 2020, our Black Inclusion Group and our Allies Inclusion Group were created, and in early 2021 we will launch Latinx, LGTBQIA+, Pan-Asian, Women, and Veterans inclusion groups.EPIC hosts regular educational events to encourage discovery and dialogue on a range of topics. All employees, contractors, and subcontractors are welcome to participate. These events begin with a Clearway employee sharing information about their life experiences and background to help introduce the topic and speaker. This helps increase understanding and empathy and offers attendees the opportunity to gain a fuller appreciation of one another that extends beyond knowledge gained in standard workplace interactions. Following this, an external speaker and subject matter expert provides insights on a selected topic, and employees have the opportunity to engage in dialogue through multiple channels. We survey attendees after each event to get feedback and ideas for future discussion topics and suggestions for improvement.We advocate for racial and social justice at Clearway, in our industry, and in our nation.We create safe spaces and robust resources for employees to examine, listen, share, and put into action what we are learning.We commit our time and resources in a thoughtful, transparent, and sustainable manner.We adapt our approach to acknowledge our gaps and meet people where they are. We embody our DEI program by turning action into impact in all facets of our business. 