Message From Our CEOsIn 2021, Clearway generated more than 12.5 terawatt hours of renewable energy – enough to power more than 1.7 million American homes. We also produced more clean energy than ever, with a full 91% of the electricity we made coming from carbon-free sources. We are incredibly proud of what this says about our company and how far we’ve come since becoming a standalone company in 2018. It speaks to the hard work and dedication of our team members, the commitment of our customers and suppliers, and the ongoing support we receive from the communities that host our projects.In just a few short years, Clearway has grown to become one of the largest clean energy companies in the country by any measure. We own and operate 5.6 GW of wind and solar facilities in 26 states – a 33% increase in capacity since we became a standalone enterprise in 2018. We have grown our development pipeline to over 19 GW, which will sustain over 2 GW per year of construction in the years ahead. And we signed contracts for nearly 3 GW of projects in 2021, dramatically broadening our customer base and making our clients’ sustainable sourcing plans a reality. The unprecedented circumstances of the last two years haven’t made it easy for us to do these things. Amidst the ever-changing circumstances presented by the pandemic, over the course of the past year our determined teams have answered the call and delivered what our company and our country needed of them. Our sites’ operational staff sustained their work throughout an exceptionally complex year and did so while achieving our best safety performance ever. Our staff who develop, engineer, and construct sites found ways to finish projects in the face of myriad challenges, including new technologies and jammed supply chains. Meanwhile, our team members who play vital roles in enabling that work fulfilled their duties, delivering new projects, managing the commercial aspects of our existing projects, and ensuring continuity of our business operations.And although we are far from done, the work we are doing to make our company and industry more equitable and diverse also gained momentum this year. Our Employee Inclusion Groups came into their own, as their participants grew in number and made significant contributions to our business practices. Our hiring process is now more conscientious of bias, and the substantial hiring we will do in 2022 and future years will give us an opportunity to make a company that is already one of our industry’s most diverse even more inclusive. We also achieved our goal of creating the Clearway LEADS policy, which promotes purchasing from local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses, and our people are playing leadership roles in creating soon-to-be-announced industry-wide programs that will make the energy transition more equitable for all its potential beneficiaries.  We are continually mindful that the billions we deploy each year can change the landscape of opportunity for underrepresented groups and marginalized communities, and we look forward to putting this policy to work and seeing our investments better the world.In 2022 and beyond, we will continue our efforts to make our company a great place for our employees, and to deliver positive impacts for the renewable energy industry and our nation. This year, we’ll begin construction on nearly 2 GW of solar, wind, and storage projects – a $3 billion investment in communities across our country – and we’ll grow our ranks with a multitude of new hires who will be drawn from the many diverse and promising communities of our country. Together, we look forward to seeing the positive and enduring impact that these investments will have on the world in the years ahead.CRAIG CORNELIUSChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy Group LLCMESSAGE FROM OUR CEOsCHRISTOPHER SOTOSChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy, Inc.Craig CorneliusChristopher SotosMESSAGE FROM OUR ESG PROGRAM LEADSMessage From Our ESG Program LeadsAt Clearway, sustainability means operating our business in a way that protects, conserves and enhances biodiversity, preserves natural resources, enriches the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees, advances social equity, and creates positive impacts within the communities where we work and live.Clearway’s mission to make clean, competitive, and reliable energy is fully aligned with our sustainability-first approach to building a world powered by clean energy. Our commitment to “doing well by doing good” guides how we develop, construct, and operate our facilities, invest in the communities that host our projects, create fulfilling employment opportunities, and leverage our supply chain to effect positive change.In 2021, our ESG Committee evaluated and made progress in several areas, including regenerative development, waste reduction, water conservation, end-of-life material management, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as creating a sub-committee on Community Engagement. We also advanced Clearway’s ESG practice by prioritizing our emphasis on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). We established a full-time DEI leadership role and are operationalizing critical DEI work in our metrics, processes, employee education, and programs. In addition, our new Clearway LEADS policy will help drive equitable, environmentally conscious actions among our equipment and service providers.We are committed to operating in a way that promotes and helps achieve a sustainable world for future generations and look forward to continuing to report on our progress in these areas in future reports.RAY KELLYSenior DirectorEnvironmentalELIZABETH LAINEDirectorDEI & Talent DevelopmentABOUT THIS REPORTAbout This ReportThis report describes the environmental, social, and governance aspects of the activities of Clearway Energy Group LLC and our public affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. (collectively, “Clearway”) for fiscal year 2021 (January 1 – December 31, 2021). Topics related to Clearway’s portfolio are primarily focused on the renewable energy assets we own and operate. This report differs from Clearway’s 2020 ESG report in that it does not include information that pertains to Clearway Energy, Inc.’s thermal business, which is under a binding agreement to be sold in the second quarter of 2022; where specified, selected information pertains solely to either Clearway Energy Group LLC or to Clearway Energy, Inc. This is our third annual report, and while it references GRI disclosures, it is not in accordance with the GRI reporting standards. No external assurance has been sought specifically for this report. We have no restatements to disclose. Additional resources related to our ESG reporting may be found at www.clearwayenergygroup.com/sustainability. In keeping with our commitment to communicate openly with our stakeholders, we welcome your feedback. Please send your comments to: ZADIE OLEKSIW Director, Communications zadie.oleksiw@clearwayenergy.com CLEARWAY'S 2021 ESG SNAPSHOTClearway’s 2021 ESG Snapshot This year, we…Created over 2,600 construction jobs in eight states  Generated 91% of the electricity we produced from emission-free resourcesExpanded our Employee Inclusion Groups to a total of seven: Allies, Asian, Black, Latinx, LGBTQIA+, Veterans, and WomenGenerated more than 12.5 million MWh of clean, carbon-free power – enough to power more than 1.7 million homes With help from our employees, contributed approximately $643,000 in charitable donations to the communities where we live and operate, in addition to $45.2 million in property taxes and $13 million in landowner paymentsEstablished an ESG Policy to guide our business practices and help ensure we operate in a way that promotes and helps create a sustainable world for future generationsClean Energy Snapshot*Clearway's 5.6 GW of wind and solar deliver annual benefits equivalent to:Clearway At-A-Glance6th largest owner & operator of renewable energy in the U.S. 10 million metric tons of CO2 avoided for our customersPower purchase agreements with 100+ customers2.1 million cars taken off the road each year>1.7 million homes powered by clean energy each year34 states  with renewable energy projects in operation or under development *Based on the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies CalculatorCLEARWAY'S 2021 ESG SNAPSHOTOur ESG GoalsWe've made substantial progress on several of our 2021 ESG goals, and set some new ones for 2022 and beyond:EMISSIONS2021 Goal: By 2035, 90% of the electricity we generate will be carbon-free. Status: Achieved.2022 Goal: By 2035, 95% of the electricity we generate will be carbon-free, and by 2050, Clearway will achieve net-zero Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.PORTFOLIONEW - 2022 Goal: By 2030, Clearway will own and operate 10 GW of renewable assets.DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION2021 Goal: By 2022, we will establish all our planned employee inclusion groups and adopt board approved measures to deliver progress on our three key pillars of people, products & customers, and purchasing. Status: Achieved.2022 Goal: By 2023, we will have delivered DEI training to all Clearway employees and increased diverse representation within our organization.SUPPLIER DIVERSITY2021 Goal: By 2022, we will establish a supplier diversity policy that will be applicable to our corporate functions and all our renewable projects. Status: Achieved.2022 Goal: Direct a minimum of 5% of our expenditures across our corporate functions, facility operations and maintenance, and balance of project contracts associated with the development and construction of each of Clearway’s projects to local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses in 2022.COMMUNITY2021 Goal: By 2025, 100% of our renewable energy sites ≥50 MW in size will have community engagement plans and participate in our Adopt-a-School program. Status: 62% of our sites have community engagement plans, and 50% participate in Adopt-a-School.GOVERNANCEOngoing: The boards of Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc. continue to actively oversee our ESG-related matters, including reviewing the status and performance of our ESG initiatives at least semi-annually.Clearway Employee VoicesIn 2021, we continued to achieve high engagement in our annual employee survey and received high marks from our employees on key topics:90% of our employees are proud to work for Clearway92% of our employees know how their work contributes to Clearway’s goals90% of our employees feel that their direct manager/supervisor demonstrates that she/he/they genuinely care about the employee’s wellbeingBUILDING A NET-ZERO ENERGY SECTOR2021 Renewable Energy Footprint5.6 GWunder ownership & in operation19 GWunder development700+employees across the countryBuilding A Net-Zero Energy Sector100+customers with power purchase agreementsClearway is proud to continue to play a leading role in building a net-zero energy sector. Our current portfolio of 5.6 GW of wind, solar, and energy storage projects spans 26 states and delivers clean power equivalent to the needs of more than 1.7 million American homes, a footprint that will expand in future years as we build out our 19 GW development pipeline.34 stateswith renewable energy projects in operation or under development BUILDING A NET-ZERO ENERGY SECTORClearway's Renewable Energy Portfolio300 MW 
Distributed Solar219 MW 
Energy Storage*5 Main Office Locations3.7 GW Wind1.6 GW Solar*Energy storage MW in construction and to be completed in 20225.6 GW in Operations*Energy storage MW in construction and to be completed in 2022BUILDING A NET-ZERO ENERGY SECTORClearway Energy Group is also exploring the potential of including other clean energy technologies in its development pipeline as we work to further decarbonize our nation’s electricity production, including: Green HydrogenIn 2021, Clearway initiated a study of the U.S. green hydrogen market, which includes participating in the Green Hydrogen Coalition, a trade association, and HyDeal Los Angeles, a regional initiative launched by the Green Hydrogen Coalition to provide a platform to bring together a dense cluster of large-scale green hydrogen customers, renewable energy developers, and innovators who want to contribute to a clean energy future. Clearway is applying lessons learned from HyDeal to our development portfolio across the country, and in 2022 we will seek to identify partners to enable development of our first green hydrogen projects. Offshore WindClearway is building a dedicated team to participate in the California offshore wind market. As the rights to develop in federal waters are auctioned in 2022, we will participate alongside strategic partners, engage key state and local stakeholders, and work through transmission interconnection issues to enable up to 4 GW of offshore wind development. Long Duration StorageWe are assessing various long duration (8+ hour) energy storage technologies and providers, identifying trends in the market, and monitoring procurement and planning processes. Long duration energy storage will be critical to enable increased renewables penetration while preserving grid stability and improving resilience. We are focused on scaling standalone and paired or hybrid battery storage offerings while expanding toward the 8+ hour duration segment.BUILDING A NET-ZERO ENERGY SECTOR2021 Clean Energy MilestonesJanuaryFinancing closes, construction starts on Black Rock wind (115 MW, WV)  MarchFinancing closes, construction starts on Pinnacle Wind repowering (55 MW, WV)AprilConstruction starts on 75 MW of solar and 300 MWh of storage in Hawaii (Mililani I and Waiawa solar) May$195 million in financing secured for 7th Community Solar Fund / 71 MW of projectsJune$285 million in financing secured for the Mililani I and Waiawa solar + storage projects in HawaiiJulyPPAs for 200 MW of solar + 200 MWh of storage in California announced with Silicon Valley Clean Energy Authority and Central Coast Community EnergyDecemberPinnacle Wind repowering and construction of Black Rock wind completed; Mesquite Sky achieves commercial operation; PPAs with Clean Power Alliance, Peninsula Clean Energy, and PepsiCo totaling 270 MW of solar + 121 MWh of storage announcedOctober$775 million in corporate financing closed; construction starts on Daggett Solar (482 MW of solar power + 394 MW storage, the largest solar + storage project in California); PPAs with Clean Power Alliance, East Bay Community Energy, Constellation, MCE, and PG&ESeptemberSecond PPA signed with Toyota for Wildflower Solar (80 MW, MS)BUILDING A NET-ZERO ENERGY SECTORFueling Renewable 
Energy GrowthTo support significant expansion of our renewable energy footprint, Clearway Energy Group has actively pursued external funding, closing 13 financings with 14 parties in 2021. In October we were proud to announce that we had secured $775 million in corporate financing to fuel our development pipeline. This capital demonstrates the confidence investors have in our business model and will enable us to pursue growth in wind, solar, and storage as we seek to double our development pipeline over the next several years. Financing a Clean Energy Future with 
Green Bonds Like regular bonds, green bonds are a financial instrument used to raise funds – but green bonds offer investors an opportunity to direct their capital toward activities that have a positive environmental impact, such as renewable energy projects. According to Climate Bonds, green bond investment in a single year is expected to reach the $1 trillion milestone for the first time by the end of Q4 2022.In 2021, a CWEN subsidiary issued two green bonds – the first issuance raised $925 million, and the second raised $350 million. The bonds were issued under CWEN’s green bond framework, which applies the net proceeds from the bonds to finance or refinance new and existing renewable energy projects. Sustainalytics, a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings, and analytics firm, reviewed CWEN’s green bond framework and found that it is “credible and impactful, and aligns with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2018.”.