MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO At Clearway Energy Group LLC, providing clean, reliable, cost-effective energy is integral to our vision and mission. Clearway was created to accelerate the world’s transition to a sustainable future through the deployment of renewable energy, and we are dedicated to harnessing America’s abundant wind and solar resources to dramatically reshape our nation’s electricity supply.As awareness of the drawbacks to burning fossil fuels has risen, demand for power from pollution-free renewable resources has increased. Today, several states have set 100 percent renewable goals for their electricity supply, as have more than 100 cities, and nearly two-thirds of Fortune 100 and nearly half of Fortune 500 companies have set ambitious renewable energy targets. Increasing numbers of small and mid-size organizations, as well as individual consumers, have also chosen to source their electricity from renewable resources.Our objective is to develop, own and operate a fleet of renewable assets that will power our customers’ sustainability commitments while also meeting conservation goals and contributing to the communities where we operate, because reducing carbon emissions and doing what’s right go hand-in-hand.With a fleet of renewable plants that already generates enough power for over a million homes—and a pipeline of new projects from Hawaii to Maine that’s large enough to double the size of our operating fleet—we’re well-positioned to help drive America’s continuing transition to sustainable energy.Getting a significant percentage—and maybe someday, 100 percent—of our electricity from renewables will take time, and it will require a mix of distributed and utility-scale technologies. At Clearway, we’re committed to helping states, cities, businesses and consumers meet and exceed their renewable energy goals. As a company, we are united in our dedication to deliver affordable, pollution-free renewable energy, and we believe our focus on sustainability creates a solid foundation for our business model today as well as tomorrow.In our first sustainability report, we’re sharing the actions we’re taking to move our world toward a better future for all. We’re excited to share our accomplishments with our stakeholders, and we look forward to your feedback.CRAIG CORNELIUSChief Executive OfficerClearway Energy Group LLCMATERIALITY ASSESSMENTThis report focuses exclusively on the activities of Clearway Energy Group LLC (Clearway), including those related to the renewable assets owned by our publicly traded affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc.To establish a foundation for our sustainability program and initiate our reporting process, we conducted a materiality assessment to understand which social, environmental and economic issues have the potential to impact Clearway’s business and are of importance to our internal and external stakeholders.The process began with discussion among Clearway’s management and leadership to develop a list of issues that are material to the energy industry and the company’s operations. Clearway then engaged all internal stakeholders (employees) and several key external stakeholders including suppliers, customers, contractors and NGO partners through the use of a survey that asked participants to score the importance of the issues identified by Clearway.The results are illustrated in the accompanying materiality matrix, which identifies 46 topics that are relevant for us to report on and address in our sustainability efforts. SUSTAINABILITY AT 
CLEARWAY ENERGY GROUP LLCClearway Energy Group LLC works to create a sustainable future by providing affordable, reliable, clean power to customers and communities across the country. We seek to set an example for the renewable energy industry by focusing on sustainable operations while continuously growing our company. Our commitment to making the world a better place begins with considering the long-term impacts of everything we do. We prioritize care for the environment, respect our employees, neighbors and their communities, and strive to build lasting relationships with our business partners. We take our responsibility to operate sustainably very seriously because we know it’s the right thing to do—for ourselves, our stakeholders, and future generations.In late 2019, we began developing and implementing processes to collect and report environmental data such as fuel use, water, waste and GHG emissions. At the time of this report’s publication we have obtained environmental data from over 50 percent of Clearway sites and have a goal of collecting and reporting on 100 percent of our sites in our 2020 report.   In 2019, we did not have any instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations that resulted in significant fines or non-monetary penalties for non-compliance.ABOUT OURCOMPANY CLEARWAY ENERGY GROUP LLCClearway Energy Group LLC is a privately held renewable energy company that develops, owns and operates wind and solar energy projects in the United States. Our company began operations on August 31, 2018, when it was formed as a result of the sale of NRG Energy, Inc.’s renewables platform to Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP). GIP is an independent fund manager that invests in infrastructure and businesses in both OECD and select emerging market countries. Through Clearway Energy Group LLC, GIP also holds an interest in our public affiliate, Clearway Energy, Inc. With over 4.3 gigawatts (GW) of wind and solar in operation across 25 states, including assets owned by our public affiliate, Clearway Energy Group LLC is one of the largest owners of renewable energy in the nation. In addition, we own an extensive development pipeline of wind, solar, and energy storage projects.We are headquartered in San Francisco, CA with offices in Carlsbad, CA; Scottsdale, AZ; Houston, TX; and New York, NY. We also utilize a co-working space in Princeton, NJ. ABOUT OUR PUBLIC AFFILIATE, 
CLEARWAY ENERGY, INC.Clearway Energy, Inc. is a leading publicly traded energy infrastructure investor focused on modern, sustainable and long-term contracted assets across North America. Formerly known as NRG Yield, Inc., the company changed its name to Clearway Energy, Inc. on August 31, 2018.Clearway Energy, Inc.’s environmentally sound asset portfolio includes over 7 GW of wind, solar and natural gas-fired power generation facilities, as well as district energy systems. Through this diversified and contracted portfolio, Clearway Energy, Inc. endeavors to provide its investors with stable and growing dividend income.Clearway Energy Group LLC owns a controlling interest in Clearway Energy, Inc. and serves as its supporting sponsor, principally through the development of renewable energy projects crafted to be optimal investment candidates for Clearway Energy, Inc. and through the operation of renewable energy projects owned by Clearway Energy, Inc., as well as through the provision of administrative support services.  Clearway Energy, Inc.’s Class C and Class A common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols CWEN and CWEN.A, respectively.VISION, MISSION, AND VALUESOUR VISIONClearway Energy Group LLC’s vision is a world powered by clean energy. Our nearly 600 employees work every day to make that vision a reality by operating solar and wind projects in 25 states and developing new clean energy projects across many more. Together with our customers, affiliates, and partners, we are leading the way to a renewable energy future.OUR MISSIONOur mission is to produce clean, reliable, competitively priced renewable energy. We strive to do right by our customers, our communities, our environment, and our people, and we are dedicated to operating a sustainable company that makes all these things—and more—possible. CLEARWAY ENERGY GROUP LLC’S COMMITMENTOur strength depends on our promise to each other to live by our values and operating principles as we go about the tasks of fulfilling our mission and acting as stewards for our stakeholders. That promise is reflected in our Code of Conduct which applies to all Clearway employees, as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct which applies to all suppliers. Our commitments include:•	An ethical business culture that includes working collaboratively with a spirit of trust•	Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well as with our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct•	A safe, fair and respectful workplace•	A positive work environment free of harassment, bullying and intimidation•	Decisions that are made in the best interests of Clearway, without personal conflicts or bias•	Confidence that reports of all kinds, made in good faith, will be taken seriously and investigated appropriately, and that those reporting will not face retaliation
OUR BUSINESSClearway Energy Group LLC is a full-scope development and operations platform with 4.3 GW of wind and solar under ownership and over 9 GW in development as of December 31, 2019. We actively participate in every stage of the lifecycle of our projects–from origination and development, through construction and financing, to commercial operation and long-term ownership. Clearway strives to create enduring relationships with our customers, counterparties, partners, affiliates, and stakeholders.  ORIGINATIONFocused on utility scale wind, utility scale solar, community solar & battery storageOur Origination team has extensive experience delivering renewable power under long-term contracts to corporations, educational institutions, governments, residential customers, and wholesale customers, including investor-owned utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, community choice aggregators, and competitive retail providers. We leverage our strong presence across key regulated and deregulated markets in the U.S. where we have utility scale wind and solar projects, as well as community solar and battery storage projects, offering innovative solutions to meet our customers’ power and sustainability needs. DEVELOPMENTSite diligence, project management, permitting, & interconnectionComprised of experienced project developers and subject matter experts in transmission and market strategy, land use permitting, and real estate transactions, our Development team works closely with property owners, local governments, utilities, state and federal environmental agencies, technical consultants, and other stakeholders to ensure our projects are responsibly sited and developed.The Development team embodies Clearway’s mantra to “do right by our customers, our communities, and our environment” by conserving natural resources and creating positive and lasting relationships with our projects’ landowners and neighbors.ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT AND CONSTRUCTION (EPC) MANAGEMENTTechnical services & construction managementAs the owner and operator of our clean energy facilities, we seek to design and build systems that meet or exceed safety and performance expectations. Clearway maintains an industry-leading level of quality assurance in our EPC management processes, and we partner with the most capable EPC firms in the industry.CAPITAL MARKETSOver $7.2 billion in project financing raised across more than 150 distinct projectsClearway arranges 100 percent of a project’s required funding through a combination of sponsor equity, construction financing, tax equity, and debt. Our diversified financing experience combined with our portfolio of long-term generation assets gives us a unique advantage when working with investors and financing institutions. Our Project Finance team prioritizes building mutually beneficial and lasting relationships with capital providers to secure financing in the most competitive markets.COMMERCIAL OPERATIONSIn-house Asset Management and Operations & MaintenanceClearway Energy Group LLC prides itself on being a world-class owner and operator of renewable generation assets. Our Commercial Operations team is comprised of best-in-class technical experts. These individuals manage the majority of the 4.3 GW of wind and solar assets owned by Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc., and ensure our customers’ sustainable energy goals are met.Our Projects and Operational AssetsClearway Energy Group LLC’s extensive experience with all aspects of project development, operations, and customer service has made us a leader in the renewable energy industry. Our nationwide operating footprint and development pipeline include utility-scale wind and solar, community solar, and battery storage projects. We proudly support the communities where we live, work, and operate our projects.FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE$11 billion in total assets$7.2 billion in total capital raised ($2.4 billion in 2019)$3.2 billion in total equity$1.2 billion in annual revenue$740 million annual EBITDAA TREND OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH