COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTCommunity EngagementIn 2021, Clearway and its employees contributed approximately $643,000 in donations, sponsorships, and support to nonprofit organizations 
in the communities where we live 
and operate.In 2021, the renewable energy sites owned and operated by Clearway contributed $45.2 million in property taxes and $13 million in landowner payments to their host communities.Clearway’s community engagement activities are driven by our commitment to help create a just, equitable, and sustainable world. In 2021, we created a cross-functional community engagement working group that meets regularly to share best practices and explore new opportunities for outreach.Individual community engagement plans are developed for each of our wind and solar project sites based on the needs of the local community. Clearway site administrators and other local staff play a leadership role in developing community engagement plans and representing the company in the communities where we work. Adopt-a-School ProgramOur goal is that by 2025, 100% of our utility-scale (>50 MW) wind and solar sites will have community engagement plans and participate in our Adopt-a-School program. As of the end of 2021, 16 of our 26 utility-scale sites (62%) have community engagement plans in place, including 13 sites that participate in Adopt-a-School. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTCommunity Engagement at Taloga WindOur 130 MW Taloga Wind facility is located near the town of Taloga in Dewey County, Oklahoma. The site team at Taloga Wind is leading Clearway’s community engagement initiative in Taloga and the neighboring town of Seiling. Taloga was one of the first wind farms built in Oklahoma and began commercial operation in 2011. Since then, the region has become a major hub for wind energy. The Taloga team has developed relationships with local schools to educate students about the role of renewable energy in their community, including learning how a wind farm makes electricity and what it’s like to work at a wind farm. In 2021, Clearway partnered with KidWind, a unique organization that teaches schoolchildren about renewable energy. Clearway’s Taloga Wind team gave a presentation on renewable energy to 3rd-6th grade students at Taloga Elementary and then hosted a coloring contest. The winning artists received STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) activity kits that were a big hit at home! In addition, Taloga Wind donated $5,000 to the school’s KidWind STEM activity fund for wind/solar workshops and future team competitions. The site also made donations to Taloga Public Schools and the Town of Seiling, including supporting the school’s STEM program, funding a new basketball scoreboard, and providing funds for health and safety supplies to combat Covid-19. In 2022, through their partnership with Clearway, Taloga Public Schools students will compete in the 2022 KidWind Simulation Challenge: They’ll use simulation software to virtually construct and test their own wind turbines and wind farms, and they’ll put their designs to the test alongside students from across the country. Community engagement is an ongoing commitment by Clearway – it’s about being a good neighbor, building relationships over time, and continuing to invest in the communities where we work, so that they share in the growth and success of the renewable energy industry.Winner, 1st and 2nd GradesA representative from the Taloga site team talks to students about the coloring contest.Winner, 3rd and 4th GradesCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTPartnering with Blue Planet FoundationIn 2021, the Blue Planet Foundation modified and expanded materials and curricula developed for Clearway’s educational partnerships in Hawaii for use in our Adopt-a-School program across the country.