OUR SOCIAL IMPACTOur Social ImpactDiversity, Equity & InclusionClearway’s DEI initiatives are focused on three core areas: People, Products and Customers, and Purchasing. These core areas are evolving via a four-pronged framework that ensures concurrent progress in our metrics, processes, educational initiatives, and the programmatic elements that we’re putting into place to support long-term success in each of the three areas.•	Required training•	Supplemental learning•	Regular educational programming•	Diversity demographics•	Inclusive behaviors•	Supplier diversity statistics•	Diversity in people processes•	Employee Inclusion Groups and related programs•	Mentoring and development programs•	Community partnership•	Sourcing and hiring•	Performance review•	Purchasing processes & requirementsOUR SOCIAL IMPACTIn 2021, Clearway’s advances in DEI included:Formalizing our commitment to DEI by hiring a permanent Director of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion to lead our efforts in this areaEstablishing a four-pronged approach to address DEI holistically in the organization via metrics, process, education, and programsEnhancing our talent management processes to ensure greater equity and reduce the opportunity for bias – these include Staffing for Success, our standardized approach to hiring, and Managing @ Clearway, which helps new and incoming managers (both new to the organization and newly promoted) understand Clearway’s standards of leadershipSignaling the importance of DEI issues and establishing transparency and accountability at the executive levelOngoing compensation reviews to ensure equity in pay based on gender and ethnicity/raceDeveloping and piloting inclusive leadership training and unconscious bias training (to be deployed company-wide in 2022)Establishing a sustainable procurement committee to promote the inclusion of small, local, and diverse businesses in our purchasing process in accordance with our Clearway LEADS policy, which promotes purchasing from local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses, and to increase our commitments over timeExpanding our Employee Inclusion Groups to a total of seven: Allies, Asian, Black, Latinx, LGBTQIA+, Veterans, and WomenIncreasing optional, voluntary self-identification factors to include Veteran, Disabled, and Non-Binary employees to better understand and support our workforce, as well as inform strategic workforce planningOUR SOCIAL IMPACTExpansion of Our Employee Inclusion Groups Clearway’s Employee Inclusion Groups (EIGs) are company-sponsored, voluntary, employee-led communities open to all employees and dedicated to supporting specific demographic populations. Each EIG has an executive sponsor from the executive leadership team and is led by two co-chairs. Our EIGs strive to build inclusive, supportive communities that celebrate individual and cultural diversity, and are a critical linchpin of the Clearway culture.EIGs are responsive to the needs and interests of their members, which they represent to the company, and provide personal and professional development through sponsorship and mentorship opportunities as well as learning and development programs. Our seven EIGs contribute to making Clearway more resilient and inclusive in many ways, including:•	Helping to inform our equitable hiring processes•	Successfully advocating for more diversity-friendly policies to expand parental leave, adoption, and other family benefits to be more supportive and inclusive of a range of diverse family structures•	Piloting new initiatives, like our mentoring program and unconscious bias training, to provide feedback and help us tailor the programs to our specific needs •	Administering our Onboarding Buddy program (run by Allies) to support engagement and retention by connecting new employees to a supportive community •	Volunteering in the communities where our employees live and work through Clearway-sponsored initiatives, as well as external programs•	Fostering a safe space for employees to connect and discuss shared experiences, and provide advice and support•	Identifying opportunities to support, sponsor, or partner with community organizations and industry associations aligned with the needs and interests of our diverse populations. In 2021, these included:  -	The King Center (MLK Jr. Day)-	The Trevor Project (Pride Month)-	The Marsha P. Johnson Institute (Pride Month)-	The Iron Freedom Foundation (Veterans Day)-	Asian American Student Film Project (San Francisco State University Fellowship)-	Heifer International-	Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) (Memorial Day)-	Women of Renewable Industries and Sustainable Energy membership (established for 2022)Clearway's 2021 Pride Day celebration.OUR SOCIAL IMPACTSupplier DiversityIn 2021, we created the Clearway LEADS policy, which promotes purchasing from local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses, and will be applicable to all our major equipment and service providers beginning in 2022. Clearway LEADS will increase the sustainability of our purchasing process and reduce the environmental impacts within our supply chain. We will update our policy annually based on best practices and industry trends and seek to increase our spending with qualifying suppliers by setting annual goals and targets, committing to rigorous tracking, monitoring, and reporting toward those goals.  For 2022, we have established a goal of directing a minimum of 5% of our expenditures across our corporate functions, facility operations and maintenance, and balance of project contracts associated with the development and construction of Clearway projects to local, environmentally aware, diverse, and small businesses. In addition, we are committed to supporting our customers and partners in achieving their sustainable procurement goals. As a result, we may agree to goals and targets for specific projects that go above and beyond our established commitments. In addition to our procurement goals, we have made commitments to contract with suppliers who are proactive about minimizing their environmental impacts, and local businesses that can increase our economic impact in the communities where we work. We are also committed to providing support for workforce development initiatives at our 
development sites. Community SolarIn 2021, we conducted a full demographic review of the diversity of our community solar customer base to understand where we are under- or over-indexed relative to local populations. In areas where we’re under-indexed, we are looking at where we can best focus our efforts to improve access for under-represented groups. We are also driving DEI goals in the community solar space through work on policies and other initiatives to help facilitate financing for underserved markets and increase equitable access to clean energy.Supporting Those Who’ve Served In honor of Veterans Day 2021, Clearway Energy Group donated $5,000 to Iron Freedom Foundation, an organization that supports veterans who are struggling with depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) by providing a community that helps them develop lifestyle changes and a new kind of freedom and peace through outdoor programs.On November 18, the Clearway VETRN EIG hosted an event to talk about veteran suicide, mental health, and how we can reach out to help those who may be struggling. The featured guest speaker was Warrant Officer Clifford Bauman, a 9/11 first responder at the Pentagon, 34-year veteran, and suicide survivor who has become a champion for veteran mental health and survival.Clearway team members participate in our Veterans Day virtual event.Veterans at ClearwayVeterans contribute tremendous skills, knowledge, and experience, but the transition from service to the private sector can be challenging to navigate. We’ve worked with organizations that support veterans to help us solve for their needs. Our VETRN EIG works to ease the transition to Clearway, whether that’s by providing support systems to help new hires integrate into the private sector or connecting them with external resources.OUR SOCIAL IMPACTInclusion Impact AreasUnderstanding Our Employee DemographicsIn 2021, we expanded our employee self-reported demographics beyond the standard federal requirements to give employees who are Disabled, Veterans or Non-Binary the opportunity to self-identify. This change helps us understand our workforce and any gaps we may have to fill to better serve the needs of employees.Looking Ahead to 2022In 2021, we implemented a new learning management system (LMS) that is integrated with our current performance and talent development platform to create a “one-stop-shop” for employee growth and development. Employees and managers now have a dedicated place to set goals, focus on personal and professional development, review accomplishments and performance, and much more. Looking ahead to 2022, we are launching our Clearway Leadership Framework, which provides a practical approach to inclusive leadership actions, with a 12-month, small-group peer learning experience for leaders designed to foster more inclusive behaviors in daily workplace contexts, such as meetings, collaboration, strategic planning, and more. We are also deploying mandatory unconscious bias training for the entire organization. Our intention is to create a holistic approach in which our LMS tracks each employee’s training as part of their individual personal development plan, thereby providing a cohesive foundation for reflection and growth.Clearway Voices Survey Our goal is to make Clearway a great place to work. Clearway’s most valuable asset is our employees who come together each day to help make our vision of a world powered by clean energy a reality. The annual Clearway Voices Survey is one of the many ways in which we engage with our team members to gather their feedback and help ensure that we’re creating a work environment, company culture, systems, tools, and processes that allow us to be successful collectively and as individuals.  Our 2021 survey achieved 78% engagement and provided insights regarding how our employees feel about important topics related to working at Clearway. Highlights of the results include:HiringMeetingsCollaborationPerformance ManagementStrategic Planning92% “I have the training and tools I need to do my job safely”90%“My direct manager/supervisor demonstrates that she/he/they genuinely care about my wellbeing”90% “I am proud to work for Clearway”90%“I have the autonomy to perform my job effectively”92%“I know how my work contributes to Clearway’s goals”Team DevelopmentOUR SOCIAL IMPACTOur Diversity MetricsDiversity data for Clearway Energy Group LLC and Clearway Energy, Inc., as of December 31, 2021.WomenPeople of ColorOUR SOCIAL IMPACTSafety at ClearwayDelivering Excellence in SafetyClearway’s Safety Management System (SMS) is based on ISO 45001 and establishes operating principles, values, and actions through which we deliver on our commitment to protect our people, the environment, and the communities in which we work.One key element of our SMS is the safety committee, which is composed of members of our safety and environmental teams as well as field employees, frontline supervisors, and senior management. The safety committee meets monthly to review safety performance data, recent incidents, and industry best practices to identify corrective actions and continuous improvement opportunities. Through the strength of our SMS and the commitment of our employees and leadership, Clearway achieves top-tier safety performance. We reinforce safe work practices and identify potential risks through peer-to-peer and manager safety observations, including a Field Leadership Observation Program. Core components of the program include conducting safety observations, documenting near misses and deficient conditions, and tracking incident trends, which helps us systematically identify issues and pinpoint improvement opportunities to continue to drive down workplace injuries. Clearway’s Industrial AthletesWe are committed to helping our employees maintain and improve their health. One very successful component of this effort is our “Industrial Athlete Program,” which focuses on employee health and fitness and a reduction in ergonomic-related soft-tissue injuries, both in the office and the field. This program includes educational materials, workshops, fitness challenges, and in-field work evaluation and ergonomics training. Since its 2019 launch, the program has helped reduce musculoskeletal injuries across the Clearway team by 25%. 2021 CEG Safety MetricsMETRIC NUMBER Worker Hours 1,330,512 OSHA Recordable Injuries 3 OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.45 Fatalities 0 Lost Time Injuries 1 Lost Time Injury Rate 0.15 Days Away/Restricted Duty or Transfer Injuries 2 DART Rate 0.30 First Aid Incidents 17 Data is for Clearway Energy Group LLC (CEG) operations and maintenance employees and contractors under 
day-to-day direction from CEG.2021 CWEN Conventional Safety MetricsMETRIC NUMBER Worker Hours 162,815 OSHA Recordable Injuries 0 OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.00 Fatalities 0 Lost Time Injuries 0 Lost Time Injury Rate 0 Days Away/Restricted Duty or Transfer Injuries 0 DART Rate 0.00 First Aid Incidents 2 A wind technician at Alta Wind climbs up to the nacelle.Operations and maintenance activities at CWEN's conventional facilities are conducted by employees and contractors under day-to-day direction from a third-party service provider.OUR SOCIAL IMPACTClearway Wins Safety Standout AwardClearway was selected as the winner of BLR and EHS Daily Advisor’s “Safety Standout Awards 2021” in the “Moving Beyond Compliance” category. The award recognizes our commitment to the principles of Human Performance Improvement and a “Just Culture” focused on fairness and accountability. We strongly encourage everyone at Clearway to take a positive, proactive approach to their own safety as well as that of others, and to discuss safety behaviors with this mindset. This fundamental understanding is then incorporated into work activities such as job hazard analyses, pre-job briefings, leadership field safety observations, stop work authority, and our “Safety Over Production” procedure that lays out the steps to identify and resolve safety-related issues.Wind technicians undergo switching substation training at Alta Wind.Training for Top PerformanceAt Clearway, we understand that our success depends on the skills and expertise of our workforce, and that creating an environment where employees can learn and grow personally and professionally is vital to attracting and retaining the best team in the industry.In 2021, our employees and contractors completed over 18,000 training assignments focused on skills and knowledge acquisition in areas including electrical, mechanical, and hydraulics fundamentals as well as troubleshooting. This includes more than 20,000 hours of environmental, health, and safety training completed by our O&M team through hands-on, classroom, and computer-based training. Establishing a Solid Foundation in SafetyIn 2021, we initiated a partnership with the High Plains Technology Center (HPTC) in Woodward, Oklahoma to launch training programs. All newly hired field technicians take a week-long safety course that includes classroom and hands-on training prior to starting work at their assigned site. In addition, new hires take a Basic Turbine Technology training program through HPTC to acquire the foundational electrical, hydraulic, and mechanical knowledge needed to work on wind turbines. We also launched a site-specific medium and high voltage training program that provides hands-on electrical safety training that is specific to the switchyards, substations, and other large electrical equipment operated at each of our renewable energy sites. 