Climate Change StrategyClearway’s Low-Carbon PortfolioThe vast majority of generation assets owned by the Clearway enterprise are held by Clearway Energy, Inc. (CWEN).  In 2020, 83% of the electricity we generated came from emission-free resources, giving CWEN one of the lowest carbon intensities in the U.S. power sector.Together, Clearway Energy Group LLC and CWEN own andoperate 5 GW of renewables and the Clearway enterprisehas a 10 GW development pipeline that is expected tocontinue to add renewable assets to CWEN’s portfolio overtime, thereby further reducing its carbon intensity.The majority of CWEN’s non-renewable assets consist of efficient peaking gas generation located in California, which is needed by the state’s grid operator to complement renewable generation. The sites are contracted under utility power purchase agreements and are dispatched when needed by the California system operator, primarily as capacity and reliability resources. As a result, the electricity produced by these sites represented only a small portion of CWEN’s total power generation in 2020.  By ensuring that California can safely and reliably transition to using increasing levels of intermittent renewable sources, these assets are helping to significantly reduce carbon emissions from the electric sector in the Golden State.Clearway’s core purpose as a company is to address the global challenge of climate change by accelerating the world’s transition to zero-carbon renewable energy sources like wind and solar. As we work to create a sustainable future, we’re mindful that climate change is already occurring and has the potential to significantly impact our future business activities through changes in weather patterns and extreme weather events.To understand these potential impacts and manage the attendant risks, in 2020 we conducted a climate scenario analysis for our renewable assets. The analysis examined three scenarios and the associated physical and transitional risks associated with each:•	Sustainable Futures Scenario (less than a 1.5 degree increase in global temperatures by 2050)•	2-Degree Scenario (a 2 degree increase in global temperatures by 2050) •	Current Policies Scenario (business as usual resulting in a 3 degree or greater increase in global temperatures by 2050)CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGYEach of these scenarios paints a different picture of the world in 2050 and allows us to assess our current and future strategies against them. The analysis revealed several projected trends for U.S. weather patterns across all three scenarios, including:•	More extreme weather (droughts, floods, wildfires, and severe storms) and more extreme heat, including warmer winters•	A slight increase in wind speeds overall, with greater increases in the southern U.S. and slight decreases in the eastern U.S.•	Greater variability in solar irradiance•	Reduced precipitation overall, although individual precipitation events may be more intense and deliver more moisture•	More frequent dust storms in the southwestern U.S.•	Longer and more destructive fire seasons in the western U.S.•	An increase in the number and intensity of severe storms including thunderstorms, hailstorms, and derechos (long-lasting, violent windstorms that cover hundreds of miles before dissipating), as well as bigger and more destructive hurricanesThe impacts of climate change will continue to have tremendous societal, environmental, and financial costs for decades to come. Clearway is committed to deploying carbon-free renewable energy generation at a scale that meaningfully reduces our nation’s greenhouse gas emissions trajectory. At the same time, we will continue to assess the risks climate change poses to our ability to deliver clean energy solutions today and in the future.Managing Our Climate-Related RiskThe CWEN Corporate Governance, Conflicts and Nominating Committee reviews and discusses the company’s strategies, activities, and policies regarding ESG and makes recommendations to CWEN’s board. This includes evaluating the potential financial impacts climate change, as well as future legislation and regulations, could have on CWEN’s existing portfolio. CWEN’s board also approves the company’s annual budget which entails reviewing potential financial risks related to climate change.