Governance & Business ExcellenceEnsuring Integrity in Our Supply ChainClearway has a two-step verification process to ensure that our solar suppliers are not using any forced labor or sourcing from locations that use forced labor. We employ the following practices during the pre-shipment and shipment stages: First, our suppliers are obligated by contract to ensure that the solar modules we purchase do not contain polysilicon from the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR), something we confirm in a pre-shipment verification process using third-party audits on vendors that trace the sourcing of their polysilicon supply. Second, third-party audits during shipment reconfirm and verify that the modules received are free of polysilicon from the XUAR.Good governance and business excellence form the third pillar of our sustainability framework. We achieve this through a strong culture of transparency, accountability, compliance, and efficiency across all levels of our organization. 2022 again brought supply chain issues to the fore, and we responded by delivering value to our customers amidst uncertainty. Creating a Sustainable Supply ChainA secure and sustainable supply chain is integral to our vision of a world powered by clean energy. Multiple factors have contributed to supply chain constraints in recent years and have affected the renewable energy industry across the US and around the globe, resulting in increased costs, delays, and even the outright cancelation of projects.Viewed through a different lens a crisis can be an opportunity, and while we are proud that we have been able to leverage our significant industry relationships to ultimately deliver all our clean energy projects to our customers, we recognize the need for significant changes to how the equipment for these projects is sourced.Innovative Solutions to Industry ChallengesIn 2022, Clearway took a leadership role in creating the US Solar Buyers Consortium (USBC), which delivers a key driver necessary to stimulate investment in domestic manufacturing infrastructure. By committing to purchase more than 6 GW of crystalline silicon solar modules annually, the USBC will encourage the rapid scaling of domestic solar manufacturing in the US. Human Rights and Clearway’s Supplier Codes of ConductClearway’s suppliers are required to comply with our Supplier Codes of Conduct, which expressly require that they respect the basic human rights of employees, and do not force employees to work against their will. All work performed for suppliers must be voluntary, and workers shall be free to leave work at any time or terminate their employment. Forced, involuntary prison labor, slavery or trafficking of persons is prohibited.Sourcing the production of solar equipment within the US will not only drive an estimated $6 billion in investment, it will also create thousands of well-paying local manufacturing jobs. And projects that use domestically produced equipment will benefit from tax credits made available under the Inflation Reduction Act, incentives that are designed to help grow America’s clean energy economy. At present, only about 3% of solar panels installed in the US are produced domestically. With the new incentives, it is possible that 30-40 GW of solar panels could be produced annually in the US by 2030, supporting the development of a strong domestic solar supply chain that will create lasting resiliency and alleviate constraints faced by the 
industry today..Developing our domestic clean energy supply chain will take time, and even if it is someday possible to source 100% of the solar panels and related equipment installed in the US from domestic manufacturers, some key raw materials and components will continue to be acquired from upstream sources outside the US for the foreseeable future. This underscores the importance and value of our work to establish secure, legitimate long-term sourcing contracts.Specifically in the case of solar, Clearway is advancing strategic pathways to ensure module supply in the near term. These efforts are complemented by our commitment to traceability and factory inspections – combined with the fact that we’ve renegotiated some of our supply contracts to avoid exposure under the Uighur Forced Labor Prevention Act (UFLPA) – have helped ensure that our customers can have confidence that the materials and equipment we procure were produced in an ethical, humanitarian manner that is consistent with our values and upholds our commitments to ESG principles. We reduce exposure in our supply chain with full-time logistics combined with multiple risk mitigation strategies focused on major generation equipment and components.While the USBC is focused on solar manufacturing, wind and energy storage are also critical in reinventing the US energy sector and decarbonizing our economy. We are working proactively to secure our supply chains for both technologies, efforts that include evaluating opportunities to enhance and expand domestic manufacturing capacity in these sectors.Industry LeadershipAdvancing Conversations About Clean Energy, Economic Growth, and Workforce Development In November, Clearway co-sponsored the 16th annual Kern County Energy Summit, an event hosted by the Kern County Economic Development Corporation. Kern County is home to Clearway’s Alta Wind project, which at 947 MW is the largest wind farm in the US, as well as numerous utility-scale solar projects including Clearway’s Rosamond Central project. A Clearway executive spoke at the event, highlighting the role Kern County has played and will continue to play in California’s energy transition. In December, Clearway led West Virginia’s first-ever New Energy Conference, which focused on opportunities for utility-scale solar, wind and energy storage technologies. As the event notes, “West Virginians have long harnessed the state’s plentiful natural resources to fuel American economic prosperity and this event will focus on strategies to continue that proud tradition throughout the 21st century. Technological advances in renewable energy have driven costs down, creating a major opportunity for West Virginia to become a true all-of-the-above energy exporting powerhouse.”The conference featured panels on “West Virginia’s New Energy Landscape,” “New Energy’s Role in an ‘All-of-the-Above’ Economy,” and “The Road Ahead, West Virginia as a New Energy Leader.”We also helped launch the WV New Energy Legislative Caucus to build long-term support in the state legislature for clean energy development. Clearway has also been instrumental in advancing efforts to develop a robust clean energy workforce in West Virginia. We organized and co-led an in-depth workshop with academics, renewable energy developers, nonprofit organizations, government leaders and labor unions to help catalyze actions at the state level. Clearway is proud to partner with Coalfield Development, Generation WV, and the West Virginia Department of Economic Development in implementing a suite of action items that will expand STEM education, vocational training, and public-private partnerships to ensure more residents of the Mountain State are employed in this exciting sector. Encouraging Civic EngagementCivic engagement is an important value at Clearway, and we encourage our employees to participate in activities that support a democratic, equitable society. Employees can take up to eight hours of paid civic leave annually to vote, volunteer as a poll worker or support local “get out the vote” efforts. In addition, we encourage team members to refrain from scheduling meetings on election day to give everyone the flexibility to participate in local and national election processes.Supporting Candidates Who Support Clean EnergyClearway is active in the electoral process and supports candidates who prioritize clean energy policies. In 2022, Clearway Energy Group and the Clearway Political Action Committee contributed approximately $200,000 to candidates running in both state and national races. In addition, several Clearway staff contributed personal time and funds to support the elected officials who champion our issues. We encourage our team members to learn about policies that impact the clean energy industry and the positions of candidates for elected office so that they can use their power to vote to help shape a clean energy future.Changes to Our Governance StructureGovernance changes in response to the TotalEnergies acquisition included updates to the company charter and several governance policies. Clearway Energy Group’s co-owners determined that equal representation from TotalEnergies and Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) would yield maximum effectiveness for Clearway’s strategic planning. The board that oversees the activities of Clearway Energy Group is now composed of six members, three of whom are from TotalEnergies and three of whom are from GIP. Additionally, both TotalEnergies and GIP are equally represented in Clearway Energy Group’s capital committee. Governance at ClearwayAccountability, transparency, and good governance are fundamental to the Clearway enterprise. Our purpose, values, and strategies are determined by our leadership, and our officers and employees are committed to our shared mission and operating principles. Important governance functions like accounting and internal audit are shared across the Clearway enterprise. As such, although Clearway Energy Group is privately owned, our policies, financial controls, and business controls adhere to the same standards (including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) expected of our publicly traded affiliate Clearway Energy, Inc. Our financial performance and an analysis of enterprise-level risks are regularly reported to the boards of both companies as well as to our owners. Monthly reviews of our company and department-level budgets, variances, and multi-year forecasts are conducted to ensure that we are managing our financial resources wisely.More information on our governance and approach to risk management can be found in the ESG section of our website.