LEADING A CLEAN ENERGY FUTUREOUR CUSTOMERSAt Clearway Energy Group LLC, we are committed to helping our customers meet and exceed their sustainability and renewable energy goals. We partner with corporations, educational institutions, governments, residential customers, and wholesale customers, including investor-owned utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, community choice aggregators and competitive retail providers to deliver clean, reliable, and cost-effective power contracts. As the long-term owners and operators of our wind and solar fleet, we establish ongoing relationships with our customers for the life of the contract term. Our team has the experience and market knowledge to structure flexible, innovative contracts that meet the needs of our customers. WHOLESALE CUSTOMERSClearway’s leadership in providing clean energy solutions has made us a trusted partner for many of the biggest investor-owned utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, community choice aggregators, and competitive retail suppliers in the country. Our track record of securing cost competitive wind, solar, and battery storage power contracts has resulted in the successful execution of over 50 unique wholesale projects across both regulated and deregulated markets. We have extensive experience enabling our wholesale customers to meet the requirements of integrated resource plans (IRP) and renewable portfolio standards with renewable generation from our nationwide fleet.WHOLESALE CUSTOMER SPOTLIGHT: 
HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC COMPANY (HECO) In 2019, Clearway Energy Group LLC completed three utility-scale solar projects totaling 110 MW on the Hawaiian island of Oahu. Combined, the three projects will generate low-cost renewable energy equivalent to that used by 18,000 Oahu homes each year. 
Clearway’s projects represent the largest block of grid-scale solar power ever developed in Hawaii and are helping Hawaiian Electric achieve its renewable portfolio standard target, which calls for providing 100 percent of electricity from renewable sources by 2045. By the end of 2019, Clearway’s three projects were adding three percentage points to Hawaiian Electric’s renewable generation, bringing the total sourced from renewable resources to over 28 percent.BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERSMore than 220 companies globally have committed to 100 percent renewable energy, and in the U.S. more than 100 cities have adopted ambitious 100 percent clean energy goals. Clearway Energy Group LLC is proud to count many of our customers among these groups, and to play a role in helping our customers achieve their sustainability targets. As of 2019, Clearway has over 100 power purchase agreements with businesses, corporations, educational institutions, and governments across the country. COMMUNITY SOLAR CUSTOMERSCommunity solar has an important role in supporting the aggressive decarbonization and renewable energy goals that have been adopted by states, cities, and businesses across the country. For customers unable to install rooftop solar, community solar offers a flexible, inexpensive way to utilize renewable energy in their region. At Clearway, we offer our customers transparent pricing, in-house billing services, and subscriptions that are customized to their needs. Community solar offers clean energy along with significant local benefits that include job creation and economic development, as well as healthier communities and utility bill savings. As of 2019, Clearway had over 15,000 community solar customers.BOOSTING CLEAN ENERGY PRODUCTION THROUGH REPOWERINGTurbine technology has evolved dramatically over the past 10-15 years, and today’s wind turbines are markedly larger and more efficient than their predecessors. In many cases, the clean energy production from wind farms built in the 2000s can be significantly boosted by replacing their turbines with newer models that are more powerful and efficient. This process is called repowering, and it offers many advantages. In addition to better capturing the available wind resource, repowering utilizes the project’s existing footprint and facility structures. As a result, fewer materials are needed, and the environmental impacts are lower than they would be if a new facility were constructed.REPOWERING ELBOW CREEKIn 2019, Clearway completed its first repowering project at the 122 MW ELBOW CREEK WIND FARM IN BIG SPRING, TX, which was originally placed into service in 2008. The wind farm’s 53 2.3 MW Siemens turbines were repowered with new nacelles, gearboxes, and longer blades that can capture more wind energy. In addition to increasing clean energy production, these upgrades are expected to lengthen the life of the facility by 10 years. A majority of the recoverable materials were recycled, including 5,669 metric tons of metal components, 1,855 metric tons of fiberglass components and the oil from the gearboxes. Clearway continues to evaluate its operating portfolio across the country for opportunities to repower projects and looks forward to sharing those efforts with you in future reports.CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY2019 was our first full year of operations and the year in which we began conducting a formal climate scenario analysis to understand the potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on our future activities, as well as to assess the resiliency of our current strategies. Broadly speaking, we anticipate that heightened interest in clean energy production will increase demand for wind and solar energy, but we also recognize that changing weather patterns could affect the 
day-to-day generation of our portfolio, and climate-driven extreme weather events could have significant impacts on individual facilities.In 2020, we will be finalizing our climate scenario analysis and working to identify ways we can further contribute to the decarbonization of our nation’s electricity supply. We look forward to sharing these strategies and discussing their alignment with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations in our next report.SHAPING THE RENEWABLE ENERGY SECTORIn keeping with our commitment to expand the production and use of renewable energy, we maintain active memberships in several  industry trade associations. Where appropriate, we seek to play a leadership role and to leverage associations’ resources to advance initiatives that will make our industry more sustainable.TRADE ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS