SAFETYThe Safety section of our 2020 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewWorkforce SafetyWell SafetySafety OverviewRESOURCES  EHS Philosophy	Describes the expectations and principles that guide the decisions affecting our operations.  Safety orientation video	Devon President and CEO Dave Hager introduces safety expectations and requirements.  Contractor safety requirements	Contractors are required to follow Devon’s EHS protocols and policies.   Safety Data Sheets	Contain important information on chemicals and toxic materials stored and handled at Devon work sites. Providing a safe and healthy workplace is the right thing to do for our employees, our contractors, their families and our communities, and it contributes to our culture of trust, optimism and teamwork at Devon.We prepare our workforce to work safely with comprehensive training and orientation, on-the-job guidance and tools, safety engagements, recognition and other resources. Employees and contractors are expected to comply with safety rules and regulations and are accountable for stopping at-risk work, immediately reporting incidents and near-miss events and informing visitors of emergency alarms and evacuation plans. To safeguard workers on our well sites and neighbors nearby, we plan, design, drill, complete and produce wells using proven best practices, technologies, tools and materials.Randy Sanchez 
EHS professional, Delaware Basin Business UnitFor Devon to be successful, our top priority must be safe and healthy employees, contractors and communities. In the Delaware Basin, Randy is a key team member to achieving that success. He monitors work sites for health and safety risks and advises employees and contractors on how to avoid hazards. For Randy, it’s important to get to know his colleagues beyond job titles and assignments. “For me, it isn’t just about the physical well-being of my co-workers on the job,” Randy said. “It’s important to know who I work with and to demonstrate a positive attitude because you never know what kind of impact that will have on a person’s health and safety. It really fuels my passion to get people back home safely to their loved ones.”SAFETY OVERVIEWSAFETY METRICS 2017 2018 2019 Fatalities (Employee and contractor workforce) 1 0 1 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) - 
Employee + Contractor 0.55 0.53 0.54      TRIR - Employee 0.63 0.41 0.48      TRIR - Contractor 0.53 0.55 0.55 Serious Incident & Fatality (SIF) Recordable Rate - 
Employee + Contractor 0.08 0.06 0.08 Days Away Restricted Transfer (DART) Incident Rate - 
Employee + Contractor 0.18 0.26 0.25      DART Incident Rate - Employee 0.30 0.12 0.34      DART Incident Rate - Contractor 0.15 0.28 0.23 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) - Employee + Contractor 0.12 0.12 0.17      LTIR - Employee 0.18 0.12 0.34      LTIR - Contractor 0.10 0.12 0.14 Preventable Vehicle Incident Rate (per million miles) 0.85 1.00 1.62 Employee Hours (million) 5.4 4.9 4.2 Contractor Hours (million) 18.4 24.7 21.6 Workforce SafetyWe want everyone on the Devon team to be safe at work, at home and behind the wheel. We tell everyone who works for us in the field that, “When you cross the cattle guard, you’re on our team.” To achieve exemplary safety performance, we expect our leaders, employees and contractors to actively participate in making Devon a safe place to work. Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy outlines 10 guiding principles that our employees and contractors are accountable for implementing fully. The first principle is compliance, and everyone who works for Devon is expected to comply with all applicable safety laws, regulations, policies and protocols. Creating our safety roadmapSafety is the top priority at Devon, and that commitment extends to the highest levels of the company, including our board of directors. Under our safety governance structure, Devon’s executive vice president of exploration and production is accountable for our safety performance, and our senior leaders oversee safety policies and performance. In turn, our workforce is empowered to do what’s necessary to perform work safely and stop work if they see a safety risk.Our EHS Council sets safety and health strategy, ensures implementation to continuously improve our safety systems and monitors safety performance. Council members include managers from our EHS, operations and business unit teams. In 2019, the council met its safety goal for the year of sharing safety learnings widely and transparently. It also developed an EHS Roadmap to guide selection of the most effective activities and programs to drive continuous improvement. Each year, the council chooses specific elements to advance; in 2020, the safety emphasis is on Training & Competency, with special attention on employee training. The council is tracking progress and sharing monthly updates with senior leaders.Knowing that the workplace culture impacts safety performance, the EHS Council sharpened its focus to encourage a strong EHS culture at Devon. With specific input from field leaders, we continue to assess our culture, and we’ve begun to integrate culture discussions into EHS performance evaluations. We want to identify the right programs and culture to sustain success, as we as continue our transition from lagging metrics to leading indicators in pursuit of better safety performance.The EHS Council placed additional focus on sharing corrective actions and learnings from investigations of the most serious safety incidents. In 2020, we’re also adding annual protocol refresher training for those in charge on our locations and will track corrective actions across all our operating areas.14Devon’s EHS Roadmap guides us in identifying concrete steps to continuously improve in 14 key elements of performance:1.	Leadership, Culture 
and Accountability2.	Asset Integrity3.	Contractor Management4.	Environmental Management5.	Event Management & Investigation6.	Records & Documentation7.	Training & Competency8.	Goals & Objectives9.	Emergency Management10.	ESG11.	Safe Work Practices12.	Hazard Analysis & Risk Management13.	Safety Audit14.	EHS Roadmap ReviewWORKFORCE SAFETYEmbedding culture and job competency requirementsInstilling the Devon safety culture starts on each employee’s first day on the job and continues throughout their career. During new-hire orientation, employees learn the safety behaviors we expect and incorporate into the employee appraisal process: visible commitment, accountability, anticipation, participation, recognition and communication. Job competency is one of our EHS guiding principles. We give employees the training and tools they need to perform their jobs safely and effectively, based on a survey they complete each year. Safety-related training is offered online for office staff and onsite for field workers, with more emphasis on the quality of training than the quantity. All employees must complete a field safety briefing or orientation if they work on or visit field locations. Our training reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety.We delivered our Hearts and Minds workshops to more than 750 employees and contractors in 2019. This included leaders across Devon, contract drilling and completion crews and construction High expectations and requirements for contractorsAbout 80% of our work in the field is performed by our contract partners, making them indispensable to our operations. Devon’s policy is to work only with approved contractors who complete our supplier qualification process and meet our substantial policy and insurance requirements. Contractors are responsible for having EHS programs that meet or exceed all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, as well as Devon’s standards and protocols for key safety activities. Devon strives to work with contractors who have the most robust safety programs and track records. In 2019, for the third straight year, more than 80% of our operational spending was with contractors who earned our highest safety ratings.As a guiding principle, Devon requires high-quality, environmentally sound and safe work from our contractors. We expect contractors to supply and retain quality personnel who are adequately trained to perform their jobs safely, and we continually work to raise the level of contractor safety performance through training and engagement. To work with Devon, contract workers must complete SafeLand or RigPass training, both widely used industry safety programs, as well as the Devon contractor safety orientation found on our online contractor portal. The field orientation describes our critical safety rules for handling chemicals, housekeeping, waste management and other activities while working on our locations. Oil haulers and all other contractors who work in transportation or in seismic operations must complete safety briefings specific to their work. In addition, our safety requirements, expectations, protocols, Safety Data Sheets (SDS), forms and tools are on the company website for easy access by contractors.Before crews start work, they participate in a pre-task tailgate meeting to raise awareness of the potential risks and exposures, required personal protective equipment and other aspects of the job. Leadership engagements in the field can have a positive impact on our workforce, safety performance and operational excellence. To encourage safety conversations, our field personnel wear hard hat stickers that say, “Ask me my reason for working safely.” The resulting interactions often reveal that people work safely so they can return home to their family and friends – a higher motivation than just following procedures. Auditing our operationsWe expect employee-led audits of our operations to help us improve our safety performance. To address audit findings, employees in our various business units develop and implement corrective actions that are recorded and tracked in the Devon Incident Management System. Over time, these steps can lead to operational improvements focused on safety. Measuring our safety performanceDevon sets corporate goals for safety performance every year to drive improvements. We fully met our 2019 goal for sharing learnings from significant incidents and fatalities (SIF), but our overall performance was challenged. The year was marked by one contractor fatality and a higher SIF rate than 2018, tragic outcomes that we work continuously to prevent. Led by the EHS Council, we investigated each SIF to understand root causes and shared lessons learned. To address root causes, we worked closely with our contractors, beefed up training and reviewed and changed procedures and protocols. We also review industry SIFs to deepen our understanding of trends and mitigations. Devon’s primary safety metric is the SIF rate because we want to prevent life-threatening and life-altering incidents and to understand high-risk near misses to help us improve. Our SIF recordable rate for employees and contractors was 0.08 in 2019, up 33% from 2018. With 25.8 million hours worked, our total recordable incident rate (TRIR) in 2019 was 0.54, up slightly from 2018. For the first time, we’re disclosing our Days Away Restricted Transfer (DART) of 0.25 and Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) of 0.17 for employees and contractors in 2019, which capture a subset of injuries included in the SIF rate and/or TRIR. Taken together, we believe these metrics present a comprehensive view of our safety performance.Devon employees drove 13.6 million miles with one vehicle SIF in 2019. During the year, we made an online defensive driving course available to any employee interested in taking the class for personal benefit.We continue communicating our care and concern, reinforcing Stop Work Responsibility and strengthening our EHS culture to prevent life-altering and life-threatening injuries and illnesses and continuously improve our safety performance.2020 corporate safety goalsDevon’s 2020 corporate safety goals continue to be weighted toward leading indicators, including reducing SIFs by learning through near misses, swift completion of investigations and sharing what we learn clearly and quickly cross the company. We’re also tracking improvement in SIF recordables, an important lagging indicator.contractors, which brings the total number of participants to more than 1,000 over the last two years. Through subjects like safety culture, effective communication, continuous improvement, integrity and situational awareness, Hearts and Minds drives home why safety is important to Devon. Based on positive feedback from employees and contractors who have attended the workshop, we believe Hearts and Minds sets the right tone to work safely at Devon.United Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.Devon works to promote a safe and secure working environment for all employees and contractors, from office staff to field workers. Our mission is to enable the health, safety and productivity of all persons involved in Devon operations by encouraging an EHS-centered culture. We provide training and tools, swiftly and thoroughly investigate incidents and near-miss events, crowdsource insights, apply new learnings and pledge to support anyone who stops work for any kind of perceived threat to safety. We’re always looking forward. Increasingly, we’re using leading indicators to anticipate issues before they can become safety hazards.WORKFORCE SAFETYREINFORCING 
STOP WORK 
RESPONSIBILITYDuring safety orientation and on our work sites, we stress the importance of Stop Work Responsibility and our pledge to support anyone who stops a job and calls for a safety meeting if they see an unsafe situation. Across our operating areas, we saw an increased willingness in 2019 to exercise Stop Work Responsibility to put safety above production. There were multiple good stops to remind workers to follow protocols that can prevent significant incidents and fatalities. These included ensuring a Hot Work permit was in place when a job moved, stopping personnel from walking under suspended loads and stopping improper use of fall protection that could result in a serious injury. Workers also shut down work due to high winds and other weather conditions. Our teams recognize and reward workers who exercise their Stop Work Responsibility and encourage them to share safety stories.WORKFORCE SAFETY5 Years, No InjuriesAt Devon, we do our best to partner with top-tier contractors who share our vision of putting people first and operating with integrity. In New Mexico’s Delaware Basin, Devon’s most active operating area, our leading drilling contractor has achieved an exceptional safety record. In the first quarter of 2020, one of the contractor’s rigs working for us reached five years with no OSHA recordable injuries. The rig, which was built for Devon, serves as a training site for contractor crews. A second drilling unit celebrated three years with no OSHA recordable injuries. The contractor’s EHS manager credits Devon’s support for helping his crews achieve these safety milestones.ATTRIBUTES OF A DEVON SAFETY LEADER•	Guards against complacency at home, at work and behind the wheel•	Understands a routine task can have SIF consequences•	Keeps eyes open and watches out for othersWell SafetyEnsuring well integrity is our priority throughout the life cycle of our oil and natural gas wells. We use proven best practices, technologies, tools and materials to keep our well sites safe and to protect people and the environment.CementWell integrity starts with the planning and design of the wellbore, including the selection of equipment, materials and drilling techniques. Devon designs our wells to meet high standards for the strength of the steel pipes that form the well, known as casing, and the quality and quantity of cement we use to separate and protect the multiple layers of casing. This attention to well construction keeps fluids in their proper place and protects groundwater zones for the life of the well.During drilling operations, pressure tests confirm casing integrity. Acoustic measurements let us know that the cement is properly bonded to the casing and to the surrounding rock formation. Employees working in our Well Construction (WellCon) program are focused on optimizing drilling and completion engineering, monitoring Devon wells in real time and making adjustments to prevent issues before they occur.Devon continues to verify the well’s integrity during production operations by monitoring tubing and casing pressures and by analyzing gas and water produced by the well. We also conduct periodic pressure tests and casing inspections.Reducing riskWe determine the drilling fluids to be used during the design phase before we drill a well. We conduct regular well-control drills on our drilling rigs and audit drills as part of our field-review process. To prevent spills, Devon follows local, state and federal guidelines when handling drilling fluid and mud systems.After a well is drilled, we use the hydraulic fracturing process to complete it. Water, sand and additives are pumped into the wellbore to create or restore small fractures in the rock to stimulate production from new or existing oil and gas wells. Water and sand make up 98% to 99.5% of the mixture. A full registry of wells and chemical additives, along with much more information about hydraulic fracturing, is available at fracfocus.org. Devon played a leading role in creating Frac Focus in 2011 and has remained a major contributor to the site.We regularly communicate Devon’s environmental, health and safety policies, protocols and operational expectations for well safety in safety tailgate meetings at field locations. We pride ourselves on work safety and empowerment; all our crews have Stop Work Responsibility. Anyone can stop a job at any time if the person notices a potential hazard or is unsure about a task. This workplace culture helps keep people safe and protects the environment by reducing the risk of spills and emissions.Conductor Casing18 to 30 inches in diameterSurface CasingSteel CasingIntermediate CasingProduction CasingWELL SAFETYTo optimize our engineering, we’re focused on monitoring wells in real time to be able to make adjustments before problems arise.