SOCIALThe Social section of our 2019 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewCommunity Engagement STEMVolunteerism PhilanthropyHuman RightsSocial OverviewRESOURCESTo help organizations and communities tap into Devon’s social programs and policies, we are pleased to make these resources available:   Corporate Giving Policy	Guidelines to determine which causes we consider to be consistent with our corporate giving philosophy.  STEM education grants	Grants designed to help educators spark students’ interest in science, technology, engineering and math.  Teacher development grant	Continuing education, training and/or professional development for STEM teachers in public schools.  Corporate contributions	We support community development, social services, environment and conservation, education, emergency response and preparedness, and arts and culture programs.  Volunteer request form	Find Devon volunteers for a nonprofit organization or specific activity.  Statement on Human Rights	Describes our commitment to human rights, resources providing guidance on human rights issues and expectations of vendors, suppliers and contractors.Investing in Our CommunitiesAs we seek to operate in a socially responsible way, part of that is supporting and strengthening safe and educated communities in areas where we operate. Our social investments target STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education, public safety, social services and community vibrancy. Through volunteerism, Devon employees also contribute to the fight against hunger, advancing education and other activities to deliver necessities and enrichment opportunities to our neighbors.Before we take action, Devon engages with our stakeholders to understand their concerns, assess their needs and determine the most effective way we can help. Our engagements are guided by our commitment to work with integrity, earn trust and be accountable for our actions and results.SOCIAL METRIC 2016 2017 2018 U.S. Social Investments (thousands) $4,778 $6,692 $7,043 A steep industry downturn necessitated cost-cutting in 2016.  Catherine Oster 
Vice President, Strategic PlanningWhen you combine a petroleum engineer and a Girl Scout, you get someone who knows the importance of learning about STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) subjects as early as possible. At Devon, that’s Catherine, a local Girl Scouts board member since 2014. “I want to create more opportunities for girls in STEM fields. A key age group is fifth graders; if we don’t reach them by that point, they’re unlikely to become interested.”Community EngagementDevon is committed to working closely with stakeholders in the communities where we operate by actively engaging and building trust.Committed to working togetherDevon employees engage with stakeholders daily to build relationships founded in trust and cooperation. We place a high priority on our commitment to work together to find solutions benefiting the stakeholders and communities where we operate. Our culture of integrity and accountability extends to all our stakeholders, including our employees and their families, shareholders, neighbors, landowners, mineral-rights holders, policymakers, lawmakers, suppliers, vendors and service companies.Finding and producing oil and natural gas involves industrial processes that can cause noise, traffic and related impacts to local roads. We have a strong record and have earned a positive reputation for repairing damage caused by industry activity. We recognize that our actions can affect our neighbors, and we are dedicated to improving the compatibility of our operations within the communities where we do business.Our strong relationships help us avoid potential problems and address issues in ways that benefit our neighbors. First-responders come to mind. Teachers and students. Farmers and ranchers. Home- and business-owners. Wherever people’s lives and livelihoods intersect with our operations, we want to help.When industry activity in Oklahoma raised traffic concerns, Devon stepped up as a founding member of the Energize for Safety Coalition. Together with community leaders, safety supporters and other operators, we’re committed to reducing the dangers on busy roadways where we work. The coalition developed a safety zone to reduce incidents along a state highway where the rate of accidents involving large trucks had risen. The coalition is also providing resources to local high schools to enhance driver education. Devon is committed to working together and is available to listen and handle any concerns received in person, by phone or online. Our experienced team of land, community relations, field operations, corporate communications and related team members are trained and prepared to respond to issues with the intent of collaboratively finding solutions with our stakeholders.A solutions-oriented approach led Devon to be a partner of the Permian Strategic Partnership, a coalition of energy companies combining resources to collectively address the challenges to health care, education, workforce development, housing and road infrastructure that have accompanied rapid industry growth in the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico. The partners have been meeting with community leaders, elected officials and others responsible for managing regional growth to understand the needs and determine how industry can best support communities.STEMOur company, communities and industry need an educated and innovative workforce to grow and thrive. That’s why we work to interest students in STEM courses and careers.Devon is committed to increasing student interest in STEM courses and careers.Funding with impactToday, about 20% of jobs in the U.S. require STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) skills and training, and that number is growing. Through 2035, nearly 1.9 million direct job opportunities will be available in the oil and gas industry, more than a third of which are expected to be filled by minorities and at least 15% by women, according to information published by API (American Petroleum Institute). To support our technology leadership goals and our inclusion and diversity vision, Devon is strengthening our STEM philanthropic investments for underserved populations. We partner with qualified organizations that have a track record in STEM to identify community needs and solutions. Organizations we work with include the Oklahoma City STEM Collaborative, STEM Ecosystems/STEM Funders Network and Oklahoma City Public Schools Foundation, as well as teachers and administrators across several school districts. Based on our assessment of needs, Devon provides resources and materials, and implements programs to empower women, rural communities and minorities. In 2018, our STEM funding impacted 336 schools, 780 classrooms and 875 teachers. STEMA bold new STEM education and social services modelDevon has partnered for almost 20 years with an inner-city school in Oklahoma City, Mark Twain Elementary School, by providing mentors and other traditional support. In 2019, we committed to a bold new vision for a birth-to-fourth-grade education model that changes how students and their families are exposed to STEM. We convened a wide variety of local and national nonprofits, private foundations and corporations to this unique venture, including the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation, Kiwanis, Smart Start Central Oklahoma, Inasmuch Foundation and others. The group revived rundown facilities near Mark Twain Elementary and placed a suite of new equipment, programs and resources at the school. The partnership includes a STEM center, MakerSpace and a new community center providing wraparound education and social services for the entire neighborhood.With a variety of partners, Devon celebrated a new STEM education model in Oklahoma City in 2019.STEM education will increasingly be integrated into the children’s education beginning as early as three years old. STEM professionals will be on hand to help teachers integrate STEM throughout the school. Before- and after-school programs are planned to further engage students and families in engineering challenges and other programming. Through enhanced support, resources and education, particularly in the area of STEM, we hope to show a measured impact against a similar school without added resources. In the 2019-20 school year, we expect the program to impact about 400 children. In addition, this community partnership – which we believe will be one of the first of its kind in the U.S. – will immediately boost an underserved community and be a model for broad, holistic engagement others can follow.Hall of Fame baseball player Cal Ripken with a student at Mark Twain Elementary.Mark Twain Elementary School PartnersCal Ripken, Sr. Foundation
STEM CenterEngage Learning
Teacher training, afterschool programs and MakerSpace STEM lab staffingDevon STEM Buddies program
Employees volunteering to work with studentsDowntown Kiwanis Community Center Early Head StartSmart Start Central Oklahoma
Parent resource room staffing/early child education supportOKC Kiwanis Club
Funding partnerThe Home Depot Foundation
Building materials, volunteers for school improvement projectsInasmuch Foundation
Funding partner/program coordinator positionSTEMEncouraging IngenuityThrough our signature STEM grant program, Devon has made more than $1 million in grants to educators in our U.S. operating areas in the past eight years, including grants to 15 schools in 2018. Devon is committed to helping communities inspire young people to pursue an interest in the STEM subjects by working together with schools and community organizations to enhance access to STEM education. In the Oklahoma City area, Devon’s investments in STEM education have provided more than 88,000 K-12 students better access to educational opportunities. In addition, Oklahoma teachers have been able to enhance their instructional time with students through more than 30 Devon grant programs. We support a variety of STEM programs in our operating areas, including:Design + DoOur Design + Do challenge, introduced in 2018, gave children a hands-on opportunity to have fun while solving a problem and building STEM skills. Design + Do allows kids to design the playground equipment of the future and get help from Devon employees to build prototypes. In 2018, fifth-graders from eight elementary schools came together at the University of Oklahoma Tom Love Innovation Hub to create their own scale models using 3D printers, laser cutters and other materials, and then present their creations to a panel of judges. Design + Do encourages the students’ creativity and teamwork, and exposes them to real-world technology and innovation challenges.Girl Scouts Terra TroopersFemale geologists at Devon developed Girl Scouts Terra Trooper activity kits and leader guides to engage girls in topics like geology and topography, with the intention of interesting them in careers in the oil and gas industry. After girls complete each hands-on, age-level kit series, they receive a Terra Trooper patch illustrating the geosciences program. Since we started sponsoring the Terra Trooper program in 2015, individual Girl Scouts have earned 819 patches, 358 of them in 2018.Problem solvers. They move us forward. Take us further. And make the world work. They have a thirst for knowledge and push further for solutions, with new ideas and new ways to make life practical. All the while creating the best in science and engineering.The next generation of problem solvers will need the basic skills of collaboration, leadership and responsibility. Skills that are the building blocks of STEM and the catalyst of problem solving in our industry. Which is why Devon supports education initiatives that show students what a rewarding career engineering and science can become.Encouraging the ingenuity needed for our industry will shape our future. It empowers the best kind of work. And it fuels our belief that we can improve our way of life today and tomorrow.STEMFFA Agriscience FairDevon has partnered with the Oklahoma FFA in an agriscience initiative to encourage students to consider the ways the two industries intersect. As part of that program, students are including oil- and gas-related projects in the annual FFA AgriScience Fair.Devon Thunder Explorers Devon and the Oklahoma City Thunder have partnered to offer a program to encourage young people to engage in STEM activities that explore the science behind basketball. Students complete science experiments and other challenges to receive special recognition by the Thunder.SAGE STEM CampSAGE is a week-long STEM camp designed to create interest, excitement and self-confidence in young women entering eighth grade. The camp empowers girls to think about themselves as future scientists, engineers, mathematicians and computer specialists. Devon’s partnership offers campers interactive field trips exploring various departments within the company, learning what geologists do and getting hands-on experience with rocks. Devon Energy Teacher of the MatchThe Devon Energy STEM Teacher of the Match honors an elementary teacher nominated for their hard work in the STEM education field. Teachers are recognized during an on-field presentation and receive $1,000 for their classroom.FIRST RoboticsIn 2018, Devon sponsored the Oklahoma First Robotics regional finals for the second consecutive year. The 2018 competition paired 63 teams of young people from across the state with local engineers, professors and business professionals to solve an engineering design problem over a six-week period. FIRST (which stands for “For the Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology”) is a nonprofit founded in 1989 to inspire young people to join the field of science and technology.Oklahoma City Dodgers MVP Program This program recognizes and rewards outstanding students for their achievements in science and math in more than 400 classrooms across Oklahoma City. Third- and fourth-grade students are selected to receive tickets to a game and the opportunity to attend the MVP Field Day featuring STEM activities. The program is free to teachers, who also receive tickets to an Oklahoma City Dodgers game – where MVPs are honored – and the field day. The Dodgers are a Minor League Baseball Triple-A affiliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers.VolunteerismHaving a strong community presence puts our core value to be a good neighbor into action. Devon’s U.S. employees volunteered more than 4,600 hours to feed the hungry, educate children and otherwise serve our communities in 2018.Opportunities to give back to our communitiesAt Devon, helping the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma fight hunger and feed hope is one of the most popular volunteer activities among our employees. At our eighth annual “Stuff the Truck” event, 440 employees brought their competitive spirit to the job of packaging 242,500 pounds of food – enough for 202,100 meals. More than 300 volunteers packed 2,800 backpacks for the Food for Kids program, saving the food bank $3,000 in labor costs. In addition, our volunteers saved United Way almost $900 in labor costs by stuffing more than 1,500 holiday stockings.Our volunteers contribute many hours as community leaders, including serving as directors on the boards of nonprofits. Devon provides ongoing communication and resources to support their dedication to charitable organizations. We founded the Devon Energy Charitable Foundation in 2001 to provide financial relief to employees who encounter unexpected hardships or damages. Since then, our employees have contributed more than $365,000 to about 180 coworkers experiencing severe and unanticipated financial needs.One of Devon’s long-term community partners is Mark Twain Elementary School in Oklahoma City, where we provide funding, resources and employee volunteers to enhance the quality of education. We’re excited to bring a unique wraparound educational model to the school in 2019, in collaboration with private foundations, corporate sponsors, community organizations and Oklahoma City Public Schools. For more information on this venture, one of the first of its type in the U.S., please see the STEM section of this report. Helping others allows Devon and our employees to give back in meaningful ways, and we take pride in the time and resources we dedicate to improving our communities. Devon employees hard at work during the annual “Stuff the Truck” volunteer opportunity benefiting the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma.PhilanthropyDevon is proud to invest in the quality of life in our communities — for our neighbors, our employees and our company.Community development, social services, arts and cultureDevon is a leading contributor to philanthropic campaigns for nonprofit agencies in our hometown, Oklahoma City, and in communities where we operate. With the company’s one-to-one match for employee donations, our 2018 Give for Good campaign raised more than $2.2 million for the United Way of Central Oklahoma that supports 58 partner agencies, as well as the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma. We also supported the Oklahoma City Indian Clinic in 2018 by contributing to equipment for the clinic’s women’s lab. In 2017, Devon donated $40,000 to the clinic to improve access to lifesaving breast cancer and colorectal cancer screenings for American Indian women. We host an employee fundraising campaign for Oklahoma Allied Arts, and make grants to the Oklahoma City Museum of Art, the Oklahoma City Ballet, the Arts Council of Oklahoma and Lyric Theatre. We’re pleased to contribute to arts and culture organizations that add vibrancy and enhance the quality of life in our communities.$2.2 MILLION raised in 2018 supporting 58 partner agencies, including Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma and United Way of Central OklahomaPHILANTHROPY“Thanks to the support of Devon Energy and the company’s desire to encourage STEM learning in the Oklahoma City Public Schools, the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation is able to introduce a year-long STEM program at Mark Twain Elementary School in the 2019-20 school year. We’re excited to launch this new Ripken Foundation STEM Center equipped with a specialized selection of educational products, activities, equipment, curriculum and materials that will enhance STEM learning throughout the year. Ripken Foundation staff will help train teachers and mentors at Mark Twain to utilize these resources, including MakerSpace programs so that youth can learn and explore their curiosities about STEM. We hope this will be the first of many Ripken Foundation STEM Centers in partnership with Devon Energy.”-Steve Salem, Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation president and CEOMatching employee gifts to institutions of higher education Through Devon’s Higher Education Gift Matching Program, employees can enhance their personal donations to qualifying educational institutions. With the company’s match ratio of 1 to 1.5, an eligible employee’s gift of $1,000 to an accredited undergraduate or graduate school is matched with $1,500 from Devon, for a total combined gift of $2,500. We match up to $10,000 per employee in a calendar year. From 2009-2018, Devon and our employees donated nearly $2 million under the program to qualifying colleges and universities.Environment and conservationDevon has partnered with the Wyoming Conservation Corps (WCC) since 2007 to involve youth in conservation around the state. Each year, WCC students complete a 10-day project of habitat restoration and related land-stewardship activities. Devon employees join the students for a day to share insights about the oil and gas industry and host a visit to active operations. In 2019, we celebrated our 12th year of partnership. Our WCC projects create lasting benefits for public lands in Wyoming, while informing the students about energy production, environmental stewardship and land management.Our support of the Nature Conservancy is helping the Chickasaw Nation’s efforts to protect the Blue River in the Oka’ Yanahli Preserve, safeguarding its cultural heritage and encouraging biodiversity in the area.Local emergency response and preparednessDevon builds supportive relationships with the emergency responders who protect our communities. We invested approximately $300,000 in 2018 to help local emergency response groups with equipment purchases, training and other needs. We continued our practice of hosting annual response exercises with community agencies and partners to work through scenarios and response plans. We held full-scale exercises with fire, law enforcement, emergency management and emergency medical services in Cuero, Texas, and Artesia, New Mexico. Devon also hosted appreciation events for fire departments in our Oklahoma and New Mexico operating areas, and quarterly roundtables for emergency responders in southern Texas.  Human RightsRecognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members 
of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.- The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948. All people are created equalAt Devon, we are committed to the philosophy expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly 70 years ago. Our core values embrace social progress and economic growth, consistent with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011.We also are guided by the principles articulated in the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, adopted 20 years ago by the International Labor Organization. These principles include prohibition on child labor, forced labor and discrimination in the workplace.We participate in the lives of the communities where we live and operate, and we actively engage with our neighbors to understand the environmental and human impacts of our operations. When assessing and addressing these impacts, we consult with those who may be affected, including Native American communities, where possible and appropriate.We continuously evaluate ways to enhance awareness of human rights issues and engage with our stakeholders, vendors and suppliers to continue to improve our approach.   Devon Human Rights Statement