CEO LetterDevon is committed to delivering results to our stakeholders in the right way. As a leading independent oil and natural gas company, that means producing energy to help meet global demand, while generating strong financial returns and long-term value for our shareholders. For Devon, it also means operating a safe, environmentally responsible and ethical business in the field and in the office.As we’re transforming Devon into a U.S. oil growth company, we’re doing so with the interests of our stakeholders and our environmental, social and governance (ESG) progress in mind. We have a great business model, and strong ESG performance enhances our ability to manage risks and operate responsibly. It shows our stakeholders that we’re focused on all aspects of our business and will stay true to our values, doing business with integrity and discipline, and earning our social license to operate.Continuously improving our business and ESG performanceIn all aspects of our business, Devon aims for continuous improvement. We have significantly increased operational efficiency, led our industry in transitioning to cloud computing and strategically amassed a multi-decade drilling inventory. To accelerate our progress, our subject-matter experts in technology and in environment, health and safety (EHS) are working closely with our operations staff to incorporate innovations and best practices into our day-to-day business activities. We’re also taking a continuous improvement approach to our ESG performance, and this report is an example of our efforts to increase transparency on ESG-related issues. Transparency and targets for better environmental performanceOn the environmental front, Devon published our first Climate Change Assessment Report in 2018, providing transparency into the sustainability of our portfolio in a number of carbon-constrained demand scenarios. We cut our methane emissions by nearly 20% in the last three years, and we recently set a methane-intensity target that holds us accountable for continuing to reduce emissions. We believe we can achieve a methane-intensity rate of 0.28% or lower by 2025.By operating responsibly and increasing our focus on leak detection and repair, we’re confident we can meet the target. The actions we’re taking reaffirm our commitment to responsible production operations, going beyond what is required by law in pursuit of continuous improvement in environmental performance. By shifting our focus from inspections to conversations about our personal reasons for working safely, we improved our safety performance among employees and contractors in 2018.Social investments, improving governanceIn 2018, Devon made major social investments to ensure Permian Basin communities can thrive and to spearhead a unique wraparound STEM education program in Oklahoma City. We’re involved with a wide variety of stakeholders to make these programs successful. To strengthen corporate governance, two new directors are bringing fresh perspectives to our board. In addition, in response to ongoing shareholder engagements, we increased disclosures in our 2018 Political Activity and Lobbying Report. At Devon, we’re measuring the performance that matters to our stakeholders. For example, in this report we’re sharing our calculations for key environmental metrics that we updated recently to make sure they reflect the true nature of our operations and our progress. We benchmark our results against our peers, and we’re focused on measuring what can improve our results as well as our ESG performance.Momentum for the futureOur climate-change assessment found that oil and natural gas remain crucial to meeting global energy demand, even in carbon-constrained future scenarios, and that Devon’s current asset portfolio is likely to prove resilient. Devon has a proud history of finding and producing energy, and our U.S. oil-focused business has the momentum and scale to drive sustainable growth for the foreseeable future. We’ll grow and deliver results in keeping with our core values, stakeholder interests and our commitment to ESG leadership.Thank you for your interest in Devon and the actions we’re taking to make our company an operational, environmental, social and governance leader in our industry. We continue to seek improvement in our ESG performance and welcome your feedback and questions.Sincerely,Dave Hager 
President and CEOCEO LETTERCore Values: 
The Devon WayTrust is a key ingredient in Devon’s success. It is vital that our stakeholders trust us to deliver results the right way. The Devon Way.The Devon Way promotes a culture of integrity and accountability. A large medallion with the word “Integrity” is inset in the center of the rotunda of our headquarters. It’s not only a visible reminder of our culture for employees but also a tool to discuss our culture and attributes with candidates for job openings with Devon. Integrity enables us to work better and more efficiently. It strengthens our relationships and establishes Devon as the partner of choice in our industry.We seek to increase shareholder value while operating in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. We are driven to perform with a clear focus, a sense of urgency and a commitment to continuous improvement. By creating a feeling of personal ownership and a culture of hard work, innovation and productivity, Devon encourages an environment that brings out the best in each of us.An atmosphere of teamwork, inclusion and trust encourages our employees to participate in the decision-making process. It promotes accountability and gives everyone an opportunity to develop as a leader.A workforce that is truly engaged will derive greater satisfaction from our success and from our improved work performance.Devon’s strength springs from employees who are committed to increasing shareholder value and who share in the satisfaction of our long-term success. Our corporate culture is one of fundamental respect for the environment and our neighbors. This respect makes Devon a good community partner and helps improve the quality of life where we live and work. By being a good neighbor, Devon enhances our ability to meet our corporate goals.Our Core ValuesHire the best peopleAlways do the right thingDeliver resultsBecause our people are the company’s most important resource, we develop employees’ knowledge and creativity, and we cultivate an atmosphere where everyone can share an idea and know that it will be heard.In a competitive environment, this mantra too often gets pushed aside. At Devon, we refuse to succumb to ethical lapses. We embrace honesty and uncompromised integrity as our foremost core value.In our commitment to increase shareholder value, we instill a desire for continuous improvement, both as individuals and as a company. We do this through hard work and individual ownership of Devon’s goals and objectives.Be a team playerBe a good neighborWe foster teamwork and a culture of trust and goodwill, because a focused, fulfilled and engaged workforce brings more job satisfaction and ultimately yields a more successful company.We share a fundamental respect for the environment and constantly strive to improve the overall quality of life in the communities where we operate. We do this at both the corporate and individual levels.Devon Energy finds and produces oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids from leading producing regions in the U.S. We have strong and sizable acreage positions with a high-quality, multi-decade inventory of drilling locations.  Our careful assessment indicates our portfolio is sustainable, with assets that can be profitable even in an aggressive low-carbon scenario.We operate in the Delaware Basin of southeastern New Mexico, the STACK play in western Oklahoma, the Eagle Ford Shale in Southern Texas and the Powder River Basin in Wyoming.Devon’s operating teams are accountable for working in a safe and environmentally responsible way, delivering strong returns while complying with all applicable laws and regulations, along with Devon’s corporate policies. We apply the latest tools and best practices to reduce emissions and limit our use of fresh water. We firmly believe that our focus on the details required to work safely and to protect the environment serves to elevate our company’s performance in all areas.Our commitment to operational excellence includes controlling our costs and seeking the highest-margin production available in our core areas. In a relentless drive to increase the value we create for all of our stakeholders, we are growing oil production without increasing capital spending.Additional information about Devon’s performance is available in our detailed quarterly Operations Reports.  Quarterly Results (devonenergy.com)Key Strategic Objectives•	FUND HIGH-RETURN PROJECTS•	GENERATE FREE CASH FLOW•	IMPROVE FINANCIAL STRENGTH•	RETURN CASH TO SHAREHOLDERS9The Future of EnergyOil and natural gas will fuel the world economy for decades to come.In recent years, the oil and natural gas industry has positioned the U.S. to meet its current and future energy needs, making our country, economy and people more secure. Our industry is powering innovation and environmental and economic progress, and Devon is proud to be a part of it. With our vision to be a premier independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company, the work our employees do every day contributes to the local, national and global economies. We produce a valuable commodity that is fundamental to society, and we do it in a safe, environmentally responsible and ethical way, while striving to deliver strong returns to our shareholders.In a strong and growing economy, there’s a place for all forms of energy – carbon fuels, wind, solar, nuclear, biomass, hydro and others still to be developed. Today, we rely primarily on oil and natural gas to fuel the systems of our daily lives – transportation, heating and cooling, lighting, manufacturing, telecommunications, technology and agricultural fertilizers. Many of the products we use every day are made from plastics and compounds derived from oil and natural gas, which also fuel the machinery required to manufacture these materials.Oil and natural gas are vital to our way of life. At Devon, we support a consistent, reliable regulatory framework for energy; society depends on sound measures that are both effective and economically viable to ensure there is adequate supply today and in future decades.DEVON ENERGY  2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  THE FUTURE OF ENERGYGrowing demand for all forms of energyThe U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that under all scenarios considered, between now and 2050, global demand for all forms of energy will grow. In the main reference case, fossil fuels will continue to meet most of the world’s energy demand. Consumption of natural gas is projected to increase by 44% by 2050, with petroleum and other liquids up by 22%.Driven by electricity demand growth and economic and policy drivers, worldwide renewable energy and natural gas consumption will grow steadily between 2018 and 2050, according to EIA, as petroleum and liquids consumption continues to increase in the industrial, commercial, and transportation sectors.EIA projects that natural gas will overtake coal by around 2030 to become the No. 2 fossil fuel behind oil. And by 2050, oil and natural gas together will account for half of worldwide energy consumption, with coal at 20%, according to the EIA.Natural gas is assuming larger roles in transportation and electric generation. It’s cleaner than coal, emitting less than half of the CO2, and with virtually none of coal’s pollutants like mercury and sulfur. Natural gas is plentiful, affordable and accessible in North America and around the world. At Devon, we are particularly well-positioned to help meet the growing demand for natural gas.As new sources of energy continue to emerge, it’s our job to produce the energy the world needs now and to do it thoughtfully and responsibly. We execute our plans based on rigorous analysis of the global outlook for energy and the potential for new regulations, while recognizing and responding to concerns about climate change.We’re confident that oil and natural gas will remain the world’s most affordable and accessible forms of energy for many years to come. Devon intends to be a sustainable provider of these essential resources over the long term.