SOCIALThe Social section of our 2020 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewCommunity Engagement STEMVolunteerism PhilanthropyHuman RightsSocial OverviewDevon invests in building strong, safe, vibrant communities. We engage stakeholders to understand the most effective ways we can serve the areas where we operate. To be a socially responsible operator, Devon supports and strengthens the communities where we live and work. Our social investments target STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education, public safety, social services and community vibrancy. We bring together stakeholders from local and national nonprofits, private foundations and corporations to increase the reach and effectiveness of our social investments. Through volunteerism, Devon employees help alleviate hunger, advance education and take actions to deliver necessities and enrichment opportunities to our neighbors.Before we take action, Devon engages with our stakeholders to understand their concerns, assess their needs and determine the most effective ways we can help. Our engagements are guided by our commitment to work with integrity, earn trust and be accountable for our actions and results. Devon is available to listen and handle any concerns we receive in person, by phone and online. We have a trained team of experienced land, community relations, field operations, corporate communications and other professionals who are prepared to respond to issues and work with stakeholders to find solutions.RESOURCES  STEM grants	Grants designed to help educators spark students’ interest in science, technology, engineering and math.  Corporate Giving Policy	Guidelines to determine which causes are consistent with our philanthropic goals.  Volunteer request form	Find Devon volunteers for a nonprofit organization or specific activity.  Statement on Human Rights	Describes our commitment to human rights, resources providing guidance on human rights issues and expectations of vendors, suppliers and contractors.SOCIAL METRIC 2017 2018 2019 Social Investments (in millions) $6.7 $7.0 $6.2  Shannon Johnson 
Community Relations ProfessionalTalk about your dream job. Shannon spends most days working with Devon’s community partners to improve the quality of life in her native southeast New Mexico. These days, Shannon’s focus is on education as Devon collaborates with a variety of organizations to open state-of-the-art, first-of-their-kind STEM centers at elementary schools in the area.“The very best day of work for me is coordinating with our school districts to provide hands-on learning opportunities through these STEM programs,” Shannon said. “I love helping students understand that science, technology, engineering and math aren’t just subjects for classrooms but are part of what they do every day. Through our partnerships, we’re cultivating a love of learning that will help students see new and exciting futures and empower them to believe in themselves.”Community EngagementWherever people’s lives and livelihoods intersect with our operations, Devon wants to be a valuable resource. Our culture of integrity and accountability extends to all our stakeholders.Committed to working togetherEvery day, Devon employees engage with a variety of stakeholders, including our employees and their families, shareholders, neighbors, landowners, mineral-rights holders, policymakers, lawmakers, suppliers, vendors and service companies. We strive to build relationships founded in trust and cooperation. We place a high priority on working together to find solutions that benefit communities and stakeholders where we operate. Finding and producing oil and natural gas involves industrial processes that can cause noise, traffic and related impacts to local roads. We recognize that our actions can affect our neighbors, and we’re dedicated to improving the compatibility of our operations within the communities where Devon does business. We’ve established a strong track record and have earned a positive reputation for mitigating the impacts of industry activity. For example, Devon is a founding member of the Energize for Safety Coalition that addresses industry-related traffic issues in Oklahoma. We’ve built strong relationships with our neighbors, including teachers and students, farmers and ranchers, homeowners and business owners. These relationships help us manage issues in ways that benefit our neighbors and avoid problems. Honoring our HeroesDevon’s Hometown Heroes award, launched in southeastern New Mexico in 2019, recognizes local emergency responders for their dedication to keeping their communities safe. We are grateful to them for prioritizing the needs of others and protecting their neighbors. In the first year of the program, we honored four firefighters and a police officer.We have a strong commitment to our community, which is why we honor those whose commitment is unmatched.Safety firstIn particular, Devon has a long history of partnering with the emergency responders who protect our communities. In DeWitt County, Texas, we’ve held regular roundtable dinner discussions with emergency responders since 2014. They’ve allowed us to build strong relationships with the leaders of emergency response organizations in our Eagle Ford operating area. The dinners also provide an avenue for collaboration, sharing best practices and discussing community trends and issues. Through these relationships, we learned of critical needs that we’ve helped fill by providing bunker gear, updated drone technology and wellsite-specific response training. At a workshop we hosted on responding to and managing a tank battery fire, over 70 South Texas first responders showed up to learn more about how to safely serve their local communities.Whether with trucks, training, equipment or supplies, Devon is always looking for ways to assist our first responders. In all, Devon donated more than $300,000 in 2019 to help emergency responders perform their important work.A solutions-oriented approach to community issues led Devon to take a leading role in the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP). This coalition of energy companies is combining resources to address the challenges of health care, education, workforce development, housing and road infrastructure that have accompanied rapid industry growth in the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico. Partnership members meet with community leaders, elected officials and others responsible for managing regional growth to understand their needs and determine how industry can best support communities. The partnership has committed more than $30 million for major initiatives, first leaning into education with $16.5 million to bring IDEA (Individuals Dedicated to Excellence and Achievement) public charter schools to Midland and Odessa, Texas. In addition, PSP provides housing support to teachers through a 20% reduction in rent in targeted communities. In New Mexico, PSP partnered with the City of Hobbs, Hobbs Municipal Schools and J.F. Maddox Foundation to fund a state-of-the-art regional career and technical education (CTE) school to train and develop the future Permian Basin workforce.PSP is contributing to the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Family Medicine Program and Mental Health Fellowship Program to expand health care resources through additional medical residents in the Permian Basin. Additionally, the partnership is providing grant writing resources for local communities, the New Mexico Department of Transportation and others so they can access private and federal funding to meet specific community needs.Devon is excited about the progress made by the PSP and our industry’s ability to work through public and private organizations to support our communities.Roundtable discussions in our operating areas help us strengthen local relationships.STEMOur company, communities and industry need an educated and innovative workforce to grow and thrive. Devon invests in educating and empowering groups that have been traditionally underserved.Meeting needs and providing solutionsJobs requiring formal training in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) accounted for 20% of the U.S. job market last year, and the need for STEM graduates has been growing. The oil and natural gas industry has always been highly technical and continues to be transformed by technology and innovation. At Devon, our need for STEM-oriented professionals continues to grow, right alongside our desire for an inclusive and diverse workforce. Our support for local education emphasizes both of these vital areas.  With our technology leadership goals and inclusion-and-diversity vision, we see a big opportunity in focusing resources on traditionally underrepresented populations, including women, rural communities and minorities. We strengthen our philanthropic investments by partnering with qualified organizations that have a track record in STEM to identify community needs and solutions. Organizations we work with include the Oklahoma City STEM Collaborative, STEM Ecosystems/STEM Funders Network and Oklahoma City Public Schools Foundation, as well as teachers and administrators across several school districts. Based on our conversations with all these stakeholders, we provide resources and materials and implement programs to empower traditionally underserved groups.Our company must have technical prowess, and our workforce must become more diverse.  In 2019, our STEM programs impacted: 275 schools16,748 students816 teachers
STEMIntegrating STEM into children’s educationDevon convened a variety of local and national nonprofits, private foundations and corporations in 2019 to develop a STEM model that changes how students and families are exposed to STEM resources. One key partner in realizing this vision was the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation, which transforms education spaces into state-of-the-art, bright and engaging STEM resource spaces in schools and community groups.The new spaces allow STEM learning to become increasingly integrated into children’s education. Teachers are well-trained and receive STEM resources to inspire students and increase their understanding of basic circuitry, coding, robotics, engineering and more.In 2019, we expanded STEM resources in areas where we operate to replicate the success we saw from our first STEM model at Mark Twain Elementary School in Oklahoma City. Through partnerships with local foundations, schools and others, Devon and the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation will install 14 new STEM centers across Lea and Eddy counties in New Mexico in 2020. STEM centers also will be installed in Oklahoma City; Douglas, Wyoming; Kingfisher, Oklahoma; and Cuero, Texas.Our longstanding relationship with Mark Twain Elementary School in Oklahoma City is stronger than ever.Women in STEM: Bridging the gender gapWomen are underrepresented in STEM fields across the U.S., and Devon is committed to providing STEM resources to underserved populations across our communities. We’ve partnered with Girl Scouts of the Desert Southwest and other organizations to start bridging the gender gap.Several years ago, Devon started having conversations with Girl Scouts of Western Oklahoma about providing STEM resources for girls. Devon geologists and engineers began developing age-appropriate curriculum. The resulting STEM Girl Scout Terra Trooper activity kits and leader guides engage girls in earth sciences, geology and related topics. Since 2014, nearly 900 girls have received a Devon Terra Trooper patch for completing a STEM activity. In 2020, we expanded our Girl Scouts STEM program to southeastern New Mexico.Devon also invests in the Southwest Alliance for Girls’ Enrichment (SAGE), a week-long camp designed to create interest, excitement and self-confidence in girls entering the eighth grade. SAGE empowers the girls to think about themselves as future scientists, mathematicians and computer specialists. Devon’s partnership offers campers interactive field trips exploring various departments in the company where STEM learning led our professionals to rewarding careers.STEMDevon supports a variety of STEM programs in our operating areas.Design + DoIntroduced in 2018, our Design + Do challenge gives children a hands-on opportunity to have fun while solving a problem and building STEM skills. In 2019, fifth-graders from eight elementary schools came together at the University of Oklahoma Tom Love Innovation Hub to design and construct prototype parade floats for community events using 3D printers, laser cutters and other materials, following which they presented their creations to a panel of judges. Devon employees helped them build the prototype floats. Design + Do exposes students to real-world technology and innovation challenges and encourages creativity and teamwork. Ripken STEM Center grantsDevon is committed to helping communities inspire young people to pursue an interest in STEM subjects by working together with schools and community organizations to enhance access to STEM education. Through our signature STEM grant program, Devon has made more than $1 million in grants to educators in our U.S. operating areas in the past eight years. In the Oklahoma City area, Devon’s investments in STEM education have provided more than 88,000 K-12 students better access to educational opportunities. In addition, Oklahoma teachers have been able to enhance their instructional time with students through more than 30 Devon grant programs.Ingenuity to shape our futureProblem solvers: They move us forward. They make the world work. And they have a thirst for knowledge and push us further for solutions, with new ideas and new ways to improve quality of life for people and the planet. All the while creating the best in science and engineering.The next generation of problem solvers will need the basic skills of collaboration, leadership and responsibility. These skills are the building blocks of STEM and the catalyst for innovation in our industry. That’s why Devon supports education initiatives that show students how rewarding a career in engineering and science can be.Encouraging the ingenuity our industry needs will shape our future. It empowers the best kind of work. And it fuels our belief that we can improve our way of life today and tomorrow.United Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.Education is an integral component of sustainable development, providing the platform for meaningful employment, economic growth, and technological innovation. Jobs that require a foundation in STEM are increasing annually; however, many underrepresented populations lack access to educational resources in these fields of study. Through partnerships with local foundations, schools and others, Devon seeks to provide early exposure to STEM by supplying resources for, and integrating experiences into, children’s education. In doing so, Devon endeavors to align with the United Nations goal to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.  STEMFFA Agriscience FairWe partner with the Oklahoma Future Farmers of America to encourage students to consider the ways in which the agriculture and oil and gas industries intersect. As part of the program, students include oil- and gas-related projects in the annual FFA Agriscience Fair. In 2020, we expanded the program to Wyoming.Devon Thunder Explorers Devon and the Oklahoma City Thunder partner to offer a program that encourages young people to engage in STEM activities that explore the science behind basketball. The Thunder gives special recognition to students who complete science experiments and other challenges.Devon Energy Teacher of the MatchThe Devon Energy STEM Teacher of the Match honors elementary teachers nominated for their hard work in the STEM education field. Teachers are recognized during an on-field presentation and receive $1,000 for their classroom.FIRST RoboticsDevon sponsored the Oklahoma First Robotics regional finals for the third consecutive year in 2019. The six-week competition paired 63 teams of young people from across the state with local engineers, professors and business professionals to solve an engineering design problem. FIRST (which stands for “For the Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology”) is a nonprofit founded in 1989 to inspire young people to join the field of science and technology.Inspired by Science CampIn partnership with the Carlsbad Community Foundation, Devon hosts a one-week STEM-focused summer camp for third- through fifth-graders, offering free admission for students identified as disadvantaged by school counselors. Students are exposed to STEM-related careers and learn how to solve problems and apply critical-thinking skills during hands-on activities.Oklahoma City Dodgers MVP Program This program recognizes and rewards outstanding students for their achievements in science and math in more than 400 classrooms across Oklahoma City. Third- and fourth-grade students are selected to receive tickets to a game and the opportunity to attend the MVP Field Day featuring STEM activities. The program is free to teachers, who also receive tickets to an Oklahoma City Dodgers game where MVPs are honored. The Dodgers are a Minor League Baseball Triple-A affiliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers.Balloon Explorium The Paper Takes Flight event combines the fun of hot-air ballooning with an education in the science of energy for all fifth-grade students enrolled in Artesia Public Schools in New Mexico. Students work together to build six-foot balloon envelopes from tissue paper that will launch using heat energy. With a focus on engineering, math and thermodynamics, this hands-on activity expands on classroom curriculum in an engaging way.Jal, NM, School Rocketry ProgramIn this annual competition, Devon pays for students to travel to Houston to present their rocket designs to a team from NASA.VolunteerismDevon employees are active in our communities, putting into action our core value to be a good neighbor. We volunteered nearly 4,100 hours to feed the hungry, work with schoolchildren and serve our communities in other ways in 2019.Our employees take great pride in the work they do, wherever they do it.Devon volunteers contribute many hours serving as directors on nonprofit boards and in other community leadership roles. The company provides ongoing communication and resources to support their dedication to charitable organizations.One of Devon’s long-term community partners is Mark Twain Elementary School in Oklahoma City, where we provide funding, resources and employee volunteers to enhance the quality of education. In 2019, in collaboration with private foundations, corporate sponsors, community organizations and Oklahoma City Public Schools, our volunteers supported the transformation of this school. We founded the Devon Energy Charitable Foundation in 2001, funded by voluntary contributions by our employees to provide financial relief to coworkers who encounter unexpected hardships or damages. Since then, they have contributed more than $365,000 to about 180 coworkers experiencing severe and unanticipated financial needs.We’re proud to encourage volunteerism by providing Devon employees the time and resources to give back to our communities in meaningful ways. PhilanthropyTo be a good neighbor, Devon supports community development, social services, arts and culture. We invest in the quality of life in our communities.Devon is a leading contributor to philanthropic campaigns for nonprofit agencies in our hometown of Oklahoma City and other communities where we operate. Thanks to the generosity of our employees, Devon’s Give for Good campaign raised over $1.7 million in 2019 for the United Way of Central Oklahoma and the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma. This donation provides much-needed resources for children, seniors and families who benefit from the services of United Way, the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma and their respective partner agencies. Our employees are also personally engaged. During the campaign, nearly 250 employees filled backpacks for the food bank and holiday stockings for United Way. Their volunteer efforts saved the nonprofits almost $3,200 in labor costs.$1.7 MILLION raised in 2019 supporting 58 partner agencies, including the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma and the United Way of Central Oklahoma.In addition, we’re committed to making Oklahoma City a vibrant place to live, work and play, and we recognize that arts play a vital role in that goal. Devon supports many local arts and culture organizations, including the Oklahoma City Ballet, Arts Council of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma City Museum of Art, National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum and Lyric Theater. We also hold an annual fundraising campaign for Allied Arts to support 40 local arts organizations.One of our volunteer projects saw 250 employees filling holiday stockings for United Way agencies. PHILANTHROPYDevon supports The Nature Conservancy’s approach to environmental preservation, and we welcome new opportunities to work together. Sharing the love of nature and conservationDevon is a long-time supporter of The Oklahoma Nature Conservancy and its focus on sharing the love of nature and conservation throughout the state. We support the organization’s ground stewardship activities, such as controlled burning for range management, invasive species control and scientific research.Our dollars helped stand up operations at the newest preserve on the Blue River, Oka’ Yanahli, which encompasses 3,600 acres of native prairie and two miles of the river. The Nature Conservancy’s portion of the Blue River is one of four properties that contain the springs that are the headwaters of the river, making them vital for the important and varied uses downstream. Each year, Devon participates in National Public Lands Day, a project to repair and restore public recreation areas. In 2019, a total of 75 employees from Devon and peer companies volunteered for a three-day event in southeastern New Mexico. They erected a shade shelter, repaired fencing, planted trees and secured erosion areas in the Black River Recreation Area.Devon has partnered with the Wyoming Conservation Corps (WCC) for the past 13 years. The WCC supports conservation, stewardship and education, with Devon contributing funding and volunteers to improve public lands in the state.Human RightsDevon incorporates human rights considerations in its business decisions. We evaluate ways to enhance awareness of key issues and engage with our stakeholders, vendors and suppliers to continue to improve our approach.All people are created equalThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights, signed in 1948, recognizes the inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family. Human rights are the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world, and Devon is committed to the philosophy expressed by the United Nations General Assembly. Our core values embrace social progress and economic growth, consistent with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011.We’re also guided by the principles articulated in the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work adopted by the International Labor Organization in 1998. These principles include prohibition of child labor, forced labor and discrimination in the workplace.Devon participates in the lives of the communities where we live and operate, and we actively engage with our neighbors to understand the environmental and human impacts of our operations. When assessing and addressing these impacts, we consult with those who may be affected.We continuously evaluate ways to enhance awareness of human rights issues and engage with our stakeholders, vendors and suppliers to continue to improve our approach.   Devon Human Rights Statement