Social Overview To be a socially responsible operator, Devon invests in building strong, safe communities. Our social investments are focused on aspects of community life where we can have the greatest impact, while aligning with Devon’s values and business goals: STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education, public safety, social services and vibrancy in the communities where we operate. Social Metrics *Unless otherwise noted, all data presented is pro forma for Devon and WPX. 2018 2019 2020 Social Investments (millions) $8.3 $7.8 $5.3 The United Nations has established 17  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  They re part of a globally agreed upon action plan for organizations seeking to provide affordable energy, produced responsibly to protect the environment, while also promoting peace and prosperity for all people. In this report, we have identified a wide variety of Devon s business activities that align with the U.N. SDGs. Here in the social section, look for: Devon’s social investments are grounded in our core value of relationships. We listen to our stakeholders to understand their concerns, assess their needs and find the most effective ways we can help. One of Devon’s strengths is our ability to bring together local and national nonprofits, private foundations and corporations to expand the reach and effectiveness of our social investments. We advocate for tribal traditions, community development and youth programs for indigenous peoples where we operate. Our employee volunteers show their dedication to improving quality of life by helping alleviate hunger, advance education, deliver necessities and bring enrichment opportunities to our neighbors. In our relationships and engagements, we’re committed to work with integrity, earn trust, empower others and keep improving. We’re responsive to our community stakeholders and available to handle any concerns we receive in person, by phone and online. Devon’s trained team of experienced land, community relations, field operations, corporate communications and other professionals is prepared to respond to issues and work with stakeholders to find solutions. Taking Action COVID-19 ACCOMMODATIONS Modified our social investment plan and activities to address urgent community needs  that resulted from the COVID 19 pandemic. Distributed over 10,000 at home STEM resources for children and teachers in our operating areas. Expedited our annual Give for Good employee giving campaign, which raised $1.4 million. SUPPORTING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION EFFORTS Launched our Inclusion and Equity Grants program to support Black community organizations in Oklahoma City. Honoring the Tulsa community’s support of legacy WPX Energy with grants focused on economic development, education, social services and community enrichment. WorkforceGovernanceSafetyOverviewSocial ReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingReportingCommunity Engagement Working together Worked in concert with the MHA Nation to prevent the spread of COVID-19 on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota. Supported Cheyenne Frontier Days in WyomingGovernanceContinued our Overview, an industry coalition seeking to strengthen and improve quality of life in west Texas and southeastern New Mexico. Safetyefforts to clean up abandoned well sites and promote road traffic safety. Maintained relationships with county emergency managers and local officials across our operating areas to . Earning the trust of our stakeholders by what we say and do is part of the Devon culture. We’re committed to building relationships of mutual respect as we work with our stakeholders – including our coworkers and their families, shareholders, neighbors, landowners, mineral-rights holders, policymakers, lawmakers, suppliers, vendors, services companies and schools. Together, we can find solutions and lay the foundation for ongoing cooperation. We recognize that the industrial processes and equipment used to develop oil and natural gas can cause noise, traffic and other issues that affect our neighbors. Devon is dedicated to improving the compatibility of our operations in the communities where we do business and helping mitigate the impact of industry activity. We’ve worked with local housing developers, industry coalitions, state agencies, business owners, individual landowners and others to enhance safety and quality of life in the vicinity of oil and gas operations. With our safety focus, Devon has a history of partnering with the emergency responders who protect our communities. Although the COVID-19 pandemic prevented the roundtable dinner discussions we’ve hosted for emergency responders in DeWitt County, Texas, since 2014, we hope to renew these events in the future. In 2020, we continued our practice of contributing to first responders to help them acquire trucks, training, equipment and supplies to support their important work in our operating areas. WorkforceReporting    2021 Sustainability Report    Social Nearly all of our Williston Basin operations in North Dakota are located on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, home of the Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation (MHA Nation). To be a prudent operator there, Devon collaborates in a straightforward manner to earn and maintain the respect of the MHA Nation. Throughout 2020, this included implementing policies to reduce the potential spread of the COVID-19 virus and working to comply with the MHA Nation’s COVID-19 practices. We also assisted the tribal communities through charitable giving for educational, health and safety endeavors, such as the American Indian Cancer Foundation and local fire and ambulance services. Road Safety: $1.1 million Board for Professional Teaching Standards Certification similaWorkforce: $11.6 million eSocial Improving road safety by distributing lifRoad Safety: $1.1 million Road Safety: $1.1 million Healthcare: $9.3 million Improving road safety by distributing lifRoad Safety: $1.1 million Road Safety: $1.1 million Improving road safety by distributing lifImproving road safety by distributing lifCommunity Engagement continued Community solutions in the Permian Basin As one of the largest producers in the Permian Basin, Devon is quite aware of the promise and challenges that stakeholders face in this prolific oil production region. Following years of intensive development, the region encompassing Devon’s Delaware Basin assets in southeastern New Mexico and west Texas became the highest producing oilfield in the world in 2019. It’s a major contributor to America’s energy security, as well as significant regional economic development and job creation. However, the increase in activity and influx of workers also has put a strain on the region’s infrastructure, education, healthcare, housing and social services. Energy companies, including Devon, recognized the challenges and formed the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP) to strengthen and improve the quality of life for residents in the region. The PSP partners with local leaders to develop and implement strategic plans to bring about superior schools, safer roads, quality healthcare, affordable housing and a trained workforce. The Permian Strategic Partnership has been an effective catalyst for building regional capabilities for community development. Devon is proud to be a leader in this industry coalition that is giving the Permian Basin the tools and resources it needs to reap the benefits of being a state, national and global focal point for energy development. 52 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Social Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP) In 2021, Devon’s executive vice president and chief operating officer is a member of the PSP board of directors and our vice president of public and government affairs serves on the PSP management committee. Through our $10 million, multi year investment in PSP, Devon is working together with 16 other member companies for an even greater impact. Since its formation in 2018, PSP has directly invested $48.5 million in Permian Basin initiatives including: Education: $21.5 million Strengthening public education by helping secure National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Certification opportunities for teachers, partnering with stakeholders to advance internet capacity and access for students across Eddy County, and other initiatives. Workforce: $11.6 million Developing the regional workforce by supporting the Hobbs Career and Technical Education Center, Catalyst workforce project, Southeast New Mexico (SENM) grants initiative and similar efforts. Healthcare: $9.3 million Expanding access to health care through Texas Tech University Health Science Center (TTUHSC) programs for physician assistant training, medical residency, family medicine and mental health, as well as the Permian Basin Healthcare Assessment (phase 1). Road Safety: $1.1 million Improving road safety by distributing life saving equipment to first responders and assisting local law enforcement agencies in securing grants for expenses related to preventing the spread of COVID 19. –ensure inclusive and equitable quality At-home STEM resources were a hit with parents and kids during the pandemic. United Nations member states adopted 17  Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Social  Parent of a fourth grader ––“So much fun! This has made her light up with smiles  Parent of a fourth grader –– Parent of a fourth grader  Parent of a fourth grader STEM Educating our future workforce Responded quickly to local school closures caused by the COVID-19 pandemic by holding drive-through distributions of more than 10,000 at-home resources for STEM learning. Impacted 15,000 students, 26 schools and 450+ teachers through our STEM investments. Stepped up as a lead contributor to Camp Trivera, the Girl Scouts of Western Oklahoma’s new urban  STEM camp. Expanded our Oklahoma FFA Agriscience Fair sponsorship to Wyoming. Expanded Devon’s Terra Trooper Girl Scout badge program to New Mexico. Developed STEM camps to incorporate the  entire family. Devon’s capacity to build a workforce with strong technical know-how and creative problem-solving skills will be a key factor in our long-term success. Investing in education can help us achieve both our technology leadership goals and our vision for diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI). We focus our social investments on STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education to build STEM capabilities in students, with particular focus on girls, ethnic minorities and rural communities. These groups are a growing part of the workforce, and we’re working to increase their representation in STEM fields. Technology is transforming our company, from mobile apps  to improve safety and environmental performance in the field, to artificial intelligence programs that optimize drilling, well completions and production. People with diverse backgrounds and new ways of looking at problems help us develop unique, and even patentable, technology solutions. At the same time,  as racial and social equality gain more prominence in the national conversation, Devon is committed to addressing inequality wherever it is found. Our investments in local STEM education support progress in both of these vital areas. To direct our philanthropic investments to the most promising programs, Devon identifies community needs and solutions by partnering with qualified organizations that have a track record in STEM. This includes the Oklahoma City STEM Collaborative, Oklahoma City Public Schools Foundation and other nonprofit partners, as well as teachers and administrators across several school districts. Insights from our conversations with stakeholders guide us to provide resources and materials and implement programs to empower groups that have been underserved  in the past. United Nations member states adopted 17  Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Education is an integral component of sustainable development, providing the platform for meaningful employment, economic growth and technological innovation. Jobs that require a foundation in STEM are increasing annually; however, many underrepresented populations lack access to educational resources in these fields of study. Through partnerships with local foundations, schools and others, Devon seeks to provide early exposure to STEM by supplying resources for, and integrating experiences into, children’s education. In doing so, Devon endeavors to align with the United Nations goal to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. At-home STEM resources were a hit with parents and kids during the pandemic. “Our entire curriculum of teaching STEM in our elementary schools relies on having contact with students in our classrooms and STEM labs. Without Devon’s help, these science activity kits for each grade level would never have been in our students’ hands.”  – Artesia Public Schools science consultant “So much fun! This has made her light up with smiles for the first time in weeks!” – Parent of a fourth grader “He’s so excited and happy he and his brother both received a snap circuit kit. This gives them the perfect opportunity to be creative and still learn about science while they’re home through the pandemic.”  – Parent in Hobbs, New Mexico .suspended in 2020 due to the pandemic, but we remain committed to these organizations and plan to support them when they reactivate. As a long-time partner of the Girl Scouts of Western Oklahoma, Devon stepped up to be a lead contributor to Camp Trivera, an urban STEParade and walk with our parade group. Social Devon geologists and engineers stepped up, too, developing age-..skills, campers get opportunities for leadership and learning the Girl Devon geologists and engineers stepped up, too, developing age-..Devon geologists and engineers stepped up, too, developing age-Devon geologists and engineers stepped up, too, developing age-STEM continued STEM education model Devon significantly enhanced our STEM capabilities in 2019 by convening local and national nonprofits, corporations and private foundations to develop a new STEM model. One of our partners, the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation, is a driving force in changing how students and families interact with STEM resources in schools and communities. The Ripken Foundation has transformed outdated school rooms into state-of-the-art, bright and engaging STEM resource spaces that allow STEM learning to become increasingly integrated into children’s education. Teachers are well-trained and receive STEM resources to inspire students and increase their understanding of basic circuitry, coding, robotics, engineering and more. After seeing success with our first STEM model school, Mark Twain Elementary School in Oklahoma City, we expanded STEM resources in other areas where we operate. When schools shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic in spring 2020, Devon and our partners took quick action to get resources directly to families. Over 10,000 at-home resource kits with STEM materials provided by the Ripken Foundation, Inspired by Science, Smart Start and Central Oklahoma STEM Alliance (COSTEMA) were distributed using drive-through pickups across our operating areas. In addition, 1,015 Ripken at-home STEM kits were distributed in Oklahoma City; Cuero, Texas; and Carlsbad, Loving, Jal, Eunice and Hobbs, New Mexico. While the pandemic delayed the planned installation of 14 STEM centers across Lea and Eddy counties in New Mexico, we resumed the plan in 2021 and started working to pilot our first middle school STEM center where students from the feeder elementary school can continue their STEM learning. STEM centers also will be installed in Oklahoma City; Douglas, Wyoming; Kingfisher, Oklahoma; and Cuero. In Tulsa, Oklahoma, Devon will honor legacy WPX Energy by installing a STEM center in every public elementary school over the next few years. Ripken Stem Grant Devon is committed to helping inspire young people to pursue an interest in STEM subjects by working together with schools and community organizations to enhance access to STEM education. Through our signature STEM grant program, Devon has made more than $1 million in grants to educators in our U.S. operating areas in the past eight years. In the Oklahoma City area, Devon’s investments in STEM education have provided more than 88,000 K-12 students better access to educational opportunities. In addition, Oklahoma teachers have been able to enhance their instructional time with students through more than 30 Devon grant programs.   Design + Do We introduced Design + Do in 2018 to give children a hands-on opportunity to have fun and build STEM skills while solving problems. Fifth graders come together at the University of Oklahoma Tom Love Innovation Hub to design and construct prototype parade floats using 3D printers, laser cutters and other materials. They then present their creations to a panel of judges. In 2020, Devon employees helped the children build one of their float designs for our Oklahoma City Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Parade and walk with our parade group. STEM programs in our operating areas We seek to support STEM education opportunities in the communities where our employees live and work. Many of the activities we support were suspended in 2020 due to the pandemic, but we remain committed to these organizations and plan to support them when they reactivate. Girl Scouts As a long-time partner of the Girl Scouts of Western Oklahoma, Devon stepped up to be a lead contributor to Camp Trivera, an urban STEM camp that opened in September 2020. In addition to learning STEM skills, campers get opportunities for leadership and learning the Girl Scout mission – building girls of courage, confidence and character. Devon geologists and engineers stepped up, too, developing age-appropriate STEM activity kits and leader guides to engage girls in earth sciences, geology and related topics. At year-end 2020, about 900 girls had received a Devon Terra Trooper patch for completing a STEM activity. The Terra Trooper program started in Oklahoma in 2014, expanded to southeastern New Mexico in 2020 and will become available to Tulsa Girl Scouts. Southwest Alliance for Girls’ Enrichment (SAGE) Devon invests in the week-long SAGE camp designed to empower girls to think about themselves as future scientists, mathematicians and computer specialists. Our partnership offers campers interactive field trips exploring various Devon departments where STEM learning has led our professionals to rewarding careers. and technology. hIn partnership with the Carlsbad Community Social ,STEM continued of participants in Devon of participants in Devon of students impacted by of high school seniors who STEM programs were STEM programs were Ripken STEM centers in  participated in FIRST Robotics minority members female New Mexico are Hispanic intended to pursue higher 49% 58% 65% 75% education STEM programs in our operating areas (continued) FFA Agriscience Fair Devon partners with the Oklahoma FFA to encourage students to consider the ways in which the agriculture and oil and gas industries intersect. We expanded the program to Wyoming in 2020. Across both states, 216 students participated in projects related to oil and gas in their annual FFA Agriscience Fair in 2021. Devon Thunder Explorers Devon and the NBA’s Oklahoma City Thunder offer a program that encourages young people to engage in STEM activities that explore the science behind basketball. The Thunder’s visibility and popularity helps extend the reach of Devon’s STEM program, and gives special recognition to students who complete science experiments and other challenges. FIRST Robotics Devon has sponsored the Oklahoma First Robotics regional finals since 2017. The six-week competition pairs teams of young people from across the state with local engineers, professors and business professionals to solve engineering design problems. FIRST (which stands for “For the Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology”) is a nonprofit founded in 1989 to inspire young people to join the field of science and technology. Inspired by Science Camp In partnership with the Carlsbad Community Foundation, Devon hosts a one-week STEM-focused summer camp for third through fifth graders, offering free admission for students identified as disadvantaged by school counselors. Students are exposed to STEM-related careers, and learn how to solve problems and apply critical-thinking skills during hands-on activities. Oklahoma City Dodgers MVP Program This program recognizes and rewards outstanding students for their achievements in science and math in more than 400 classrooms across Oklahoma City. Third- and fourth-grade students are selected to receive tickets to a game and the opportunity to attend the MVP Field Day featuring STEM activities. The program is free to teachers, who also receive tickets to an Oklahoma City Dodgers game where MVPs are honored. More than 11,300 students have been impacted by the MVP Program co-sponsored with Devon by the Triple-A affiliate of MLB’s Los Angeles Dodgers. Balloon Explorium The Paper Takes Flight event combines the fun of hot-air ballooning with an education in the science of energy for all fifth-grade students enrolled in Artesia Public Schools in New Mexico. Students work together to build six-foot balloon envelopes from tissue paper that will launch using heat energy. This hands-on activity focused on engineering, math and thermodynamics expands on classroom curriculum in an engaging way. Jal, New Mexico, School Rocketry Program In this annual competition, Devon pays for students to travel to Houston to present their rocket designs to a team from NASA. COSTEMA We partnered with the Central Oklahoma STEM Alliance for the first time in 2020 to further its mission to enhance STEM education. Devon supports COSTEMA’s STEM Leadership Academy, a virtual event that inspires educators by providing professional development opportunities centered around their personal leadership, hands-on learning and peer engagement. The educators explored STEM learning and family engagement, with all their STEM learnings culminating in the Scissortail Kite Festival. WorkforceSafetyOverviewsSocial ReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingReportingPhilanthropy Vibrant communities Expedited our annual Safety to help our community partners meet intensive needs caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Established Inclusion and Equity Grants to  in Oklahoma City and donated to nine organizations that are making a difference. WorkforceReporting. We invest in vibrant communities where our employees and neighbors have access to vital social services and opportunities to enjoy arts and culture. As a leading philanthropic contributor to nonprofit organizations in our operating communities, Devon’s support aligns with our value to make a positive and sustainable impact. Devon’s Give for Good campaign is our primary philanthropic event each year. In 2020, we expedited the campaign to make funding available to meet significant community needs heightened by the pandemic. Employees gave generously to our “give if you can, give if you want to” campaign that raised over $1.4 million for United Way of Central Oklahoma, the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma, and United Way and Blessing in a Backpack in Wyoming. The donations provided much-needed resources for children, seniors and families. 56 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Social Employees also had the opportunity to respond to the Food Bank’s challenge to fill boxes leftover from Christmas with non-perishable food items to supplement the pandemic-related decline in donations during the holiday season. Arts and culture for all We’re committed to making our hometown of Oklahoma City a lively and appealing place to live, work and play, and we recognize that visual and performing arts are vital to reaching that goal. Devon supports many local arts and culture organizations, including the Oklahoma City Ballet, Arts Council of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma City Museum of Art, National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum, and Lyric Theater. We also hold an annual fundraising campaign for Allied Arts to support more than 40 local arts organizations. Nature and conservation Devon is a long-time supporter of The Oklahoma Nature Conservancy and its focus on sharing the love of nature and conservation throughout the state. We support the organization’s ground stewardship activities, such as controlled burning for range management, invasive species control and scientific research. Our dollars helped stand up operations at the newest preserve on the Blue River, Oka’ Yanahli, which encompasses 3,600 acres of native prairie  and two miles of the river. Each year, Devon participates in National Public Lands Day in New Mexico, a project to repair and restore public recreation areas. We’ve also partnered with the Wyoming Conservation Corps (WCC) for the past 14 years, contributing funding and volunteers to improve public lands in the state. Honoring Tulsa To express our appreciation for the Tulsa community and its support of legacy WPX Energy, Devon is making a series of grants to advance initiatives including: Economic development focused on building leadership capacity and the future workforce, strengthening entrepreneurship and supporting minority-owned businesses. Education, including establishing a Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation STEM Center in every Tulsa Public Schools elementary school and expanding the Devon Terra Trooper STEM patch to Girl Scouts  in Tulsa. Social services to support senior citizens, youth and the overall health of the community. Arts and cultural organizations, including the Gilcrease Museum, First American Museum, Gathering Place and the Black Wall Street Chamber. WorkforceGovernanceSafetyOverviewSocial ReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingReportingPhilanthropy continued Inclusion and Equity Grants Listening to our stakeholders helps Devon understand needs in the community and invest in programs that make a real difference in people’s lives. Our ongoing conversations about social and racial justice issues inspired us to expand our social investments beyond our established focus areas in Oklahoma City. With the help of Devon’s employee-led DEI Team, we identified existing programs we hadn’t supported before. We awarded our first Devon Inclusion and Equity Grants totaling $100,000 to nine organizations having a positive impact in the community. Our intent is to cultivate new partnerships like this annually and to be accountable for helping them achieve their missions. Beta Eta Lambda Foundation ($5,000) for the 2020.21 Alpha Boys Institute program aimed at preventing school dropouts and crime. Sixth-grade students receive mentoring services including conflict resolution, life skills and financial management. Seventh graders participate in robotics programming and eighth-grade students learn entrepreneurship. Additionally, participants receive a weekly food distribution. Foundation for OKC Public Schools (OKCPS) ($25,000) for financial and academic support for paraprofessionals of color already working in OKCPS to finish college and earn their teaching certification, without any debt. Upon successful completion of the program, the paraprofessionals are committed to serve as full-time teachers in OKCPS for three years. Hope for GenerationsGovernance57 Overview    2021 Sustainability Report    SafetyNappy Roots Books ($10,000) for its Sankofa Summer Academy which serves 50 students with a focus on growing and nurturing leaders in the northeast community. OKC Black EatsRestore OKCWorkforceReporting ($10,000) to help support its summer programming for teens, including high adventure activities, character-building activities and a safe place to foster positive, healthy relationships. Stronger Together Movement ($5,000) to launch a membership drive to further engage the Oklahoma City community in Stronger Together’s mission to further racial equity education across the metro area. Urban League ($6,500) to support the social justice program, part of the Urban League’s efforts to promote equality and equity for African Americans. WorkforceGovernanceSafetyOverviewEnvironmentSocial ReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingReportingVolunteerism Giving back Provided resources to help employees volunteer from home or the office while in-person opportunities were on hold during the COVID-19 pandemic. $365,000 Employees have contributed more than $365,000 to about 180 coworkers experiencing severe unanticipated financial needs. Devon volunteers are an asset to their communities, amplifying the company’s support for children, families, education and the arts. We encourage and support our employee volunteers with ongoing communication and resources. In 2020, this meant promoting activities our employees and their families could do from home or the office. In some cases, we connected them to activities organized by our partners like the Oklahoma City Chamber of Commerce, Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma and the Oklahoma City Thunder. For example, Devon provided contact information so employees could send notes of appreciation to emergency responders and United Way agency workers on the front lines, and correspond with people quarantined in senior centers in our operating areas. Employees made protective face masks and donated them to benefit Oklahoma City’s homeless population and the United Way in New Mexico. The Virtual Mystery Reader Program at Mark Twain Elementary School, our long-term partner in Oklahoma City, gave employees an easy way to engage students who were learning remotely. The Devon Energy Charitable Foundation gives employees a chance to help coworkers who encounter unexpected hardships or damages. Since we established the foundation in 2001, employees have contributed more than $365,00 to about 180 coworkers experiencing severe and unanticipated financial needs. WorkforceGovernanceSafetyOverviewEnvironmentSocial ReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingWorkforceWorkforceReportingReportingHuman Rights Dignity and equal rights Devon incorporates human rights into our business decisions, continually evaluating how we might keep ourselves and others aware of the key issues. We engage with our stakeholders, vendors and suppliers to continue to improve our approach. All people are created equal The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, recognizes the inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family. Human rights are the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world, and Devon is committed to this philosophy. Our core values embrace social progress and economic growth, consistent with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2011. We’re also guided by the principles articulated in the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work adopted by the International Labor Organization in 1998. These principles include prohibition of child labor, forced  labor and discrimination in the workplace. Devon participates in the lives of the communities where we live and operate, and we actively engage with our neighbors to understand the environmental and human impacts of our operations. When assessing and addressing these impacts,  we consult with those who may be affected. 