WORKFORCEThe Workforce section of our 2019 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewTalent ManagementInclusion & DiversityInnovationWorkforce OverviewRESOURCESThese resources are essential to the results-oriented work environment that’s moving Devon forward:   Code of Business Conduct and Ethics	Sets out the basic principles of conduct for all Devon employees, officers and directors.  Mission Statement, Vision Statement and Core Values	Guide what we do and why we do it.  Inclusion and Diversity vision	Unleashes the power of our people to realize the Devon vision.   	Employee communications	Includes small-group meetings with senior leaders, podcasts, surveys to gather employee feedback and town hall meetings that keep our workforce informed and prepared to meet our objectives.Our People Are Moving Devon ForwardOur employees’ knowledge, expertise, skills and creativity are the keys to Devon’s success. We look to our core values to build the workforce we need: We seek to hire the best people and expect them to do the right thing, deliver results, be a team player and be a good neighbor. Creating value for all our stakeholders requires employees dedicated to continuously improving our business, developing innovative solutions, and overcoming the technical challenges of finding and producing oil and natural gas. Learning through work, coupled with training and development opportunities, allows our employees to grow professionally as they deliver results for the company. Our workforce practices and employee wellness programs help them to give their best effort.We want employees to come to work focused and ready to embrace our shared mission, and we promote a respectful, inclusive and diverse work environment where our people can perform at their highest level. We communicate our strategy and progress toward performance goals and reinforce our core values and culture of integrity to engage employees in delivering results for all our stakeholders.(continued next page)Jimmy Turnini 
Manager, Production OptimizationJimmy and his team are charged with ensuring Devon is producing oil and natural gas in the best way possible. That means making sure we’re using the best data available to make the most informed decisions and that our wells are performing optimally. “I love coming to work because my job allows me to improve the way we work and operate in the field. Through innovation and technology, we increase job satisfaction for our field operators while increasing the value they already provide.”WORKFORCE OVERVIEWWORKFORCE METRICS 2016 2017 2018 Headcount (total company) 3,545 3,414 2,880      U.S. 75% 75% 74%      Canada 25% 25% 26% Minorities as a Percentage of Workforce (U.S. only)5 17% 17% 18% Women as a Percentage of Workforce 27% 27% 25% Years of Service      Less than 5 years 55% 46% 37%      5-9 years 23% 29% 36%      10-14 years 12% 15% 17%      15-19 years 5% 5% 6%      20-24 years 2% 2% 2%      25+ years 3% 3% 2% Median Age       U.S. and Canada 38 39 40 Attrition Rate 4% 5% 8% 5As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.Talent ManagementWe seek to attract and retain people whose values and attributes include integrity and accountability, 
an appetite for improvement and openness to change, energetic perseverance and open communication.A strategy designed for sustainabilityAs our employees execute on our oil growth strategy, their success is material to Devon’s sustainability. Such success begins with equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. We offer wellness programs, amenities and comprehensive benefits to help our employees concentrate on our shared mission when they’re at work. In 2018, we introduced several employee-friendly practices, including flexible hours, paid parental leave for the birth or adoption of a child, part-time work and telecommuting.About 10% of Devon’s U.S. workforce took paid parental leave, worked a part-time schedule or operated from home for part of the year, and many more employees took advantage of Devon’s flexible work schedule on a day-to-day basis. We continue to monitor our workplace practices to ensure they meet our business needs and support our employees.Workplace practices at a glanceAlternate Work Schedule (or 9/80) allows flexible work schedules for most employees. By working an additional hour on eight out of nine workdays during a given pay period, employees can take every other Friday off, resulting in 26 additional paid days off per year.Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support for employees and their family members free of charge. The EAP provides confidential assistance on a wide variety of life’s challenges that could affect health, relationships and/or job effectiveness. Access to experienced counselors, financial experts, staff attorneys, elder-care consultants and concierge services are included in EAP services available 365 days a year, 24 hours a day.Paid parental leave is available for new parents, offering up to two weeks of leave for the care of, and bonding with, a biological or adopted child. In addition to paid parental leave, maternity leave for birth or adoption of a child is paid for up to eight weeks.Military leave is available to deployed employee military service members. They receive full salary for three months and differential pay above the military standard for an additional nine months. Devon service members and their families enrolled in the health care plan will also remain covered for 12 months.TALENT MANAGEMENTTraining and development for employee and organizational success Through employee training and career development opportunities, Devon has been able to fill up to 90% of leadership positions from within the company in recent years. Learning starts with new employee curriculum and continues with targeted development. Leaders also receive specific orientation, toolkits, information and development. Individual development and learning opportunities are offered through classroom instruction, online courses, assessments, coaching, interactive seminars and custom training.To identify technical experts and future leaders so we can support their development goals, we make it a point to know our employees’ career aspirations, accomplishments, education, training and job preferences. We also seek to support the overall depth of talent and organizational leadership readiness through annual succession planning.Devon employees are encouraged to create individual development plans that consider their career goals. The plans usually focus on development areas such as training, practice with coaching and feedback, and job assignments.A key component of employee development is engaging our people in corporate strategy and planning.We will continue to train and develop Devon employees to drive the innovation, technical and operational performance, and inclusive and diverse workplace we need to be the premier operator in North America.Inclusion and DiversityWe cultivate an inclusive and diverse workplace where anyone can share an idea and know it will be heard and respected. Unleashing the power of our peopleWe need every Devon employee to contribute as we seek to increase innovation in environmentally responsible and safe operations with strong financial results. A workforce capable of meeting these high expectations is supported by Devon’s inclusion and diversity (I&D) vision to unleash the power of our people. When decisions are made by people who represent a diversity of thought, broad experiences and fresh perspectives, we sharpen our competitive edge.One of our most important goals is to encourage inclusion. We believe this will improve our organizational performance and enhance our culture. In 2018, Devon focused on raising awareness about inclusive behaviors and unconscious bias. We held educational sessions with Devon leaders and a series of employee town hall gatherings, followed by training opportunities for deeper learning. Teams then watched educational videos together and discuss what they learned about making inclusion foundational to our relationships. We believe an inclusive, diverse workforce produces superior financial results, a belief that is supported by a growing body of research. Our I&D strategy is intended to create an environment where each person contributes to their fullest.One employee shared:“The impact of the program has been positive. By keeping the content on my radar, I’ve been able to step back and think about my go-to responses in various situations. In turn, I’ve sought to make more inclusive decisions.” Taking action to increase inclusion 
and diversityDevon formed an Employee Inclusion Action Team that strives to proactively and consistently increase awareness, identify challenges, drive accountability and find innovative ways for the company to embrace inclusion and celebrate our diversity. More than 30 employees from across Devon asked to be on the team, which organized Devon’s first participation in the annual Martin Luther King Jr. Day Parade in Oklahoma City in January 2019. The action team is planning other activities and learning opportunities to support I&D at Devon.Devon employees were proud to participate in this celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in January 2019.INCLUSION AND DIVERSITYDevon women leading our industryDevon sponsors the Oklahoma Women’s Energy Network chapter and employee memberships. In 2018, Devon employees accounted for 20% of the group’s membership, including three board members, six committee chairs, and more than 60 mentors and mentees. These volunteers are an example of our commitment to professional development and building a community. Our employees benefit from networking and leadership opportunities; individual contributors in particular say as their network expands and mentor relationships deepen, they become more successful.Devon, with three employees on the board, is a driving force behind the Women in Energy Network.To attract more women to technology jobs, Devon supports Oklahoma Women in Technology (OKWIT) and its efforts to bridge the gender gap in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields. Less than 20% of qualified applicants for technology jobs are women, and Devon believes our involvement in OKWIT will help increase the number of women graduating with STEM degrees who can then enter the technology talent pipeline. About 40 Devon employees are active in OKWIT and activities like its 2018 fall retreat, which was attended by more than 370 teachers and students. As a result of our OKWIT participation and other efforts, about half of our technology interns were female in 2018. Our involvement with OKWIT is consistent with our broader companywide efforts to support STEM activities.A military friendly employer Devon is proud of our success hiring former members of the U.S. military, whose experience in organizations that value integrity and doing the right thing aligns with our values. Recent recognition for our military recruiting includes the 2018 Military Spouse Friendly Employers List, CivilianJobs.com’s Most Valuable Employers (MVE) for Military and the Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award. In 2018, 7% of our external hires had military service experience and 5.7% of our total U.S. workforce had served in the military (based on voluntary reporting). Diverse skills, one team Because we believe that inclusion and performance are intrinsically linked, Devon strives to build diverse, inclusive teams where people of different disciplines, perspectives and skill sets collaborate to improve our results. This functional diversity is evident in our Technology group, where our information technology (IT), operations-based data and analytics, and other improvement and technology experts and resources work together to support our business needs. Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team takes a similar approach to support our operations teams as trusted advisors in EHS and environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) performance.InnovationDevon is applying advanced analytics, artificial intelligence, machine learning and other leading-edge technologies to drive decision-making and deliver results.An environment where technology and innovation thriveInnovation has been a Devon hallmark since the company’s founding in 1971. Our track record for innovation includes being the first company to generate economic success drilling horizontal wells with hydraulic fracturing in shale, and the first to use recycled water. Today, we’re among the first exploration and production companies to move to cloud computing. We believe the ability to use technology with increasing efficiency across the company is material to our sustainability.Many of the traits we look for in our employees – passion for improving the business, energetic perseverance and eagerness to challenge the status quo – create an environment where technology and innovation thrive. We encourage and celebrate a willingness to take risks, advance novel ideas and collaborate to advance innovation. At Devon, innovation encompasses game-changing technologies and also incremental improvements that pay dividends over time. To become a leader among our peers, we’ve made substantial investments in integrated advanced analytics, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning and robotic-process automation. These technologies enable us to detect subsurface attributes; predict pump and equipment wear and tear; automate work; develop custom algorithms for geophysical data; process invoices; and perform numerous other functions. Taken together, the billions of data points Devon acquires, analyzes and uses every day have significant value in our planning and decision-making. We see our technology strategy, investments and innovations improving the economics, production rates and lifespans of our oil and natural gas wells. We remain focused on data-driven improvements to our subsurface performance, while evolving our technology capabilities and resources to match Devon’s business needs.integrated advanced analyticsartificial intelligencemachine learningrobotic-process automationImproved designs have contributed to a 40% reduction in drilling and completion costs since 2014, and the initial 90-day production rate from our wells has increased 450% since 2012.INNOVATIONEmpowering employees to be more productiveWe create more value when our technology team members spend their time developing business solutions than when they’re maintaining computing assets. In 2018, Devon made a technological leap ahead of our peers when we moved to cloud computing, meeting clear business needs to be nimble decision-makers and to better leverage new technologies. Cloud computing gives our employees much quicker access to applications, scripts, workflows and data to perform high-end analytics and develop solutions in a fraction of the time it took when we housed these resources in our corporate data center. For example, cloud computing gives lease operators in our Decision Support Center quicker access to data to inform decisions on equipment maintenance and repairs.To improve productivity, we give our employees easy access to programming languages, software and applications, and training to use them effectively. In 2018, approximately 400 employees attended data science boot camps for deep learning software and internal training on common programming languages. They now have the tools to use and analyze millions of Devon data records to develop targeted solutions that fundamentally change the way we work.Equipping employees to program their own solutions supports the ongoing integration of technology and innovation into our operations. In 2018, we combined our information technology, E&P analytics and continuous improvement teams into a single technology group. Now, our technology resources and operations teams are closely connected to drive performance in our core business areas of drilling, completions and production.With our more focused asset base, we’re also leveraging our technology providers to apply their solutions to our specific oil and gas challenges. For example, we partner with Microsoft to ensure our employees can use their software effectively to write and run code, implement deep learning and use AI. Microsoft was a key sponsor of Devon’s 2018 hackathon where employees and members of the public worked on solutions to specific operational problems. Technology and innovation remain integral to Devon’s plan to thrive and outperform our peers in a variety of commodity price environments. We’ll continue to encourage an innovative culture that celebrates continuous improvement as well as big wins.Devon defines innovation as the search for continuous improvement and/or bold game changers – coupled with quick decision-making – to seize team, company or industry opportunities.In the first-ever companywide ideaWELL challenge, employees were asked to develop an idea to add revenue and increase efficiency to an existing process. The winning idea was to develop and equip central tank batteries with a device that optimizes vapor pressure. Our Innovation Action Council, which sponsored the challenge, noted that the idea identified an existing problem related to our core business, proposed a creative technical solution and provided context around the potential financial impact. Engaging employees in solving problems is one of the ways Devon is building our culture of innovation.