ENVIRONMENTThe Environment section of our 2019 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewAir QualityGreenhouse Gas EmissionsClimate ChangeWater ManagementLand ConservationSeismicityWaste ManagementSpill PreventionWell SafetyEnvironment OverviewRESOURCESTo ensure employees and contractors share and participate in Devon’s environmental commitment, we make the following available:   2019 CDP Climate Change Response  2019 CDP Water Response  2018 Disclosing the Facts Response  Environment, Health and Safety 
(EHS) Philosophy	Describes the expectations and principles that guide the decisions that affect our operations.  EHS protocols for business processes	Required of employees and contractors to ensure environmental, health and safety compliance. Devon’s protocols address air quality; waste management; spill prevention, control and countermeasures; contractor management; pre-construction environmental clearance; training; event reporting; emergency preparedness; risk management; and audits.  	EHS audits	Conducted regularly in each operating area to identify and mitigate environmental risk and improve performance.  	Proactive Stewardship
and ConservationBeing a good neighbor is a core value that drives Devon’s commitment to environmental stewardship. As a responsible oil and gas business, we share a fundamental respect for the environment and constantly strive to improve the overall quality of life in the communities where we live and work.To improve our environmental performance, Devon is proactive and action-oriented. We incorporate environmental considerations into our activities, decisions and compensation programs and often go above and beyond what is required by law. Devon applies economically feasible technologies to avoid or minimize our impact on the air, water and land.Because of our emphasis on environmental stewardship, we’ve established a positive record of performance recognized by our peers and regulators. We have had a long-standing focus on reducing emissions, and we have documented our efforts and results in CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change Reports for 15 years. An industry leader in water conservation for the past decade, Devon conserves and protects fresh water supplies and reports our progress in the CDP Water Report. We’re also committed to protecting our environment, and we take great care to be good stewards of the land, wildlife and habitat around our operations.Devon tracks specific metrics for greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions, energy use, water use and disposal, and spills to the environment, and we share them in this report and other public disclosures. We continue to increase each year our transparency on environmental performance because we’re proud of our efforts and results, and we understand we’re accountable for them. For additional metrics and details on our practices, please refer to our 2019 CDP Climate Change Report and CDP Water Report. We engage with investors, communities and other stakeholders on climate change, water use, seismicity and other environmental issues. In response to feedback from our stakeholders, we published our Climate Change Assessment Report in 2018. Devon will continue to listen, increase transparency and act on concerns to earn our stakeholders’ trust and to protect the environment. Environmental performance management resourcesDevon has a strong commitment to managing our environmental performance. Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee sets strategy and monitors environmental performance and issues, including climate-change related issues, to address stakeholder concerns. The cross-functional Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Council formed in 2018 works closely with the ESG Steering Committee and senior leaders to ensure implementation of our strategy to continuously improve our environmental performance and to protect Devon’s social license to operate. Devon’s environmental professionals work hand-in-hand with our business units to ensure our operations are environmentally sound and to comply with all laws, regulations and company policies.Every Devon employee is responsible for taking ownership of environmental performance. We expect employees to demonstrate environmental stewardship, be accountable for their actions, plan ahead, participate in environmental programs, recognize positive attitudes and behaviors, and communicate openly.(continued next page)Angie Herje 
EHS ProfessionalAngie is a key player in Devon’s commitment to continuous improvement in environmental performance. Her area of focus is EPA air quality reporting, with an emphasis on managing Devon’s Greenhouse Gas Program. “I firmly believe the management and reduction of greenhouse gas is important not only to Devon’s future success, but also to the health of our environment. It’s unquestionable that Devon believes in reducing our emissions and strives to stay on the leading edge of this issue.”ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEWEHS Council focused on performanceDevon established an Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Council to advance a culture focused on protecting the environment, our employees and contractors. Sponsored by our EHS vice president and senior leaders in our oil and gas operations, the Council includes managers of our various business units and operations.The objectives of the Council include setting EHS strategy and goals, tracking performance and sharing best practices. The Council also reviews safety incidents and develops corrective actions as needed. While evaluating the effectiveness of Devon’s EHS policies, protocols, practices and performance, the Council also reviews emerging EHS and ESG issues, and proposed laws and regulations and their potential financial, operational or reputational impact on the company.In setting 2019 goals, the Council shifted from focusing only on lagging metrics–which focus on incidents that occurred–to also incorporating leading metrics, so that we can anticipate and prevent incidents from occurring. By setting more meaningful goals, we have the opportunity to improve our performance.ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEWENVIRONMENT METRICS 1 2016 2017 2018 Direct GHG Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2 5.20 5.37 5.65      U.S. 2.31 2.39 2.60      Canada 2.89 2.98 3.05 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2 5.77 5.94 6.30 Due to an increase in activity levels in 2018, our overall emissions slightly increased. However, we remain committed to improving emissions-control technology and leak detection and repair (LDAR) practices, and to reducing venting and flaring.  GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/MBOE)2      U.S. 10.52 11.65 11.77      Canada  56.01 56.30 66.34 Despite increased activity levels in 2018, Devon’s U.S. emissions intensity was held largely in check by better facility design and control technology. Canada’s emissions intensity increased due to reduced production levels resulting from market conditions, as well as unexpected operational challenges at the Jackfish SAGD facility.  Methane Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2 1.51 1.30 1.22 Methane emissions have been decreasing due to improved emissions-control technologies and improved LDAR practices. Methane Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/MBOE)2      U.S. 4.31 4.16 3.73      Canada 10.96 8.75 8.54 Lower methane emissions intensity is a result of concerted efforts to reduce venting and flaring and improve our LDAR practices. U.S. Methane Emissions Intensity (% of natural gas produced)3 0.315% 0.309% 0.324% Devon’s U.S. methane emissions intensity rate will be used to track progress toward Devon’s goal of achieving a methane intensity rate of 0.28% by 2025. While our overall methane emissions and methane intensity rate in tCO2e/MBOE decreased in 2018, our methane intensity rate as a percentage of natural gas produced increased, due in part to lower gas production following the sale of our Johnson County Barnett Shale assets. Indirect Emissions - Electricity Use (million tonnes CO2e)2 0.57 0.57 0.65 Energy Used - Fuel and Electricity Use (trillion BTU)2 81.12 85.70 73.49 Consumption of electricity represents a small portion of our overall emissions profile. U.S. Water Usage (million bbl)  25.40 51.32 67.50      Recycled (million bbl)  2.80 4.67 11.75      Sourced (million bbl)  22.60 46.65 55.75 Water use varies with activity levels. A steep industry downturn in 2016 led to significantly reduced activity. However, in any year, Devon seeks alternatives to fresh water supplies. U.S. Water Usage Intensity (million bbl/well completion)  0.16 0.22 0.21 Devon is an industry leader in developing recycled-water technologies and best practices. Canada Water Usage (million bbl)  10.9 9.4 12.4 Canada SAGD Water Recycle Rate4  88.6% 90.7% 87.9% Canada SAGD Non-Saline Water Usage (million bbl)  0.0 0.0 0.0 Reportable Spill Events Released to the Environment (events) 178 159 212 As we seek to prevent spill events, we remediate, investigate the cause and take corrective action to prevent recurrence. Reportable Spill Volumes Released to the Environment (barrels) 3,247 4,101 3,978 1The environment metrics have been calculated using the best available data at the time of publication. Historical metrics are subject to change as we continuously seek to improve our data management practices, data sources, and calculation methodologies in order to provide the highest level of transparency, consistency and accuracy. 2Our emissions reporting methodology varies depending on the emissions source and the applicable regulatory requirements. We include all reportable emissions under EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP), as well as non-reportable emissions, from our production assets in the U.S.3Our U.S. methane emissions intensity rate calculation includes all natural gas produced at Devon operated facilities and all methane emissions from Devon facilities associated with the production of oil and natural gas. Click here to see Devon’s calculation methodology for methane emissions intensity for U.S. operations.4Refers to the volume of water reused in steam generation.Air QualityControlling and reducing emissions is vitally important to our environment and our business. Efficient and effective operations improve our environmental performance, risk management, regulatory compliance and shareholder returns.Air emissions performance managementDevon’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee reviews our air emissions performance and programs in the context of an evolving regulatory, legal and stakeholder landscape. The Steering Committee communicates current and emerging issues to our senior leaders for consideration in risk management and regulatory and legal compliance. Our cross-functional Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Council works closely with the ESG Steering Committee and senior leaders to ensure implementation of our strategy to improve environmental performance, including our operational programs to reduce air emissions. Our U.S. environmental program includes an air-quality protocol that clearly defines responsibilities and requirements for communications, compliance, recordkeeping and training.Ensuring complianceCompliance with all applicable federal and state environmental laws and regulations is at the core of our EHS Philosophy. We have a compliance process to ensure our employees meet the requirements of Devon’s air permits in our operating areas. In addition, to ensure our operations comply with air permit requirements, we use an innovative web-enabled database that quickly distributes requirements for new and modified air permits to the people directly responsible for compliance. Devon facilities and equipment may at times emit gases such as volatile organic compounds (VOC) or nitrogen oxide (NOx) that are subject to state permits or emissions-authorization limits. Requirements are clearly communicated to our operating facilities to ensure we maintain compliance with the relevant permits or limits. Some Devon facilities are subject to annual emissions inventories, which we submit to the appropriate regulatory agencies. In states where these inventories are required, the information is publicly available.2018 air emissions methodologies
and performanceAs part of our continuous improvement culture, Devon is improving our air emissions performance in a variety of ways. We’ve steadily progressed our voluntary leak detection and repair program, in part by expanding it to include valves, pumps and other equipment. Methodically identifying and fixing leaks has largely resolved the highest-risk issues and reduced our methane emissions over time. By visiting sites and using infrared camera technology, we continue to learn and incorporate best practices in facility design, equipment improvements and preventive maintenance to further reduce emissions from our facilities. For example, we take steps to ensure closed-vent systems and control devices are designed and installed properly. This includes conducting engineering and pre-startup reviews.  Engines that use diesel fuel to power drilling rigs and hydraulic fracturing operations are a significant source of emissions. We’ve started using engines that run on compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied natural gas (LNG) or fuel gas instead of diesel, which lowers emissions, as well as noise and our overall operational footprint. We’ll continue to look at alternative fuels, new technologies and other methods to reduce air emissions.In 2019, we assembled a cross-functional team to evaluate new and emerging emission-detection technologies. These include expanding the capabilities of optical gas imaging(OGI) cameras, sensor-based continuous monitoring, facility flyovers and even remote detection using satellites.AIR QUALITYOptical gas imaging cameras help detect leaks or confirm properly functioning equipment as shown in the inset photo above.Greenhouse Gas EmissionsReducing carbon dioxide (CO2), methane and other greenhouse gases (GHG) is important to us. We’re taking our proactive approach a step further by voluntarily establishing a methane-reduction target. Cutting GHG and methane emissions that trap heat in the atmosphere is important to our stakeholders and material to running an efficient, compliant oil and natural gas production business. We’ve made reducing GHG emissions intensity a pillar of our EHS Philosophy, and we apply industry-leading tools and techniques to capture methane in our well completions and production equipment. GHG emissions methodology and performanceDevon reports air emissions from fuel combustion, flaring, fugitive emissions, venting and storage losses (Scope 1) and electricity consumption (Scope 2) for assets under our operational control. We collect data and submit annual GHG emissions according to the requirements of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule.Our commitment to environmental stewardship includes delivering visible, measurable results. We’ve demonstrated this by voluntarily reporting on how we control and reduce emissions via CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) for 15 years. Here are links to our most recent CDP climate change disclosures, all of which are also publicly available:  2019 CDP Climate Change Response   2018 CDP Climate Change Response   2017 CDP Climate Change Response  2016 CDP Climate Change Response 
Reducing methane intensityWe’ve reduced our methane emissions by nearly 20% over the last three years, mainly through our increasing use of technology. To reinforce our commitment to emissions reductions, we have established a target to limit methane emissions from our oil and natural gas production operations. We are committed to reducing our methane intensity rate to 0.28% or lower by 2025, calculating the rate based off emissions from Devon-operated oil and natural gas production facilities as a percentage of natural gas produced. Devon’s methane-intensity rate was 0.324% at year-end 2018. Our methane intensity calculations have undergone third-party verification. As part of our overall methane management program and to achieve and maintain our intensity goal, Devon has implemented and will continue to expand our use of emission-reduction technologies and work practices going beyond what is required by regulations. Leak detection and repair programAmong our primary means of emissions reductions is expansion of our ongoing leak detection and repair (LDAR) program. To date, we’ve invested more than $1 million in infrared cameras to perform frequent equipment inspections across our operating areas using optical gas imaging cameras to detect leaks, prioritizing our inspections on facilities with the highest production volumes. LDAR surveys are performed in all new facilities built since 2015. To meet our new emissions reduction target, we’ll continue to expand the surveys to facilities that don’t currently have a federal or state regulatory requirement.Each Devon business unit employs environmental operators who are primarily focused on conducting infrared camera surveys and making sure repairs are successful. Using LDAR data, we’ve been able to further refine our proactive maintenance programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This has led to replacing certain tank valves with thief hatches that have a lower leak rate and focusing on specific equipment failures and settings. It has also improved flare maintenance and allowed us to verify performance of vapor recovery units (VRU). In 2018, our operators surveyed nearly 1,500 Devon facilities across all four of our U.S. business units. They found very few leaks, and almost all the leaks they found were repaired on the same day.  To help our offices meet the regulatory requirements for inspections, our environmental and operations teams developed a mobile app to capture, enter, track and document LDAR survey findings. The app automatically syncs with our enterprise data system, schedules any needed repairs, creates work orders and documents successful repairs, all of which are required for compliance. As a result, our LDAR program is more efficient, consistent and systematic, and we can track our repairs to further refine our preventive maintenance programs.We strive to avoid venting and to limit flaring at all locations, both to protect the environment and to capture and retain as much gas as possible for its economic value. To do this, we continually evaluate and optimize facility design; install and maintain reliable pressure-relief valves to minimize tank releases; install vapor-recovery equipment to capture flash gas emissions and route them to a pipeline. We also use green completions to capture produced gas during completions and well workovers following hydraulic fracturing. Where flaring is unavoidable, we install monitoring equipment to help ensure the gas is properly destroyed rather than vented.In recent years, Devon has implemented new technologies and upgraded our existing operations to reduce methane emissions from production sites. Since 2011, we’ve replaced high-bleed natural gas pneumatic controllers on hundreds of wells in Wyoming, Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas, and we no longer use them on new wells. We’ll continue to take a proactive approach to reducing both emissions and emissions intensity, with a focus on detecting and repairing leaks, capturing methane to avoid venting and flaring, implementing new technologies, upgrading existing facilities and complying with regulations. We believe this will help Devon protect the environment, while earning stakeholder trust and lowering the costs of regulatory compliance.Vapor recovery equipment — Delaware BasinPartnering, not competingDevon is a founding member of The Environmental Partnership, a group of companies in the U.S. oil and natural gas industry committed to improving environmental performance. It includes companies of all sizes, including many of the country’s major producers.We believe that addressing environmental impacts is an important component of securing our social license to operate. To that end, The Environmental Partnership’s initial focus is on solutions that are technically feasible, are commercially proven and will result in significant emissions reductions.The Environmental Partnership provides a forum for participants to share information and analyze best practices and technological breakthroughs in order to help improve our understanding of emissions and how best to reduce them.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSWe’re reducing emissions by doing more than regulations require.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSCommand station for automation equipment 
at a facility in the Delaware Basin.Climate ChangeWe’re committed to transparency and accountability for our environmental performance and to addressing stakeholders’ concerns about climate change. To act on our core value to do the right thing – for our environmental stewardship efforts, our stakeholders and our business – Devon published a Climate Change Assessment Report in 2018.Listening to our stakeholdersUnderstanding the political, legal, technological, market and reputational risks of the transition to a lower-carbon economy is important to Devon’s business. Aligned with our stakeholders, Devon is committed to understanding the potential impacts of climate change and a possible carbon-constrained future on our long-range business plans. In 2018, we retained a leading third-party consultant, ICF, to help assess Devon’s oil and gas portfolio in relation to the potential impacts. During this assessment, we evaluated several possible future climate-change scenarios to quantify the risks to Devon from aggressive global carbon reduction policies, modeled through 2050. Devon evaluated pricing scenarios and model results from both ICF and the widely referenced International Energy Agency (IEA). In response to stakeholder interest, the report focuses primarily on the transitional risks, in particular the risks of potential changes in demand and price for oil and natural gas as a result of policies related to greenhouse-gas reduction. The assessment determined that oil and natural gas remain crucial to meeting global energy demand, even in the carbon-constrained future scenarios and that Devon’s current portfolio has the characteristics to be resilient in such scenarios. Additional conclusions included:•	Devon’s assets are likely to be well-positioned to remain 
	profitable, even in an aggressive low-carbon scenario.•	Model results under some low-carbon scenarios (e.g., the IEA 
	Sustainable Development Scenario) reflect that oil, natural gas 
	and natural gas liquids (NGL) prices will be robust and Devon’s 
	current portfolio is likely to thrive under these scenarios.The chart above shows the projected oil price trajectories in each of the modeled scenarios.We continue to work proactively to reduce our emissions by driving innovation, operational excellence, energy efficiency and conservation. Devon plans to closely monitor climate-change impacts in the market and policy arenas so that we are prepared to adapt our business. Devon’s risk-management program includes formal and ongoing consideration of the quantifiable effects of climate change on our portfolio. We are committed to continuing dialogue with our board of directors and other stakeholders about these risks.  Climate Change Assessment Report WaterManagement38 millionBARRELS OF REUSED WATEROVER THE LAST 5 YEARSWater is an essential resource for both our neighboring communities and our oil and gas operations. At Devon, water conservation and recycling are vital to our business and our social license to operate.Committed to water conservation and reuse Devon began recycling water in 2004 in our first U.S. shale play, the Barnett Shale in north Texas, and we’ve been building a track record of water conservation ever since. We’ve collaborated with stakeholders in government, industry and the communities where we work to find ways to conserve water in our drilling and completions operations. Above all, we’re committed to water conservation and reuse and to our core value to be a good neighbor.We work to use water in our operations that would not be consumed for drinking and other public uses and to use recycled produced water in our operations wherever possible to avoid fresh water use in areas of drilling and production activity. Every gallon of produced, recycled, brackish or non-fresh water that Devon uses in our operations reduces our consumption of fresh water.Water-use performance management In some of Devon’s operating areas, water users are competing for limited supplies, which constitutes the World Resources Institute’s definition of baseline water stress. This is why we seek to conserve, reuse and recycle as much water as we can.  To manage water responsibly in water-stressed areas and throughout our operations, we’re guided by the environmental stewardship principle in our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy. We continually seek to understand our relationship to the environment and adopt technically sound and economically feasible controls that will minimize our impact to the environment. Devon’s water principles – stakeholder engagement, water-management planning, technology evaluation and deployment, and best-practices development – help us execute a sustainable water-management strategy that balances ecological, economic, operational and social issues.Our EHS professionals and the EHS Council monitor laws, regulations and stakeholder concerns related to water and share them with our leadership team. Devon’s business unit leaders and subject-matter experts lead our water planning efforts, including learning about new technologies and sharing best practices. Devon’s water planning includes an evaluation of potential risks to our operations and the needs of surrounding communities. The plans are updated periodically based on business needs and local environmental considerations.Devon is a founding member of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort to study, communicate and improve lifecycle water use and management.Conserving water in the Delaware BasinOur history of leadership in water conservation includes being the first company to recycle flowback and produced water from natural gas wells in north Texas and becoming the largest user of treated produced water in New Mexico,  where we led the effort to establish state rules to encourage the practice.In the Delaware Basin in arid southeastern New Mexico, we’ve reused 21 million barrels of water in the last four years. Reused and brackish water account for more than 80% of the water used in our operations. To store reusable water, we’ve built eight impoundment basins – each 15 feet deep and covering four acres. Integral to our operations and to saving water, they’re connected by a local pipeline network that eliminates the need to haul away 500 truckloads of produced water each day. We use fresh water in the Delaware Basin only for blending and only when reused water isn’t available in sufficient quantities.In addition, we’re looking for ways to reuse produced water that we don’t need for our operations. Devon is collaborating with the EPA and other organizations to better understand technologies to desalinate produced water for uses outside of the oil and gas industry. In cases where we are producing more water than we can use, cost-effective desalination could make the water suitable for aquifer recharge and other beneficial uses. To make this possible, the regulatory framework for reusing desalinated produced water also needs to be developed. We’ll continue to work with stakeholders and apply our water stewardship principles to conserve fresh water in New Mexico.Local approach to water managementWe take a local approach to developing water-management plans, which consider the availability and quality of water, local ecosystems and habitats, regulations and other factors. Given our strong desire to be good environmental stewards, we actively seek alternatives to fresh water. When feasible, we use brackish water and flowback and produced water as sources for well completions. In Oklahoma, we’ve also built local pipelines connecting well sites to central water reuse and storage facilities, allowing us to conserve millions of barrels of water. In Wyoming, some produced water is used for agriculture and wildlife under the regulatory beneficial use category. Devon is conscious of our fresh water use in the Eagle Ford play in Texas and uses non-potable sources where available. However, due to the smaller scale of our current drilling and completion activities in Texas, it isn’t yet economically feasible to invest in large-scale recycling facilities in the area.For more details on Devon’s water-management program and water-use metrics, please refer to our 2019 CDP Water Response. Devon’s reused water volumes in New Mexico, by year:(millions of barrels)17 (estimate)2019201820172016201511.84.72.81.7WATER MANAGEMENTU.S. WATER USAGE BY OPERATING AREA 
(million bbl) OPERATING AREA 2018 STACK 27.4 Delaware Basin 23.3 Rockies 3.3 Texas 13.4 Total U.S. 67.4 Land ConservationOur EHS Philosophy sets the expectation that we will achieve excellence while we’re working to protect our ecosystem. Protocols such as pre-construction environmental clearance guide our stewardship and regulatory-compliance efforts.Devon operates in prairies, grasslands and deserts, working with various stakeholders including public and private landowners. The industrial processes we use to produce oil and natural gas begin and end at ground level. We take great care to be good stewards of the land, wildlife and habitat and we seek to minimize the surface disturbance we make.Assessing firstDevon has integrated biodiversity management into our process for selecting the placement of our well pads. A pre-construction environmental assessment form is a tool we use throughout our operating areas. Once the future location of a well pad is staked, this environmental assessment is used to evaluate the potential environmental impact in that area.Potential impacts that are considered during this assessment include the proximity to waters of the U.S., potential impact on protected species or critical habitats, proximity to any public receptors, location of nearby floodplains, potential for sediment discharge to a waterbody, evidence of pre-existing contamination and potential impact to any environmentally sensitive receptors.Performing and evaluating the results of this assessment prior to the construction of the well pad allows for our teams to determine if there are environmental concerns and to adjust accordingly.Conservation and biodiversity projectsOur effort to protect the environment involves partners, including our neighbors, industry groups and state and federal agencies such as the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Our perspectives are diverse, yet we all share an interest in preserving our shared landscapes for future generations.Devon has partnered with the Wyoming Conservation Corps (WCC) since 2007 to involve youth in conservation around the state. Each year, WCC students complete a 10-day project of habitat restoration and related land-stewardship activities. Devon employees join the students for a day to share insights about the oil and gas industry and host a visit to active operations. In 2019, we celebrated our 12th year of partnership. Our WCC projects create lasting benefits for public lands in Wyoming, while informing the students about energy production, environmental stewardship and land management.In west Texas and southeast New Mexico, Devon served as an industry leader in conserving Dunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat. Our work with the BLM and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service produced public-private conservation agreements requiring companies to avoid certain areas and reclaim lizard habitat that may have been affected by oilfield activities in the past. To earn and maintain the trust of our stakeholders, Devon will continue to collaborate with partners to preserve the landscape and protect wildlife habitat in areas surrounding our operations.SeismicityAlong with state agencies, academic researchers and other stakeholders, Devon continues to work toward solutions to seismic activity in Oklahoma.Devon data aids researchDevon shares our neighbors’ concerns about seismicity associated with oil and natural gas activities. There is considerable research underway to study whether, and how, wastewater disposal wells and other activities relate to seismicity. Devon has long supported the scientific community in examining possible links between oil and natural gas activity and seismic events.The company is an original member of the Stanford Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity, which was founded in 2013 to undertake fundamental research on the physical processes responsible for certain seismic activity. Stanford has taken the lead in developing a scientific framework for assessing the risk of earthquakes. We’ve contributed data generated during our drilling and production activities to aid Stanford’s research into the stresses that exist in the earth’s crust, and we have taken part in other efforts aimed at understanding and addressing seismicity.  Using three-dimensional imaging derived through oil and natural gas exploration activities, we have contributed information to the Oklahoma Geological Survey to advance efforts by state geologists to map previously undocumented faults. Devon also has supported directives and other work by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission to address seismicity, which have corresponded with a significant reduction in seismic activity in Oklahoma.We continue to monitor and support the ongoing research to better understand the causes of seismic activity, as well as potential mitigation steps.OKLAHOMA EARTHQUAKE COUNT MAGNITUDE 2.7 OR HIGHEROklahoma Statewide Daily Earthquake Rate By Year2019: 0.35 
2018: 1.10
2017: 1.70
2016: 3.60
2015: 5.40Sources: Oklahoma Corporation Commission, Oklahoma Geological SurveyWaste ManagementBeing a good neighbor and good steward of the environment requires Devon to properly manage the waste generated in our oil and gas field operations and in our offices. We encourage employees and contractors to reduce the amount of waste for disposal whenever possible through reuse, recycling and source reduction.Everyone has an important roleOur work can generate both hazardous and non-hazardous waste from our drilling and production operations, as well as packaging, bottles and other office waste wherever our employees work. To ensure compliance with applicable regulations and our own corporate policies, Devon maintains waste management protocols in our operating areas.All Devon employees and contractors are responsible for waste management. Our waste management protocols clearly define the roles and requirements for handling, shipping, disposal, training and minimization programs. We hold contractors responsible for managing the waste they generate and for complying with all local regulations. Safety Data Sheets (SDS) summarizing hazard information are readily available for employees and contractors who may come into contact with chemicals used or stored in the workplace.To reinforce our commitment to compliance, our employees and contractors receive training specific to their job duties related to waste management and for chemicals used or stored in the workplace.Spill PreventionAs good stewards of the land and good neighbors, we work to prevent spills in our operations.Comprehensive program to stop spills before they happenIn keeping with the pollution prevention principle in our EHS Philosophy, Devon uses appropriate tools and techniques to minimize discharges of oil, produced water and other materials from our equipment and facilities. Spill prevention procedures at our facilities with storage tanks include secondary containment, “nearly full” tank alarms and offsite monitoring equipment with the ability to shut in facilities remotely.At our produced-water recycling facilities, we have installed temporary storage reservoirs designed to minimize the risk of overflow from rain. The reservoirs are double-lined and sloped to direct any water that penetrates the first liner to a sump pump. Between the two liners is a layer of mesh material with motion-detection that alerts our operators if a liner leaks. Disposal reservoirs are lined, as well. Our environmental management program includes a comprehensive Spill Prevention Countermeasures and Control (SPCC) protocol to ensure compliance with environmental rules and regulations. The protocol details the responsibilities, equipment, procedures and steps to prevent, control and provide adequate countermeasures to a discharge.Part of our spill-prevention program is an annual spill-response training exercise and briefing for all personnel involved in designing, building and operating oil handling or storage equipment. We also make every employee and contractor aware of their responsibility to prevent spills by immediately reporting near misses, such as a storage tank approaching full volume or signs of wear that may result in a leak. We respond to near misses and make repairs as needed to stop any potential spill.When a spill does occur, we remediate, investigate the cause and take corrective action to prevent recurrence. Our EHS reporting system tracks spills and near misses by total company and business unit, which enables the business units to analyze their spill performance and find ways to improve.Monitors, alarms and remote communications are key tools in preventing spills.SPILL PREVENTIONTracking and reporting spillsDevon has a robust system for reporting and tracking spills. We require reporting of unintentional releases of oil, produced water, chemicals and any other material associated with our operations. Going forward, we’re using a new calculation methodology for our lost-spill rate based on the volumes of produced oil, produced water and recycled water handled in our operations; previously, our calculation methodology included only total barrels produced. We believe that measuring our spill rate based on the total amount of fluids managed in Devon operations gives us a more accurate picture of our performance and allows us to better manage our spill prevention procedures.In 2018, we lost 0.0011% of the nearly 368 million barrels moved across Devon operations, a 5% improvement from 2017.At Devon, we hold ourselves accountable for improving our performance by setting an annual corporate target for the lost-spill rate and including it in Devon’s annual performance bonus calculation. In 2018, we saw a year-over-year improvement in lost barrels relative to total U.S. barrels produced, although we were one barrel short of hitting our absolute lost-spill rate target. Using our new calculation methodology, both our lost-spill volumes and lost-spill rate declined in 2018 compared to 2017.Devon will continue to invest in equipment, train our workforce and track progress to prevent spills and mitigate their impacts.Berms and containment walls minimize the impact of any discharged fluids.NEW CALCULATION METHODOLOGY FOR LOST-SPILL RATE:BARRELS LOST 
(Reportable to Regulatory Agency + Offsite Lost Spills) 1,000,000XBARRELS MOVED 
(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water)Well SafetySafety and environmental stewardship are our priorities throughout the life cycle of our oil and natural gas wells. We safeguard our workers and neighbors alike by planning, designing, drilling, completing and producing our wells using proven best practices, technologies, tools and materials.Attention to well constructionEnsuring well integrity to protect people and the environment starts with the planning and design of the wellbore, including the selection of equipment, materials and drilling techniques. We design our wells to meet high standards for the strength of the steel pipes that form the well, known as casing, and the quality and quantity of cement we use to separate and protect the multiple layers of casing. This attention to well construction keeps fluids in their proper place and protects groundwater zones for the life of the well.During drilling operations, pressure tests confirm casing integrity. Acoustic measurements let us know that the cement is properly bonded to the casing and to the surrounding rock formation.Our Well Construction (WellCon) Center is devoted to optimizing drilling and completion engineering on all Devon wells and allows our staff to monitor real-time data and make adjustments to avoid potential issues before they occur. We also regularly conduct blowout prevention drills on our drilling rigs and audit drills as part of our field-review process. We continue to verify the well’s integrity during production operations by monitoring tubing and casing pressures and by analyzing gas and water produced by the well. We also conduct periodic pressure tests and casing inspections.WELL SAFETYManaging fluids to minimize impactsDetermining the drilling fluids that will be used is part of the design phase before we drill a well. We prefer to use water-based fluids, but some rock formations require the use of oil-based fluids. When we use oil-based fluids, we employ a closed-loop system for safety and environmental protection. In keeping with the EPA Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Rule, we keep plans at drilling locations to minimize the impact of potential spills. We follow local, state and federal guidelines when handling drilling fluid and mud systems.After a well is drilled, the next step is to complete it using a process known as hydraulic fracturing. Water, sand and additives are pumped into the wellbore to create or restore small fractures in the rock to stimulate production from new or existing oil and gas wells. Water and sand make up 98 to 99.5% of the mixture. A full registry of wells and chemical additives, along with much more information about hydraulic fracturing, is available at fracfocus.org. Devon played a leading role in the creation of Frac Focus in 2011 and continues to be a leading contributor of information to the site.We regularly communicate Devon’s environmental, health and safety (EHS) policies, protocols and operational expectations for well safety in safety tailgate meetings at field locations. We pride ourselves on worker safety and empowerment; all our crews have Stop Work Responsibility. Anyone may stop a job at any time if the person notices a potential hazard or is unsure about a task. This workplace culture helps keep people safe and protects the environment by reducing the risk of spills or emissions.