GOVERNANCEThe Governance section of our 2020 Sustainability Report includes:Overview - UPDATEDCorporate Governance - UPDATEDShareholder Engagement - UPDATEDEthics and IntegrityPublic AdvocacyEmergency PreparednessRisk ManagementCybersecurity GovernanceOverview RESOURCES  Corporate Governance Guidelines Defines how our board of directors monitors the effectiveness of Devon policies and decision-making.  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics	Sets out the basic principles of conduct for all Devon directors, officers and employees.  Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer	Supplement to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics reinforcing our expectation of ethical and legal behavior from our top executives.  Anti-Corruption Policy
Explains the specific requirements and prohibitions of applicable laws, especially the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).RESOURCES (continued)  Ethics and Compliance Helpline	Available at all times to confidentially report potential code violations, ask an ethics-related question, get guidance on our ethics policy and follow up on a reported issue.   Certificate of Incorporation  Bylaws  Privacy Policy  ESG Steering Committee Charter
Describes the purpose, roles and responsibilities for monitoring ESG matters and updating senior management on our progress.  Investor communications
Updated regularly to provide information on Devon’s progress to investors, analysts and other stakeholders.  Annual proxy statements	Describe matters of interest to our shareholders, including director and executive compensation and shareholder proposals.  Annual Political Activity and Lobbying Report	Discloses Devon’s expenditures for corporate political contributions, trade association dues, 527 contributions and federal and state lobbying, and the philosophy and objectives of our activities.  Devon Energy Corporation Political Action Committee Annual Report	Discloses PAC disbursements to candidates for state and federal office and to political parties.  Emergency Preparedness Protocol 	Defines the roles, processes and activities we have in place to respond effectively and timely to natural disasters, operational disruptions, security incidents and other events.We’re committed to environmental, social and governance performance and accountable to our stakeholders to deliver strong business results. As we strive for sustainable operations, we work to be financially, environmentally and socially responsible. We are determined to uphold our culture of integrity and accountability in making decisions, managing risk and building relationships. At all times, we’re guided by our core values and corporate governance principles. Devon focuses on operational excellence, high quality of life and meaningful partnerships in our communities, and top-tier ESG performance and transparency. We incorporate our commitment to sustainability into our operations and our companywide ESG performance goals factor into our compensation. Our company’s senior leaders have a keen interest in addressing ESG-related risks and opportunities. To that end, our ESG Steering Committee keeps management informed on current and emerging issues that influence business planning, strategy and operations. To sustain the trust we’ve built with our stakeholders, we remain committed to success factors including board independence, proactive shareholder engagement, risk management, ethics and integrity in our corporate governance practices. Maggie PhippsLegal CounselMaggie’s responsibilities as a corporate lawyer are as varied as they are important to the business. On any given day, she can find herself managing issues in corporate finance, contracts and securities regulation and compliance. She particularly enjoys her work in the ESG arena, which often involves direct engagement with key Devon stakeholders. “I’m so proud to be able to share with our stakeholders the things that make us a top energy company,” Maggie said. “This entails listening to and directly responding to their inquiries based upon interests and concerns. I enjoy communicating with shareholders, brainstorming ways to make Devon better based on those interactions, and bringing those ideas to the ESG Steering Committee, management and board of directors.”GOVERNANCE OVERVIEWOur ESG Steering Committee meets regularly to set strategy and evaluate performance.GOVERNANCE METRICS 2017 2018 2019 Independent Board Members 78% 80% 91% Currently, 9 of our 12 board members (75%) qualify as independent under NYSE standards and SEC regulations. Women Board Members 22% 20% 27% Currently three women (25%), including the chairs of Devon's Audit and Governance Committees, currently serve on our board of directors. Contributions - Trades & Political (thousands) $1,062 $494 $2,144 In 2019, we began disclosing non-deductible trade association dues. Lobbying - Federal & State (thousands) $1,542 $905 $1,178 Devon's lobbying and political activity is disclosed via public agencies, as well as through the company's Political Activity and Lobbying Report available on our website. Corporate Governance Effective oversight starts with our board of directors. Devon’s board and management consider the interests of all stakeholders over the long term, while seeking to create shareholder value.A tone of integrity Performance and results in the ESG sphere actually begin with G, for governance. Values, goals, strategies and tactics all flow from a leadership structure and team that sets a tone of integrity and high expectations through the way the company is governed.We begin with Corporate Governance Guidelines that outline the composition, structure, procedures and policies of the board of directors, and the qualifications, responsibilities and compensation of our directors. A majority of our board members qualify as independent, based on New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations. As of January 2021, nine of 12 board members, including all committee members qualify as independent. The full board has primary responsibility for risk oversight of the company, with four standing committees dedicated to specific areas of risk: Audit, Compensation, Governance and Reserves. As required by the committee charters, all committee members are independent. Brief descriptions of each committee’s purpose and responsibilities and links to their charters follow.CORPORATE GOVERNANCECHARTERS  Audit Committee Charter	The Audit Committee assists the board in ensuring the integrity of Devon’s financial statements and reporting system, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and performance of internal and external audit functions.  Compensation Committee Charter	The Compensation Committee determines the compensation for Devon’s senior executives and provides oversight of the company’s employee benefit programs.  Governance Committee Charter	The Governance Committee assists the board in identifying qualified individuals for board membership and oversees the company’s corporate governance and ESG practices.  Reserves Committee Charter	The Reserves Committee provides oversight of the annual review and evaluation of Devon’s consolidated petroleum and natural gas reserves, reporting system, compliance, regulatory requirements and related disclosures.Audit 
Committee Compensation
Committee Governance
Committee Reserves
Committee Non-Management Directors      Barbara Baumann M C      John E. Bethancourt M C      Ann G. Fox      Kelt Kindick M M      John Krenicki Jr. M M      Karl F. Kurz M M      Robert A. Mosbacher Jr. C M      D. Martin Phillips M M      Duane C. Radtke M M      Valerie M. Williams C M Management Directors      David A. Hager, Executive Chair      Rick E. Muncrief C | Chair M | MemberAs of January 2021Attracting, retaining and compensating a diverse boardTo ensure a broad view of issues and balanced decision-making, Devon makes it a priority to attract and maintain a diverse and inclusive board. The Nominating Committee actively seeks board members with varying experience and expertise appropriate for our business and industry. Each director brings integrity, accountability, informed judgement, peer respect and high-performance standards to the board. We’ve advanced diversity in part through board refreshment, with five new directors joining the board following the WPX merger. As of January 2021, three women served on the Devon board. Devon directors range in age from 43 to 72, all under the retirement age of 73 required by the company’s bylaws.Directors are expected to maintain a significant ownership stake in Devon in order to align their interests and actions with the interests of our shareholders. The board determines the compensation of non-management directors annually, based on Governance Committee recommendations. Compensation for independent directors, which has remained relatively consistent in recent years, is based on market norms and includes a combination of cash retainers and equity awards. Devon executives receive no additional compensation for serving on our board. Shareholders elect Devon directors at the annual meeting for one-year terms. Under our bylaws, a director who does not receive the required plurality of votes in an uncontested election must offer to resign. This has not happened in the company’s 49-year history; our directors received an average approval rating of 96% at our 2020 annual meeting.CORPORATE GOVERNANCEDirector skills and experienceOur directors have diverse skills, backgrounds and experience, individually and as a group, that Devon has identified as highly relevant for effective management of an upstream energy company. In addition to their skills and experience, our directors are known as strategic thinkers, have high expectations for the company’s performance and are attuned to the demands of their board oversight role and good governance practices.TENUREThe tenure of our directors reflects a balance of experience and fresh perspectives.As of January 2021.DIVERSITYWe approached our directors to voluntarily self-disclose their race, ethnicity and gender. Of the responses we received, three of our 12 directors are considered diverse.As of January 2021.INDEPENDENCENine of Devon's 12 directors qualify as independent under NYSE standards and SEC regulations.As of January 2021.825%75%INDEPENDENCE3 WOMENIN THE BOARDROOM220-56-1010+# of Years of ServiceLinking executive pay to performanceEach year, the Compensation Committee determines executive compensation based on its evaluation of the company’s performance and the performance of individual executive leaders and the business or organizational units under their supervision. Devon’s senior leaders are accountable for generating operating returns by managing our premier asset portfolio, delivering superior execution and exercising discipline in our capital allocation. The leadership team updates the board regularly on our economic and operational risks and opportunities and on our ESG performance. In 2020, Devon leaders have regularly kept the board informed of our actions to address the volatility in commodity and stock prices and our response to the COVID-19 pandemic.Our compensation program seeks to ensure a strong tie between company performance and executive pay and is highly aligned with stock price performance. Our compensation philosophy recognizes near-term operational and financial success and encourages decision-making that supports long-term value creation. The objectives of our executive compensation program are to motivate and reward executives for increasing shareholder value; to incentivize achieving near- and long-term objectives without excessive risk-taking; and to attract and retain committed executives capable of leading a large and diversified oil and gas business. CORPORATE GOVERNANCECompensation decisions for 2019 were weighted toward total shareholder returns and operating performance measures. Approximately 90% of the value of total direct compensation awarded to the president and CEO, and an average of about 84% of total direct compensation for the other executives, was delivered through performance bonuses and long-term incentives.Devon sets challenging annual performance goals to drive continuous improvement, with a highly engaged employee culture focused on innovation, safety, operational excellence, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. Devon surpassed our financial and operational target metrics in 2019, even in the challenging commodity price environment. We increased oil and gas production while reducing capital expenditures, divested our Canadian assets, reduced long-term debt and realigned our long-term cost structure. We also met four of our five performance targets for environmental, health and safety (EHS) measures. We did miss our target for serious incidents and fatalities (recordable SIF rate), which resulted in an EHS performance score of 75% of target, reflected in bonus compensation. Detailed information about our executive compensation philosophy, practices and decisions is disclosed in our 2020 proxy statement. How to contact Devon’s non-management directorsIssues or concerns related to Devon’s accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing practices may be reported to the Audit Committee of the board of directors by:•	calling our non-management directors access line at (866) 888-6179, or
•	sending an email to nonmanagement.directors@dvn.com.Any stockholder or other stakeholder may also contact our non-management directors using the above methods or by U.S. mail to Non-Management Directors, c/o Office of the Corporate Secretary, Devon Energy Corporation, 333 W. Sheridan Avenue, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73102.All calls and correspondence are anonymous and kept confidential to the extent possible. Shareholder 
EngagementThrough ongoing dialog with shareholders, we’ve gained valuable insights that shape our environmental, social and governance programs and focus our disclosures.Building relationships with our shareholders helps Devon anticipate and manage issues that influence sustainability. We communicate directly with shareholders to understand their interests and needs, and to communicate our business strategy and plans. In 2019, we engaged with many of our largest shareholders on multiple occasions and invited each of our top 50 investors to engage with us after releasing our proxy statement and 2019 Sustainability Report. Devon senior leaders and subject-matter experts engaged with our shareholders, and then shared the key themes from those meetings with our senior management and board of directors. Our directors welcome this feedback from shareholders, as well as direct engagement on their specific areas of expertise. Many of our shareholders have made it clear that our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance is a key component in how they value the company. In turn, our board’s Governance Committee has sharpened its focus on our engagement, oversight, processes and performance on key ESG matters. On an ongoing basis, Devon’s senior-level ESG Steering Committee coordinates our efforts and keeps our executive committee, board Governance Committee and the full board updated. In recent years, we’ve reported our ESG performance more thoroughly and transparently, with a growing focus on climate change risk. We followed our first Climate Change Assessment Report in 2018 by setting a methane intensity target in 2019. In addition, each year we publish our Sustainability Report and Political Activity and Lobbying Report. We’ve made ESG performance more prominent in investor communications through surveys such as Sustainalytics, MSCI and CDP. We’ve also incorporated ESG metrics into our compensation structure. Devon continues to look for opportunities to report additional information our shareholders value. For example, we expanded our Political Activity and Lobbying Report to include trade association memberships and the dues we pay. Our updated 2020 Climate Change Assessment Report includes an evaluation of Devon’s current asset portfolio in carbon-constrained future scenarios. The updated report also enhances the company's alignment with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), a framework recognized by most investors and ESG evaluators.Top-tier ESG ratingsDevon participates in numerous third-party ESG-focused surveys and assessments that help stakeholders benchmark our progress and enable Devon to refine our transparency efforts and improve our ESG performance. We’re already delivering top-tier ESG ratings compared to our peers, with Sustainalytics, MSCI and CDP ranking our ESG scores at the top of our peer group. Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) also recognizes our top-tier performance on environmental and social issues compared to our peers. In addition, we’ve been reporting to CDP for 16 consecutive years and achieved peer-leading performance on CDP’s climate and water surveys in 2019. Our ESG Steering Committee is evaluating surveys to ensure we’re dedicating our resources to those that our investors value most.We will continue to listen, engage and respond to our shareholders as we seek to stand out as an ESG leader in our industry. A group of senior-level Devon leaders who guide engagements and activities that will deliver on our commitments to various stakeholder groups.ESG Sterring Committee CharterEthics and IntegrityHonesty and integrity are foundational values at Devon, enabling us to live out all our other values.Devon is committed to high ethical, moral, professional and legal standards in all our business practices and relationships. We seek to always do the right thing to maintain the trust and confidence of our stakeholders.The Audit Committee of Devon’s board of directors has oversight responsibility for our ethics and integrity program, including monitoring our business practices and ethical standards. Along with the leadership in our legal group, the committee annually reviews and updates as needed our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures.We work proactively to ensure our workforce understands their obligations to uphold our standards for ethics and integrity. Our code guides each Devon director, officer and employee in meeting our standards and fulfilling our responsibilities to our shareholders, governmental and regulatory authorities, business partners, and each other. Devon has a separate, more stringent code of ethics that requires the highest level of ethical and legal behavior for our president and chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer. Our directors, officers and employees also are required to comply with policies such as our Zero Tolerance Anti-Harassment Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure, Conflicts of Interest Policy, and Employee Gifts and Entertainment Declaration Policy. These policies and our code of conduct are in place to ensure ongoing compliance and to reflect current business practices. Devon employees are required to complete an ethics training course when they join the company and annually thereafter. Each year we review the training and code of conduct policies to ensure the content is up-to-date and relevant. The goal is to maintain high employee awareness and understanding of our expectations. We also require employees to acknowledge and agree to abide by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics every year.Keeping fraud at bayTo prevent invoicing abuse, digital scams and other types of fraud, Devon maintains an active fraud-awareness program. An internal steering committee identifies industry trends and emerging threats and informs employees so they can recognize and report fraudulent activity. The committee developed fraud identification training for employees who work in the field, in accounting and other functions. Devon also employs fraud examiners with fraud investigation experience, so if there's a need we can quickly take action to prevent financial loss and mitigate risk.Reporting violations is our obligationAt Devon, a violation of our code or related policies is a serious matter. Our employees share an obligation to help enforce the code, and we do not allow retaliation against any employee for reporting an actual or suspected violation of the code in good faith. We offer a number of confidential reporting channels, including the anonymous Ethics and Compliance Helpline that’s available online and by phone at all times. Anyone can access the Helpline to report harassment, inappropriate behavior, fraud, unsafe acts, accounting irregularities, human rights violations or any other potential code or policy violation. The Helpline can also be used to request guidance on Devon’s ethics policy, follow up on a reported issue or to ask an ethics-related question. The Devon board of directors receives periodic reports on Helpline activity to assist in its role of monitoring our ethical standards and practices.ETHICS AND INTEGRITYETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE METRICS52%55%OF USERS REQUESTED ANONYMITYOF REPORTS OF POSSIBLE ETHICS VIOLATIONS CAME THROUGH THE ONLINE PORTAL97%83%OF INVESTIGATIONS INITIATED IN 2019 WERE CLOSED BY YEAR-END, WITH AN AVERAGE OF 20 DAYS FROM THE OPENING OF AN INVESTIGATION TO ITS CLOSEOF REPORTS WERE UNSUBSTANTIATED OR SIMPLE INQUIRIES  Ethics and Compliance HelplinePublic AdvocacyDevon wants our diverse stakeholders to understand the economic impacts and trade-offs of public policies. To that end, we engage in discussions about regulation, taxation, trade, jobs and business-focused issues. As a leading U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer, Devon participates directly in local, state, national and global economies. We have a responsibility to advocate for laws and rules that meet societal and business needs. As we strive to operate in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, we’re committed to fulfill our advocacy role in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and rules. To assure stakeholders of adequate oversight, the governance committee of our board of directors reviews all expenditures related to lobbying, political activities and trade associations. Devon makes all required financial disclosures and publishes a comprehensive annual Political Activity and Lobbying Report that covers expenditures for corporate political contributions, trade association dues, 527 contributions, federal and state lobbying, and the Devon Energy Corporation Political Action Committee (DECPAC). We have steadily increased the information we provide in the lobbying report in response to stakeholder feedback, and in the 2019 report we added a disclosure of the names of all trade associations we belong to and the non-deductible membership dues we pay. In recent years, we've reduced our advocacy and lobbying expenditures as part of Devon’s overall cost-reduction efforts.Important decisions about energy and the economy require accurate information and thoughtful deliberation at all levels of government. Today, climate change, access to resources on federal lands and talk of a ban on hydraulic fracturing are just a few of the issues under public debate that could directly impact our business. Devon informs and engages policymakers, our employees and the public as we advocate for principles and positions in regulatory and legislative proceedings. To make our views known, Devon participates in business coalitions, industry associations, trade groups and advocacy organizations. We share information with our employees to aid their discussions of industry issues with their friends and neighbors, and we encourage them to vote.Devon employees are active in industry associations such as the Petroleum Alliance of Oklahoma, New Mexico Oil and Gas Association (NMOGA), Texas Oil and Gas Association (TXOGA), the Petroleum Association of Wyoming (PAW), American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). As one example, an employee on our health and safety team is active on API’s Occupational Safety and Health Subcommittee, which proposed a voluntary safety program to elevate the overall safety performance of the onshore exploration and production industry. We’re proud to have a Devon representative sharing our values and contributing to industry best practices on this important industry committee.2019 Political Activity and Lobbying ReportEmergency PreparednessWe’re keenly focused on a variety of potential events that could affect our employees, our assets, our business and our environment. In any emergency, our top priority is life safety.Our corporate emergency management function, which reports to Devon’s security department, leads our emergency response and recovery efforts. We follow the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) National Incident Management System (NIMS) that enables cooperation among community agencies in managing the response to an emergency.Devon provides in-house training, drills and exercises for employees on the NIMS Incident Command System (ICS) to ensure timely, effective response to weather events, operational incidents, supply disruptions and other emergencies. The head of our emergency management program is a certified Emergency Manager and ICS instructor, which strengthens our capabilities. We also have more than 200 employees trained as floor wardens to lead occupants of buildings and facilities companywide to safety and provide medical assistance during an emergency. Real-time responsesOur training and experience using the ICS for all types of hazards paid off when Devon responded to several events in 2019 and 2020. While our past incidents mostly involved local and regional response, there were a few enterprise- and corporate-level incidents. A well control incident in our Eagle Ford operations in November 2019 required an interdepartmental response that showed the depth and breadth of our leadership capabilities. It also demonstrated the value of the relationships we build with first responders, elected officials and community leaders in all our operating areas. In the case of the Eagle Ford, these connections allowed us to work in a unified manner with local officials and stakeholders and stay in contact with them during follow-up activities.Devon also activated our incident command structure at the early onset of the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020. We communicated frequently and transparently with our workforce throughout our response to keep our employees and their families healthy and safe. For more information, please refer to our reporting on managing through the pandemic, beginning on page 7 of this report.  Local, state and federal capabilitiesDevon engages fire departments, law enforcement, emergency management and emergency medical services to ensure preparedness. We follow the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program, which allows us to provide community partners with documentation that validates their participation for federal funding and medical facility accreditation requirements.In addition to maintaining proficiency in our operating areas, we advocate for strong emergency management capabilities at the federal level. The head of our emergency management program serves as the chair of the Oil and Natural Gas Subsector Coordinating Council that works closely with the U.S. Departments of Energy and Homeland Security. In this role, Devon leads efforts to ensure that coordination for physical and cybersecurity preparedness remains at the forefront among oil and gas industry and government partners. Continuous improvementAfter every exercise and actual response, we document areas for improvement, best practices and strengths. Corrective actions are incorporated into Devon’s environmental, health and safety (EHS) incident tracking system. When emergencies and incidents occur, our continuous improvement efforts and training enable us to protect our workforce, our neighbors and our assets. In turn, we’re protecting our business and license to operate. Emergency management at Devon starts with good information and clear direction for sound decision-making.EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESSDevon's Incident Command structure facilitates teamwork and communication among multi-disciplinary professionals from across the organization. “The benefit of the ICS is having one process that allows us to respond to a tornado hitting a gas plant, an IT incident, facility damage, a well-control event and a pandemic. 
This process is refined with each response by turning lessons learned into best practices.” Jillian SulleyEmergency Management LeaderRisk ManagementIdentifying and managing risks is an ongoing, essential process that touches every aspect of our business. We systematically manage the risks to ensure we can deliver results.DEVON'S ERM FRAMEWORKThe economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic revealed unprecedented business risks across every industry. While few organizations can claim to have been fully prepared for COVID-19, Devon does include “global pandemic” among the possible risks in our enterprise risk management process. Volatility in demand, supply and price for our products are always risks we consider and, as a result, we expect that our preparedness, exemplified in our financial strength, will enable us to withstand the virus-induced shock where others in our industry may not.Our board of directors has primary responsibility for risk oversight, a role that includes ensuring the appropriate design and implementation of the company’s risk-management programs. The four standing board committees consider the risks inherent in their areas of oversight and the Devon management team, in turn, executes the board’s risk-management directives. This includes overseeing and reporting on Devon’s day-to-day efforts to manage risk. Our enterprise-risk-management process includes an annual analysis in which we ask the board, management and subject-matter experts companywide to consider the likelihood that certain risks could cause economic or reputational damage to the company. We also consider our level of preparedness for each risk. This analysis helps us determine and prioritize the material risks to our business. We also undertake exercises and workshops with employees focused on various risk-mitigation strategies. These workshops, including leaders from multiple work disciplines, also help us to identify new and emerging risks. These forums are valuable in maintaining awareness of business risk across the organization and also have helped us manage through recent commodity price volatility and the global coronavirus pandemic. For a more detailed discussion of Devon’s material risks, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2019.BOARD OVERSIGHTPeriodic reporting to board audit committee and managementENTERPRISE RISK INVENTORYDocumentation covering each risk category including risk-mitigation activitiesRISK WORKSHOPSQuarterly risk discussionsANNUAL ERM SURVEYAnnual survey of board, executive committee, management and subject-matter expertsUnited Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.As an oil and natural gas company, we believe that strong governance of corporate climate risk is foundational in order to support climate action. At Devon, climate-related issues are managed by formal corporate management structures, including board level oversight, and are integrated into our enterprise risk management system. For example, active risk management led us to set a methane reduction target (beyond regulatory requirements) linked to executive and employee compensation in 2019. Read more about our target and other climate tactics in the Environment section and our CDP Climate response, which we have participated in for 16 consecutive years.CybersecurityTo protect our technology advantage and sustain our operations, we safeguard our data and systems with sophisticated tools and processes.Devon mitigates cybersecurity risk with an industry-leading corporate information security policy and program. Devon’s digital security team deploys an array of processes and tools including artificial intelligence, process automation, data analytics and other techniques to sustain our technology advantage in the field and in the office. Our investment in tools and processes that establish security inside and outside of Devon’s walls, as well as our cloud-based productivity suite, enabled Devon employees to quickly and safely adapt to working remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020.As our use of technology and reliance on data have increased, we’ve expanded our cybersecurity measures to include the involvement of the audit committee of our board of directors, which oversees the company’s enterprise-risk-management program. The audit committee and full board receive regular updates on technology and cybersecurity risks and trends from Devon management. The chair of the audit committee has completed the NACD Cyber-Risk Oversight Program and earned Carnegie Mellon’s *CERT Certificate in Cybersecurity. In addition, five Devon directors have experience with technology or cybersecurity. We mitigate cybersecurity risk with an industry-leading corporate information security policy and program aligned with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework, which is assessed by third- party experts. We exercise and test our incident response and disaster-recovery plans as part of Devon’s corporate level emergency preparedness program. In 2019, our exercises included hiring a third party to infiltrate our system to test our response.Our information systems are managed by a team of highly trained security professionals who have weekly discussions about cyberthreats, incidents and effective prevention. The team proactively develops, uses and shares cyberthreat intelligence, augmenting human intelligence with appropriate levels and layers of automation. In addition, we encourage a culture of prevention in our workforce. Devon provides cybersecurity awareness training for all employees and contractors, specific training for teams that have access to sensitive data, and recognition of employees who help us avoid cybersecurity events. We enforce responsible use of information systems as described in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Information System General Usage Policy and related policies.Devon had no business interruptions from cyberattacks in 2019 and has not suffered material losses from cyberattacks to date. We’ll continue to focus on prevention and best practices to secure our technology assets.