Environment Protecting air, water, land and wildlife Overview Devon is committed to doing what’s right for the environment. We want to be a good neighbor, a trusted partner and a responsible, competitive operator as we produce oil and natural gas to help meet global demand. We believe exemplary environmental performance is essential to managing risk and developing forward-looking business opportunities, with the aim of being successful throughout and beyond the energy transition. To continuously improve our environmental performance, Devon is proactive and results oriented. We consider the potential impacts of our operations when planning activities and making decisions. We strive to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, often going above and beyond what’s required. In the process, Devon incorporates technology, tools and techniques that enable us to minimize or avoid effects on air, water, land and wildlife. We’re committed to working with contractors who share our commitment to environmental stewardship, and by 2023 contractors who perform work on Devon locations will begin undergoing annual assessments of their environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance in key areas. Devon requires our contractors to employ personnel who are adequately trained to perform environmentally sound work and have programs to comply with applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations. Contractors as well as employees have responsibility to stop work to prevent spills or other environmental issues. Our strong commitment to environmental stewardship has enabled us to establish a track record of performance improvements. One of our top priorities is to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions, and we’ve documented this long standing focus by responding to the CDP climate change survey for 17 consecutive years. We’ve been at the forefront of water conservation in our industry for almost two decades, and have responded to CDP’s water survey since its inception eight years ago. We also take great care to preserve the landscape and protect wildlife habitat and cultural resources in areas surrounding our operations. Devon tracks specific metrics for GHG and methane emissions, flaring, spills, energy use and water use. We share this information in this report and other public disclosures to meet stakeholders’ expectations of transparency and accountability. For additional metrics and details on our environmental practices, please refer to our 2021 CDP Climate and CDP Water Responses. The United Nations has established 17  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  They re part of a globally agreed upon action plan for organizations seeking to provide affordable energy, produced responsibly to protect the environment, while also promoting peace and prosperity for all people. In this report, we have identified a wide variety of Devon s business activities that align with the U.N. SDGs. Here in the environmental section, look for: Taking Action ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 14% and methane emissions by 47% in 2020 compared to 2019. Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 13% and methane emissions intensity by 47% in 2020 compared  to 2019. Reduced flared volume intensity by 33% in 2020 compared to 2019. AIR Issued our updated 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report aligned with the Task Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. Set ambitious targets to further reduce the carbon intensity of our operations, minimize freshwater use and engage constructively with our value chain. WATER Reduced the volume of total water consumed in completions activities - including fresh, non fresh, and recycled water volumes - by 29% in 2020 compared to 2019. Increased the volume of recycled water consumed by 10% in 2020 compared to 2019. Since 2015, we have reused over 150 million barrels of water from our water treatment facilities. PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE Elevated the importance of our environmental work by creating the new position of vice president of ESG and EHS. Integrated environmental professionals from both legacy companies into our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Council, which started identifying environmental best practices and set corporate environmental goals for 2021 to reduce flaring intensity, increase voluntary equipment leak inspections and reduce our total spill rate. Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Environment Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 50% Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 Overview continued Devon’s new environmental performance targets We’re improving how we produce and deliver the oil  and natural gas the world needs NET ZERO GHG emissions for Scope 1 and 2 by 2050 50% Reduction in GHG emissions intensity for Scope 1 and 2 by 2030 65% Reduction in methane emissions intensity by 2030 90% Or higher non fresh water usage for completions  in our most active Delaware Basin operating areas 0.5% Or lower flaring intensity by 2025 ELIMINATE Routine flaring as defined by the World Bank by 2030 ENGAGE Value chain in assessments of performance  in key ESG areas by 2023 Increasing emphasis on governance We have a strong organization in place to manage environmental performance, from our board of directors to our field level EHS and operations teams. In recent years, we’ve updated our governance practices to elevate EHS oversight and discussions, including those related to climate change and the energy transition. In 2021, we recalibrated the Governance Committee to become the Governance, Environmental, and Public Policy (GEPP) Committee of the board to sharpen our focus on environmental policies and oversight of management’s efforts to integrate sustainability into our business activities. The GEPP Committee also nominates candidates for our board, establishing a close connection between corporate governance and sustainability. As a component of executive compensation, environmental results included in our corporate goals are reviewed by the board’s Compensation Committee. In addition, at least five Devon directors have an educational background or direct work experience  in environmental matters. At the executive level, Devon’s executive vice president and chief operating officer (COO) is accountable for our environmental programs and performance. To further emphasize results, in 2021 Devon created the new position of vice president of ESG and EHS, reporting to the COO. We based this role on a similar one at WPX Energy as part of integrating best practices of both legacy companies. Devon’s governance structure includes the ESG Steering Committee that engages with our executive committee, the GEPP Committee and the full board on our environmental performance, risks, opportunities and commitments. Operations ownership Our EHS Council, made up of business unit and operations leaders, plays a lead role in protecting our social license to operate and advancing our culture of environmental stewardship. The council sets environmental strategy and goals, tracks performance and evaluates the effectiveness of our environmental policies, protocols and practices. The group also reviews environmental incidents and near misses, develops corrective actions as needed and shares best practices to continuously improve our environmental performance. Council members hold regular roundtable discussions with field production leaders to help them stay current with the rapid evolution of stakeholder expectations about climate change and environmental performance. The Devon EHS Management System, developed by the council, includes an environmental management element covering assessments and continuous improvement programs. Our environmental professionals work closely with Devon business leaders to promote environmentally sound operations that comply with all applicable laws, regulations and company policies. To position Devon for long term success, the council reviews emerging EHS and ESG issues, as well as proposed laws and regulations and their potential financial, operational and reputational impact on the company. In 2020, Devon met goals recommended by the EHS Council and set by the board, to improve our lost spill rate and fugitive emissions performance compared to 2019. Following our merger in January 2021, we integrated leaders from both legacy companies into our council and began assessing and Collaborations for progress Our corporate value to build relationships is vital to improving our environmental performance. We engage  with a variety of stakeholders to understand their perspectives on climate change, water use, seismicity, spills and other environmental issues. Devon teams up with industry trade associations, environmental nonprofit organizations, academic partners and innovative businesses to develop solutions. We remain committed to listening, collaborating, increasing transparency and doing our part  to protect the environment. Energy Water Initiative U.S. Bureau of Land Management New Mexico Oil and Gas Association The Environmental Partnership Stanford Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity National Aeronautics and Space Administration New Mexico Soil Conservation District Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara (MHA) Nation American Petroleum Institute (API) Columbia Center on Global Energy Policy And others 2019 2019 2019 Overview Environment 2019 2019 2019 2019 2018 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 Overview continued integrating environmental best practices of both legacy  companies. We set 2021 EHS goals to further reduce flaring intensity, increase voluntary emissions inspections and  Environment Performance Metrics1 *Unless otherwise noted, all data presented is pro forma (Devon + WPX) for U.S. operated assets.  1 The environment metrics have been calculated using the best available data at the time of publication. Historical metrics are subject to change as we continuously seek to improve our data management practices, data sources, and calculation  reduce our total spill rate. Additional EHS team priorities  2018  2019  2020  methodologies in order to provide the highest level of transparency, consistency and accuracy. We report environment metrics on an operated basis, unless  in 2021 are to merge legacy company environmental  Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) (million tonnes COe)2 2 4.72  4.65  3.91 otherwise noted.  management systems and concentrate our EHS team   By Constituent  2 We include all reportable emissions under EPA s Greenhouse Gas Reporting  on leading indicators and critical initiatives like our newly  Carbon Dioxide (million tonnes CO2e)  3.65  3.66  3.39  Program (GHGRP) for Devon operated facilities, as well as non reportable emissions from our production assets and, beginning in reporting year 2019,  established environmental performance targets.  Methane (million tonnes CO2e)  1.07  0.99  0.52  gathering and boosting assets. We calculate emission intensities using gross production as reported under the EPA GHGRP for all reporting segments.  Shared responsibility  Nitrous Oxide (million tonnes CO2e) By Source  0.003  0.003  0.002  3 We calculate our reported emissions using EPA fuel and electricity emissions factors.  Our values and operations standards reinforce the  Flaring/Venting (million tonnes CO2e)  3.14  2.61  1.92  4 We report indirect emissions from the use of sold products (Scope 3) on an equity  responsibility of each Devon employee and contractor to take ownership of environmental performance. We expect employees and contractors to demonstrate care for the environment, plan ahead, participate in environmental  Combustion (million tonnes CO2e) Other (million tonnes CO2e) Indirect GHG Emissions from Electricity Use (Scope 2) (million tonnes COe)3 2e)2,3 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) (million tonnes CO2 1.37 0.21 0.33 5.05  1.84 0.19 0.27 4.91  1.95 0.04 0.32 4.23  basis from sources not owned or controlled by Devon. To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, we rely upon IPIECA s 2016 guidance document Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Per the IPIECA guidance, we report category 11 “Use of Sold Products” by calculating combustion emissions for our oil, natural gas and marketed natural gas liquids products using emission factors obtained from the EPA and net equity production reported in Devon s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10 K.  programs, recognize positive attitudes and behaviors, and communicate openly.  Direct GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1) (tCO2e/MBoe)2 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 and 2) (tCO2e/MBoe)2  20.19 21.60  17.22 18.20  14.61 15.81  5 Performance is limited to legacy Devon performance only using net equity production reported in Devon s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10 K.  To underscore these expectations, Devon’s corporate scorecard includes annual environmental performance targets that affect every employee’s compensation. By meeting our targets for improving our lost spill rate and fugitive emissions in 2020, employees made a positive contribution to our EHS score and compensation. Indirect GHG Emissions from Use of Sold Products (Scope 3) (million tonnes CO2e)4,5 43 48 49 We report indirect emissions from the use of sold products on an equity basis from sources not owned or controlled by Devon;  however, it is important to note that Scope 3 emissions estimates are subject to uncertainty, inconsistency and duplication as further described in the Air Emissions section of this report. In 2020, legacy Devon s estimated Scope 3 emissions increased, driven by an increase in net equity production. Methane Emissions Intensity (Scope 1) (tCO2e/MBoe)2 4.58 3.65 1.94 Methane Emissions Intensity - Production Segment (Scope 1) (% of natural gas produced)6 0.36% 0.31% 0.19% Flaring Intensity (% of natural gas produced)7 2.13% 2.21% 1.48% 6 Our methane emissions intensity rate calculation includes all natural gas produced at Devon operated facilities and all methane emissions from Devon operated Click here to see AECOM verification of calculation methodology7 Our flaring intensity rate calculation includes high pressure flared volumes associated with the production of oil and natural gas. 8 Our water usage includes all water sources used in completions activities  at facilities operated by Devon in 2020. Energy Used - Fuel and Electricity Use (trillion BTU)3 28.98 32.87 31.36 We’re proud of the progress we’ve made in reducing air 9 Reportable spill events and volumes exclude a well control event that  occurred in 2019. Water Usage (million Bbl)8 136.2 138.5 98.5 emissions, using less fresh water and more recycled water    Recycled (million Bbl) 22.0 33.8 37.2 in our operations, preventing spills, protecting the land and improving transparency through reporting. But we    Sourced (million Bbl) 114.2 104.7 61.3 know there’s more progress to be made and we’ll keep Water Usage Intensity (Bbl/Boe produced)8 0.57 0.50 0.33 challenging ourselves to do better. Water Usage Intensity (million Bbl/well completion)8 0.25 0.25 0.29 Devon s total water use for completions activities varies with activity levels, targeted formations and lateral lengths, and includes fresh,  non fresh and recycled water volumes. We seek alternatives to fresh water supplies, where possible.  Reportable Spill Events Released to the Environment (events)9 377 336 246  Reportable Spill Volumes Released to the Environment (barrels)9 6,441 4,505 4,042 Devon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablA responsible and resilient operator Environment Devon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablDevon is focused on producing reliable, affordablClimate Change A responsible and resilient operator Issued our updated 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations. Set ambitious, new target of achieving net zero GHG emissions for Scopes 1 and 2 by 2050. Devon is focused on producing reliable, affordable and accessible energy the world needs, while continuing to find ways to produce and deliver it more responsibly. The world relies on oil and natural gas to power the basic systems of our daily lives – transportation, heating and cooling, lighting, manufacturing, agriculture, telecommunications and technology. Many of the products we use every day are made from plastics and compounds derived from oil and natural gas, which also fuel the machinery used to manufacture these materials. At Devon, we’re proud to find and produce these valuable commodities and improve our way of life. Through the work our employees do every day, we contribute to local, state, national and global economies. We also recognize that the economic benefits of our industry must be balanced with care for the environment. Devon is focused on delivering strong returns to our shareholders while continuously improving our environmental performance, with specific emphasis on climate change. In its 2020 outlook, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that oil and natural gas will continue to be leading sources of energy worldwide for decades to come. For example, in the transportation sector, gasoline and diesel fuel will account for 74% of total consumption in 2050. Devon will continue to produce the oil and gas the world needs in a safe, environmentally responsible and ethical way, and disclose our results publicly. Earning our stakeholders’ trust is important for the future of our business, so we’ll continue to plan for the risks and opportunities ahead. Assessing and reporting our climate change-related risks Climate change-related risks receive formal and ongoing consideration in Devon’s enterprise risk management process. The company regularly models numerous regional and macro-level scenarios – including acquisitions, divestitures and changes in regulations and market conditions – to test the strength of our portfolio and resources. Each year, the modeled scenarios inform the strategic decision-making of Devon’s executive committee and board of directors that factors into Devon’s long-range plan. We publicly reported on these risks in our third Climate Change Assessment Report, demonstrating our ongoing commitment to transparency. Our updated 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report (CCAR) accounted for material changes to our portfolio since 2018, including the divestment of our Canadian and Barnett Shale assets, as well as closing the merger with WPX Energy. The 2021 report was prepared by Devon with support from third-party consultants and reviewed and approved by our board of directors. Devon retained ICF to help assess the company’s oil and natural gas portfolio’s resilience in the face of potential impacts of climate policy on oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids (NGL) demand, production, and prices. During this assessment, Devon evaluated several possible future climate change scenarios to quantify the potential risks to the company’s portfolio and long-range business plan from a possible carbon-constrained future. Devon evaluated pricing scenarios and model results from both ICF and the widely referenced International Energy Agency (IEA), including the IEA’s 2020 Sustainable Development Scenario, which targets a rise in global temperatures to “well below 2°C” and “in which countries achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 spur the world as a whole to reach it by 2070.” Devon’s approach to managing climate change risk Decrease the carbon intensity of our operations by reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions to net zero by 2050, prioritizing the reduction of flaring and methane emissions. Disclose our progress and strengthen governance practice around climate change risk. Evaluate opportunities to create value in the transition to ever-cleaner forms of energy with thoughtful capital allocation. Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy Environment Climate Change continued In addition, Devon retained Global Affairs Associates, a ClimeCo Company to enhance the company’s alignment to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), an international, multi-industry led initiative launched to develop recommendations for voluntary disclosure of climate-related risk. We report in alignment with TCFD to meet our stakeholders’ expectations for reliable and meaningful disclosures. The 2021 assessment determined that oil and natural gas will remain essential to meeting global energy demand, even in the carbon-constrained future scenarios. Additional conclusions included: Models indicate that Devon’s portfolio of assets are  likely to be resilient, even in various low-carbon scenarios. The changes to our portfolio since 2018 – exiting Western Canada and the Barnett and closing the merger with WPX Energy – have made the company more resilient in low oil and natural gas price scenarios. Devon’s disclosure practices for the governance, management, and disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities seek to align with the recommendations of the TCFD, and include continually assessing new guidance as it becomes available. Ambitious emissions reduction targets Devon addresses climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. Our strategy relies in part on energy efficiency and conservation, which we believe are also the most immediate and cost-effective ways to reduce emissions. We actively seek out technology solutions and innovative techniques to enhance our efforts. To reduce methane emissions, we establish voluntary, company-specific targets that go beyond regulatory requirements. Among our actions to meet the targets are investing in technology, 16 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Environment United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Did you know that some 840 million people worldwide do not have access to electricity? Or that close to 3 billion people still rely on inefficient and polluting cooking systems? The responsibly sourced fuel that Devon produces generates low-cost electricity and is feedstock for products that meet peoples basic needs. adopting new work practices and working creatively with stakeholders. To underscore our commitment, achieving our targets is a component of executive and employee compensation. In 2019, we set a methane intensity target of 0.28% or lower by 2025, and then beat the target level in 2020. In June 2021, we reinforced our commitment to proactively manage climate-related risks and opportunities by establishing several additional environmental performance targets to limit GHG and methane emissions in our operations. These operational emissions performance targets are in line with leading industry practices and stakeholder priorities. These targets, endorsed by our board, are the following: Achieve net zero GHG emissions for Scopes 1  and 2 by 2050 Reduce Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity  by 50% by 2030 (from a 2019 baseline) Reduce methane emissions intensity by 65% by 2030 (from a 2019 baseline) Achieve flaring intensity of 0.5% or lower by 2025 and eliminate routine flaring by 2030 As we strive to meet or beat these targets, Devon will continue to apply a wide range of advanced technologies and best practices, in tandem with increasing efficiencies, and is committed to providing transparent updates on our progress. Devon closely monitors possible business impacts of climate change in the market and policy arenas, and we’re prepared to adapt as needed. We’re committed to ongoing dialogue with our board of directors, shareholders and other stakeholders about our climate change-related risks and opportunities. Our industry will play a pivotal role in delivering global energy for generations to come, and Devon is embracing change to be part of that future. and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203Environment and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203Flaring intensity of 0.5% or lower by 2025 Flaring intensity of 0.5% or lower by 2025 65% methane emissions intensity  reduction by 2030 and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203and eliminate routine flaring by 203Air Emissions Targets, technology and transparency Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 14%  and methane emissions by 47% in 2020 compared to 2019. Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 13% and methane emissions intensity by 47% in 2020 compared to 2019. Reduced flared volume intensity by 33% in 2020 compared to 2019. Set new, aggressive targets to lower the carbon intensity of our operations: Net zero GHG emissions for  Scopes 1 and 2 by 2050 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2  GHG emissions intensity by 2030 65% methane emissions intensity  reduction by 2030 Flaring intensity of 0.5% or lower by 2025 and eliminate routine flaring by 2030 Completed installation of remote surveillance technology in our Powder River Basin operations, which contributed to reduced flaring and other positive environmental performance outcomes. Devon is committed to decarbonizing our operations, evaluating new opportunities and transparently reporting our results. We’re doing our part to be a responsible operator for the benefit of the environment, our employees and their families, our communities, our shareholders and our business – today and in the future. Reducing the carbon intensity of our operations starts with proactively controlling and reducing air emissions from our operations. Our long-standing commitment to reduce air emissions, particularly GHGs, is embedded in our culture through our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy and our core values to earn stakeholder trust, proactively manage risk and not miss a chance to improve. We collaborate within and outside the company to apply technology, best practices and tools to reduce our impacts on the air. Devon focuses on reducing operational emissions of GHGs such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane, as well as volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and other gases, and on reporting our results. To continue our progress, Devon announced in June 2021 that we’ve set aggressive targets to lower the carbon intensity of our operations and outlined our approach to managing climate-related risks and opportunities in our updated 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report. We’re taking these actions not only to lower regulatory, market and reputational risk, but also because we believe it’s the right thing to do. Ultimately, we believe protecting the air makes our business more sustainable. Air emissions performance management To comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, we invest in the latest equipment and deploy well-trained employees and contractors to carry out our emissions reduction programs. Devon’s environmental work includes an air quality protocol that clearly defines responsibilities and requirements for communications, compliance, recordkeeping and training. Because air emissions programs and results are so important to our overall performance, Devon’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee monitors our performance in the context of the evolving regulatory, legal and stakeholder landscape. The steering committee advises our senior leaders on issues for consideration in enterprise  risk management, stakeholder engagement and regulatory and legal compliance. The vice president of ESG and EHS, a new role at Devon, elevates our company-wide focus on ESG performance, including air emissions. This leader serves on both the ESG Steering Committee and the cross-functional EHS Council, providing continuity and alignment. The EHS Council sets Devon’s emissions reduction strategy, in close coordination with the vice president for ESG and EHS, the ESG Steering Committee and senior leaders for effective implementation of the strategy. Committed to compliance Compliance with all applicable federal and state environmental laws and regulations is central to our EHS Philosophy and the Devon Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our compliance process guides employees on meeting the requirements of Devon’s air permits in our operating areas, with the aid of a web-enabled database that quickly distributes requirements for new and modified air permits to the people directly responsible for compliance. Devon facilities and equipment may at times emit VOCs, NOx and other gases that are subject to state permits or emissions authorization limits. We pursue full compliance by clearly communicating requirements to our operating facilities. Some Devon facilities are subject to annual emissions inventories, which we submit to the appropriate regulatory agencies. In states where these inventories are required, the information is publicly available. If issues arise, we work expeditiously and constructively with regulators to address them. As a proactive operator, Devon will keep looking beyond compliance to continue reducing our air emissions. Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon reports GHG emissions from fuel combustion, Environment Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions It is important to note that Scope 3 emissions estimates are subject to uncertainty, inconsistency and duplication due to the reporting of assets outside the control of the reporting company and various reporting methodologies. In addition, two or more companies will account for the same emissions within their Scope 1, 2 or 3 emission inventories (as further described in the IPIECA guidance document). It is important to note that Scope 3 emissions estimates are subject to uncertainty, inconsistency and duplication due to the reporting of assets outside the control of the reporting company and various reporting methodologies. In addition, two or more companies will account for the same emissions within their Scope 1, 2 or 3 emission inventories (as further described in the IPIECA guidance document). To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, we rely upon IPIECA’s 2016 guidance document, Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. According to the IPIECA guidance, category 11 “Use of Sold Products” is generally the largest contributor of Scope 3 emissions for a fuel-producing company and can account for more than 80% of a company’s total Scope 3 emissions. We report “Use of Sold Products” by calculating combustion emissions for our oil, natural gas and marketed natural gas liquids products. Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Air Emissions continued Greenhouse gas emissions methodology  and performance Devon reports GHG emissions from fuel combustion, flaring, fugitive emissions, venting and storage losses (Scope 1) and electricity consumption (Scope 2) for assets under our operational control. We collect data on GHGs (carbon dioxide (CO2), methane and nitrous oxide) and submit annual GHG emissions according to the requirements of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. We also report indirect emissions from the use of sold products (Scope 3) on an equity basis from sources not owned or controlled by Devon. Scope 3 GHG emissions include indirect emissions resulting from the consumption and use of Devon’s crude oil and natural gas production. To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, we rely upon IPIECA’s 2016 guidance document, Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. According to the IPIECA guidance, category 11 “Use of Sold Products” is generally the largest contributor of Scope 3 emissions for a fuel-producing company and can account for more than 80% of a company’s total Scope 3 emissions. We report “Use of Sold Products” by calculating combustion emissions for our oil, natural gas and marketed natural gas liquids products. It is important to note that Scope 3 emissions estimates are subject to uncertainty, inconsistency and duplication due to the reporting of assets outside the control of the reporting company and various reporting methodologies. In addition, two or more companies will account for the same emissions within their Scope 1, 2 or 3 emission inventories (as further described in the IPIECA guidance document). Devon’s approach to reducing air emissions Set targets to drive continuous performance improvements As an exploration and production company, Devon has no direct control over how the raw materials we produce and sell are ultimately consumed. For this reason, we are committed to and focused on Scope 1 and 2 emissions for assets under our control, where we can most directly and meaningfully effect emissions reductions. We will continue to evaluate ways in which we can reduce value chain emissions and engage constructively with stakeholders upstream and downstream  of our production operations. Apply technology and Increase transparency best practices to reduce in alignment GHG and methane with TCFD emissions at their recommendations source and to mitigate impacts To be a good steward of the environment, we hold ourselves accountable for delivering visible, measurable results on our environmental performance. In 2020, our emissions performance improved year over year: GHG and methane emissions GHG emissions intensity Methane emissions intensity (in both tCO2e/MBOE and % of natural gas produced) Flaring intensity Facility emissions inspections performed with passing results (89%) improved 3% towartowartowaremissions from our oil and natural gas production operations in 2019. We pledged to reduce our methane intensity rate to 0.28% or lower by 2025. Through the expansion of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program and enhanced data Environment towartowarssefforttowartowartowartowartowarAir Emissions continued New, aggressive emissions reduction targets Devon established our first voluntary target to limit methane emissions from our oil and natural gas production operations in 2019. We pledged to reduce our methane intensity rate to 0.28% or lower by 2025. Through the expansion of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program and enhanced data precision efforts, legacy Devon met this target level in 2019 and the pro forma combined company beat the target level in 2020 with 0.19%. We continue to put efforts toward further reductions and in June 2021 established new, aggressive emissions reduction targets. The ambitious new targets reflect our commitment to continue lowering our carbon impact, while producing the oil  and natural gas that will be needed for decades to come. Devon established the following goals: Our reported emissions can fluctuate from year to year due to changes to our production mix, asset portfolio and other factors. To consistently meet or beat our targets from year to year, we must continue to pinpoint emissions sources and apply technologies and work practices to these sources beyond what’s required by regulations. Achieve net zero GHG emissions for Scopes 1 and 2 by 2050, primarily through continued use of advanced technologies. Reduce Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 50% and methane emissions intensity by 65%  by 2030 from a 2019 baseline, by expanding our LDAR program, implementing advanced leak detection technologies, reducing flaring volumes and other means. Achieve flaring intensity of 0.5% or lower of gross natural gas produced by 2025 and eliminate routine flaring by 2030, How we calculate our GHG and methane emissions intensity rates We calculate our direct (Scope 1) GHG and methane emissions by including all emissions reported to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) for production and gathering and boosting assets under our operational control, as well as emissions subject to the GHGRP that fall below the basin-level reporting threshold. GHG  SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS (tonnes COe)2 Emissions  =  Intensity  GROSS OPERATED PRODUCTION AS REPORTED TO THE EPA (MBoe)  Our baseline recalculation methodology Devon’s commitment to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 50% and methane emissions intensity by 65% by 2030 will be calculated from a 2019 baseline. This baseline serves as a hypothetical reference point for what the emissions intensity would have been in the absence of emissions reduction efforts over time. To comparably track progress toward the targets, adjustments to the emissions baseline may be necessary to reflect structural, organizational, or reporting changes that may occur over time. For example, an acquisition or divestiture could significantly impact our emissions performance and impair comparability from the emissions baseline. We relied upon guidance from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and IPIECA in establishing our baseline recalculation methodology. Our baseline will be adjusted if impacted by one or more trigger events GHG Emissions 5 25 We calculate our indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions for electricity consumption using EPA fuel and electricity emissions factors for assets under our operational control. Methane  METHANE EMISSIONS (tonnes COe)2 Emissions  =  Intensity  GROSS OPERATED PRODUCTION AS REPORTED TO THE EPA (MBoe)  that result in a change to the emissions baseline of 5% or higher on an absolute or intensity basis. Trigger events include structural changes; source ownership or control changes; changes to reporting boundaries, quantification methodologies or data improvements; or discovery of errors. Our 2019 baseline has been recalculated to reflect the divestiture of the Barnett Shale in 2020, divestiture of the Wind River Basin in 2021, and acquisition of Felix Energy in 2020. We believe our recalculation methodology affirms our commitment to structurally drive down emissions, rather than divesting assets as a means to achieve our ambitious emissions reduction targets. We are committed to the ongoing review and assessment of the appropriateness of our emission reduction target levels and will adjust as needed. Methane Emissions 1.0 mainly by implementing best practices, INTENSITY (TONNES CO2e PER MBoe) INTENSITY (TONNES CO2e PER MBoe) 4 20 0.8 deploying beneficial reuse technologies and preventing and mitigating midstream and downstream capacity constraints. MILLION TONNES CO2e MILLION TONNES CO2e 3 15 0.6 2 10 0.4 0.2 1 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 2019 Felix Energy Barnett  Wind River 2019 Adjusted 2030 Target Acquisition Shale Divest Basin Divest Baseline Acquisition Shale Divest Basin Divest Baseline 19 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Environment Minimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankmitigation strategies: Environment Minimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankelectricity and alternative fuels electricity and alternative fuels production by increasing the use of engines powered by Minimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankMinimizing venting and flaring from storage tankAir Emissions continued Mitigating air emissions at the source Our continuous improvement culture has prompted us to develop a detailed understanding of where our emissions come from. This makes it possible to address our air emissions at the primary sources through a variety of effective mitigation strategies: Reducing flaring — across our entire portfolio of producing assets Finding and fixing equipment leaks with our expanding leak detection and repair (LDAR) program Transitioning to air-driven pneumatic controllers Cutting combustion from drilling, completions and production by increasing the use of engines powered by electricity and alternative fuels Minimizing venting and flaring from storage tanks We conduct ongoing evaluations into emissions detection and quantification technologies, and we collaborate with industry, environmental groups and agency partners on emissions reduction strategies. Through focused effort in 2020, Devon continued our record of progress in lowering GHG emissions. Flaring: Sustainable improvements Flaring of natural gas – a controlled ignition process for eliminating emissions of methane and VOCs – is necessary for safe operations in various phases of the oil and natural gas production process. Devon strives to avoid entirely the venting of raw gas, and to limit flaring to the extent possible at all locations. Reducing flaring is a priority in our broader emissions reduction strategy because we want to protect the environment and capture as much natural gas as possible for its economic value, while also complying with laws, regulations and permits. 20 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Environment We continually evaluate and optimize our facilities, including installing reliable pressure-relief valves to minimize tank releases and vapor recovery equipment to capture flash gas emissions and route them to a pipeline. The company also uses “green completions” to capture produced natural gas following hydraulic fracturing. Where flaring is unavoidable, pilot monitoring equipment is installed to help ensure the gas is properly combusted. Devon has improved our flaring performance over the last six years, particularly in the Delaware Basin, our highest-activity operating area. We identified wellhead flaring due to insufficient natural gas takeaway capacity or midstream constraints as the primary driver of flaring in the Delaware Basin and set out to mitigate the situation. We stopped routine flaring in this region in 2017, only connecting and producing wells when gas takeaway is established. We  flare only when experiencing system upsets or midstream or downstream constraints. We took effective action in 2019 to curtail these issues in the Cotton Draw field that accounted for most of our flared volumes in the Delaware Basin (see sidebar). After seeing significant improvement in late 2019, we continued making progress in reducing our flared volumes. In 2020, legacy Devon flared 0.2% of gross natural gas produced, an improvement of more than 70% from 2019. The reduction was due in large part to alleviating capacity constraints in the Cotton Draw field, but also to concerted efforts across our organization to reduce flaring. While the industry has faced ongoing capacity constraints  in the Williston Basin, our legacy WPX operations in the basin continue to improve our flaring performance. Legacy WPX flaring volumes were down nearly 30% in 2020 compared to 2019, and we continue to evaluate and employ improvement methods in the Williston Basin to drive down flaring. Following the merger, the EHS Council identified the need to integrate flaring data from both legacy companies as a top priority as we began to pursue further performance improvements in 2021. Overall, our flaring intensity improved from 2.2% in 2019 to 1.5% in 2020, an improvement of 33%. Our updated targets are to achieve flaring intensity of 0.5% or lower of gross natural gas produced by 2025 and to eliminate routine flaring, as defined by the World Bank, by 2030. We expect to drive results by continuing to employ best practices that have proven to be effective for reducing flared volumes and minimizing emissions. We’ve been expanding these best practices across our operating areas. They include implementing a flare management program; continuous gas capture planning and collaboration with midstream partners; enhancing separation and compression reliability; choke management; pigging lines; and optimizing combustion. We’re also sharing these practices with our trade association partners because we believe it’s crucial that we work together to reduce flaring and air emissions across the industry. Devon will continue to look at a broad spectrum  of opportunities to reduce flaring and related emissions to meet our targets. Reducing flaring and monetizing natural gas in our highest activity basin In 2019, the Cotton Draw field accounted for most of our flared gas volumes in our Delaware Basin operations. Upon investigation, we pinpointed wellhead flaring due to insufficient takeaway capacity or midstream constraints as the primary cause. To drive down these upset conditions, Devon took ownership of the associated midstream gas compression equipment. We made operational refinements, upgraded compressors, adjusted the flow rates of some wells and shut in others. As a result, our flared volumes in the Delaware Basin declined from about 4% in mid-2019 to less than 0.5% by year-end 2020. We also made a multi-year commitment to our newly formed Cotton Draw Midstream partnership, agreeing to contribute our existing gas gathering and compression infrastructure in an area of mutual interest. We dedicated about 24,000 acres for gathering and compression on the partnership’s system, while our partner, QL Capital Partners (QLCP), agreed to fund a $100 million distribution to Devon to build out the Cotton Draw Midstream assets over the next several years. Devon is positioned to continue reducing gas flared volumes and associated carbon emissions as we work toward our 2030 intensity reduction targets for Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions and methane emissions. It’s also good for business, allowing us to capture more natural gas in the field that we can put into pipelines to be sold. programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak and associated equipment. It was a major contributor to Environment programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak data, we have progressively refined our proactive maintenance data, we have progressively refined our proactive maintenance Environmental operators in each Devon business unit focus primarily on conducting infrared camera surveys at our sites and then making sure repairs are successful. Based on LDAR programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak Air Emissions continued Equipment leaks: LDAR program continues to grow Using infrared cameras to detect leaks is one of Devon’s primary emissions mitigation tactics. LDAR has proven to be effective at finding equipment leaks from piping components and associated equipment. It was a major contributor to achieving our first methane intensity target well ahead of schedule and we’re expanding the program to help us reach our new target to reduce methane intensity by 65% by 2030 from a 2019 baseline. Devon utilizes optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras to perform frequent equipment inspections to detect leaks. We initially prioritized facilities with the highest production volumes across our operating areas. By methodically identifying and fixing leaks, we’ve largely resolved our highest-risk issues and reduced our methane emissions over time. We have steadily and voluntarily expanded our LDAR program, in part by adding valves, pumps and other equipment into our camera surveys. We also continue to survey additional facilities that don’t currently have a federal or state regulatory requirement. Environmental operators in each Devon business unit focus primarily on conducting infrared camera surveys at our sites and then making sure repairs are successful. Based on LDAR data, we have progressively refined our proactive maintenance programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak rate and focus on specific equipment failures and settings. It also enabled us to improve flare maintenance and verify performance of vapor recovery units (VRU). 21 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Environment We continue to learn from the LDAR data we collect and then refine best practices in facility design, equipment improvements and preventive maintenance to further reduce emissions from our facilities. For example, we conduct engineering and pre.startup reviews of facilities and take other steps to help verify closed-vent systems and control devices are designed and properly installed. Devon builds on these improvements by setting annual corporate goals for fugitive emissions performance. In 2020, legacy Devon and legacy WPX both met our corporate goals for fugitive emissions performance. At legacy Devon, our passing rate (i.e. no leaks detected) for equipment inspections improved 3% year over year, from 86% in 2019 to 89% in 2020. The higher passing rate shows we’re continuously making improvements in equipment design, operation and maintenance, based on what we’re learning from LDAR data. To further reduce emissions from equipment leaks, in 2021 we’re expanding our voluntary LDAR program to more facilities and doing equipment retrofits for compliance or voluntarily. To help our administrative offices meet the regulatory requirements for LDAR inspections, our environmental and operations teams developed a mobile app to capture, enter, track and document LDAR survey findings. The app automatically syncs any needed repairs, creates work orders and documents successful repairs, all of which are required  for compliance. This has resulted in a more efficient, consistent and systematic LDAR program. Evaluating emerging technologies for leak detection Advanced emission detection and quantification technologies are evolving rapidly and will be a key component of our strategy for broader emissions reductions. Devon has a cross functional team that evaluates emerging technologies that have the potential to be more effective at finding leaks over broader areas, allowing for faster detection and mitigation. The team is investigating opportunities for advanced optical gas imaging, continuous monitoring, and remote detection using facility flyovers and satellites. We’re currently conducting multiple continuous monitoring pilot projects, including laser-based monitoring over an area of several miles with LongPath Technologies and onsite sensor-based monitoring through our collaboration in Project Falcon. Following a successful pilot, remote surveillance capabilities are now fully functional in our Powder River Basin operations in Wyoming. We also have ongoing installations of remote surveillance in each of our operating areas. Cameras, infrared sensors and our SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) system allow us to remotely monitor our well pads and some saltwater disposal facilities. With realtime, higher-quality data and imagery, we can proactively identify issues with flares and other equipment before they become problems. These technologies allow us to monitor operations without people going to the locations every day, which reduces vehicle-related emissions and safety risk for our workforce. Since remote surveillance started in the Powder River, our flaring, spills, downtime, overtime and lifting costs there have declined. We believe these technologies are in part responsible for improved lagging and leading metrics in the basin. In addition, Devon collaborates with industry peers and a diverse group of stakeholders, including government agencies and environmental groups, to understand and find solutions to reduce air emissions. For example, we participated in a marginal well study backed by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), we were part of an industry panel studying methane regulations in New Mexico, and we are a foundational sponsor of Veritas - a methane measurement and verification initiative led by the Gas Technology Institute that aims to demonstrate emissions reductions in a consistent, credible and transparent way. Sharing what we know and learning from stakeholders is consistent with our corporate value to build relationships in the process of improving our environmental performance. Devon facility inspection performance (excludes Barnett Shale assets divested in October 2020) 2020 Total number of facilities inspected 1,805 Number of facilities with a federal/ 855 state regulatory inspection requirement Number of voluntary facilities inspected 950 Percent of total facilities inspected 78% Facility inspection passing rate 82% In the legacy Devon drilling operations in 2020, about 54% of our wells were drilled with rigs running on dual-fuel or electricity. This avoided an estimated 15,700 metric tonnes  of COIn the legacy Devon drilling operations in 2020, about 54% of our wells were drilled with rigs running on dual-fuel or electricity. This avoided an estimated 15,700 metric tonnes  of COEnvironment Air Emissions continued United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. At Devon, we value our partnerships with public and nonprofit entities in pursuit of our goal to be a responsible operator. We count on strong partnerships to deliver on our commitments and contribute positively to the development of the communities where we operate, as well as share research and knowledge that help advance best practices in the energy sector. 2222222222Pneumatic devices: Transitioning to air-driven controllers Since identifying gas venting from approximately 13,000 natural gas-driven pneumatic controllers and pumps at nearly 2,000 production sites, Devon has worked to mitigate this source of emissions. We replaced high-bleed natural gas pneumatic controllers on hundreds of wells in Wyoming, Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas, and we no longer use them on new wells. In the Delaware Basin, legacy Devon installed air-driven pneumatic pumps and controllers at all new facilities since early 2019. Combustion: Replacing diesel-only engines Diesel motors powering drilling rigs and hydraulic fracturing operations can be a significant source of emissions. Devon has cut these emissions, reduced related noise and shrunk our operational footprint by replacing diesel-only engines with dual-fuel motors that run on diesel or compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied natural gas (LNG), field gas or electricity. In the legacy Devon drilling operations in 2020, about 54% of our wells were drilled with rigs running on dual-fuel or electricity. This avoided an estimated 15,700 metric tonnes  of CO2 from 1.4 million gallons of diesel equivalent. Electrification will be a key part of our strategy to meet our new targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions. We seek to plan effectively so we can get grid power to our locations before drilling rigs arrive. Devon also is looking to identify other types of equipment and practices we can power with electricity in the future to avoid using diesel fuel. Storage tanks: Reducing venting and flaring To reduce venting or flaring from oil and condensate storage tanks, we install vapor recovery towers (VRT) to maximize gas recovery and minimize the volume of tank vapors that need to be flared. In 2021, we successfully piloted a low-emission storage tank design that further maximizes gas recovery, eliminates the need to flare tank vapors during normal operation and minimizes emissions through a reduction in the number of potential leak sources, as well as components that can lead to common equipment failures, including open thief hatches. To meet our ambitious emissions reduction goals, using multiple, proactive strategies is more important than ever. Devon continues to pursue a wide range of GHG and methane emissions mitigation tactics. Building out Delaware Basin midstream assets to alleviate capacity constraints that exacerbate flaring Expanding our LDAR program Evaluating and implementing emissions detection and quantification technologies Installing air-driven pneumatic pumps and controllers  in our production operations Increasingly replacing diesel engines with dual-fuel or electric engines Electrifying our drilling operations Collaborating with industry, nonprofits and government agencies Improving our data precision and reporting methodologies Installing remote surveillance technologies Improving our industry Devon is a founding member and current steering committee member of The Environmental Partnership, a voluntary coalition of oil and natural gas companies operating across the U.S. Since forming in 2017, the partnership has grown to more than 90 companies that commit to collaborating, learning about best practices and technologies, and taking action to improve the industry’s environmental performance. Since 2018, the group has focused on reducing the industry’s air emissions, including methane and VOCs, through environmental performance programs including leak detection and repair, eliminating the use of high-bleed pneumatic controllers and improving the manual liquids unloading process. Selected based on EPA emissions data, these programs use proven, cost-effective controls. The Environmental Partnership continues to expand and adapt its programs to strengthen the industry’s voluntary efforts to improve environmental performance over time. In 2020, the Partnership not only expanded to include the midstream segment, but it also launched a new flare management program focused on reducing flaring in upstream operations. The new program, development of which was chaired by Devon, will advance best practices to reduce flare volumes, promote the beneficial use of associated gas, and improve flare reliability and efficiency when flaring does occur. saves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitEnvironment saves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitcapital to reduce our reliance on fresh water. Using less fresh water also reduces the amount of water for disposal, capital to reduce our reliance on fresh water. Using less fresh water also reduces the amount of water for disposal, Devon works to identify and develop alternative sources of saves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitsaves money, creates efficiencies and improves our abilitWater Management Conservation and recycling Continued to increase use of recycled and brackish water in the Delaware Basin of New Mexico, our highest-activity area. Reduced water usage 29% in 2020 compared to 2019. Increased the volume of recycled water consumed by 10% in 2020 compared to 2019. Established a target to advance water recycling activities and use 90% or more non-fresh water for completions activities in the most active operating areas within the Delaware Basin. Every gallon of produced, recycled brackish or non-potable water Devon uses in our operations reduces our consumption of fresh water. Water is vital to the health, social and economic well-being of our communities and is an essential resource for Devon’s operations. We’re committed to conserving fresh water and reusing water in our operations to be a good neighbor and an environmentally sound operator, as well as to mitigate physical risks associated with regional water stress. Our operations depend on reliable access to, and the ability to safely dispose of, water used or produced in drilling and completions operations. We strive to execute a water management strategy that balances environmental, economic, operational and social needs. Our track record of water conservation goes back to 2004, when we began recycling water in the Barnett Shale in north Texas. Since then, we’ve collaborated with government, industry and community stakeholders to find innovative ways to conserve water in our drilling and completions operations companywide. Devon works to identify and develop alternative sources of water for operational activities and has invested significant capital to reduce our reliance on fresh water. Using less fresh water also reduces the amount of water for disposal, saves money, creates efficiencies and improves our ability to respond if water availability or disposal capacity is constrained. To conserve, we strive to use water that is not suitable for drinking and other public uses and, wherever possible, we use recycled produced water in our drilling and production activities. We take these steps because they’re the right thing to do for the environment and our communities. Water management strategy Water supplies are limited in some of Devon’s operating areas. Based on the World Resources Institute’s definition of baseline water stress, approximately 8% of legacy Devon’s operated wells are located in areas of “high” or “extremely high” baseline water stress. To mitigate physical risks of regional water stress, we conserve, reuse and recycle as much water as we can. We consider water availability and disposal options in our enterprise risk management process and in our daily planning, along with other environmental, health and safety (EHS) risks. Devon’s EHS Council and subject matter experts monitor laws, regulations and stakeholder concerns related to water and keep our leadership team well informed. Guided by our EHS Philosophy, we employ economically and operationally feasible alternatives to fresh water. To execute a sustainable water management strategy, Devon follows the water principles of stakeholder engagement, water management planning, technology evaluation and deployment, and best practices development. Our local water management activities are overseen by business unit leaders and subject matter experts who have a deep understanding of local water issues, challenges and opportunities. Devon’s water planning efforts include evaluating the potential risks to our operations in each area, stakeholder needs and potential opportunities for our business. We update our water plans periodically to account for business needs and local environmental considerations. To enhance our water management performance, Devon stays abreast of new technologies and best practices, often through collaboration. We’re a founding member of the Energy Water Initiative and an active participant in the New Mexico Produced Water Research Consortium. Devon continues to study, communicate and improve lifecycle water use and management together with other oil and natural gas companies that share our commitment to conservation. gggDevon uses fresh water in the Delaware Basin only for blending and only when recycled and brackish sources of Environment ggwe’re exploring beneficial reuse opportunities, includinwe’re exploring beneficial reuse opportunities, includin.gggggWater Management continued Recycling in our highest-activity basin As the first company to recycle flowback and produced water from natural gas wells in north Texas, Devon is an industry pioneer in recycling. We became one of the leading recyclers of treated produced water in New Mexico and led the effort to establish state rules to encourage the practice. Today, our recycling efforts are focused in the New Mexico Delaware Basin, where water scarcity is an issue. Devon uses fresh water in the Delaware Basin only for blending and only when recycled and brackish sources of water aren’t sufficient. In 2020, reused and brackish water accounted for more than 90% of the water legacy Devon used in our Delaware Basin operations, up from over 80% in 2019. The legacy companies combined used approximately 37 million barrels of reused and recycled water in 2020 and expect to increase our volume of reused and recycled water to an estimated 47 million barrels in 2021. Since 2015, we have reused over 150 million barrels of water from our water treatment facilities. Our water recycling strategy also includes connecting third-party supplies to our system, which increases the volume of recycled water available for our operations. Integral to operations and saving water, Devon built impoundment basins to store the reusable water. The basins are connected by a local pipeline network that diminishes the need to haul water away by truck. Taking trucks off the road reduces emissions and traffic safety hazards. In addition, we’re looking for ways to reuse produced water that we don’t need for our operations. Through the New Mexico Produced Water Research Consortium, we’re exploring beneficial reuse opportunities, including technologies to desalinate produced water for uses outside of the oil and gas industry. In cases where we produce more water than we can use, cost-effective desalination could make the water suitable for aquifer recharge and other beneficial uses. This would require development of the regulatory framework for reusing desalinated produced water, which is why we continue to work with stakeholders to find water conservation solutions in New Mexico. Local water management considerations As part of our local approach to water management, we consider the availability and quality of water, local ecosystems and habitats, regulations and other factors. Given our commitment to be a good neighbor, we actively seek alternatives to fresh water, including brackish water and flowback and produced water for well completions where feasible. We will continue exploring conservation efforts outside of the Delaware Basin. United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Devon recognizes the importance of responsible water management in a world that faces increasing drought conditions and water stress. Water is a local issue and Devon takes a local approach, creating management plans that take account of water availability, quality, regulation and dependence of native ecosystems. We look for innovative water sources and methods to reduce usage. Through our New Mexico Delaware Basin treatment facilities, we have reused 150 million barrels of water since 2015. We are also exploring beneficial uses of produced water and technologies such as desalination to repurpose produced water for uses outside our industry – including potentially recharging aquifers. Total Water Usage by Operating Area (million Bbl)  2019  2020  Delaware Basin  89.0  83.8  Anadarko Basin  20.5  0.7  Eagle Ford  13.1  1.8  Powder River Basin  5.9  5.0  Williston Basin  10.0  7.2  Total U.S.  138.5  98.5  ...In keeping with our guiding principle of environmental stewardship, Devon is committed to minimizing our operational footprint and impacts to the landscape, wildlife and their habitats, and cultural and historical resources. We operate in prairies, grasslands, deserts and forested areas, and on federal, state, tribal and private lands. To preserve our shared landscapes for future generations, Devon’s priority is to cause as little disruption to the land as possible and mitigate any impacts throughout the oil and gas production lifecycle. We also look for opportunities to reclaim lands near our operations after our work is complete. Environment ..Dunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat that may have been affected by past oilfield activitiesDunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat that may have been affected by past oilfield activitiesdrinkers and raptor nests by placing artificial nests in a more .....Land Conservation and Biodiversity Minimizing and mitigating our impacts Formed our Biodiversity Council to establish enterprise-wide biodiversity processes, policies and targets with the intent to avoid, minimize and mitigate the impact of our operations on native species and their habitats. Focusing on reducing the size of future well  pad footprints to be no larger than required to  operate our rigs safely and mitigate disturbance. Before building a well pad, Devon’s ecological experts complete an environmental assessment to identify potential impacts based on: Proximity to waters of the U.S. Protected species or critical habitats Proximity to public receptors Location of nearby floodplains Sediment discharge to a water body Evidence of pre-existing contamination Environmentally sensitive receptors In keeping with our guiding principle of environmental stewardship, Devon is committed to minimizing our operational footprint and impacts to the landscape, wildlife and their habitats, and cultural and historical resources. We operate in prairies, grasslands, deserts and forested areas, and on federal, state, tribal and private lands. To preserve our shared landscapes for future generations, Devon’s priority is to cause as little disruption to the land as possible and mitigate any impacts throughout the oil and gas production lifecycle. We also look for opportunities to reclaim lands near our operations after our work is complete. Biodiversity management is integrated into our process for selecting the placement of our well pads, access roads and pipeline corridors.. We start by doing an onsite or desktop  pre-construction environmental assessment to evaluate potential environmental impact in an area where we’ve staked out a well pad location. The assessment helps identify threatened and endangered species habitats, wetlands, water bodies and other sensitive environmental areas. By evaluating the results of this assessment before building the pad, our teams can determine if there are environmental concerns  at the site and adjust as needed. To build on our progress, we’re boosting our efforts to reduce pad size as much as possible on future projects. Our regulatory and land team, facilities group and land survey subcontractors are collaborating to make our pad footprints no larger than required to operate our rigs safely. Land stewardship partnerships Protecting the land involves building relationships with landowners, neighbors, industry groups, and state and federal agencies such as the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). In the New Mexico Delaware Basin, Devon is working with the BLM wildlife department to address water troughs or drinkers and raptor nests by placing artificial nests in a more suitable area for the birds that use them. The result will be a more permanent, quality nesting place and limited movement of well pads near active nests to further protect the species from our planned activity. In addition, our past work with the BLM and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service produced public-private conservation agreements to avoid certain areas and reclaim Dunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat that may have been affected by past oilfield activities. Moving well pads  to avoid impacts In New Mexico When an environmental assessment indicated the presence of cultural resources near our Ross Draw projects on federal lands in New Mexico, we changed our plans. Two of five pads were relocated, and some pads were removed from consideration to avoid impacts to nearby cultural resources. In addition, a proposed pad was moved to avoid potential impacts  to a sensitive geological feature known as a karst. In North Dakota On the Dakota pad project in North Dakota, the environmental review process revealed a large, occupied Dakota skipper butterfly habitat spread across a proposed pad location. We abandoned the proposed pad location to avoid impacting the habitat for the butterfly, which is listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. The remaining choice for a suitable well pad site was located near an active bald eagle nest. Working extensively with the MHA Nation on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, we developed the Dakota project to avoid disturbance to the nearby bald eagles. Steps taken included maintaining at least a 1,050-foot buffer from the nest, lowering the elevation of the facilities and planting 65, 8-foot-tall trees. Additionally, we initiated construction on the location outside of the nesting period for the bald eagles to further limit potential disturbance. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. In the Texas Delaware Basin, we’re assessing surface acreage to identify areas for ecological restoration and enhancement projects, with a focus on the Pecos River. We’re also assessing other Devon-owned surface lands in Texas, Oklahoma and other states to determine whether the biodiversity value of those properties can be enhanced. We participate in species-Environment Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. ..yet lacks the resources to undertake. While Devon sponsored the WCC crew in 2020, COVID-19 prevented us from hosting our traditional volunteer day for students. We participated in Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. Land Conservation and Biodiversity continued Conservation initiatives We’re committed to leaving the land in the same or better condition as when we arrived. Our newly formed Biodiversity Council will work to develop and implement company-wide policies and targets that support our strategy to avoid, minimize and mitigate ecological impact. The council’s core team has over 70 years of collective experience in ecological planning for energy development projects. Additionally, the council will explore opportunities to enhance the biodiversity value of Devon-owned surface acreage. United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Oil and gas development inherently require consideration of the land at the surface level, and we aim to be responsible stewards of the prairies, grasslands, deserts and forested areas where we operate. Devon seeks to avoid or minimize ecosystem disturbances by completing multi-dimension, pre-construction environmental impact assessments; by applying our own avoid-minimize-mitigate strategy to limit direct habitat impact and fragmentation; and by initiating and supporting local conservation projects. 26 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Environment In the Texas Delaware Basin, we’re assessing surface acreage to identify areas for ecological restoration and enhancement projects, with a focus on the Pecos River. We’re also assessing other Devon-owned surface lands in Texas, Oklahoma and other states to determine whether the biodiversity value of those properties can be enhanced. We participate in species-specific efforts like Candidate Conservation Agreements for Texas Hornshell and Lesser Prairie Chicken. We also partnered with the New Mexico Soil Conservation District to restore native desert prairie grasslands to parts of the surface lands we own in Texas. Wyoming public land projects Since its inception in 2007, we’ve sponsored the Wyoming Conservation Corps (WCC) to engage college students in their education, including hands-on conservation work around the state. Each year, WCC students spend 10 days completing land stewardship projects that the BLM has identified as necessary yet lacks the resources to undertake. While Devon sponsored the WCC crew in 2020, COVID-19 prevented us from hosting our traditional volunteer day for students. We participated in the 2021 WCC project with the Casper BLM office. Since 2016, our BLM partnership has included a program to plug and reclaim idle coalbed methane natural gas wells, remove the associated overhead powerlines, and reclaim nearby roads and pipelines. By year-end 2020, we had plugged and reclaimed 370 idle wells representing thousands of acres of restored landscape in the Wyoming Powder River Basin. The Public Lands Foundation recognized our leadership and vision with its Landscape Stewardship Certificate of Appreciation in 2019, making Devon the only oil and gas company to ever receive the award. Respecting indigenous peoples and lands In our Williston Basin business unit in central North Dakota, nearly all of our operations are located on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. The reservation is the home of the Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara (MHA) Nation, also known  as the Three Affiliated Tribes. As the largest lessee of minerals owned by the MHA Nation, Devon incorporates the representatives of the MHA Nation into the planning process for our new pads and associated infrastructure. We avoid impact to archaeological sites and traditional cultural properties, and we mitigate impact to sensitive wildlife habitat. Continued collaboration and mutual respect for people and the environment is our responsibility as a prudent operator. Our development plans for drilling sites and pipeline rights of way in the Williston Basin often must comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) because they are subject  to review, comment and approval by the BLM and the Bureau  of Indian Affairs. We engage third party archaeologists to identify cultural sites that may be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places and coordinate with Tribal Historic Preservation Offices to identify Traditional Cultural Properties. Our development avoids all such sites. During construction, archaeologists monitor our sites looking for previously unknown cultural resources unearthed by construction activities. To date, archaeologists have found no previously unknown cultural resources during construction, which we believe is the result of the precautions we take starting in  the early stages of our projects. The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and recycle materials whenever possible. Environment The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and Devon maintains waste management plans in our operating Devon maintains waste management plans in our operating as well as paper, packaging, bottles and other office waste. The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and The protocol establishes conditions to address health and Waste Management Responsible handling and disposal For chemicals and other materials used or stored in our workplace, Safety Data Sheets (SDS) summarizing hazard Being an environmentally sound company entails responsibly handling the waste generated in our information and disposal considerations are readily available. operations and our offices. To reduce waste for To reinforce our commitment to compliance, our employees disposal, we encourage employees and contractors and contractors receive job-specific training related to waste to minimize the waste they create, and reuse and management and chemicals used or stored in the workplace. recycle materials whenever possible. Oil and gas operations sometimes encounter waste Our work can generate waste designated as hazardous and containing naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM). non-hazardous from our drilling and production operations, Devon maintains a NORM protocol to help manage the as well as paper, packaging, bottles and other office waste. material responsibly and within regulatory requirements. Devon maintains waste management plans in our operating The protocol establishes conditions to address health and areas to ensure compliance with all applicable regulations and safety considerations of our employees, contractors and our own corporate policies. the environment, including guidelines to reduce potential exposure to NORM. All Devon employees and contractors are responsible for managing waste. Our waste management protocol clearly Devon provides NORM awareness training for any employee defines roles and responsibilities for our waste handling, who works at a site or facility where NORM is present and shipping, disposal, training and minimization programs. We specific training for employees who encounter NORM in hold contractors responsible for managing the waste they the course of their work. We also provide radiation safety generate and for complying with all applicable state and officer training for employees who take on the additional federal waste regulations. responsibilities of that role. Radiation safety officers provide technical resources and tools to maintain regulatory compliance. Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Philosophy. We take a comprehensive approach to preventing, responding to and remediating spills from our equipment and facilities. Devon sets an annual corporate goal for reducing our total spill rate that keeps our business units and company focused on prevention measures. Environment Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Devon uses appropriate tools and techniques to minimize  and contain discharges from our equipment and facilities.  Devon uses appropriate tools and techniques to minimize  and contain discharges from our equipment and facilities.  requires our contractors to meet or exceed the standards  in our SPCC protocol. Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Moving toward spill prediction Spill Prevention Keeping materials in containment Both legacy Devon and legacy WPX achieved annual corporate goals to reduce spills, primarily due to prevention, training efforts and spill remediation in 2020. Adopting spill prevention best practices from both legacy companies to build on 2020 performance. Keeping large volumes of oil, produced water and other materials in containment is a guiding principle of Devon’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy. We take a comprehensive approach to preventing, responding to and remediating spills from our equipment and facilities. Devon sets an annual corporate goal for reducing our total spill rate that keeps our business units and company focused on prevention measures. Training, tools and techniques Our environmental management program includes a Spill Prevention Countermeasures and Control (SPCC) protocol that drives compliance with the U.S. EPA SPCC Rule and  other environmental rules and regulations. The protocol details the responsibilities, equipment, procedures and steps to prevent, control and provide adequate countermeasures  to an unplanned discharge. It also specifies the training required for all personnel involved in designing, building and operating oil-handling or storage equipment, including an annual spill-response training exercise and briefing. Devon requires our contractors to meet or exceed the standards  in our SPCC protocol. We make every employee and contractor aware of their responsibility to prevent spills by immediately reporting near misses, such as a storage tank approaching full volume or signs of wear that may result in a leak. We respond to near misses and make any necessary adjustments to prevent spills. Devon uses appropriate tools and techniques to minimize  and contain discharges from our equipment and facilities.  Moving toward spill prediction Remote surveillance equipment is helping Devon mitigate spills in our Wyoming operations.  High-definition cameras and sensors on active locations in the Powder River Basin allow operators  and analysts at a central location to identify a minor  leak and dispatch responders before it becomes a larger spill. Our staff can also perform a remote shutdown to stop an identified spill until responders arrive on-site to address it. Through machine learning and predictive analytics, we believe we’ll be able to anticipate and ultimately prevent spills. Following a successful pilot in the Powder River Basin, we are installing remote surveillance in each of our operating areas. At facilities with storage tanks, our spill prevention  procedures include secondary containment, “nearly full” alarms on tanks and offsite monitoring equipment that can shut in facilities remotely. At our produced-water recycling facilities, Devon installs temporary storage reservoirs designed to minimize the risk  of overflow from rain. The reservoirs are double-lined and sloped to direct any water that may penetrate the first liner to a sump pump. A layer of mesh material between the two liners is outfitted with motion detection that alerts our operators if a liner leaks. Any reservoir where we temporarily store water, including saltwater disposal sites, is lined for environmental protection. To protect the environment and ensure safety when using  oil-based fluids to drill wells, we employ a closed-loop system that is considered an industry best practice. We comply with the EPA SPCC Rule by keeping plans at drilling locations to minimize the impact of spills. We also follow local, state and federal guidelines when handling drilling fluid and mud systems. (Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled WaterImproved performance in 2021 Environment (Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled WaterBARRELS MOVED BARRELS MOVED (Reportable to Regulatory Agency + Offsite Lost Spills(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled Water(Produced Oil + Produced Water + Recycled WaterSpill Prevention continued When a spill does occur, we remediate, investigate the cause and take corrective action to prevent recurrence. Devon often performs in-situ remediation using naturally occurring microorganisms to remediate and restore impacted soils when feasible. This method also reduces the likelihood that invasive weeds and plants will be introduced to the area. In-situ remediation has other advantages, as well: It reduces truck traffic because it generally doesn’t require heavy machinery, and it reduces our overall operational waste footprint by eliminating the need to send impacted soil to landfills. Devon has a robust EHS system for reporting and tracking spills. We require reporting of unintentional releases of oil, produced water, chemicals and any other material associated with our operations. Spills and near misses are tracked by the total company and business unit, which enables them to analyze their spill performance and find ways to improve. The Devon lost-spill rate is based on the volumes of produced oil, produced water and recycled water handled in our operations. We believe that measuring our spill rate based on the total amount of fluids we manage in our operations gives us the best view of our performance and allows us to better manage our spill prevention procedures. Improved performance in 2021 To drive continuous improvement, Devon sets an annual corporate target for the lost-spill rate and includes it in our annual performance bonus calculation. In 2020, legacy  Devon achieved a 38% year-over-year improvement in our lost-spill rate, mainly due to spill prevention and remediation efforts across all our business units. At legacy WPX, continued employee spill reduction education and preventive maintenance across all business units resulted in a 26% year-over-year improvement in spill performance. 