Workforce Bringing our best every day The Workforce section of our 2021 Sustainability Report includes: Workforce Devon supports individual, team and company progress with family While female leadership representation remained o100% of employees make more than $19/hour Devon supports individual, team and company progress with family nwe have identified a wide variety of Devowe have identified a wide variety of Devomake and be accountable for decisions. We communicate proactively nwe have identified a wide variety of Devowe have identified a wide variety of DevonnOverview Devon strives to produce the oil and gas the world needs in a safe, ethical Workforce Metrics Advancing pay equity and workforce composition and environmentally responsible way, all while meeting high expectations *Unless otherwise noted, all data presented is pro forma for Devon and WPX. To build the workforce we need, we must offer equitable pay and opportunities across the company. We re 2018 2019 2020 for operational and financial performance. In the face of daunting challenges measuring our performance and always looking for ways Headcount (total company) 2,727 2,352 2,022 to further align our practices with our aspirations. in 2020, our employees proved resilient and determined in continuing to Minorities and Women as a Percentage of Workforce 1 Peer employee pay equity Minorities 18% 19% 21%improve our company’s performance. The salaries of female and minority employees Women 29% 28% 27% are, on average, positioned equivalently (+/ 2% to Minorities and Women as a Percentage of Leadership accommodate workforce changes throughout the year) within the applicable job pay range as males  Our corporate culture is based on integrity and supportive relationships, Minorities 12% 11% 13% and non minorities. giving our people the courage to take intelligent risks with a shared Women 20% 20% 20% desire to achieve great results. We want to be a caring and connected Employee base pay compensation Years of Service company where employees feel that they’re heard, seen and valued, 100% of employees make more than $19/hour The United Nations has established 17  Less than 5 years (percent of headcount) 42% 35% 33% and receive an annual performance bonus and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  and have opportunities to contribute and grow. 5 9 years 30% 37% 41% long term incentives. They re part of a globally agreed upon action plan for organizations seeking to provide 10-14 years 17% 17% 14% Female and minority leadership representation Devon supports individual, team and company progress with family affordable energy, produced responsibly to 15 19 years 6% 6% 7% While female leadership representation remained protect the environment, while also promoting friendly workplace practices, wellness programs and opportunities to 20 24 years 2% 3% 3% steady over the last two years, minorities in peace and prosperity for all people. In this report, make and be accountable for decisions. We communicate proactively corporate leadership increased from 10% to 11% we have identified a wide variety of Devon s 25+ years 3% 2% 2%with employees about our goals and performance. We do not accept and minorities in field leadership increased from business activities that align with the U.N. SDGs. Median Age 40 40 40 Here in the workforce section, look for: the status quo of social and racial inequality, and we’re working to 16% to 19%. Attrition Rate 9% 7% 3% cultivate inclusive, diverse, equitable and respectful communities Hiring minority talent inside and outside our company. 1 As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commision Over the last two years, Devon has hired minority employees at a rate of 11% compared to a 7% rate  for non minority employees. Taking Action UNITING CULTURES Introduced blended values following our  merger to guide us in becoming a cohesive and  high performing Devon. COMMUNITY OUTREACH Funded nine community programs in Oklahoma City through our new Inclusion and Equity Grants. COVID-19 RESPONSE Supported employees with flexible working arrangements, responsive wellness programs  and frequent communications during the COVID 19 pandemic. Shifted to virtual delivery for all physical,  mental and financial wellness programming. DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION Continued our focus on equity in our pay structure and workforce composition. Worked to deepen our understanding of social and racial inequality through intentional conversations and listening as steps toward improving our community and company. Workforce We always seek to achieve better results supportive of our employees We always seek to sustainable impact. continuously improve. continuously improve. and make a positive and sustainable impact. continuously improve. continuously improve. sustainable impact. sustainable impact. Our Culture Blending values to achieve our shared mission Defined and introduced blended values – integrity, relationships, courage and results – to guide us in becoming a cohesive and high-performing Devon. Supported employees with flexible working arrangements, responsive wellness programs and frequent communications to meet their needs during the COVID-19 pandemic. of employees surveyed said they received just the right amount of feedback from their leader 88% of employees surveyed said the feedback was helpful96% To create an environment where our employees give their best effort every day, we’re guided by principles of fairness, opportunity and the chance for every employee to fully participate and be heard. We value diversity of thought in our workplace, and we seek to include and learn from each other as we share our successes and setbacks. Motivated by the Devon culture, our employees worked on demanding business, operational and ESG priorities in 2020. While demonstrating resilience in managing through the pandemic and related economic crisis, they set the stage to begin integrating two legacy companies when our merger of equals closed in January 2021. Devon recognized that uniting in a shared culture is crucial  to successfully integrating our people, processes, practices and systems. So we began a process to define a culture that blends essential elements from both legacy companies. The process included a survey of all employees, executive interviews, focus groups with vice presidents, and culture conversations with the executive committee and vice presidents. The resulting blended values – integrity, relationships, courage and results – naturally build on each other to guide us in our work. We believe these values will enable us to become a cohesive company, making a positive and sustainable impact. High-performing team We value employees who are open and honest, take ownership and individual initiative, and contribute to our company objectives. Our effort to cultivate a workforce with these qualities starts with offering equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and providing competitive compensation and benefits. To encourage a sharp focus on results, Devon gives every employee an equity stake in our business through annual stock awards. Devon offers wellness programs that encourage physical, mental and financial well-being. Our employee-friendly practices include flexible work schedules, part-time work, telecommuting and parental paid leave. We modified our work practices at the outset of the pandemic and continue to make adjustments that help employees fulfill work and family responsibilities. Devon senior leaders ultimately believe that relationships lead to results, and both are largely driven by in-person interactions. We continue to monitor our practices and will make adjustments as needed to achieve our business objectives and accommodate employee needs. Devon’s values The newly blended values naturally build on one another to achieve results. Integrity  Relationships  Courage  Results  Openness and honesty  We are caring, connected and  We take intelligent  We always seek to  unite us and are at the core  supportive of our employees  risks and share our  achieve better results  of everything we do.  and stakeholders and succeed  successes and failures to  and make a positive and  as one team.  continuously improve.  sustainable impact.  Workforce days a year, 24 hours a day. SafetyOverviewodays a year, 24 hours a day. ReportingOverviewSafetyReportingReportingReportingOur Culture continued Proactive communications Devon has executed a strategy in recent years to become a leading, returns-driven U.S. energy producer with a strong commitment to improving ESG performance. Our progress continued in 2021 when we welcomed legacy WPX employees, intentionally building blended teams to embed the most effective approaches throughout our business. With streamlined processes and a flatter organizational structure, Devon employees are empowered to take intelligent risks, make informed decisions and be accountable for their results. To accelerate learning, we’ve shifted our focus from structured training to experiential learning opportunities. Performance management occurs through frequent conversations focused on alignment, growth and development, so employees know what they need to do to make an impact every day. We set clear goals for financial, operational and ESG improvement, and our leaders communicate at the enterprise, business unit, team and individual levels to inform everyone at Devon what we’re planning and how we’re doing. Our leaders encourage frequent conversations to create clarity, context and accountability, as well as to listen and be responsive to employees. In addition to internal communications channels, topical surveys help us stay in touch with our employees. These short, focused surveys give us quick results on timely issues, and in 2020 helped us gauge employees’ experiences during the pandemic and collect input on their needs. We also conducted a companywide organizational health index survey in 2020 to examine the cultures of each legacy company, identify potential differences and understand what employees would value most as Devon moves forward. We’ll continue to use surveys, focus groups and conversations to gather employee feedback in a structured way. Relationships built on trust are central to the Devon culture and our ability to deliver results. We communicate proactively, listen carefully and seek diverse opinions that challenge our thinking. In 2021, we’re focused on integrating our legacy organizations, improving team and company performance, adapting to changing market conditions with agility and delivering on our commitments to stakeholders. Workplace practices at a glance Flexible workplaceAlternate work schedule (or 9/80) work schedules for eligible employees, where possible, to balance work, personal business and personal activities. Reportingis available for new parents, offering up to two weeks of leave for the care of, and bonding with, a biological, adopted or foster child. In addition, leave for the birth of a child is paid for up to eight weeks. Military leave is available to deployed employee military service members. They receive full salary for three months and differential pay above the military standard for an additional nine months. Devon service members and their families enrolled in the health care plan will also remain covered for 12 months. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support for employees and their family members free of charge. The EAP offers confidential assistance for challenges that could affect health, relationships and/or job effectiveness. Access to experienced counselors, financial experts, staff attorneys, elder-care consultants and concierge services is included in EAP services available 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. Workforce discusses his personal journey, belief system and echoes the importance of advancing diversity, inclusion and equity at Devon. SafetyOverviewand practices, and strive for all discusses his personal journey, belief system and echoes the importance of advancing diversity, inclusion and equity at Devon. ReportingOverviewSafetyReportingReportingReportingDiversity, Equity and Inclusion Valuing differences Committed to courageously address inequity wherever it exists and Ongoing efforts to understand social Reportingimproving our community and our company. Developing actionable plans to address common themes from these efforts: education, internal and external commitment, and measurement and accountability. Funded 11 community programs in Oklahoma City, including nine with new partners, through our new Inclusion and Equity Grants. Continued sponsoring women’s professional groups that offer professional development, leadership roles and networking  for Devon employees. Innovation, creative problem-solving and positive change happen when people step out of their comfort zone and think differently. To break barriers to achieving business results, it’s part of our culture to value differences, include others and courageously address inequity wherever it exists. We cultivate an inclusive, diverse, equitable and respectful workplace, and engage with our communities to understand how Devon can make a difference beyond our workplace. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) vision is: Every person contributing to their fullest and making a positive impact every day. To make this a reality, we have active participation from our senior leaders, committed volunteer inclusion and diversity (I&D) leaders and allies, and I&D programming. The DEI Leadership Team of senior leaders champions strategies to achieve our vision and supports others by coaching, motivating, breaking down barriers and listening. The volunteer DEI Team strives to proactively increase awareness, identify challenges and find innovative ways to achieve our DEI vision and strategy. Our Human Resources team guides and advises the  DEI Team with strategic support, tools and resources  for success. What DEI means at Devon Diversity  Equity  Inclusion  We believe it is foundational to  We believe fairness is at the  We believe in relationships  Devon’s success that our team  core of our culture, policies  and will ensure all employees  includes people with a variety  and practices, and strive for all  feel seen, valued, heard and  of backgrounds, perspectives,  employees to have equal access  connected.  experiences and abilities.  to opportunities.  President and CEO Rick Muncrief participates in a DEI Team quarterly meeting and discusses his personal journey, belief system and echoes the importance of advancing diversity, inclusion and equity at Devon. Workforce partnering with nine organizations for the first time. We also We have a multi-year focus to advance diversity, equity and inclusion at Devon. We’re excited that our investments are helping to strengthen ongoing programs for dropout prevention, growing and nurturing young leaders, combatting hunger, community development and social and racial justice. npartnering with nine organizations for the first time. We also Hold ourselves accountable to cultivating inclusive behaviors. Hold ourselves accountable to cultivating inclusive behaviors. Hold ourselves accountable to cultivating inclusive behaviors. Hold ourselves accountable to cultivating inclusive behaviors. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion continued Promoting equality and equity We started 2020 by sponsoring and marching in the Oklahoma City Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Parade for the second year. The DEI Team brought forward the parade idea and we see it being embraced as a tradition at Devon. Fifth-graders involved in our Design + Do science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) program joined our parade  team in a float the students designed and built with help from Devon volunteers. As our nation was jolted in 2020 by racial strife, Devon took a fresh and critical look at our DEI efforts. We recognized the status quo was not acceptable and devoted more time and attention to listening and to learning about race and how Devon can take positive action. We’ve been having sometimes-difficult conversations about inequality, inside and outside the office. In 2020, we invited the Rev. Clarence Hill Jr., founder of the Stronger Together Movement, to share his Dream Clock process for building 2021 Inclusion and Equity Grant Recipients Beta Eta Lambda Foundation Foundation for Oklahoma City Public Schools Hope for Generations 65 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Workforce understanding among communities. Hill joined us again in February 2021 to lead a discussion about Dr. King’s “Letter from a Birmingham Jail” on opposing inequality. The DEI Team suggested changes to some processes, data and transparency to address opportunities at Devon. Their suggestions highlighted how our talent practices, along with eliminating layers of management, impact career development. We’re evaluating policies and processes we can implement to increase opportunities to contribute and grow within our company. The common themes that emerged from our exploration of social and racial justice were the need for bias training, internal and external demonstrations of commitment, and measurement and accountability. We’re creating actionable plans to address these themes, such as updated bias training for leaders and employees, and looking for additional education opportunities to help us keep learning and growing. Nappy Roots Books  Shiloh Camps  OKC Black Eats  Stronger Together Movement  Restore OKC  Urban League  Looking outward Devon has a long history of social investments in underserved communities, with a focus on boosting STEM education. In 2020, after evaluating how our investments could have more impact, we worked with the DEI Team to create an Inclusion and Equity Grants program. The team solicited funding requests and made 11 grants ranging from $5,000 to $25,000 to nine Black community organizations in Oklahoma City. We set out to find new community partners with existing programs and met our goal, partnering with nine organizations for the first time. We also assisted one of our long-time partners, Oklahoma City Public Schools (OKCPS), by supporting its life-changing program to give its paraprofessional employees a chance to go to college debt-free. Upon successful completion, the participants are committed to serve as teachers in OKCPS for three years. We’re excited that our investments are helping to strengthen ongoing programs for dropout prevention, growing and nurturing young leaders, combatting hunger, community development and social and racial justice. We’re continuing our work to understand social and racial issues in our company and the communities where we live and work. We don’t expect it to be easy, but it’s a very real opportunity for us to live our values of integrity, relationships, courage and results. We have a multi-year focus to advance diversity, equity and inclusion at Devon. Engage, develop and empower diverse talent through strategies that combat unconscious bias. Increase the belief that top-tier performance is driven by recognizing and appreciating each individual’s inherent value. Demonstrate our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion proactively and consistently to our internal and external stakeholders. Hold ourselves accountable to cultivating inclusive behaviors. Workforce studies in STEM fields. Two Devon employees filled OKWIT yearly retreats and 40 Devon employee memberships. It also Our sponsorship helps provide monthly networking/ commitment to professional development. studies in STEM fields. Two Devon employees filled OKWIT ReportingReportingDevon WEN members attend the Greater Oklahoma Chapter’s 5th anniversary celebration in Oklahoma City. Devon WEN members attend the Greater Oklahoma Chapter’s 5th anniversary celebration in Oklahoma City. United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. ReportingDevon WEN members attend the Greater Oklahoma Chapter’s 5th anniversary celebration in Oklahoma City. Devon WEN members attend the Greater Oklahoma Chapter’s 5th anniversary celebration in Oklahoma City. ReportingReportingDiversity, Equity and Inclusion continued Supporting women in our workforce For Devon to maintain our stakeholders’ trust by delivering strong operational, financial and ESG results, we need dedicated employees. Our values, workplace practices, wellness programs, benefits and compensation are aimed at helping employees manage their personal life and care for their families so they can focus at work. We’ve also made progress with gender pay equity and promotional equity. Yet even with these efforts, the percentage of women in the Devon workforce has declined slightly, primarily due to reductions in our employee count and curtailed hiring. Given our strong commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, we remain focused on being a company where women want to build their careers. 3 of 6 Women’s Energy Network of Greater Oklahoma chapter presidents have been Devon employees, including the current president. 66 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Workforce Women at Devon take advantage of development  We have an active OKWIT presence. Eight Devon employees  opportunities through industry networking, professional  volunteered for OKWIT’s fall retreat in 2020, including the  development, volunteering and leadership roles. Devon  event coordinator, a speaker and two speed networking  employees represent 10% of the 2021 membership of  participants. The first-ever virtual retreat was attended  the Women’s Energy Network of Greater Oklahoma  by teachers and about 200 students from schools across  (WEN OK), an organization dedicated to empowering women  Oklahoma, many who said they were inspired and invigorated  in the energy industry. Three of six presidents of the WEN OK  by the programming and speakers.  chapter have been Devon employees, including the current  president. In 2021, a Devon executive serves on the Advisory  Devon employees who volunteer for organizations like WEN  Council, with 31 employees participating in the formal  OK and OKWIT bring new skills, industry connections and  mentoring program. Devon is a founding and ongoing sponsor  a broader perspective to our workplace. We believe their  of WEN OK and pays employee memberships as part of our  participation will lead to greater awareness of opportunities  commitment to professional development.  for women in our industry and our company.  Attracting and retaining women for technology jobs is  important as development and deployment of technology  increases across Devon. In 2020, we continued our support  for Oklahoma Women in Tech (OKWIT) and its mission to  better promote women in tech across Oklahoma, as well as  to encourage young women to continue their interest and  studies in STEM fields. Two Devon employees filled OKWIT  volunteer leadership positions in 2020 and one in 2021.  Our sponsorship helps provide monthly networking/  professional development events, speaker luncheons, two  yearly retreats and 40 Devon employee memberships. It also  funds a scholarship for a student seeking a STEM degree and  planning to give back to the community.  United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. In an industry where the majority of Devon WEN members attend the Greater Oklahoma Chapter’s 5th anniversary celebration in Oklahoma City. Workforce with short wait times. Devon’s financial wellness program provides confidential and unbiased financial guidance and a wide SafetyOverviewwith short wait times. Devon’s financial wellness program provides confidential and unbiased financial guidance and a wide ReportingSafetyReportingReportingReportingEmployee Wellness Physical, mental and financial well-being Shifted all wellness programming to  virtual delivery in response to the pandemic,  resulting in increased engagement from ReportingOffered programming and services to address specific needs of parents during the pandemic, including presentations guided by a mental health professional and an online  support community. Extended our virtual offerings through year-end 2021 to continue meeting  employees’ needs. Facilitated COVID-19 vaccinations for field employees and hosted a vaccination  clinic at our headquarters for employees  and their families. Experienced good engagement in wellness programs with 75% of employees earning the maximum employer health savings account (HSA) contribution. Devon truly believes in supporting the well-being of our employees. We recognize that they may be caregivers for children or aging parents, have financial issues that cause anxiety or struggle to manage competing priorities. At the same time, we need our employees to deliver results and continuously improve our environmental, social and governance performance. We consider these expectations when developing programs that can meaningfully improve our employees’ physical, mental and financial well-being. Since establishing our wellness program in 2012, Devon has focused on prevention, convenient tools and high-quality programs. Over the years, our emphasis on wellness has contributed to strong productivity and engagement, low absenteeism and high retention rates. Combined with our generous health care benefits, wellness programs have helped keep Devon’s medical insurance premium costs flat or below national rates of increase for six years, excluding large one-time claims. Feedback is a key indicator of the effectiveness of our wellness programs. Devon employees tell us that our offerings have enabled them to improve their health and make healthy lifestyle changes. This is why we’ve maintained the most effective core programs, even while cutting costs across Devon in recent years. Support in difficult times The COVID-19 pandemic was a stark reminder that employees need to be supported through difficult times and it’s important to find avenues to assist them. Devon shifted all of our wellness programming to virtual delivery, such as our quarterly education series highlighting the importance of sleep, the benefits of exercise, gut health and strategies to maintain mental health. We encouraged virtual counseling sessions available through our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and engaged a licensed clinical social worker at our clinic near Devon headquarters in downtown Oklahoma City. To help employees reduce stress, Devon offered two months of free access to a third-party platform that provides guided mindful meditation, with the option to create a personal account after the trial period. Due to COVID-19-related restrictions in our corporate fitness center, in March 2020 we started offering virtual group exercise classes taught by the center’s instructors, later expanding to 600 classes available on a third-party platform. The fitness classes, and all other virtual programming, remain available to employees until year-end 2021. Our wellness focus areas in the first half of 2021 were resilience and brain health. United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. We aim to deliver tools and resources that support our employees’ pursuit of healthy lives, stability and well-being. Devon takes a holistic approach to employee wellness, promoting physical, mental and financial health. The Doc, a medical clinic we established near our corporate headquarters in Oklahoma City, allows employees and their families to get a high standard of care and personal attention with short wait times. Devon’s financial wellness program provides confidential and unbiased financial guidance and a wide range of resources at no cost to employees. Workforce Onsite fitness center with free classes for prevent chronic illnesses and health problems Coverage for the costs of annual physical exams and preventive exams and screenings Devon wellness resources Onsite fitness center with free classes for with a third-party financial advisor, delivered Quarterly opportunity to meet one-on-one  Quarterly opportunity to meet one-on-one  Financial wellness webinars held with a third-party financial advisor, delivered Quarterly opportunity to meet one-on-one  Quarterly opportunity to meet one-on-one  with a third-party financial advisor, delivered with a third-party financial advisor, delivered Employee Wellness continued of paycheck Average HSA contributed balance (as of 6/30/21) to 401K $7,995 6.5% Encouraging prevention We encourage and incentivize employees to be proactive about their health care. Devon covers the cost of annual physical exams, annual vision screenings, two annual dental exams, colonoscopies, mammograms, prostate exams and well-woman exams. For convenience, we offer onsite mammography twice each year at our Oklahoma City headquarters. Employee participation in preventive cancer screenings has exceeded national benchmarks in some categories in recent years. Due to the pandemic, a slightly lower percentage of employees received an annual physical exam in 2020 from their personal physician or at the Doc, the medical clinic we established near our corporate headquarters. Employees and their families can get a high standard of care and personal attention at the Doc with short wait times. We also held annual physical exam events at two field offices, where employees completed 54 physical exams in 2020. We support employees who want to make healthy lifestyle changes to prevent chronic illnesses and health problems. The high-quality, no-cost offerings include programs for diabetes support, a pre-diabetes version for field employees and tobacco cessation. Eligible employees also can take part in Drop at the Doc, a 22-week physician-led weight-loss program. Employees who take advantage of our wellness programs can earn points for activities like getting a physical exam or completing a financial wellness series. By accumulating 1,000 points in a year, employees can receive up to $2,500 in contributions to their HSA. About 75% of employees earned at least 1,000 points in 2020, down from 82% in 2019. Financial insights Concerns about personal finances, from managing debt to saving for retirement, can affect an employee’s sense of well-being. Devon’s financial wellness program offers confidential and unbiased financial guidance and resources such as third-party financial assessments and web-based workshops at no cost to employees. We started delivering  all of these resources virtually in 2020 and increased the of employees participating in 401K 99.6% number of webinars. Having access to virtual one-on-one financial consultations with experts led to 111 employees taking advantage of this offering in 2020. Our financial well-being content in 2021 kicked off with a six-part series led by a third party to help employees re-set their financial and retirement planning after the pandemic. By keeping employees informed about the importance of retirement savings, Devon has reached the top of our industry for 401(k) retirement contributions and the percentage of paycheck contributions. We’re committed to giving Devon employees tools and strategies to help them live healthier, more satisfying and financially secure lives. We believe healthy, happy employees are more likely to come to work ready to give Devon their best effort. Devon wellness resources Focused quarterly education on a wide range of physical and mental health topics, delivered virtually in 2020 Thriving Minds emotional well-being content available on the Devon intranet Onsite medical clinic in Oklahoma City for employees and their families, and at two  field offices Onsite fitness center with free classes for employees, delivered virtually in 2020 Coverage for the costs of annual physical exams and preventive exams and screenings High-quality, no-cost programs to help prevent chronic illnesses and health problems Points system for participating in certain wellness activities, with the potential for employees to earn a contribution to their HSA Financial wellness webinars held approximately monthly Quarterly opportunity to meet one-on-one  with a third-party financial advisor, delivered virtually in 2020 Ongoing financial planning education opportunities 