GOVERNANCEThe Governance section of our 2019 Sustainability Report includes:Overview - UPDATEDCorporate Governance - UPDATEDShareholder Engagement - UPDATEDEthics and IntegrityPublic Advocacy - UPDATEDEmergency PreparednessRisk ManagementCybersecurity GovernanceOverview RESOURCESThe following resources drive our efforts to be responsible stewards of our financial and operational assets, the environment, workforce and community safety, and stakeholder trust:  Corporate Governance Guidelines Define how our board of directors monitors the effectiveness of Devon policies and decision-making, while enhancing stockholder value and considering the long-term interests of other stakeholders.  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics	Sets out the basic principles of conduct for all Devon directors, officers and employees.  Ethics and Compliance Helpline	Available at all times to confidentially report potential violations of the aforementioned code, ask an ethics-related question, get guidance on our ethics policy and follow up on a reported issue.   Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer	Supplement to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics reinforcing our expectation of ethical and legal behavior from our top executives.  Anti-Corruption Policy	Explains the specific requirements and prohibitions of applicable laws, especially the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).RESOURCES (continued)  Certificate of Incorporation  Bylaws  Privacy Policy  Investor communications	Updated regularly to provide information on Devon’s progress to investors, analysts and other stakeholders.  Operations updates	Inform investors, analysts and other stakeholders about our exploration and production activities.  Annual proxy statements	Describe matters of interest to our shareholders, including director and executive compensation and shareholder proposals.  Annual Political Activity and Lobbying Report	Discloses Devon’s expenditures for corporate political and 527 contributions and federal and state lobbying.  Devon Energy Corporation Political Action Committee (DECPAC) Annual Report	Discloses PAC disbursements to candidates for state and federal office and to political parties.  Emergency Preparedness Protocol 	Defines the roles, processes and activities we have in place to respond effectively and timely to natural disasters, operational disruptions, security incidents and other events.Upholding our culture of integrity and accountabilityDevon is accountable to our stakeholders for our environmental, social, governance (ESG) and business performance. Guided by our core values and commitment to integrity, we seek to operate in a financially, environmentally and socially responsible way. Our corporate governance principles and practices direct how we make decisions, manage risk and build relationships.We’re focused on innovation and operational excellence in our business, a high quality of life in our communities, and leadership in ESG performance and transparency. Devon’s ESG Steering Committee ensures that our senior leaders are focused, informed and engaged on ESG matters that influence our business planning, strategy and operations.Our investors, employees, neighbors and others who have an interest in our progress count on Devon to fulfill our obligations. It’s a challenge we’re proud to take on.   ESG Steering Committee Charter(continued next page)Matt HarperDirector, Information Security/CISOOne critical issue for oil and gas companies is collecting, managing and interpreting enormous amounts of data from operations. Protecting that data is vitally important, too. Enter Matt, a cybersecurity expert and former FBI special agent. “The challenges of keeping data secure and available continue to evolve. My job allows me to help people understand and manage the risks associated with data and technology and get the most from those investments.”GOVERNANCE OVERVIEWOur ESG Steering Committee meets regularly to set strategy and measure performance.GOVERNANCE METRICS 2016 2017 2018 Independent Board Members 78% 78% 80% In June 2019, our board composition changed. Currently, 9 of our 11 board members (82%) qualify as independent under NYSE standards and SEC regulations. Women Board Members 22% 22% 20% In June 2019, our board composition changed. Three women (27%), including the chairs of Devon's Audit and Governance committees, currently serve on our board of directors. Political Contributions (thousands) – $1,062 $494 Devon's lobbying and political activity has traditionally been disclosed via public agencies. In 2018, we began publishing a Political Activity and Lobbying Report on our website. Lobbying - Federal & State (thousands) – $1,542 $905 Devon's lobbying and political activity has traditionally been disclosed via public agencies. In 2018, we began publishing a Political Activity and Lobbying Report on our website. Corporate Governance Strong corporate governance and accountability support Devon’s efforts to live out our core values, which include doing the right thing and delivering results.Composing and compensating our board for effective oversight Devon’s board of directors follows our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the framework for effective oversight to serve our stakeholders’ interests and create shareholder value. As required by the Corporate Governance Guidelines, a majority of our board members qualify as independent, based on New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations. Devon meets these requirements, with 9 of 11 board members, all committee members and our board chair qualifying as independent. The charters of the board’s four committees – Audit, Compensation, Governance and Reserves – require all committee members to be independent. Following are brief descriptions of the purpose and responsibilities of each committee, along with links to their charters.CORPORATE GOVERNANCECHARTERS  Audit Committee Charter	The Audit Committee assists the board in ensuring the integrity of Devon’s financial statements and reporting system, the compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and the performance of internal and external audit functions.  Compensation Committee Charter	The Compensation Committee assists the board in determining the compensation for Devon’s senior executives and provides oversight of the company’s employee benefit programs.  Governance Committee Charter	The Governance Committee assists the board in identifying qualified individuals for board membership and oversees the company’s corporate governance practices.  Reserves Committee Charter	The Reserves Committee assists the board with oversight of the annual review and evaluation of Devon’s consolidated petroleum and natural gas reserves, reporting system, compliance, regulatory requirements and related disclosures.Our board is committed to maintaining a diverse and inclusive membership with varying experience, characteristics and expertise that align with our business strategy. As of June 2019, three women served on Devon’s board, and nine of 11 directors had at least five of the six key skills and experience we believe are highly relevant to an upstream company like Devon. Our directors ranged in age from 42 to 70, all under the mandatory retirement age of 73. When searching for new director nominees, the Governance Committee and the third-party search firm it engages are committed to considering qualified candidates with a diversity of experience, perspective, age, gender, race, ethnicity, geography and other factors. Under our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the compensation of our non-management directors is determined annually by the board acting on the Governance Committee’s recommendation. To align directors’ interests and actions with the interests of our shareholders, directors are expected to maintain a significant ownership stake in Devon stock. While Devon executives receive no additional compensation for serving on our board, non-management directors are compensated based on current market norms and receive a combination of retainers, meeting fees and equity awards. With the exception of adding a separate retainer for our board chair, there have been no changes to board compensation in the last few years.Shareholders elect Devon directors at the annual meeting for a one-year term. Our bylaws require that a director offer to resign if he or she does not receive the required plurality of votes in an uncontested election, but this has not occurred in Devon’s history. In fact, our directors received an average approval rating of 98% at our 2019 annual meeting.CORPORATE GOVERNANCEDirector skills and experienceThe matrix below provides a summary of certain key skills and experience of our directors. Individually and as a group, they possess numerous skills and experience that are highly relevant for an upstream energy company. Our directors are strategic thinkers with high expectations for Devon’s performance; they are attuned to the demands of proper Board oversight and good governance practices. DirectorAGE Our directors range in age from 42 to 70 KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Aggregate Public Board of Directors Experience • • • • • • • • • • 10 Energy Industry Experience • • • • • • • • • • 10 CEO/Business Leader • • • • • • • • • 9 Human Capital Mgt./Comp. • • • • • • • • • • • 11 Finance/Capital Allocation • • • • • • • • • • 10 Financial Literacy/Accounting • • • • • • • • • • • 11 Additional skills and experience•	Six of our directors have an educational background or work experience in petroleum engineering or other engineering professions.•	Five of our directors have experience with technology or cybersecurity.•	Eight of our directors have experience in regulatory and policy matters.•	Three of our directors have an educational background or work experience with environmental matters.•	All of our directors have experience in corporate governance and risk management.CORPORATE GOVERNANCEAligning executive compensation with company performanceDevon’s senior leaders are accountable for generating operating returns by managing a premier asset portfolio, delivering superior execution and allocating capital with discipline. The leadership team updates the board regularly on the economic and operational risks and opportunities facing Devon, with increasing emphasis on ESG performance.  We seek a strong tie between company performance and executive pay through our compensation program and the Compensation Committee’s processes and decision-making. Our executive compensation philosophy recognizes near-term operational and financial success and encourages decision-making that supports long-term value creation. The objectives of our executive compensation program are to motivate and reward executives for increasing stockholder value; to allocate incentives to achieve near- and long-term objectives, without taking excessive risk; and to attract and retain highly trained, experienced and committed executives. Approximately 89% of the value of total direct compensation awarded to our president and CEO, and an average of approximately 83% for other executive officers, was delivered through performance bonuses dependent on 2018 performance and long-term incentives aligned with total shareholder return.To drive continuous improvement, Devon sets challenging performance goals each year. We are committed to delivering strong returns on our investments through a highly engaged culture focused on innovation, safety, operational excellence, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. Our performance score was 90% of the target for 2018, reflecting strong performance on several operational measures in a very challenging commodity-price environment but disappointing results on important criteria such as total shareholder return and certain environmental, health and safety measures. Detailed information about Devon’s executive compensation philosophy, practices and decisions is available in our 2019 proxy statement. Devon contacted the majority of our 50 largest stockholders in 2018 and had productive interactions to ensure we’re aware of and responsive to the issues of importance to them. Many of these engagements were face-to-face meetings with Devon personnel who are directly involved with our ESG efforts.Shareholder 
EngagementDevon communicates directly with shareholders to understand their interests and needs and to convey our business strategy and plans.We believe having the confidence of our shareholders is important to our success. We therefore engage shareholders proactively through outreach as well as responsively to address their issues.  Devon senior leaders meet periodically with shareholders and report to our board of directors about the key themes and interactions. In recent years, shareholder engagements led Devon to report our ESG performance more completely and transparently. We have strengthened corporate governance and adjusted executive compensation incentives.We recognize that ESG matters are increasingly important for Devon and our stakeholders. Our ESG Steering Committee, which is composed of senior-level leaders from throughout the company, provides leadership and direction as we seek to deliver on our commitments to our various stakeholder groups. One of the committee’s primary activities in 2018 was preparing Devon’s Climate Change Assessment Report to better assess and communicate the potential long-term impacts of a possible carbon-constrained future. Under the committee’s direction, Devon also published our 2019 Political Activity and Lobbying Report with enhanced disclosures and our 2018 Sustainability Report. Our management and board share our stakeholders’ high expectations for performance in ESG areas and receive regular updates on the committee’s findings and activities.In 2018, Devon participated in numerous ESG-focused surveys and assessments, including those from Sustainalytics, Just Capital, CDP and Institutional Shareholder Services’ (ISS). In addition to making it easier for stakeholders to benchmark our progress, these assessments help us sharpen our focus on transparency and improve our ESG performance. Our third-party survey rankings indicate we're outperforming most of our peers in the ESG arena. Sustainalytics ranked Devon’s ESG performance in the top 15% in our peer group and ISS ranked our combined ESG score above all but one of our peers. JUST Capital’s newest rankings have Devon third overall and first in environmental performance among 32 oil and gas companies, and the CPA Zicklin Index of corporate political disclosure and accountability ranks Devon in the second of five tiers. Devon has also been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, in collaboration with RobecoSAM.Devon received proposals for shareholder consideration and voting at the 2019 annual meeting. Following dialogue with the proponents, two of the proposals were withdrawn because of our existing activities or a shift in approach helped satisfy the proponent’s request. No shareholder proposals appeared in the proxy for our 2019 annual meeting.With guidance from our ESG Steering Committee, we’re continuing our engagements to ensure we deliver on our commitments to stakeholders.Devon’s ESG Committee guides engagements and activities that will deliver on our commitments to various stakeholder groups. ESG Committee CharterEthics and IntegrityTo live out our core value to always do the right thing, we embrace honesty and uncompromised integrity in everything we do.In all of our business practices and relationships, Devon is committed to high ethical, moral, professional and legal standards. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics guides each Devon director, officer and employee in meeting our standards and fulfilling our responsibilities to our shareholders, governmental and regulatory authorities, business partners and each other. In addition, Devon’s president and chief executive officer (CEO), chief financial officer and chief accounting officer must meet further requirements for the highest level of ethical and legal behavior as described in a separate Code of Ethics. We also require directors, officers and employees to comply with related policies, including our Zero Tolerance Anti-Harassment Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy, and Employee Gifts and Entertainment Declaration Policy and Procedure. These policies and our code of conduct are reviewed and updated annually to ensure ongoing compliance with laws and regulations and to reflect current business practices. No substantive changes were made to our code or related policies in 2018.To ensure high awareness of our commitment to ethics and integrity, all Devon employees must successfully complete a training course on ethics when they join the company and annually thereafter. We also require employees to acknowledge and agree to abide by the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics annually.Devon employees are obligated to help enforce the code by reporting potential violations via one of several confidential channels, including our Ethics & Compliance Helpline. Anyone can access the Helpline at any time to report harassment, inappropriate behavior, fraud, unsafe acts, accounting irregularities or any other potential code or policy violation. In 2018, 85% of reports were made through this online portal. The Helpline can also be used to request guidance on Devon’s ethics policy, follow up on a reported issue or to ask an ethics-related question. Reports to the Helpline can be made anonymously and confidentially. Approximately 65% of Helpline users request anonymity, and all reports are treated as confidential to the fullest extent possible. Devon investigates reports promptly, with 100% of cases initiated in 2018 closed by year-end at an average of 19 days from the opening of an investigation to its close. In 2018, 71% of reports were unsubstantiated or simple inquiries. We have not experienced a pattern of specific types of allegations or issues related to specific locations. We do not tolerate retaliation against anyone who makes a good-faith report of an actual or suspected violation of our code, policies or applicable law. We provide the board of directors  with periodic reports on Helpline activity to assist in the board's role of monitoring our ethical standards and practices. ETHICS AND INTEGRITYPreventing fraudDevon takes a proactive approach to prevent improper supplier activity, invoicing abuse, digital scams and other forms of fraud. To identify fraudulent activity and emerging threats, we have a steering committee that monitors industry trends and raises awareness with our employees so they can recognize and report any fraudulent activities. Based on the committee’s work, we enhanced information about fraud in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and added training on fraud identification for employees who work in the field, in accounting and in other specified functions. Devon employs a fraud investigator with forensic accounting experience to actively look for issues, enabling us to take quick action to prevent financial loss and mitigate risk. We believe that simply having a dedicated investigator tends to deter some fraudulent activity.Public AdvocacyPublic policy can impact Devon’s sustainability, and we have a responsibility to advocate for laws and rules that balance stakeholder interests. We participate in discussions about taxation, regulation, trade, jobs and business-focused issues.Our economy runs on energy and depends on countless products made from plastics, fabrics and compounds derived from oil and natural gas. As a leading U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer, Devon is keenly aware of our important role in local, state, national and world economies.We have found that advocacy is important to our ability to operate in a safe, ethical, and environmentally and socially responsible manner. We actively advocate on matters of public interest and are committed to doing so in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and rules. Devon makes all required financial disclosures and publishes a comprehensive annual Political Activity and Lobbying Report. The report includes expenditures for corporate political contributions, 527 contributions, federal and state lobbying, and the Devon Energy Corporation Political Action Committee (DECPAC). As a direct result of stakeholder engagement, our 2019 report includes more detailed disclosures on our trade association memberships.  In 2019, as we seek to reduce our costs across the company, we are reducing our political contributions and lobbying expenditures.  Important decisions about energy and the economy require accurate information and thoughtful deliberation at all levels of government. Devon informs and engages policymakers, the public and our employees as we advocate for principles and positions in regulatory and legislative proceedings. To make our views known on proposed rules and laws, Devon participates in business coalitions, industry associations, trade groups and advocacy organizations. We share information with our employees to help them discuss industry issues with their friends and neighbors, and encourage them to vote.Devon employees are active in a number of industry associations including the Petroleum Alliance of Oklahoma, New Mexico Oil and Gas Association (NMOGA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). For example, an employee on our health and safety team is participating on API’s Occupational Safety and Health Committee, which is looking into developing a voluntary onshore safety program to elevate overall safety performance in the onshore exploration and production industry. We’re proud to have a Devon representative sharing our values and learning industry best practices on this important API committee. PUBLIC ADVOCACYRegional, state and local advocacyDevon is active in public policy development at the national level and in states, counties and municipalities where we have operations. As a major operator in New Mexico’s Delaware Basin, in 2018 we engaged with state regulators and lawmakers on permitting, transportation and other issues along with industry peers in NMOGA. Devon also stepped up to be a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership, an alliance of oil and gas companies that has committed significant funding toward ensuring community, regional and business sustainability in the Permian Basin. In Oklahoma, Devon remains active on the Governor’s Coordinating Council on Seismic Activity and was part of Step Up Oklahoma, a nonpartisan business coalition that successfully advocated for state government and budget reforms and increased funding for education.In 2018, Project 180 improvements were completed in public spaces in downtown Oklahoma City, paid for through tax-increment financing generated by construction of Devon’s corporate headquarters.  We’ve also actively supported MAPS, Oklahoma City’s visionary capital improvement and revitalization program that has led to transformational Metropolitan Area Projects completed over the past 25 years.  Emergency PreparednessTo ensure business continuity, Devon is prepared to respond to weather events, operational incidents, supply disruptions and other emergencies.Devon's incident command center 
operates in accordance with the U.S. National Incident Management System.Our emergency preparedness program is designed to manage various situations that could affect our employees, communities, assets, business and the environment. Readiness across the companyDevon’s emergency response and recovery efforts are led by a corporate emergency management function that reports to Devon’s security department. We follow the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) National Incident Management System (NIMS), a nationwide approach to enable the whole community to work together to manage threats and hazards. To ensure timely, effective response to emergencies, we provided in-house training on the NIMS Incident Command System (ICS) to approximately 550 employees throughout Devon in 2018. In addition, the head of our emergency management team is a certified ICS instructor. We also have more than 200 floor wardens in buildings and facilities across the company who are trained to lead occupants to safety and provide medical assistance during an emergency. We conduct at least one functional, corporate-level training exercise and one full-scale exercise in a major field location each year with community responders and simulated business interruptions. Every other year, we rotate exercises in data security and aviation incidents. Devon's Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) group conducts site drills and those mandated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).In 2018, our full-scale exercises in Cuero, Texas, and Artesia, New Mexico, engaged community partners from fire, law enforcement, emergency management and emergency medical services. These exercises simulated office building fires that resulted in search and rescue operations, onsite triage and treatment and simulated transportation to local hospitals. In both locations, it was the first time Devon exercised in this capacity with community responders.  We also conducted a functional exercise in our Incident Command Center that tested our Aviation Incident Management Team. This exercise of our Aviation Emergency Response Plan engaged community partners from Oklahoma County and Will Rogers Airport Emergency Management in Oklahoma City. To enhance the benefit for our community partners who exercise with us, we follow the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program. This allows us to provide community partners with documentation that validates their participation for federal funding and medical facility accreditation requirements.Devon advocates for strong emergency management capabilities at the federal level. The head of our emergency management team serves as the assistant chair for the Oil and Natural Gas Subsector Coordinating Council and will rotate to the chair position in 2020. This group coordinates closely with the U.S. Departments of Energy and Homeland Security to ensure that coordination for physical and cybersecurity preparedness remains at the forefront among oil and gas industry and government partners.EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESSContinuous improvementAfter every exercise and real response, we hold briefings and write reports outlining areas for improvement, best practices and strengths. We incorporate corrective actions into Devon’s EHS incident tracking system, assign accountability and track the actions to completion. If emergencies and incidents occur, our continuous improvement efforts and our training allow us to protect our workforce, our neighbors and our assets. In turn, we’re protecting our business and our reputation.  Risk ManagementDevon methodically manages the risks to our business to ensure we can deliver results.Devon's board of directors has primary responsibility for risk oversight, which includes determining whether the company’s risk-management programs are appropriately designed and implemented to address our material risks. The four standing board committees consider the risks inherent in their areas of oversight and report regularly to the full board. Our Devon management team is, in turn, responsible for executing the risk-management directives of the board and its committees, including overseeing and reporting on Devon’s day-to-day efforts to manage risk. To identify and evaluate our business risks, Devon employs a variety of governance and analytical measures. Our enterprise risk-management (ERM) process, overseen by our internal audit function, includes an annual analysis of the top risks to the company. This analysis asks the board, management and internal subject-matter experts to consider the likelihood that certain risks could result in an economic or non-economic impact to the company and to identify our level of preparedness for those risks. Using the results of this analysis, the board and management determine and prioritize the material risks to our business. We also undertake exercises to identify risks and conduct workshops with Devon employees on risk-mitigation strategies. Designated employees within each business function are accountable for managing specific risks. For a more detailed discussion of the material risks of the company, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2018.Through our ongoing risk-management efforts, Devon has been able to adopt strategies and measures to address emerging risks. For example, in recognition of the increasing relevance of and stakeholder interest in climate-change risks, in 2018 we began formally considering the quantifiable effects of climate change on Devon’s portfolio. Our annual long-range planning and risk evaluation uses a scenario analysis of technology and market conditions that incorporates pricing conditions that are at least as challenging as the IEA (International Energy Agency) Sustainable Development Scenario and runs through at least 2040. For more information, please see our Climate Change Assessment Report. Cybersecurity risk is another area of increasing focus for our board, particularly as more of our operations rely on digital technologies. To mitigate this risk, Devon has adopted an information security program that uses sophisticated technology and processes and is aligned with the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework for risk management. Our management team provides the Audit Committee and the full board with regular updates on this program, as well as on trends in cyberattack activities and other developments impacting our digital security.DEVON'S ERM FRAMEWORKREPORTINGENTERPRISE RISK INVENTORYPeriodic reporting to board, Audit Committee and managementDocumentation covering each risk category including risk-mitigation activitiesRISK WORKSHOPSANNUAL ERM SURVEYQuarterly risk workshop discussionsAnnual survey of board, Executive Committee, management and subject-matter expertsCybersecurityProtecting the data, information and systems that underpin our technology advantage enables Devon to live our core value to deliver results. With Devon’s increasing reliance on information technology in our operations, cybersecurity is a growing area of focus and our board of directors is directly engaged. The Audit Committee of the board, which oversees the company’s enterprise risk-management program, considers information and cybersecurity risks in the course of its regular reviews. The Audit Committee chairman has completed the NACD Cyber-Risk Oversight Program and earned Carnegie Mellon’s CERT Certificate in Cybersecurity.Our corporate information security policy guides our work, including implementation of an industry-leading program aligned with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework for risk management, which is assessed by third-party experts. We exercise and test our incident response and disaster recovery plans as part of Devon’s corporate-level emergency preparedness program.  Our information systems, risk and security are managed by a team of highly trained information security professionals. The team develops, uses and shares cyberthreat intelligence as a proactive measure, augmenting human intelligence with appropriate levels and layers of automation.To protect our data and systems, we encourage a culture of prevention through cybersecurity awareness training for all employees and contractors, specific training for teams that have access to sensitive data, and recognition of employees who help us avoid potential cybersecurity events. In addition, we enforce responsible use of information systems as described in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Information System General Usage Policy and other related policies.Devon's security professionals augment human intelligence with layers of automation to protect company assets.