Overview CEO Letter Doing the right things the right way Since Devon Energy and WPX Energy completed our merger in January 2021, we’ve been able to quickly unite our workforce and advance our business on all fronts. I’m excited to lead this premier company that has resilience rooted in a half-century of achievement, and I’m confident our innovative spirit, financial strength and continuous improvement mindset will allow us to succeed over the next 50 years and beyond. Devon is first and foremost an energy company. Oil and gas enable us all to house and feed our families, heat and cool our indoor spaces, travel, manufacture necessities and carry out other essential activities. We’re proud to produce the energy that makes all this possible, and to do it safely, responsibly and with care for the environment and our stakeholders. At Devon, creating shareholder value through better results in every part of our business, including our environmental, social and governance performance, is our goal every day. Guided by values We’re pursuing both ESG and operational excellence in thoughtful ways, and with a sense of urgency. Because we’re guided by strong values, one of the first steps our newly merged company took was to define the values we all share – integrity, relationships, courage and results. These values build on each other to drive our performance. Integrity Everything starts with integrity at Devon. Openness and honesty are at the core of our relationships, our commitments and our actions. We believe integrity requires transparency, and we seek to demonstrate both by discussing our ESG efforts in this 2021 Sustainability Report, as well as our 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report and other public disclosures. Relationships Interactions based on integrity enable Devon to earn trust and establish strong relationships. We seek input from a wide variety of stakeholders, listen carefully and work together to solve problems. Internally, this approach is giving us momentum as we adopt best practices from both legacy companies across our business. It also allows us to create constructive connections with external stakeholders that help us advance our environmental objectives, public advocacy positions and community partnerships. Courage Empowered by our strong track record of integrity and our respectful relationships, Devon employees are courageous in challenging the status quo. We encourage our people to take intelligent risks, and not to be paralyzed by fear of failure. During the challenging market conditions in 2020 and throughout the ongoing global public health crisis, we have thought carefully about our decision to stick to our core activities, making sensible adjustments to consistently produce oil and gas. In 2021, courage is also evident in our new, aggressive environmental targets and in the corporate goals we set each year to challenge ourselves to do better. Results Our corporate culture encourages people to take pride of ownership in what they’re working on, and to deliver strong results. The Devon team made important strides in ESG in the past year, while taking on the challenge to do more. Setting targets for environmental performance Internally and externally, we are being called upon to do more to address the challenges of climate change. As we focus on continuous improvement in everything we do, we have set aggressive targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations. We’ve been focused on this for many years, and in fact over the past three years we’ve successfully reduced our methane intensity 58%. Now we’re identifying additional technologies and best practices to further reduce emissions. We’re also evaluating opportunities to create value in the coming transition to ever-cleaner forms of energy, seeking to leverage our strengths and partnerships. As Devon and others work toward a lower carbon future, any meaningful Reduction of our methane intensity over the past three years. 58% CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter Overview CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter CEO Letter continued advancement is going to require continued investment in all types of infrastructure and in particular, electrical infrastructure. So it’s incumbent upon us all to be less divisive and more constructive in these conversations. As we move forward, Devon will be thoughtful about capital spending to achieve our targets and finding new ways to be environmentally responsible in a financially responsible way. Caring for people In the past year, we focused our social efforts on the well.being of our workforce and communities, and on being a valued community partner. We accelerated some social investments and modified our programs to help our partners meet immediate needs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Devon’s values The newly blended values naturally build on one another to achieve results. Integrity  Relationships  Courage  Results  Openness and honesty  We are caring, connected and  We take intelligent risks We always seek to  unite us and are at the core  supportive of our employees   and share our successes  achieve better results  of everything we do.  and stakeholders and succeed  and failures to continuously  and make a positive   as one team.  improve.  and sustainable impact.  Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Overview With the help of Devon’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Team, we launched new grants for community organizations in Oklahoma City. In Tulsa, to honor the community’s support of legacy WPX Energy, we made a series of grants to advance economic development, education, social services and community enrichment. We also worked to deepen our understanding of social and racial issues through intentional conversations and listening as steps toward improving our community and company. Providing a safe work environment for our employees and contractors is our responsibility and an extension of our caring culture. We’ve adopted safety best practices from both legacy companies and in our 2021 corporate safety goals, we will hold ourselves accountable for improved outcomes. Working for all stakeholders We’re able to make progress on ESG because the Devon board of directors is highly engaged and committed to progressive governance that benefits all of our stakeholders. Since 2020, we’ve further diversified the board, enhanced its oversight of ESG and continued to align executive compensation with the interests of our stockholders. Our board endorses our new environmental targets and our commitment to public ESG disclosures to show we’re accountable for how we do business. The world is changing, and Devon is changing with it. To be a leading U.S. energy company, we’re working diligently to make a positive and sustainable impact for all of our stakeholders. Our targets require us to improve how we deliver oil and gas to mitigate climate change risk and to publicly disclose our progress. We’re cultivating a safe, inclusive, diverse and equitable work environment, and engaging our communities to understand how Devon can make a difference beyond our workplace. I’m constantly inspired and encouraged by the great attitude and positive outlook of Devon’s people, and am very optimistic about the company’s future. Thank you for taking the time to learn what the Devon team  is doing to be a safe, ethical and environmentally responsible oil and gas producer to a world that demands energy. We welcome your thoughts on this report so that we can tailor our future reporting and disclosures to your interests. Sincerely, Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overview Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Overseeing ESG progress Message from Our Board Overseeing ESG progress Our board of directors knows that Devon’s success  is highly dependent on the company’s environmental, safety, social and governance-focused efforts. As we considered the merger of Devon Energy and WPX Energy in late 2020, we explored our vision for the performance of the go-forward company in light of our shared belief in the importance of the ESG-related efforts. We concluded that the merger offered a unique operational and cultural opportunity: The expanded footprint of the combined company would allow us to scale up our ESG-related performance. We quickly followed through on this vision after the merger of Devon and WPX in January 2021.  We took a hard look at the best practices of each legacy company. To facilitate our efforts, we expanded the scope of our board’s Governance Committee, re-naming it the Governance, Environmental, and Public Policy (GEPP) Committee, to overtly acknowledge our heightened focus on these areas. Hand-in-hand with our endeavors, management reviewed practices and performance at each legacy company and synthesized data in order to develop quantitative targets for our ESG priorities. We were also attentive to the perspectives of our stakeholders. Our post-merger work reflects that our board and management believe that continuously improving our environmental performance is one of our company’s and industry’s core responsibilities. Indeed, the board has unanimously endorsed Devon’s ambitious new environmental targets to lower the company’s carbon impact. These targets now directly inform how we allocate capital, employ new technologies, optimize production from our assets, and broadly engage with our stakeholders.  Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Overview At Devon, we welcome the accountability arising from our targets. To meet these bold environmental targets, we know that innovation, as well as diverse and creative viewpoints, will be key contributors to our success. We are confident that we can deliver strong operational and financial results in a manner that reduces our environmental impact while safeguarding our workforce and the communities in which we operate. Devon is committed to leadership in ESG. The GEPP Committee as well as the entire board of directors are eager to hear your feedback on our approach and performance on the full range of our environmental, health, safety, diversity and governance programs. Thank you for  your continuing interest in Devon. Sincerely, Dave Hager Executive Chair Workforce Governance Safety Overview Environment Social Reporting Report Summary Expanded the responsibilities of the former Governance Committee to include environmental and public policy oversight, renaming it the Governance, Environmental, and Public Policy (GEPP) Committee. Quickly integrated legacy company best practices to drive continuous improvement across Devon. Elevated the importance of ESG by creating the  new position of vice president of ESG and EHS. Set ambitious targets to further reduce the carbon intensity of our operations, minimize freshwater use and engage constructively with our value chain. NET 90% NON-FRESHWATER USAGE, ZERO FOR COMPLETIONS IN MOST GHG EMISSIONS FOR ACTIVE DELAWARE BASIN SCOPE 1 & 2 BY 2050 OPERATING AREAS 50% 0.5% REDUCTION IN GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY OR LOWER FLARING FOR SCOPE 1 & 2 BY 2030 INTENSITY BY 2025 65% ELIMINATE REDUCTION IN METHANE ROUTINE FLARING EMISSIONS INTENSITY BY 2030 BY 2030 ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF DEVON CONTRACTORS IN KEY ESG PERFORMANCE AREAS BY 2023 Environmental Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 14% and methane emissions by 47% in 2020 compared to 2019. Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) (million tonnes CO2e) 2018  5.05  2019  4.91  2020  4.25  Methane (million tonnes CO2e)  2018  1.07  2019  0.99  2020  0.52  Reduced Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 13%  and methane emissions intensity by 47% in 2020  compared to 2019. Reduced flared volume intensity by 33% in 2020 compared to 2019. Flaring Intensity (% of natural gas produced) 2018 2.13% 2019 2.21% 2020 1.48% Used approximately 37 million barrels of recycled water in 2020. Over 150 million barrels of recycled water used since 2015. 17 consecutive years of climate reporting to CDP.* 8 consecutive years of water reporting to CDP (since inception).* Continued track record of increasing transparency on climate change through our 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report. * Legacy Devon Safety Adopted legacy company best practices for vehicle driving safety, serious incidents and fatalities (SIF) review processes and contractor management practices. Reduction in total employee and contractor recordable incident 13% rate (TRIR) in 2020. Reduction in Lost Time 19% Incident Rate (LTIR) in 2020. 2021 corporate safety goals represent a larger portion of the compensation formula to incentivize improvements. Launched our Inclusion and Equity Grants program to support nine Black community organizations in Oklahoma City. Distributed over 10,000 at-home STEM resources for  children and teachers in our operating areas. Addressed urgent community needs resulting from  the COVID-19 pandemic by modifying our social investment  plan activities. Raised $1.4 million in our expedited annual employee giving campaign. Honored the Tulsa community’s support of legacy WPX Energy with grants focused on economic development, education, social services and community enrichment. Governance Enhanced the structure and composition of the board of directors to cultivate strong risk management,  decision-making and communications. Earned top-tier rankings among peer companies on major ESG-focused surveys and assessments. Continued track record of increasing transparency on political activity and lobbying through our 2020 Political Activity and Lobbying Report. Engaged with approximately 100 governance representatives of institutional investors representing more than 46% of outstanding shares. Introduced blended values following our merger to guide  us in becoming a cohesive and high-performing Devon. Integrity Relationship Courage Results Supported employees with flexible working arrangements, responsive wellness programs and frequent communications during the COVID-19 pandemic. Worked to deepen our understanding of social and racial inequality through intentional conversations and listening as steps toward improving our community and company. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. Overview is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. We know that strong environmental performance Performance Targets is essential to protecting the communities in which we live and operate, managing risk and generating long-term value for stakeholders. Devon has established aggressive environmental performance targets focused on reducing the carbon intensity of our operations, minimizing freshwater use and engaging constructively with our value chain. These targets reflect our dedication and commitment to achieving meaningful emissions reductions while pursuing our ultimate goal of net zero GHG emissions. NET ZERO GHG EMISSIONS FOR SCOPE 1 & 2 BY 2050 Net Zero GHG Emissions Devon’s history of using advanced technologies to improve efficiencies across the business will be key to delivering on our ambition of achieving net zero GHG emissions for Scope 1 and 2 by 2050. In pursuit of continued transparency, our 2021 Climate Change Assessment Report outlines our approach to proactively address climate related risks and opportunities. 50% REDUCTION IN GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY FOR SCOPE 1 & 2 BY 2030 65% REDUCTION IN METHANE EMISSIONS INTENSITY BY 2030 GHG and Methane Emissions Reductions To demonstrate our progress in achieving  our longer term net zero ambition, Devon  is targeting reductions of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 50% and methane emissions intensity by 65% by 2030 from a 2019 baseline. Devon’s emission reduction strategy will involve a range of potential actions including expanding our leak detection and repair program; implementing advanced leak detection technologies; reducing the volume of natural gas that is flared; electrifying facilities to reduce the use of natural gas and diesel consumed onsite, including transitioning from gas driven to air driven pneumatic controllers; and optimizing facility design to minimize leaks and eliminate common equipment failures. 0.5% OR LOWER FLARING INTENSITY BY 2025 ELIMINATE ROUTINE FLARING BY 2030 Flaring Performance A key component of Devon’s broader emissions reduction strategy is to focus  on reducing flared volumes to protect the environment. We are establishing a two pronged approach to improve our flaring performance — targeting a flaring intensity of 0.5% of gross natural gas produced by 2025 and eliminating routine flaring, as defined by the World Bank, by 2030. We expect to drive results by continuing to engage in pre production planning, optimize facility design and operating conditions, assess and deploy beneficial reuse technologies, and collaborate with service providers to prevent and mitigate midstream and downstream constraints. 90% NON-FRESHWATER USAGE, FOR COMPLETIONS IN MOST ACTIVE DELAWARE BASIN OPERATING AREAS Water Conservation Devon is committed to conserving and reusing water. We’ve set a target to advance our recycled water rate and use 90% or more non freshwater for completions activities in our most active operating areas within the Delaware Basin. To minimize freshwater use, the company employs economically and operationally feasible freshwater alternatives wherever possible and has a dozen water recycling facilities throughout the Delaware Basin. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF DEVON CONTRACTORS IN KEY ESG PERFORMANCE AREAS BY 2023 Value Chain Engagement Devon will continue evaluating how we can constructively engage stakeholders upstream and downstream of our operations to improve ESG performance across our  value chain. By 2023, Devon contractors, who perform work on the company’s locations, will begin undergoing annual evaluations to assess  their ESG performance in key areas. beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined Overview beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined Operations Overview Superior execution At Devon Energy, operational excellence goes beyond technical know-how, compliance, disciplined capital spending and supply chain proficiency. Delivering strong operational results means keeping our workforce and communities safe, protecting the environment and sustaining our social license  to operate across our portfolio of premier assets. Devon finds and produces oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids in the most prolific basins in the U.S. Since our founding 50 years ago, Devon has pioneered operational practices, been proactive in applying technology and resilient in adapting to evolving market conditions, regulations and increasing stakeholder expectations. Our work helping to supply reliable, affordable energy enables Devon to create jobs, strengthen our communities, and contribute to local, state, federal and global economies. We do this while actively mitigating our impacts to address stakeholder concerns about climate change and other issues. Environmental, health and safety (EHS) performance Devon’s operating teams are accountable for delivering strong operational results while protecting people and the environment, and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and company policies. Through continuous improvement in operations and EHS performance, we’re able to improve efficiencies, lower costs and reduce our environmental impacts. We reinforce the importance of EHS results by tying a portion of our annual compensation to achieving corporate EHS targets. Our EHS Council sets our strategy and priorities for improving EHS performance, and regularly communicates plans and progress with our operating teams. EHS professionals in our field operations support our teams with timely guidance and effective policies, protocols and practices. To safeguard our workforce, Devon’s operating teams work proactively to strengthen our safety culture, share lessons learned, identify trends, and track leading and lagging indicators. We evaluate and apply the latest technologies, tools and best  practices to improve our environmental performance. Mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions and meeting our short- and long-term methane intensity reduction targets is a top priority. We’ve made progress by reducing flared volumes from our operations and steadily increasing the number of voluntary leak detection and repair (LDAR) surveys performed on equipment. We’ve reduced our need for fresh water in our operations by increasing our recycling capacity and the volume of recycled water we use. We also seek to limit the use of fresh water as much as possible. Diversified footprint across the U.S. In 2021, our merger of equals with WPX Energy expanded and diversified our footprint of premier acreage positions with a deep, high-quality inventory of drilling locations. Our focused development plan centers on drilling activity in our core areas of the Delaware Basin of southeast New Mexico and west Texas, the Eagle Ford Shale in south Texas, the Powder River Basin in Wyoming, the Williston Basin in North Dakota and the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma. We’ve positioned Devon for sustainable growth through a disciplined, returns-driven strategy, significant financial strength and liquidity, and an advantaged dividend. Our commitment to environmental, social and governance (ESG) excellence supports our growth by keeping us focused on managing risk, operating responsibly and improving continuously. As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect Overview As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect Operations Overview continued The Delaware Basin: Environmental performance proving ground Technology and innovation As a long-time industry innovator, we develop, deploy and  investigate advanced technologies to improve EHS performance and optimize production. These include methods to detect equipment methane leaks, assess flare performance, identify beneficial uses of produced water outside of our industry and identify small fluid spills. We invest in a dedicated technology team and embed technology professionals in our business units to align solutions to business needs. For example, our data science analytics team developed custom artificial intelligence models that evaluate multiple camera images of wellsites every hour to determine if the flaring equipment is functioning properly. If issues are detected, we can alert or dispatch an operator to take action. We have patents pending for the unique camera technology. Devon also holds multiple patents related to drilling and completions operations, including the breakthrough in fracture diagnostics called sealed wellbore pressure monitoring. Capital efficiency Operational excellence requires controlling costs, which we’ve accomplished with operating margin improvements, general and administrative cost savings, and drilling and completions efficiencies. In addition, our enhanced operating scale has improved supply chain efficiencies. Safeguarding people and the environment is important to our daily operations, the long-term value of our company and our social license to operate. We challenge ourselves every day to deliver outstanding environmental, health, safety, operational and financial performance. Additional information about Devon’s performance is available in our detailed quarterly earnings presentations. To improve our overall performance, we often start where changes can have the biggest impact: in the Delaware Basin, our most active operating area and the growth engine for the company. Devon operates about 400,000 net acres across multiple formations in the Delaware Basin of southeast New Mexico and west Texas, where we’re enhancing our environmental performance while delivering top tier operational results. The Delaware Basin is a main driver of our overall air emissions performance. To reduce GHG and methane emissions, we stopped routine flaring in this region in 2017 and flare only when experiencing system upsets or midstream or downstream constraints. We took action in 2019 to curtail these issues in our legacy Devon assets in New Mexico, leading to a 95% reduction in our flared volume intensity from mid 2019 to mid 2021. To reduce venting or flaring from oil and condensate storage tanks, we install vapor recovery towers to maximize gas recovery and minimize the volume of tank vapors that need to be flared. In 2021, we successfully piloted a low emission storage tank design that further maximizes gas recovery, Additional reductions in GHG and methane emissions in the Delaware Basin will be needed to meet our environmental targets. Our evaluation of emerging technologies for detecting and quantifying equipment leaks includes investigating advanced optical gas imaging, sensor based continuous monitoring and remote detection using aircraft and satellites. We are conducting active pilot projects in the Delaware and Anadarko basins, which have provided valuable insight into the capabilities of aerial and ground based detection technologies, the types of emissions detectable, and potential use cases going forward to further improve  our emissions performance. We address water scarcity in the Delaware Basin by using fresh water only when blending and only when reused water isn’t available in sufficient quantities. Reused and brackish water have steadily accounted for more of our water use, and we’ve invested in industry leading recycling capacity. The legacy Devon and WPX companies combined used approximately 37 million barrels of reused and recycled water in 2020 – and more than 150 million barrels since 2015. We store reusable water in impoundment basins, enabling us to save water and to eliminate hauling water by truck and the associated emissions and traffic safety hazards. We’re so committed to conserving water in the Delaware Basin that one of our new targets is to use 90% or more non fresh water for completions activities in our most active operating areas of the basin. We’re continuing to advance our environmental improvement programs in the Delaware Basin to meet our short , medium and long term targets for air emissions reductions and water recycling. At the same time, we’re increasing our capital efficiency, reducing field level costs and increasing production – showing that strong environmental performance and operational excellence go hand in hand at Devon. 