Letter To StakeholdersDoing the right thing is a core value at Devon that motivates us to find and produce oil and natural gas in ways that are safe, ethical and environmentally and socially responsible. Another core value – delivering results – keeps us focused on the financial strength and long-term value our stakeholders expect from a leading independent energy producer. Through a strategic series of divestitures and organizational adjustments, we completed our transformation in 2019 to a returns-driven, capital-efficient U.S. oil growth company, thanks in large part to the dedication of our employees who carry out our strategy every day. It was clearly the right thing to do for our business. Little did we know how well our financial strength and operational excellence would position us for the unprecedented turmoil to come in 2020.The COVID-19 pandemic has affected us all, and the global response to it locked down economies everywhere. Demand for oil was severely suppressed in the first half of 2020, and the low prices that came with the drastic declines in demand have persisted. At Devon, our leaders and employees have acted quickly and effectively. As we’ve managed through unprecedented disruptions, our employees maintained their disciplined approach. They’ve put health and safety first, pivoting seamlessly to new ways of working while continuing to execute our business strategy safely and responsibly. All this, while also caring for their families and communities. Their performance has been simply outstanding.Adding to the strain of the pandemic has been national outrage and civil unrest stemming from appalling incidents of police brutality and calls for more action on racism and discrimination. At Devon, I’ve been meeting with our Inclusion Action Team of employee volunteers. Together, we’re identifying and implementing changes that can make our community a better place and Devon a better company for everyone.Sustainability moving forwardTaken together, all of these challenges cause us to focus more sharply than ever on what sustainability looks like for Devon Energy. We expect oil demand to pick up again as economies open back up, even if not to pre-pandemic levels. Still, hydrocarbons will be an essential component of the global energy mix for decades to come. Our analysis of future scenarios – including controls on carbon and lower commodity prices – strongly suggest that our company is well-positioned to compete. We intend to continue our record as a reliable, responsible producer of energy to help meet global demand. Devon remains committed to improving our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and reporting it transparently. We understand that stakeholders expect a successful company to address ESG risks and opportunities while delivering strong financial returns. To drive improvement companywide, we make corporate ESG goals a part of our employee compensation program.ESG progress in 2019We listen to stakeholders and assess risks and opportunities. We set and act on our priorities, and in 2019 we made significant progress in key ESG focus areas. Perhaps most notably, we publicly committed to a target to reduce methane intensity to 0.28% or lower. In 2019 we met this ambitious goal with emissions-control technologies and an expanded leak detection and repair (LDAR) program.In our most active operating area, New Mexico’s Delaware Basin, we reduced flaring and increased water recycling. By year-end 2019, flaring was down to 1% or less and our use of recycled water had tripled since 2016. We always want to be a good neighbor, and this extends to doing what we can to improve the quality of life in communities where we live and work. In 2019, Devon provided education resources to thousands of students across our operating areas, enhancing our own investments by attracting like-minded partners to join us. We want to be a vital contributor in our communities and will be creative about how we continue this in challenging times.Our pursuit of safety in our operations is never complete; we never consider our performance to be good enough. This was true again in 2019, and we’re sharpening our focus on training and sharing lessons learned to prevent incidents and injuries going forward.Likewise, we’re always looking for ways to strengthen our corporate governance. We’ve added diversity and new perspectives to our board of directors and through proactive engagement, we’ve steadily increased transparency on issues that are top-of-mind for our stakeholders. This year, as we produce new, free-standing reports on political activity and climate risk, our directors remain engaged on ESG. They reviewed and approved this report.As we’ve enhanced reporting and transparency year by year, our ratings in leading ESG-focused surveys have improved. Devon participates in these assessments to demonstrate our progress and performance on key ESG measures. And to ensure the accuracy and usefulness of the ratings, we support the standardization of reporting metrics.Striking a balanceESG highlights Devon’s strengths, differentiates our company from our peers and is a source of pride for our employees. Safe and clean operations have a positive impact on our financial results, which in turn help us to better support our communities. As ESG metrics become more quantitative, expectations will rise. We’re continually looking to expand our efforts and enhance transparency, with a responsibility to balance costs and benefits.Thank you for your interest in what Devon is doing to be a safe and responsible operator. Regardless of the challenges we face, our commitment to doing things the right way will not change.Sincerely,Dave Hager 
Executive ChairCEO LETTERMessage From Our BoardDevon Energy’s Board, with our Governance Committee on point, takes responsibility for actively monitoring the company’s performance on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. Devon is an industry leader in ESG but will not rest on its accomplishments in any area of performance. This is why the Board supports companywide ESG goals as a factor in the compensation for every Devon employee.We also make a point to participate in some of the company’s engagements with investors. We’ve heard loud and clear that they expect Devon to address and report on ESG oversight, processes and performance with the same rigor as is dedicated to business results. This report is specifically designed to meet those expectations.For a company to be considered a good investment, model employer, preferred business partner and conscientious community leader, it must be sharply focused on preserving a clean environment, ensuring a safe workplace and sustaining a strong and inclusive business culture. Devon is committed to these principles and welcomes accountability for all of them.The expectations are especially high for oil and natural gas companies, as countries worldwide seek to displace fossil fuels with renewable forms of energy. Still, hydrocarbons will be a vital part of the global energy mix for decades to come. Devon will continue to proudly meet that need – responsibly and economically.Devon is proactive and strategic in choosing ESG focus areas, driving change with innovation, collaboration and engagement. And as the relevant metrics become more quantitative and standardized, we expect the company to redouble its commitment to industry leadership in ESG transparency and performance.Thank you for your interest in Devon. The Board and our Governance Committee welcome your feedback as we continue in our mission to provide effective oversight of the company’s plans and actions with ESG.  Sincerely,Barbara M. Baumann, 
Governance Committee ChairDavid A. Hager, 
Executive ChairPandemic ResponseAt Devon, we’ve done everything in our power to care for our people, at the same time carrying on with our work in our essential industry.While the coronavirus pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges in all aspects of life and work, our planning, preparation and execution have helped us to sustain our business. We’ve been sharply focused at all times on our dual priorities of employee health and business continuity.Facing the serious challenges of the pandemic itself, plus the related economic threats to our business, our management team moved decisively on both fronts. They communicated clearly and frequently with employees, affirming the company’s priority to safeguard their health and offering detailed assurance that the company’s financial strength and business strategy would carry us through. The company, like organizations of all kinds, made effective use of streaming video and live online meetings as never before.Throughout, we have sought to understand and address our employees’ concerns. Everyone has personal situations in addition to their work, including health challenges, childcare, home schooling and care for elders, to name a few. Our approach has been flexible, working with each employee individually.In our business, COVID-19’s impacts and uncertainties continue to unfold, but among the early shocks was the dramatic collapse in demand for oil and natural gas. Crude oil futures contracts plunged briefly below zero as a price war broke out between Saudi Arabia and Russia. Our financial strength, liquidity and commodity hedging programs bought us time to assess the markets and formulate the details of our operational response. Planning, preparation and executionAmong those advising our senior leaders was a COVID-19 Planning Team of Devon business and emergency management leaders, formed in January amid early reports of a possible pandemic in Asia. The team monitored and communicated the fast-moving news and safety guidance. They planned and prepared, starting with the procurement of supplies and equipment that would be needed for protecting people and sanitizing workplaces.When the virus arrived in Devon’s operating areas, each location was ready with supplies on hand and cleaning staffs hired and trained. Field crews were outfitted with plans, procedures, supplies and protective gear to be used in the event of a COVID-positive test at a work site. Our legal team saw to it that our employees and contractors had written credentials verifying their status as essential workers in a critical industry.Plans and arrangements also were made to ensure that Devon employees and contractors who could perform their work from remote locations were able to do so seamlessly. Devon’s technology team played a key role in ensuring business continuity, making the company’s data and networks accessible, reliable and secure as employees and their loved ones sheltered safely and worked from home.In response to sharp declines in demand and prices in energy markets, Devon’s operating teams moved quickly to protect the company’s pre-pandemic financial strength by reducing capital spending and operating costs. They found even greater efficiencies across our asset portfolio to preserve operational continuity and position the business for recovery. This involved quick assessments and decisions on cutting drilling programs and curtailing production. Companies industrywide executed similar curtailments, slowing production as demand began to return, in turn supporting higher prices.Among the many unprecedented steps Devon has taken was the company’s first-ever annual stockholders meeting that was not held in-person. This occurred in early June, just as communities were beginning to reopen after more than two months of safer-at-home directives. Devon’s board of directors, in the interest of health and safety while also ensuring proper corporate governance, decided to hold the meeting online and by all accounts, it was a success. Managing forwardClear and comprehensive employee communications have been vital in the company’s effective management of the pandemic response and ongoing business challenges. We have sought to instill calm and confidence, engaging in two-way dialog and laying out clear expectations in a period of fast-paced change and uncertainty. Employee feedback on the communications program has been strongly positive – in particular for the robust content published on Devon’s employee intranet site. The content – written materials, info-graphics, videos and more – resulted from teamwork among Devon’s human resources, COVID-19 Planning and corporate communications teams. Synthesizing the myriad details and complexities of sustaining an energy company through parallel health and business crises – and then creating communications products to support the corporate priorities of employee health and business continuity – is a big challenge in its own right.This work is ongoing. Devon has been planning and communicating the company’s plans and protocols as communities reopen and employees return to their offices. Foot-traffic patterns in common areas, timing of elevators, the ongoing need for social distancing and the question of face masks are among the many details considered, communicated and enacted as the company continues its efforts to successfully sustain its business, knowing this is not possible without strong protections for human health.Devon’s dual commitments to employee health and business continuity have served our stakeholders well during the coronavirus pandemic.PANDEMIC RESPONSEJillian Sulley, 
Emergency Management LeaderAs the person in charge of Devon’s emergency management and business continuity efforts, Jillian has dual roles: to prepare the company to respond to any incident that threatens to interrupt operations and to minimize those impacts as much as possible. Jillian is a nationally certified and recognized emergency manager who describes her role as both “advisor and shepherd.”During the COVID-19 response, Jillian was instrumental in helping the company achieve its two primary objectives – ensuring the health and safety of Devon employees and maintaining business continuity.“Jillian is the consummate professional. Her experience, subject-matter expertise and interaction with both the public and private sectors establishes our emergency-response program as leading-edge,” said Glen Maynard, Devon’s COVID-19 Incident Commander and Associate General Counsel.Said Jillian, “Response is all about having the right people in the right place at the right time in the right role to ensure a response is carried out efficiently and effectively.”PANDEMIC RESPONSEZafar Ali, 
Manager, Facilities & Real EstateZafar Ali has built a career in construction design and management that has led him to his role as manager of Devon’s facilities team. At the first hint in January of a pandemic in Asia, Zafar’s team started acquiring the materials and supplies that might be needed for infection control at Devon’s facilities in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico and Wyoming.When they were needed, Devon had the cleaning supplies and PPE on-hand and the janitorial staffs hired and trained. Such planning and preparation led to focused execution of sanitization programs companywide, week after week, in offices, common areas and field worksites. Zafar is proud that operations have continued, uninterrupted and without the distraction of coronavirus infection. “Planning and preparation have proven invaluable,” he said. “We’re prepared to execute on anything required to keep our business running and minds at ease.”Devon’s partnership with the NBA’s Oklahoma City Thunder turned T-shirts into thousands of face masks that were donated to essential workers in our communities.Core Values: 
The Devon WayTrust is a key ingredient in Devon’s success. It is vital that our stakeholders trust us to deliver results the right way. The Devon Way.The Devon Way promotes a culture of integrity and accountability. A large medallion with the word “Integrity” is inset in the floor in the center of the rotunda of our headquarters. It’s not only a visible reminder of our culture for employees but also a tool to discuss our culture and attributes with candidates for job openings with Devon. Integrity enables us to work better and more efficiently. It strengthens our relationships and establishes Devon as the partner of choice in our industry.We seek to create shareholder value while operating in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. We are driven to perform with a clear focus, a sense of urgency and a commitment to continuous improvement. By creating a feeling of personal ownership and a culture of hard work, innovation and productivity, Devon encourages an environment that brings out the best in each of us.An atmosphere of teamwork, inclusion and trust encourages our employees to participate in the decision-making process. It promotes accountability and gives everyone an opportunity to develop as a leader.A workforce that is truly engaged will derive greater satisfaction from our success and from our improved work performance.Devon’s strength comes from employees who are committed to shareholder value and long-term success. Our corporate culture is one of fundamental respect for the environment and our neighbors. This respect makes Devon a good community partner and helps improve the quality of life where we live and work. By being a good neighbor, Devon enhances our ability to meet our corporate goals.Our Core ValuesHire the best peopleAlways do the right thingDeliver resultsBecause our people are the company’s most important resource, we develop employees’ knowledge and creativity, and we cultivate an atmosphere of inclusivity where everyone can share an idea and know that it will be heard.In a competitive environment, this mantra might be pushed aside in some organizations. At Devon, we refuse to succumb to ethical lapses. We embrace honesty and uncompromised integrity as our foremost core value.In our commitment to our stakeholders, we seek continuous improvement, as individuals and as a company. We do this through hard work and individual ownership of Devon’s goals and objectives.Be a team playerBe a good neighborWe encourage teamwork and a culture of trust and goodwill, because a focused, fulfilled and engaged workforce brings more job satisfaction and ultimately a builds a more successful company.We share a fundamental respect for the environment and constantly strive to improve the overall quality of life in the communities where we operate.Performance HighlightsAs we seek to be more transparent in communicating our performance, we see opportunities to illustrate the results of our work. Some examples:Download performance metrics spreadsheetMETHANE EMISSIONS(million tonnes CO2e)METHANE EMISSIONS INTENSITY(% of natural gas produced).950.340%0.32%.900.320%0.31%0.85.850.300%0.81.800.28%0.28%0.280%TARGET0.73.750.260%.700.240%.65201920172018201820172019RECYCLED WATER(million bbl)GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY(tCO2e/MBOE)2014.0017.7313.001612.3411.7511.6512.001211.0084.679.9610.0049.000201920182017201820192017PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTSWOMEN BOARD MEMBERS2020CDP REPORTINGCONSECUTIVE YEARS OF CLIMATE REPORTING TO CDP1627%CONSECUTIVE YEARS OF WATER REPORTING TO CDP
SINCE INCEPTION7SAFETY PERFORMANCETotal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)MINORITY EMPLOYEESMinorities as a percentage of workforceTotalEmployeeContractor19%0.70.618%0.517%0.40.3201720182019201920182017Williston BasinOperations 
OverviewPowder River BasinAcross Devon’s premier multi-basin U.S. oil portfolio, focusing on the details required to work safely and protect the environment elevates our performance in all areas.Anadarko BasinDelaware BasinEagle FordDevon Energy finds and produces oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids from the most prolific basins in the U.S. We have premier acreage positions with a deep, high-quality inventory of drilling locations. A careful third-party assessment has determined that our business is sustainable, with assets that can be profitable even in an aggressive low-carbon scenario.With no near-term debt maturities, ample liquidity, a disciplined hedging strategy, a returns-driven capital program and strong cash flows, we expect to emerge as a post-pandemic industry leader capable of delivering strong operating performance. Our focused development plan centers on drilling activity in core areas of the Delaware Basin of southeastern New Mexico, the Eagle Ford Shale in south Texas, the Powder River Basin in Wyoming, the Williston Basin in North Dakota and the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma. Devon’s operating teams are accountable for working in a safe and environmentally responsible way and delivering strong performance, while complying with all applicable laws, regulations and our company policies. Through continuous improvement in operations and environmental, health and safety (EHS) performance, we’re able to improve efficiencies and lower costs. Devon’s EHS roadmap sets our strategy and priorities for improving EHS performance. Our operating teams proactively share lessons learned and track leading indicators in an effort to head off potential safety issues. Our EHS professionals are integrated into field operations to support our teams with timely guidance and effective EHS policies, protocols and practices. We apply the latest tools, technology and best practices to improve environmental performance. To reduce emissions, we’ve invested in infrared cameras to detect leaks so they can be quickly repaired. Over time, we’re finding fewer leaks as we continue our use of infrared surveys in pursuit of our lower emissions intensity target. We have also increased our ability to use recycled water in our operations, substantially reducing our need for fresh water. These and other measures enable Devon to dedicate our resources to the most effective and impactful environmental strategies. Our commitment to operational excellence includes controlling costs and seeking the highest-margin production available in our core areas. In 2019, we increased production while reducing layers of management, streamlining processes and cutting overhead.As a long-time leader in innovation, our technology team is embedded in and aligned with our business units to optimize production. One output of this strategy in 2019 was advancement of a company breakthrough in fracture diagnostics called sealed wellbore pressure monitoring. We’re marketing it commercially and seeking a patent for the process. By protecting our people and the environment, we’re working daily to renew our social license to operate and sustain our operations through strong financial performance.Additional information about Devon’s performance is available in our detailed quarterly earnings presentations. 