Overview It’s our responsibility as an employer to provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and contractors. But it goes deeper than that at Devon. We care about our employees, their families and our communities, and we believe their safety and health is as integral to our success as operational excellence. We prepare our people to work safely with comprehensive orientation and training, on the job guidance and tools, safety engagements, recognition and other resources. Employees and contractors are accountable for stopping at risk work, immediately reporting incidents and near miss events, and informing visitors of emergency alarms and evacuation plans. Devon uses proven best practices, technologies, tools and materials throughout our operations to safeguard the people working at our worksites and neighbors nearby. Taking Action SAFETY GOVERNANCE Integrated our safety governance structure and teams following our merger. Elevated the importance of safety by creating the new position of vice president of ESG and EHS. Adopted legacy company best practices for vehicle driving safety, serious incidents and fatalities (SIF) review processes and contractor management practices. DEVON’S GOALS Safety performance at legacy Devon and legacy WPX Safety Performance Metrics contributed to an overall score of 80% and 96% of the *Unless otherwise noted, all data presented is pro forma (Devon + WPX) for U.S. operated assets. companies’ 2020 corporate safety goals, respectively. 2018 2019 2020 The United Nations has established 17  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  Fatalities (Employee and contractor workforce) 0 1 2 Set 2021 corporate safety goals with the legacy  They re part of a globally agreed upon action Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) (Employee + Contractor) 0.53 0.49 0.43 companies’ combined 2020 safety metrics as the  plan for organizations seeking to provide TRIR - Employee 0.41 053 036 affordable energy, produced responsibly to baseline, with overall safety representing a larger  protect the environment, while also promoting TRIR - Contractor 0.55 0.49 0.44 portion of the compensation formula. peace and prosperity for all people. In this report, Serious Incident and Fatality (SIF) Recordable Rate  (Employee + Contractor) 0.06 0.10 0.11 we have identified a wide variety of Devon s Days Away Restricted Transfer (DART) Incident Rate (Employee + Contractor) 0.26 0.24 0.20 VALUE CHAIN ENGAGEMENT business activities that align with the U.N. SDGs. Here in the safety section, look for: DART Incident Rate - Employee 0.12 0.28 0.24 By 2023, Devon contractors who perform work on DART Incident Rate - Contractor 0.28 0.23 0.19 the company’s locations will begin undergoing annual Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) (Employee + Contractor) 0.12 0.15 0.12 evaluations to assess their ESG performance in key areas. LTIR - Employee 0.12 0.28 0.16 LTIR - Contractor 0.12 0.13 0.11 Preventable Vehicle Incident Rate (per million miles) 1.00 1.50 1.20 Employee Hours (million) 4.9 5.7 5.0 Contractor Hours (million) 24.7 35.7 24.8 1 Performance in 2018 is limited to legacy Devon only. 31 Devon Energy 2021 Sustainability Report Safety EXCEL DOWNLOAD improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about Safety chief operating officer (COO) is responsible for our safetimprove in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about effective activities and programs to help us continuously effective activities and programs to help us continuously To drive continuous improvement, the Devon EHS Council sets safety and health strategy and helps ensure implementation. The council is made up of EHS, operations and business unit managers who meet regularly to monitor performance, share lessons learned, and communicate corrective actions and best practices. In addition, through roundtable discussions with production operations leaders, the council keeps the organization updated on stakeholder expectations for EHS performance. improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about Workforce Safety Empowering our team Integrated our safety governance structure and teams for a seamless transition and to drive continuous improvement in safety. Elevated the visibility of safety and its importance to Devon’s future by creating the new role of vice president of ESG and EHS reporting to the executive vice president and chief operating officer. Adopted legacy company best practices for vehicle driving safety, serious incidents and fatalities (SIF) review processes and contractor management practices to carry forward as One Team. Conducted safety training sessions, safety meetings and our Hearts and Minds workshops with masks and/or social distancing to promote safety during the COVID-19 pandemic. Safety performance at legacy Devon and legacy WPX contributed to an overall score of 80% and 96% of the companies’ corporate safety goals, respectively, in 2020. Set 2021 corporate safety goals to reduce the overall SIF rate and to utilize SIF learnings to promote continuous improvement, systemic changes and enhanced EHS culture. The combined legacy companies’ 2020 safety metrics were used as the baseline. Overall, safety performance represents a larger portion of the compensation formula in 2021 than in 2020. Everyone at Devon – our leaders, employees and contractors – is expected to actively participate in making Devon a safe place to work. We empower our team by providing comprehensive safety resources, measuring leading and lagging indicators, setting corporate safety goals and incorporating our safety metrics into our compensation. We’re committed to integrating the guiding principles in our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy into all decisions that affect our operations. Compliance with applicable safety laws, regulations, policies and protocols is a key principle, and is reinforced in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, EHS Policy and safety orientation, training and engagements. Our governance structure supports Devon’s commitment to making safety our top priority. The Governance, Environmental, and Public Policy (GEPP) Committee of our board of directors reviews our safety performance and keeps the full board informed. Devon’s executive vice president and chief operating officer (COO) is responsible for our safety performance, with the vice president of ESG and EHS reporting to the COO. This vice president position is a new role that elevates the visibility and importance of ESG and EHS strategy, activities and disclosures. Our senior leaders oversee safety policies and performance, and the ESG Committee supports management’s commitment to safety and health. In turn, our workforce is empowered to do what’s necessary to perform work safely and stop work if they see a safety risk. Strategy and implementation To drive continuous improvement, the Devon EHS Council sets safety and health strategy and helps ensure implementation. The council is made up of EHS, operations and business unit managers who meet regularly to monitor performance, share lessons learned, and communicate corrective actions and best practices. In addition, through roundtable discussions with production operations leaders, the council keeps the organization updated on stakeholder expectations for EHS performance. The EHS Management System (formerly our EHS Roadmap) developed by the council guides our selection of the most effective activities and programs to help us continuously improve in 14 key elements of EHS performance. In 2020, the council met its goal to share and use learnings about SIFs and near misses, which is part of our transition from lagging metrics to leading indicators. It also largely completed activities related to the Training and Competency element, with specific attention on employee training for critical tasks and for completing competency assurance. With fresh eyes and input from new WPX team members, the EHS Council started identifying safety best practices from both legacy companies to carry forward. We adopted the WPX focus on driving safety and key elements of its contractor management program. We also integrated Devon’s SIF investigation and tracking process across all of our business units. Throughout 2021, the EHS team will continue making training improvements in some business units and focus on leading indicators to support reaching our corporate safety goals. Devon’s EHS Management System guides us in identifying concrete steps to continuously  improve in 14 key elements of performance Leadership, Culture and Accountability Contractor Management Event Management and Investigation Environmental, Social and Governance Hazard Analysis and Risk Management Asset Integrity Training and Environmental Management Competency Records and Documentation Goals and Objectives Safe Work Practices Emergency Management EHS Roadmap Review Safety Audit reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. Safety Job competency is one of our EHS guiding principles. We emphasize the quality of safety training over the quantity. Communication reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. ggyreinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. Workforce Safety continued Visible Commitment Accountability Anticipation Participation Recognition Communication Strong EHS culture One of the council’s ongoing priorities is to encourage a strong EHS culture at Devon. We believe the care and concern we show our workforce can have a positive impact on their safety and health at work and at home. We’ve learned from our field leaders that transparent communications, positive safety behaviors, proactive reporting and safely meeting operational goals are both signs and outcomes of a healthy EHS culture. The council assesses our EHS culture regularly to pinpoint the right approaches and programs to advance safety performance. Each employee learns about our safety culture on their first day on the job, and we keep the conversation going throughout their career. During new-hire orientation, employees learn the safety behaviors we expect and incorporate into the employee appraisal process. Job competency is one of our EHS guiding principles. We emphasize the quality of safety training over the quantity. A combination of online and hands-on training is offered to office and field workers as appropriate for their job responsibilities. All employees must complete our field safety briefing if they work on or visit field locations. Our training reinforces our requirement to immediately report any incident or near-miss event and to be accountable for our own and others’ safety. We put our safety culture into action in 2020 as we worked to keep our field crews healthy and safe during the challenges and distractions of the pandemic. In addition to following local protocols, we held socially distanced training sessions and safety meetings. The experience highlighted the importance of having leaders in the field and in-person safety meetings to continue to set the right tone to work safely at Devon. Stop Work Responsibility Proactively managing safety risks is a key factor in maintaining safe working conditions. Starting with new-hire safety orientation and continuing on our work sites, we emphasize the importance of Stop Work Responsibility. Employees have the right, responsibility and obligation to speak up and stop any action, task or behavior that is or could be unsafe. It’s also a way we live our value of courage, and Devon pledges to support anyone who exercises their Stop Work Responsibility. We capture and track proactive stops and good catches, and recognize individuals for stopping work to safeguard themselves, each other and the environment. Communicating our EHS culture As a core element of our safety engagement efforts, our Hearts and Minds workshops drive home why safety is important to Devon. During the workshops, we share our safety culture and approach to effective communication, continuous improvement, integrity and situational awareness to reduce safety risk. Our Hearts and Minds workshops were thoughtfully paused following the onset of the global pandemic in 2020, but we believe so strongly in the value of the program that we resumed the workshops, with masks and social distancing to prevent the potential spread of COVID-19, for a number of service and rig crews. In 2020, more than 250 individuals participated in Hearts and Minds or a rig on-boarding workshop, including legacy WPX employees, leaders across Devon and contract drilling crews. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. Safety sAs part of integrating best practices, in 2021 Devon The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. reason for working safely.” This simple question allows for opportunities to make safety personal for those engaging  in that conversation. reason for working safely.” This simple question allows for opportunities to make safety personal for those engaging  in that conversation. impact on our workforce, safety performance and operational excellence. To encourage safety-related engagements, our The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. Workforce Safety continued High expectations for contractors Our contract partners who perform work in the field are indispensable to our operations. We seek contractors who have the most robust safety programs and track records, and we strive to work only with approved contractors who complete our supplier qualification process and meet our substantial policy and insurance requirements. Contractors are responsible for having EHS programs that meet or exceed all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, as well as Devon’s standards and protocols for essential safety activities. In 2020, for the fourth straight year, more than 80% of legacy Devon’s operational spending was with contractors who earned our highest safety ratings. As part of integrating best practices, in 2021 Devon transitioned to Veriforce for third-party contractor verification and management. Among other improvements, Veriforce enables us to send prospective contractors and vendors a customized questionnaire to gauge their alignment with our core ESG priorities. We believe the periodic questionnaire will encourage constructive interactions with contractors who perform services directly on our work sites, and ultimately strengthen our supplier relationships. We require contractors to perform high-quality, environmentally sound and safe work. Contractors are expected to supply and retain quality personnel who are adequately trained to perform their jobs safely, and we work constantly to raise the level of contractor safety performance through training and engagement. To work with Devon, unless specifically exempted by the EHS Contractor Management protocol, non-exempt contract workers must complete SafeLand or Rig Pass training. Both  of these widely used industry safety training programs, as well as Devon’s contractor safety orientation, can be found on Veriforce’s eLearning platform. Our field orientation covers critical safety rules for common activities at field locations, such as handling chemicals, housekeeping and waste management. Oil haulers and all other contractors who work in transportation are required to complete safety briefings specific to their work. Devon’s company website provides contractors with easy access to our safety requirements, expectations, protocols, Safety Data Sheets (SDS), forms and tools. To proactively manage risk, crews participate in a pre-task tailgate meeting before they start work to raise awareness  of the potential risks and exposures, required personal protective equipment (PPE) and other aspects of the job. Leadership engagements in the field can have a positive impact on our workforce, safety performance and operational excellence. To encourage safety-related engagements, our field personnel wear hard hat stickers that say, “Ask me my reason for working safely.” This simple question allows for opportunities to make safety personal for those engaging  in that conversation. The conversations that result often reveal that people work safely so they can return home  to their family and friends – a higher motivation than simply following procedures. Compliance audits Audits to identify and correct safety concerns are an element of our EHS Management System. Each business unit is required to perform an annual safety self-audit of compliance with regulations and Devon EHS protocols. Findings of noncompliance and suggestions for improvement are recorded in our Incident Management System (IMS) and tracked to closure. Business unit EHS professionals lead the audits, with guest auditors from other business units on hand to share best practices and lessons learned. More than half of the audit time is spent at field locations, with a focus on sites where work is under way so auditors can engage employees and contractors. Auditors also check training, competency and inspection records, and other documentation. Trends observed and lessons learned during audits are shared across Devon to drive improvement. Devon’s internal audit team provides an additional layer of review by performing operational audits in our field offices to examine processes and controls for functions such as supply chain, inventory and fleet management. Internal audit also periodically assesses the field audit process and recommends improvement opportunities. For example, Devon internal auditors suggested including guest auditors in business unit audits to provide an independent voice. Audits have also led to streamlining to one toll-free number for ethics, EHS and other issues across all Devon locations. Over time, the corrective actions we complete to address audit findings can lead to safety, operational and process improvements. United Nations member states adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Devon works to promote a safe and secure working environment for all employees and contractors, from office staff to field workers. Our mission is to enable the health, safety and productivity of all persons involved in Devon operations by encouraging an EHS-centered culture. We provide training and tools, swiftly and thoroughly investigate incidents and near-miss events, crowd-source insights, apply new learnings and pledge to support anyone who stops work for any kind of perceived threat to safety. Safety legacy companies in 2020. SIF investigations in 2020, led by each business unit and Workforce Safety continued Gauging our progress Annual corporate safety goals drive where we focus our efforts to improve performance. Our legacy companies had different safety goals in 2020: Devon’s metrics were the recordable SIF rate, SIF learnings, ESG/EHS culture and EHS roadmap; WPX measured safe driving, contractor management and ESG. In 2020, legacy Devon fully met our corporate goal to share learnings from SIFs, but did not meet our goal to reduce our SIF rate. Both legacy companies experienced a contractor fatality and Devon’s SIF rate was higher than in 2019, deeply affecting families, loved ones and coworkers. We work constantly to prevent SIFs and all injuries and incidents so our employees and contractors can return home safely every day. SIF investigations in 2020, led by each business unit and reviewed by the EHS Council, identified root causes such as improper use of tools and failure to follow standards, policies, controls and procedures. We addressed the root causes and took corrective actions including reviewing equipment designs and reinforcing Devon policies, requirements and best practices with our contractors. We also review SIFs where no one was injured and industry SIFs to deepen our understanding of trends, mitigations and best practices. Devon focuses on the SIF rate because we want to prevent life-threatening and life-altering incidents and to understand high-risk near misses to help us improve. To give a comprehensive view of our safety performance, we also track the Days Away Restricted Rate (DART), Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for employees and contractors. Employees of both legacy companies drove a combined  16.2 million miles in 2020. At mid-year 2020, legacy WPX took action to reverse a rise in preventable motor vehicle accidents (MVA). A safe driving campaign with stickers, posters and a 360 walkaround to check for hazards was rolled out for every company and employee vehicle. The result was a dramatic drop in MVAs in the second half of the year, allowing WPX to meet its 2020 corporate goal for safe driving. Devon now tracks our MVAs companywide, and several business units have set goals to improve driving safety locally.  2021 Corporate safety goals Devon’s 2021 corporate safety goals continue our mission to protect the lives of our employees, contractors and communities. To determine our goals, we assessed our metrics and set a baseline that reflects the combined performance of both legacy companies in 2020. Our 2021 goals are weighted toward leading indicators and demonstrate our level of commitment to safety. Overall safety represents a larger portion of the compensation formula and the quantitative SIF rate reduction accounts for a larger portion of the safety goal in 2021 compared to 2020. Utilizing SIF learnings remains a goal for the third year. Guided by our values to always do what’s  right, support each other and proactively manage risk, we continue to seek to safeguard our workforce and the public. Production Casing Production Casing Safety drills on our drilling rigs and audit drills as part of our field-Production Casing Production Casing Intermediate Casing Intermediate Casing Steel Casing Production Casing Production Casing Production Casing Production Casing Production Casing Well Safety Ensuring well integrity Devon uses proven best practices, technologies, tools and materials to protect people and the environment throughout the life cycle of our oil  and natural gas wells. Well integrity starts with the planning and design of the wellbore, including the selection of equipment, materials and drilling techniques. Devon designs our wells to meet high standards for the strength of the steel pipes that form the well, known as casing, and the quality and quantity of cement we use to separate and protect the multiple layers of casing. This attention to well construction keeps fluids in their proper place and protects groundwater zones for the life of the well. During drilling operations, pressure tests confirm casing integrity. Acoustic measurements let us know that the cement is properly bonded to the casing and to the surrounding rock formation. Employees working in our Well Construction area are focused on optimizing drilling and completion engineering, monitoring Devon wells and making adjustments to prevent issues before they occur. Devon continues to verify the well’s integrity during production operations by monitoring tubing and casing pressures and by analyzing gas and water produced by the well. We also conduct periodic pressure tests and casing inspections. We determine the drilling fluids to be used during the design phase before we drill a well. We conduct regular well-control drills on our drilling rigs and audit drills as part of our field-review process. To prevent spills, Devon follows local, state and federal guidelines when handling drilling fluid and mud systems. 36 Devon Energy    2021 Sustainability Report    Safety After a well is drilled, we use the hydraulic fracturing process  to complete it. Water, sand and additives are pumped into  the wellbore to create or restore small fractures in the rock  to stimulate production from new or existing oil and gas  wells. Water and sand make up 98% to 99.5% of the mixture. A full registry of wells and chemical additives, along with much more information about hydraulic fracturing, is available at fracfocus.org. Devon played a leading role in creating Frac  Focus in 2011 and has remained a major contributor to the site. We regularly communicate Devon’s environmental, health and safety policies, protocols and operational expectations for well safety in safety tailgate meetings at field locations. We pride ourselves on work safety and empowerment; all our crews have Stop Work Responsibility. Anyone can stop a job at any time if the person notices a potential hazard or is unsure about a task. This workplace culture helps keep people safe and protects the environment by reducing the risk of spills and emissions. 