ENVIRONMENTThe Environment section of our 2020 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewAir EmissionsClimate Change - UPDATEDWater ManagementLand ConservationSeismicityWaste ManagementSpill PreventionEnvironment OverviewAt Devon, our employees take pride in delivering business results the right way. Protecting the air, water, land and wildlife helps us improve the overall quality of life in our communities.RESOURCES  2020 CDP Climate Response  2020 CDP Climate Score  2020 CDP Water Response  2020 CDP Water Score  Environment, Health and Safety 
(EHS) Philosophy	Describes the expectations and principles that guide the decisions that affect our operations.  EHS protocols for business processes	Required of employees and contractors to ensure environmental, health and safety compliance.We believe exemplary environmental performance is essential to managing risk, meeting stakeholder expectations and differentiating Devon from peer companies. But above all, it’s the right thing to do. To continuously improve our environmental performance, we’re proactive and action-oriented. We consider the potential environmental impacts of our operations when planning activities and making decisions. Compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations is a given, and we often go above and beyond what’s required. In the process, Devon incorporates the tools and techniques that are economically feasible and enable us  to minimize our impact on the air, water and land. Through our commitment to environmental stewardship, Devon has established a record of improving performance. We have a long-standing focus on working to reduce emissions, as documented in 16 years of responding to the CDP climate change survey. As an industry leader in water conservation for over a decade, Devon has responded to CDP’s water survey since its inception seven years ago. We also take great care to preserve the landscape and protect wildlife habitat in areas surrounding our operations. Devon tracks specific metrics for greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions, flaring, spills, energy use and water use and disposal. We share this information in this report and other public disclosures because we embrace the accountability and we’re proud of our efforts and results. For additional metrics and details on our practices, please refer to our 2020 CDP Climate and CDP Water Responses.We engage with investors, communities and other stakeholders on climate change, water use, seismicity, spills and other environmental issues. Devon teams up with industry trade associations, environmental nonprofit organizations and academic partners to develop industrywide solutions. We’ll continue to listen, collaborate, increase transparency and act on concerns to protect the environment.Organized for continuous improvementDevon has a strong organization managing our environmental performance. Our executive vice president of exploration and production oversees our environmental programs and performance, which are evaluated by the governance and compensation committees of the Devon board of directors. The Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee engages with our executive committee, our board governance committee and the full board on our environmental performance, risks and commitments, including those related to climate change. In addition, at least three Devon directors have an educational background or direct work experience in environmental matters.The cross-functional Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Council sets our environmental strategy and closely monitors its implementation and performance with the goal of continuous improvement. The environmental management element of our EHS Roadmap, which was developed by the council, drives assessments and continuous improvement programs. Devon’s environmental professionals work closely with our business leaders to ensure our operations are environmentally sound and comply with all laws, regulations and company policies.At Devon, every employee is responsible for taking ownership of environmental performance. We expect employees to demonstrate environmental stewardship, plan ahead, participate in environmental programs, recognize positive attitudes and behaviors and communicate openly.To underscore how important environmental stewardship is to our business, Devon’s corporate scorecard includes annual environmental performance targets that affect every employee’s compensation. In 2019, our environmental performance on preventing spills and reducing emissions contributed positively to our overall EHS score and compensation. Brooke Baum 
EHS Professional - Senior Staff Policy AnalystDuring her seven years at Devon, Brooke has utilized her law degree in a variety of roles, serving in strategic planning, land administration and other areas of the business. These days, she is directly involved with the company’s ESG efforts as a senior staff policy analyst on the EHS team. A big part of her job is monitoring and coordinating environmental policy issues and ensuring Devon is well represented among industry trade associations.“Our company and industry have the privilege and responsibility of producing affordable, accessible energy while also protecting the environment for generations to come,” Brooke said. “This dual responsibility resonates deeply with me, and I’m grateful to play a role in ensuring Devon will continue to be an industry leader.”ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEWCDP REPORTINGCONSECUTIVE YEARS OF CLIMATE REPORTING TO CDP16CONSECUTIVE YEARS OF WATER REPORTING TO CDP (SINCE INCEPTION)7ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEWEHS Council is advancing our culture of protecting the environmentManagers of our business units and operations make up Devon’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Council, which advances our culture of protecting the environment. Sponsored by our vice president responsible for EHS and senior leaders in operations, the council sets environmental strategy and goals, tracks performance, shares best practices and evaluates the effectiveness of Devon’s environmental policies, protocols and practices. The EHS Council also reviews environmental incidents and near misses and develops corrective actions as needed. To position Devon for long-term success, the council reviews emerging EHS and ESG issues, as well as proposed laws and regulations and their potential financial, operational and reputational impact on the company.In 2019, the council developed an EHS Roadmap to provide concrete steps to improve our environmental performance, as well as an emissions reduction strategy map to keep Devon on track to consistently meet or beat our methane intensity target of 0.28% each year.United Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.At Devon, we have always valued and relied upon partnerships with public and nonprofit entities in pursuit of our goal to be a responsible operator. We count on strong partnerships to deliver on our commitments and contribute positively to the development of the communities where we operate, as well as share research and knowledge that contribute to advancement of best practices in the energy sector.WORKING TOGETHER TO 
PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENTIn our efforts to achieve industry-leading environmental stewardship, we actively seek out opportunities to collaborate with stakeholders who share our interest in improving performance. On issues ranging from reducing GHG emissions to conserving water, our partners are leaders in environmental protection. Some are engaged in research and public policy development. Others are focused on direct action. We’re proud to collaborate and cooperate with each.Environmental Defense FundEnergy Water InitiativeU.S. Bureau of Land ManagementNew Mexico Oil and Gas AssociationThe Environmental PartnershipNew Mexico Methane Advisory PanelStanford Center for Induced
and Triggered SeismicityNational Aeronautics 
& Space Administration ENERGY WATER INITIATIVEENVIRONMENT OVERVIEWENVIRONMENT METRICS 1 2017 2018 2019 Direct GHG Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2 2.39 2.73           2.61   By Constituent       Carbon Dioxide (million tonnes CO2e) 1.54 1.92 1.88       Methane (million tonnes CO2e) 0.85 0.81 0.73       Nitrous Oxide (million tonnes CO2e) 0.001 0.001 0.002   By Source       Flaring / Venting (million tonnes CO2e) 0.91 1.34 1.15       Combustion (million tonnes CO2e) 1.24 1.18 1.28       Other (million tonnes CO2e) 0.25 0.20 0.19 Indirect Emissions - Electricity Use (million tonnes CO2e)3 0.26 0.25 0.18 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2, 3 2.65 2.98 2.79 GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/MBOE)2 11.65 12.34 9.96 Despite increased activity levels, Devon’s GHG emissions fell in 2019, driven in part by efforts to expand our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program and improve our venting and flaring performance. Methane Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/MBOE)2 4.16 3.65 2.80 Methane Emissions Intensity (% of natural gas produced)4 0.31% 0.32% 0.28% Continued efforts to capture methane to avoid venting and flaring and expanding our LDAR program led to lower methane emissions in 2019. Devon’s methane intensity rate (% of natural gas produced) will be used to track progress towards Devon’s goal of achieving and maintaining a methane intensity rate of 0.28% or lower by 2025. achieving and maintaining a methane intensity rate of 0.28% or lower by 2025.  Flaring Intensity (% of natural gas produced)5 0.27% 0.74% 0.77% Energy Used - Fuel and Electricity Use (trillion BTU)3 38.22 24.76 28.31 Consumption of electricity represents a small portion of our overall emissions profile. Water Usage (million bbl)6  43.80 59.40 92.50      Recycled (million bbl)  4.67 11.75 17.73      Sourced (million bbl)  39.13 47.65 74.77 Water Usage Intensity (bbl/boe produced) 6 0.22 0.29 0.45 Water Usage Intensity (million bbl/well completion) 6 0.20 0.21 0.25 Devon’s total water use varies with activity levels, targeted formations and lateral lengths, and includes fresh, non-fresh and recycled water volumes. We seek alternatives to fresh water supplies, where possible. In 2019, recycled and non-fresh (brackish) water accounted for more than 80% of the water we used in our Delaware Basin operations. 
We are also an industry leader in developing recycled-water technologies and best practices. Reportable Spill Events Released to the Environment (events)7 156 213 158 Reportable Spill Volumes Released to the Environment (barrels)7 4,098 3,985 2,669 When a spill occurs, we remediate, investigate the cause and take corrective action to prevent recurrence. 1	The environment metrics have been calculated using the best available data at the time of publication. Historical metrics are subject to change as we continuously seek to 			improve our data management practices, data sources, and calculation methodologies in order to provide the highest level of transparency, consistency and accuracy.2	We include all reportable emissions under EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) for Devon operated facilities, as well as non-reportable emissions from our 			production assets and, beginning in reporting year 2019, gathering and boosting assets.
3	We calculate our reported emissions using EPA fuel and electricity emissions factors.		4	Our methane emissions intensity rate calculation includes all natural gas produced at Devon operated facilities and all methane emissions from Devon facilities associated 			with the production of oil and natural gas. Click here to see Devon’s calculation methodology for methane emissions intensity.5	Our flaring intensity rate calculation includes all natural gas produced at facilities operated by Devon in 2019 and the flared volumes associated with the production of oil 			and natural gas.6	Our water usage includes all water sources used in completions activities at facilities operated by Devon in 2019.7	Reportable spill events and volumes exclude a well-control event that occurred in 2019.Air EmissionsTo protect the environment and continually renew our social license to operate, we work proactively to control and reduce emissions from our operations. We collaborate internally and externally to apply best practices, tools and techniques.Guided by our corporate Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy and our core value to be a good neighbor, Devon works to reduce emissions from our operations. We’re focused on reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs) such as carbon dioxide and methane, as well as volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and other gases, and on reporting our progress to address stakeholders’ concerns about climate change. Doing our part to improve air quality also reduces regulatory, market and reputational risks, which in turn, can help us enhance shareholder returns.Air emissions performance managementTo ensure our compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, we invest in the latest equipment and deploy well-trained employees and contractors to carry out our emissions-reduction programs. Devon’s environmental work includes an air quality protocol that clearly defines responsibilities and requirements for communications, compliance, recordkeeping and training. Because programs and metrics are so important to our overall performance, Devon’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Steering Committee monitors our performance in the context of an evolving regulatory, legal and stakeholder landscape. The steering committee advises our senior leaders on issues for consideration in enterprise risk management, stakeholder engagement and regulatory and legal compliance.Another highly engaged group, our cross-functional EHS Council, sets Devon’s emissions reduction strategy and works closely with the ESG Steering Committee and senior leaders to ensure we implement the strategy effectively. As part of our continuous improvement culture, Devon manages our emissions performance through a variety of mitigation strategies. We’ve steadily expanded our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program, transitioned to air-driven pneumatic controllers and reduced flaring in our highest-activity basin. We’ve also increasingly incorporated engines powered by alternative fuels into our drilling program. Devon is conducting ongoing evaluations into emissions detection and quantification technologies, and we collaborate with industry, environmental nonprofits and agency partners on emissions-reduction strategies. Together, all of this focused effort in 2019 advanced our progress on lowering GHG emissions and meeting our methane-intensity rate-reduction target.Complying with federal and state regulations and laws for air emissionsCompliance with all applicable federal and state environmental laws and regulations is at the core of our EHS Philosophy. We have a compliance process to ensure our employees meet the requirements of Devon’s air permits in our operating areas, and we use an innovative web-enabled database that quickly distributes requirements for new and modified air permits to the people directly responsible for compliance.Devon facilities and equipment may at times emit VOCs, NOx and other gases that are subject to state permits or emissions-authorization limits. Requirements are communicated clearly to our operating facilities as we seek to maintain compliance. Some Devon facilities are subject to annual emissions inventories, which we submit to the appropriate regulatory agencies. In states where these inventories are required, the information is publicly available.Greenhouse gas emissions methodology and performanceMethane and other GHG emissions are considered a climate change risk that could affect Devon’s business over the long term. We focus on reducing emissions to address this stakeholder concern, as well as to ensure we’re running efficient, compliant operations. It’s so critical to Devon that we’ve made lowering these emissions a guiding principle in our EHS Philosophy and a component in our compensation program for all employees.As part of our overall methane-management program, Devon will continue to expand our use of emissions-reduction technologies and work practices above and beyond regulatory requirements. This includes applying industry-leading tools and techniques to capture methane in our well completions and production equipment to achieve and maintain our methane-intensity rate goal.Relief valves like this regulate pressure in storage tanks. They’re designed to reduce maintenance and minimize leaks.AIR EMISSIONSDevon uses vapor recovery units like this to maximize gas recovery and minimize flaring.AIR EMISSIONSDevon reports emissions from fuel combustion, flaring, fugitive emissions, venting and storage losses (Scope 1) and electricity consumption (Scope 2) for assets under our operational control. We collect data on GHGs (carbon dioxide (CO2), methane and nitrous oxide) and submit annual GHG emissions according to the requirements of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule.To be a good steward of the environment, we hold ourselves accountable for delivering visible, measurable results on our environmental performance. Our GHG emissions performance improved significantly in 2019 compared to 2018:•	GHG emissions dropped by 4% to 2.61 million metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e).•	Methane emissions fell by almost 10% to 29,000 metric tonnes, dropping by over 14% since 2017.•	Methane intensity, shown as a percentage of natural gas produced, fell to 0.28%. This rate is equal to the methane-intensity target we set to meet or beat by 2025.•	Total emissions inspections performed (7,346) and inspections with passing results (86%) both exceeded expectations.Committed to reducing methane intensityIn 2019, we took the major step of voluntarily establishing a target to limit methane emissions from our oil and natural gas production operations. Devon committed to reduce our methane-intensity rate to 0.28% or lower by 2025. Our rate was 0.32% at year-end 2018. Through expansion of our LDAR program and enhanced data precision efforts, among other initiatives, we reached our target rate in 2019. Our reported emissions metrics can fluctuate from year to year based on changes to our production mix, asset portfolio and other factors. To consistently meet or beat the target rate each year, we’ll need to apply technologies and work practices to methane emissions sources beyond what’s required by regulations, and we’re committed to doing just that.Expanding our LDAR programUsing infrared cameras to detect leaks and confirm the effectiveness of repairs is one of our primary emissions-mitigation tactics. We’ve invested more than $1 million in optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras used to perform frequent equipment inspections to detect leaks across our operating areas. The priority is on facilities with the highest production volumes. By methodically identifying and fixing leaks, we’ve largely resolved our highest-risk issues and reduced our methane emissions over time. Devon has steadily and voluntarily expanded our LDAR program, in part by including valves, pumps and other equipment in our camera surveys. We’ll continue to survey additional facilities that don’t currently have a federal or state regulatory requirement.  Environmental operators in each Devon business unit focus primarily on conducting infrared camera surveys at our sites and then making sure repairs are successful. LDAR data has allowed us to progressively refine our proactive maintenance programs by identifying the equipment most likely to develop leaks. This has led us to install thief hatches that have a lower leak rate and focus on specific equipment failures and settings. It also enabled us to improve flare maintenance and verify performance of vapor-recovery units. These practices led to improved LDAR outcomes in 2019, including a 40% year-over-year increase in the number of inspections performed throughout our operations.We continue to learn from LDAR data and incorporate best practices in facility design, equipment improvements and preventive maintenance to further reduce emissions from our facilities. For example, we conduct engineering and pre-startup reviews of facilities and take other steps to ensure closed-vent systems and control devices are designed and installed properly.To help our administrative offices meet the regulatory requirements for LDAR inspections, our environmental and operations teams developed a mobile app to capture, enter, track and document LDAR survey findings. The app automatically syncs any needed repairs, creates work orders and documents successful repairs, all of which are required for compliance. This has resulted in a more efficient, consistent and systematic LDAR program. Multi-pronged approach to limit flaringFlaring of natural gas is a controlled process for eliminating emissions of methane and VOCs. It is necessary for safe operations in various phases of the oil and natural gas production process. Devon strives to avoid venting of raw gas entirely and to limit flaring as much as possible at all locations. We want to protect the environment and capture as much gas as possible for its economic value, while also complying with laws, regulations and permits.We continually evaluate and optimize our facilities, including reliable pressure-relief valves to minimize tank releases and vapor-recovery equipment to capture flash gas emissions and route them to a pipeline. We also use “green completions” to capture produced gas following hydraulic fracturing and well workovers. Where flaring is unavoidable, we install pilot monitoring equipment to help ensure the gas is properly combusted. Our flaring performance has improved over the last five years, particularly in the 
Delaware Basin, our highest-activity operating area, and we’re committed to keeping the trend going. We stopped routine flaring in 2017, only connecting and producing wells when gas takeaway has been established. We flare only when experiencing system upsets or midstream or downstream constraints. In 2019, our work focused on improving performance at one field with facilities that accounted for most of our flared gas volumes in the Delaware Basin. We took ownership of the associated midstream gas compression equipment and proceeded to drive down the upset conditions that caused most of the flaring. We made a number of operational refinements, upgraded compressors, adjusted the flow rates of some wells and shut in others.How Devon calculates its methane-intensity rateWe calculate methane intensity for our production operations by dividing total methane emissions of Devon-operated production facilities by total natural gas produced. Total methane emissions are calculated using the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. Notably, Devon’s methane-intensity calculations have undergone third-party verification.Our calculation includes emissions from Devon-operated oil and natural gas production facilities, including production facilities not reportable to the EPA. We also account for emissions from oil and gas production and don’t remove methane emissions from any source categories such as associated gas flaring.We believe this calculation is the most accurate and transparent way to account for our total production facility emissions. EMETHANE INTENSITY %=G*C*D*1000 scf1 tonne*mscf1000 kgE= Total Methane Emissions (Tonnes of Methane)123G= Total Gas Produced (Mscf)C= Average mole fraction of Methane in produced gasD= Methane Density of 0.0192 kg/scf*Our methane intensity calculations have undergone an independent third-party verification.1	Includes methane emissions from all Devon U.S. operated oil and gas production facilities. 2	Uses calculation methods from EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP)3	Includes emissions from all GHGRP source categories including associated gas flaring for all reportable and non-reportable basins  AECOM Verification LetterAIR EMISSIONSOptical gas imaging cameras help detect leaks. They also confirm properly functioning equipment as shown in the inset photo above.AIR EMISSIONS138%MORE FACILITIES SURVEYED THAN REQUIREDWhen flaring is necessary, Devon uses the latest equipment and monitoring systems for safe, reliable and efficient operation.In 2019, Devon operators performed LDAR surveys at 1,491 facilities companywide. While surveys were required by state and/or federal regulations at 627 facilities, we voluntarily performed surveys at 864 additional facilities. We found very few leaks, and almost all that were detected were repaired on the same day they were found.Excluding North Texas, Devon operators performed LDAR surveys at more than 80% of our facilities in 2019.AIR EMISSIONSThese actions resulted in Delaware Basin flaring reductions from about 4% of total gas volumes at mid-year to 1% or less by year-end. In the first quarter of 2020, flared volumes were down 70% from a year earlier.The dramatic reduction in flaring not only reduces emissions, it helps us capture more natural gas production in the field which, in turn, is put into pipelines to be sold. We’re documenting our best practices for reducing flared volumes and minimizing emissions, while also working with our trade association partners to share these practices across the industry. Key aspects of the practices include planning and communication, technology utilization, operational controls, managing through upsets and unplanned events, and optimizing combustion. We’ll continue to take a broad approach in our ongoing efforts to reduce flaring and related emissions.More strategies to cut GHG and methane emissionsDiesel motors used to drive drilling rigs and hydraulic fracturing operations can be a significant source of emissions. We’ve cut those emissions, reduced related noise and shrunk our operational footprint by replacing diesel-only engines with dual-fuel motors that run on diesel or compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied natural gas (LNG), field gas or electricity. In our drilling operations in 2019, nearly 60% of our wells were drilled with rigs running on dual-fuel or electricity. Using dual-fuel and electric rigs avoided an estimated 19,000 metric tonnes of CO2 from 2.5 million gallons of diesel equivalent. Our initial pilot of electric rigs indicated that they use about one-third of the energy consumed by diesel or gas rigs because there is no heat loss from burning the fuel. We continue to look for opportunities to drill more wells using engines powered by alternative fuels and to use electric frac fleets in our completions operations.Devon has implemented new technologies and upgraded our existing operations to reduce methane emissions from production sites. Since 2011, we’ve replaced high-bleed natural gas pneumatic controllers on hundreds of wells in Wyoming, Oklahoma, New Mexico and Texas, and we no longer use them on new wells. In the Delaware Basin, we’ve installed air-driven pneumatic pumps and controllers at all new facilities since early 2019.In pursuit of emerging technologies to detect and deter leaksTechnologies to detect and quantify emissions are evolving rapidly. A cross-functional team we established in 2019 is evaluating emerging technologies such as sensor-based continuous monitoring, facility flyovers and remote detection using satellites. Devon piloted aerial imaging technologies in 2019 and continues to monitor industry pilot studies of potential technology solutions that could further assist with compliance. We’re in the early stages of piloting technology in our Powder River Basin operations in Wyoming that has significant implications for our environmental performance. Remote technologies like cameras and infrared sensors installed at our facilities are giving us better-quality data in real time that allows us to proactively identify issues before they become problems. This could lead to preventing or minimizing the impact of emissions and spills, while also reducing risk by dispatching operators to visit locations only when needed. We have now installed remote surveillance capabilities at more than 80% of our facilities in the Powder River Basin.Teaming up with government and industry to create sound emissions policy in New MexicoSharing what we know and learning from others are all part of the give-and-take of being a team player at Devon. In New Mexico, we’re working with multiple stakeholders in a broad range of efforts to reduce methane emissions in the Delaware Basin.One key example is the Methane Advisory Panel, established in 2019 by New Mexico’s environment and energy departments to develop an enforceable methane regulatory strategy for the state. A Devon technical expert is a member of the panel and the company will be involved – individually and in cooperation with industry organizations – as the state agencies make their way through the rulemaking process.As an industry partner, we were involved in preparing a New Mexico Oil and Gas Association (NMOGA) informational report on the important role natural gas flaring plays in the safety of field operations. Devon also shared information with the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), for its study of Delaware Basin emissions, clarifying emissions methodologies used by Devon and the industry in the region.We believe stakeholders working together can arrive at an accurate assessment of the emissions footprint for the industry in the Delaware Basin and, in turn, improve the mitigation strategies to reduce methane emissions effectively and efficiently. AIR EMISSIONSAN INDUSTRY UNITED TO IMPROVE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE2019 Environmental Partnership 
Industry Performance Highlights:Devon is a founding member and current steering committee member of The Environmental Partnership, a voluntary coalition of oil and natural gas companies operating across the U.S. Since forming in 2017, the partnership has more than doubled in size to 83 companies committed to continuously improving the industry’s environmental performance. Partnership companies commit to taking action, learning about best practices and technologies to reduce the industry’s footprint and collaborating to improve environmental performance. Results are shared publicly on the partnership’s website. The group’s initial focus has been on further reducing the industry’s air emissions, including methane and VOCs. In 2018, the partnership implemented programs for leak detection and repair, thereby eliminating the use of high-bleed pneumatic controllers and improving the manual liquids unloading process. Selected based on EPA emissions data, these programs are designed to further reduce emissions using proven, cost-effective controls. The Environmental Partnership is adapting and expanding its programs to strengthen the industry’s voluntary efforts to improve environmental performance over time.116 million field component inspections performed0.08% leak occurrence rate 
(less than 1 component leaking per 1,000)2,800 zero-emission pneumatic controllers
installed at new sites3,300 high-bleed pneumatic controllers replaced, retrofitted, or removed from serviceAIR EMISSIONSTackling emissions with multiple strategiesAs we work to proactively reduce emissions and emissions intensity, Devon continues to focus on detecting and repairing leaks, capturing methane to avoid venting and flaring, evaluating and implementing new technologies, upgrading existing facilities and complying with regulations. At Devon, we’re pursuing a wide range of GHG and methane emissions-mitigation strategies•	Expanding our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program•	Taking action to meet or beat our methane-intensity rate target•	Installing air-driven pneumatic pumps and controllers in our production operations•	Increasingly replacing diesel engines with dual-fuel or electric engines•	Developing infrastructure in the Powder River Basin to reduce scope 1 emissions•	Evaluating and implementing emissions-detection and quantification technologies•	Eliminating routine flaring in our Delaware Basin operations•	Collaborating with industry, nonprofits and government agencies•	Improving our data precision•	Piloting remote-surveillance technologiesClimate ChangeDevon is accountable to our stakeholders to assess the risks to our business in a carbon-constrained future, at the same time helping to meet the ongoing global demand for hydrocarbon energy.Oil and natural gas are vital to our way of life. The world relies on these resources to power the basic systems of our daily lives – transportation, heating and cooling, lighting, manufacturing, agriculture, telecommunications and technology. Many of the products we use every day are made from plastics and compounds derived from oil and natural gas, which also fuel the machinery needed to manufacture these materials.At Devon, we’re proud to find and produce these valuable commodities and, through the work our employees do every day, to contribute to local, national and global economies. We also recognize that the economic benefits of our industry must be balanced with care for the environment. Devon is focused on delivering strong returns to our shareholders while continuously improving our environmental performance, with particular focus on climate change.The U.S. Energy Information Administration projects oil and natural gas will continue as leading sources of energy worldwide for decades to come. For example, EIA’s 2020 energy outlook projects in the transportation sector, gasoline and diesel fuel will account for 74% of total consumption in 2050. Electricity will grow quickly in transportation but EIA projects it will reach only 2% of total consumption in 2050. In electricity generation, EIA projects that renewables will continue to grow rapidly, but won’t overtake natural gas until 2045. Devon will continue to produce the oil and gas the world needs in a safe, environmentally responsible and ethical way. We’ll do this because being a good neighbor and always doing the right thing are two of our core values. It’s also important for the future of our business – and another core value, delivering results – that we plan for the risks associated with the energy transition and climate change.Assessing and reporting our climate change-related risksClimate change-related risks receive formal and ongoing consideration in Devon’s enterprise risk management process. The company regularly models numerous regional and macro-level scenarios – including changes in regulations or market conditions, acquisitions and divestitures – to test the strength of our portfolio and resources. Each year, the modeled scenarios inform the strategic decision-making of Devon’s executive committee and board of directors that culminates in Devon’s annual long-range plan. We reported on these risks in our 2018 Climate Change Assessment Report, which was prepared with a leading third-party consultant, ICF. In our updated 2020 Climate Change Assessment Report, which was reviewed and approved by our board of directors, we considered material changes to our portfolio, including the divestment of our assets in the Canadian oil sands and the Barnett Shale, as well as changes to pricing scenarios. We again retained ICF to provide updated scenario analyses, including the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) Sustainable Development Scenario, which targets a rise in global temperatures to “well below 2°C”. In addition, we retained Global Affairs Associates to enhance the company’s alignment with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), an international, multi-industry-led initiative launched to develop recommendations for voluntary disclosure of climate-related risk.The assessment determined that oil and natural gas will remain vital to meeting global energy demand, even in the carbon-constrained future scenarios, and that Devon’s portfolio of assets has the characteristics to be resilient in these scenarios. Additional conclusions included:•	Model results indicate that Devon’s current portfolio is likely to be resilient, even in various low carbon scenarios. •	The changes to our portfolio since the 2018 analysis – exiting Western Canada and the Barnett – have made it more resilient in low oil and natural gas price scenarios.•	Devon’s disclosure practices for the governance, management and disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities are aligned with the recommendations of the TCFD. Proactively managing climate-related risks and opportunitiesWe’re addressing climate change-related risks proactively in our environmental, operational and governance practices. We believe energy efficiency and conservation are the most immediate and cost-effective ways to reduce emissions, as well as innovation and operational excellence. To reduce methane emissions, we established a voluntary, company-specific methane intensity target of 0.28% or lower by 2025. Setting this public target requires us to pinpoint sources of methane emissions by implementing reduction technologies and work practices that go beyond regulatory requirements. Achieving the target is a component of executive and employee compensation, as is short-term emissions performance. To further engage our workforce in improving our air emissions performance, we have a non-monetary recognition program for all employees who improve energy efficiency and/or reduce greenhouse gas emissions by applying technology. Devon closely monitors climate-change impacts in the market and policy arenas, and we’re prepared to adapt our business if needed. We’re committed to continuing dialogue with our board of directors, shareholders and other stakeholders about our climate change-related risks and opportunities. Our industry will play a pivotal role in delivering global energy for generations to come, and Devon is embracing change to be part of that future.Climate Change 
Assessment Report CLIMATE CHANGEUnited Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.Did you know that some 840 million people worldwide do not have access to electricity? Or that close to 3 billion people still rely on inefficient and polluting cooking systems? Energy access and poverty are directly linked. The natural gas we produce serves as fuel for electricity generation, and oil and natural gas are the feedstock for countless products and fuels that improve people’s quality of life and decrease the cost of meeting basic needs.WaterManagement56 millionBARRELS OF REUSED WATEROVER THE LAST 6 YEARSDevon is committed to conserving and reusing water and to being both a good neighbor and responsible operator. We’re striving to execute a water-management strategy that balances environmental, economic, operational and social needs.Water is vital to the health, social and economic well-being of the communities where we live and work and is an essential resource for our operations. Devon has a track record of water conservation that started when we began recycling water in the Barnett Shale in north Texas in 2004. Over the years, we’ve collaborated with government, industry and community stakeholders to find innovative ways to conserve water in our drilling and completions operations. Devon has invested significant capital in our efforts to reduce our reliance on fresh water. It’s the right thing to do for the environment and our neighbors, and it improves our ability to respond if water availability is constrained. To conserve, we strive to use water that is not suitable for drinking or other public uses and, wherever possible, we use recycled produced water in our drilling and production activities.Water-use performance management In some of Devon’s operating areas, water supplies are limited. Based on the World Resources Institute’s definition of baseline water stress, approximately 25% (excluding North Texas) of our wells are located in areas of “high” or “extremely high” baseline water stress. This is why we conserve, reuse and recycle as much water as we can. Water availability and disposal options are considered in our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process and in our daily planning, along with other environmental, health and safety (EHS) risks. Devon’s EHS Council and subject-matter experts monitor laws, regulations and stakeholder concerns related to water to ensure our leadership team is well informed.Guided by our EHS Philosophy, we employ economically and operationally feasible alternatives to fresh water. To execute a sustainable water-management strategy that balances environmental, economic, operational and social issues, Devon follows the water principles of stakeholder engagement, water-management planning, technology evaluation and deployment and best-practices development. Devon’s business-unit leaders and subject-matter experts – who have a deep understanding of local water issues, challenges and opportunities – oversee our local water-management activities. Our water-planning efforts include evaluating the potential risks to our operations in each area, the needs of our stakeholders and the potential opportunities for our business. We update water plans periodically to account for business needs and local environmental considerations.To enhance our water-management performance, we stay abreast of new technologies and best practices, often through collaboration with industry and trade organizations. As a founding member of the Energy Water Initiative, and as a participant of the New Mexico Produced Water Consortium, we study, communicate and improve lifecycle water use and management collaboratively with other oil and natural gas companies that share our commitment to conservation.Significantly increasing water reuse in the Delaware BasinOur history of leadership in water conservation includes being the first company to recycle flowback and produced water from natural gas wells in north Texas. After becoming the leading recycler of treated produced water in New Mexico, we led the effort to establish state rules to encourage the practice. Devon uses fresh water in the arid Delaware Basin in the southeastern part of the state only for blending and only when reused water isn’t available in sufficient quantities. Our water-conservation practices have made us an industry leader in the Delaware Basin over the last five years.In 2019, reused and brackish water accounted for more than 80% of the water we used in our Delaware Basin operations and in 2020 we’ve increased that amount to over 90%. Devon is building two new recycling facilities in our most active areas in the basin that will increase our industry-leading recycling capacity. We expect to have a total of 10 recycling facilities operating in the Delaware Basin by year-end 2020. Our water-recycling strategy also includes connecting more third-party supplies to our system, which allows us to increase the volumes of recycled water available to us for operations. Devon has built twelve impoundment basins – each of various sizes – to store reusable water. The basins, which are integral to our operations and to saving water, are connected by a local pipeline network that eliminates the need to haul water by truck. Taking trucks off the road reduces emissions and  traffic safety hazards. In addition, we’re looking for ways to reuse produced water that we don’t need for our operations. In collaboration with the EPA and other organizations, we’re exploring technologies to desalinate produced water for uses outside of the oil and gas industry. In cases where we produce more water than we can use, cost-effective desalination could make the water suitable for aquifer recharge and other beneficial uses. This would require development of the regulatory framework for reusing desalinated produced water, which is why Devon will continue to work with stakeholders to find water conservation solutions in New Mexico.Seeking alternatives to fresh waterAs part of our local approach to developing water-management plans, we consider the availability and quality of water, local ecosystems and habitats, regulations and other factors.Given our strong desire to be a good neighbor, we actively seek alternatives to fresh water, including brackish water and flowback and produced water for well completions where feasible. In Oklahoma, Devon has reused and recycled water by building local pipelines connecting well sites to central water storage and handling facilities. In Wyoming, some produced water is used for agriculture and wildlife under the regulatory beneficial use category.In the Eagle Ford play in south Texas, the scale of our drilling and completions activities makes it unfeasible to invest in large-scale recycling facilities. Still, we use non-potable water sources where available.For more details on Devon’s water-management program and water-use metrics, please refer to our 2020 CDP water response. Devon’s reused water volumes in New Mexico, by year:(millions of barrels)17 (estimate)20202019201820172016201517.711.84.72.81.7WATER MANAGEMENTIncreased water-consumption intensity in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven by an increase in our average lateral lengths and was also impacted by the formations targeted and the related increase in formation-specific job sizes.U.S. WATER USAGE BY OPERATING AREA 
(million bbl) OPERATING AREA 2019 Delaware Basin 43.0 Anadarko Basin 26.6 Eagle Ford 16.4 Powder River Basin 6.5 Total U.S. 92.5 United Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.Devon recognizes the importance of responsible water management in a world that faces increasing drought conditions and water stress. Water is a local issue and Devon takes a local approach, creating management plans that take account of water availability, quality, regulation, and dependence of native ecosystems. We look for innovative water sources and methods to reduce usage. Through our New Mexico Delaware Basin treatment facilities, we have disinfected and reused 56 million barrels of water in the past six years. We are also exploring the application of technologies such as desalination to repurpose produced water for uses outside our industry—including potentially recharging aquifers. Land ConservationRecognizing that oil and natural gas development is a temporary use of the land, Devon is committed to preserving the landscape and protecting wildlife habitat in areas surrounding our operations.Devon operates in prairies, grasslands and deserts, taking great care to be a good steward of the land and wildlife habitat. In keeping with our guiding principle of environmental stewardship, our priority is to cause as little disruption to the land as possible and mitigate any impacts throughout the oil and gas production lifecycle.Along with our programs to reduce air emissions, conserve water, prevent spills and manage waste, Devon’s land conservation practices demonstrate our commitment to operate in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. Biodiversity management is integrated into our process for selecting the placement of our well pads. It starts with a pre-construction environmental assessment to evaluate potential environmental impact in an area where we’ve staked out a well pad location. By evaluating the results of this assessment before building the pad, our teams can determine if there are environmental concerns at the site and adjust as needed.Public Lands Foundation awardProtecting the land involves partners, including landowners, neighbors, industry groups and state and federal agencies such as the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). While all those organizations bring diverse perspectives, we all share a common interest in preserving our shared landscapes for future generations.Devon has served as an industry leader in conserving habitat for the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard, a rare species found only in southeastern New Mexico and adjacent Texas. Since 2001, it has been a candidate for listing under the Endangered Species Act. Our work with the BLM and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service produced public-private conservation agreements to avoid certain areas and reclaim lizard habitat that may have been affected by oilfield activities in the past. We’ve partnered with the BLM’s Buffalo Field Office in Wyoming on numerous public land projects, including sponsoring the Wyoming Conservation Corps (WCC) since 2007 to engage college students in hands-on conservation work around the state. WCC students complete an annual 10-day land-stewardship project during which they spend a day with Devon employees who share insights about our industry and host a visit to active operations. Over the years, the WCC took on work that the BLM’s Buffalo Field Office identified as necessary but lacked the resources to complete. WCC projects include maintaining trails, removing and rebuilding fencing, encouraging native plant and tree growth and removing invasive vegetation to benefit sage grouse habitat, mule deer winter range and human recreation, just to name a few positive impacts.As part of the BLM partnership, Devon has plugged and reclaimed 360 idle coalbed natural gas wells since 2016, removing the associated overhead powerlines and reclaiming nearby roads and pipelines. This work represents thousands of acres of landscape restored in Wyoming’s Powder River Basin. In recognition of our leadership and vision, the Public Lands Foundation awarded Devon its 2019 Landscape Stewardship Certificate of Appreciation. Devon is the only oil and gas company to ever receive the award that honors private citizens and entities that work to advance and sustain community-based stewardship on landscapes that include public lands administered by the BLM. The company was cited for being proactive, creating a sense of teamwork between private industry and the BLM and cultivating a sense of commitment and trust.Before building a well pad, Devon uses an environmental assessment tool that identifies potential impacts based on:•	Proximity to waters of the U.S.•	Protected species or critical habitats•	Proximity to any public receptors•	Location of nearby floodplains•	Sediment discharge to a water body•	Evidence of pre-existing contamination•	Environmentally sensitive receptorsUnited Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.Oil and gas industrial processes inherently require consideration of the land at the surface-level, and we aim to be responsible stewards of the prairies, grasslands and deserts in which we operate. Devon seeks to minimize ecosystem disturbances by undertaking multi-dimensional environmental impact assessments and supporting local conservation projects. By working to protect native species and habitats, we strive to encourage healthy vegetation, land restoration and biodiversity.LAND CONSERVATIONDevon employees work with college students every year in Wyoming to complete hands-on conservation work.Devon’s leadership and vision of land stewardship demonstrates how industry can meet the BLM’s mission to “sustain the health, diversity, and productivity of public lands for the use and enjoyment of present and future generations.” — Public Lands FoundationSeismicityThe number of earthquakes declined in Oklahoma for the fifth consecutive year in 2019, as we continued to support scientific research and work with stakeholders to mitigate seismic activity related to oil and natural gas activities.As a good neighbor and responsible member of our industry, Devon has been active in collaborative efforts to address seismicity associated with oil and natural gas activities in Oklahoma. We’ve supported scientific research, contributed data from our drilling and production activities to academic studies and adhered to directives from state regulators. During this time, earthquakes in the state declined steadily.Devon is an original member of the Stanford Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity, formed in 2013 to address the risks posed by earthquakes potentially related to industry operations. In April 2020, Stanford researchers released a new seismicity-management strategy based on the current understanding of induced earthquakes. The approach could allow regulators to design traffic-light protocols for oil and natural gas activities in a risk-informed manner. It also promotes transparent communication of risk to all stakeholders. To advance work by state geologists to map previously undocumented faults, we contributed information to the Oklahoma Geological Survey from three-dimensional imaging derived through oil and natural gas exploration activities.Devon also follows the Oklahoma Corporation Commission’s protocols, issued in 2018, to reduce the chances of earthquakes resulting from well completion activities. In the infrequent instances when the protocol was initiated, we complied by taking actions such as pausing our well completion operations.Devon continues to partner with industry, academic researchers and government agencies to respond to public concerns and find ways to minimize seismic activity. We’re supporting research and monitoring progress toward a better understanding of the causes of seismic activity, including wastewater disposal wells in specific formations as a potential cause, as well as mitigation steps. OKLAHOMA EARTHQUAKE COUNT MAGNITUDE 2.7 OR HIGHEROklahoma Statewide Daily Earthquake Rate By Year2020: 0.24 
2019: 0.35
2018: 1.10
2017: 1.70
2016: 3.60
2015: 5.40250200150100500202020192018201720162015Sources: Oklahoma Corporation Commission, Oklahoma Geological SurveyWaste ManagementAs Devon seeks to be a good neighbor, we manage the waste generated in our operations and in our offices. We encourage employees and contractors to reduce the amount of waste for disposal whenever possible through reuse, recycling and source reduction.Our work can generate both hazardous and non-hazardous waste from our drilling and production operations, as well as packaging, bottles and other office waste. Devon maintains waste management protocols in our operating areas to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and our own corporate policies.All Devon employees and contractors are responsible for waste management. Our waste management protocols clearly define roles and responsibilities for our waste handling, shipping, disposal, training and minimization programs. We hold contractors responsible for managing the waste they generate and for complying with all local regulations. Safety Data Sheets (SDS) summarizing hazard information are readily available for employees and contractors who may come into contact with chemicals used or stored in the workplace.To reinforce our commitment to compliance, our employees and contractors receive job-specific training related to waste management and chemicals used or stored in the workplace..Spill PreventionAt Devon, we demonstrate environmental stewardship as we work to minimize our operational footprint. We have a comprehensive approach to preventing, responding to and remediating spills.As a responsible operator, Devon works to prevent spills of oil, produced water and other materials from our equipment and facilities. Our environmental-management program includes a Spill Prevention Countermeasures and Control (SPCC) protocol that details the responsibilities, equipment, procedures and steps to prevent, control and provide adequate countermeasures to an unplanned discharge. The protocol helps ensure our compliance with the U.S. EPA SPCC Rule and other environmental rules and regulations. It also specifies the training required for all personnel involved in designing, building and operating oil-handling or storage equipment, including an annual spill-response training exercise and briefing.We make every employee and contractor aware of their responsibility to prevent spills by immediately reporting near misses, such as a storage tank approaching full volume or signs of wear that may result in a leak. We respond to near misses and make any necessary adjustments to prevent spills. Prevention and containment measuresIn keeping with the pollution-prevention principle in our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Philosophy, Devon uses appropriate tools and techniques to minimize and contain discharges from our equipment and facilities. At facilities with storage tanks, our spill-prevention procedures include secondary containment, “nearly full” alarms on tanks and offsite monitoring equipment that can shut in facilities remotely.At our produced-water recycling facilities, Devon installs temporary storage reservoirs designed to minimize the risk of overflow from rain. The reservoirs are double-lined and sloped to direct any water that may penetrate the first liner to a sump pump. Between the two liners is a layer of mesh material with motion detection that alerts our operators if a liner leaks. Any reservoir where we temporarily store water, including saltwater disposal sites, is lined for environmental protection.When using oil-based fluids to drill wells, we employ a closed-loop system, considered an industry best practice to protect the environment and to ensure safety. We comply with the EPA Spill SPCC Rule by keeping plans at drilling locations to minimize the impact of spills. We also follow local, state and federal guidelines when handling drilling fluid and mud systems.Remote surveillance equipment we’ve installed in our Powder River Basin operations in Wyoming is helping to mitigate spills. High-definition cameras allow operators and analysts at a central location to identify a minor leak and dispatch responders before it becomes a larger spill. Our staff can also perform a remote shutdown to stop an identified spill until responders arrive on-site to address the issue. Through machine learning and predictive analytics, we believe we’ll be able to anticipate spills and ultimately prevent them.Holding ourselves accountable for improving performanceWhen a spill does occur, we remediate, investigate the cause and take corrective action to prevent recurrence. When feasible, Devon performs in-situ remediation using naturally occurring microorganisms to restore impacted soils. This method allows the natural environment to assist in remediation and reduces the likelihood that invasive weeds and plants will be introduced to the area. In-situ remediation has other advantages, as well: It reduces truck traffic because it generally doesn’t require heavy machinery, and it reduces our overall operational waste footprint by eliminating the need to send impacted soil to landfills. Devon has a robust EHS system for reporting and tracking spills. We require reporting of unintentional releases of oil, produced water, chemicals and any other material associated with our operations. Spills and near misses are tracked by the total company and business unit, which enables them to analyze their spill performance and find ways to improve.The Devon lost-spill rate is based on the volumes of produced oil, produced water and recycled water handled in our operations. We believe that measuring our spill rate based on the total amount of fluids we manage in our operations gives us the best view of our performance and allows us to better manage our spill-prevention procedures.We hold ourselves accountable for improving our performance by setting an annual corporate target for the lost-spill rate and including it in Devon’s annual performance-bonus calculation. We recorded a 41% improvement in our lost-spill rate in 2019 primarily due to effective spill remediation and prevention across all of our business units.Monitors, alarms and remote communications are key tools in preventing spills.SPILL PREVENTIONWe never want a spill, but in the event one happens, the first line of defense is to contain it behind a wall or berm