WORKFORCEThe Workforce section of our 2020 Sustainability Report includes:OverviewOur CultureInclusion and DiversityEmployee WellnessWorkforce OverviewOur culture is guided by our core values and a shared mission. We seek to hire the best people and expect them to do the right thing, to be team players and good neighbors, and to deliver results.RESOURCES  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics	The basic principles of conduct for all Devon employees, officers and directors.  Mission Statement, Vision Statement and Core Values	Guide what we do and why we do it.  Inclusion and Diversity Vision	Every person contributing to their fullest and making a positive impact every day.To create value for stakeholders, our employees must be dedicated to continuously improving our business, developing innovative solutions and overcoming the technical challenges of finding and producing oil and natural gas. Learning through work, training and development, our employees are encouraged to expand their knowledge and skills, share their expertise and apply their creativity. We have flexible work practices and wellness programs that encourage physical, mental and financial well-being, with a goal of enabling employees to focus on doing their best work.Devon seeks to create a culture of integrity, mutual trust and accountability. In so doing, we promote an inclusive, diverse and respectful work environment brimming with different perspectives. Our employees embrace their roles and motivate each other to be their best. Innovation wins over complacency as employees work on new ideas  aligned with our goals and share successes and failures alike as they learn and grow.We set clear goals for financial, operational and ESG improvement, and we regularly communicate our progress with employees. Our leaders communicate at the enterprise, business-unit, team and individual levels to ensure everyone at Devon knows what’s needed to succeed and how we’re doing. In its oversight role, the Devon board of directors receives updates on succession planning, compensation metrics, pay equity, performance and other key workforce issues.Layne Wroblewski 
Manager, TaxOne of the many ways to improve Devon’s financial outlook is to effectively manage the local, state and federal taxes the company pays in the course of our business. That’s a significant charge for Layne and his interdisciplinary, results-oriented team, which administers the company’s sales and property tax portfolio. Layne and his team also work with Devon’s Government Affairs team and industry trade organizations on legislation, regulations and policies that impact state and local taxes. “Devon invests in our communities, and we value the social license where we operate,” Layne said. “We try to live up to our core value of being a good neighbor. Our sales and property tax disciplines involve working directly with these communities, and I’m proud of the good reputation we’ve built within those taxing jurisdictions.”WORKFORCE OVERVIEWWORKFORCE METRICS 2017 2018 2019 Headcount (total company) 2,552 2,134 1,767 Minorities and Women as a Percentage of Workforce8      Minorities 17% 18% 19%      Women 28% 26% 25% Minorities and Women as a Percentage of Leadership      Minorities 11% 11% 11%      Women 18% 17% 18% Years of Service      Less than 5 years 50% 41% 31%      5-9 years 26% 32% 42%      10-14 years 14% 17% 18%      15-19 years 5% 6% 5%      20-24 years 2% 2% 2%      25+ years 3% 2% 2% Median Age 38 39 39 Attrition Rate 6% 9% 8% 8As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.Sharpening our focus on pay equity and the composition of our workforcePeer employee pay equity 
The salaries of female and minority employees are, on average, positioned equivalently (+/-2% to accommodate workforce changes throughout the year) within the applicable job pay range as males and non-minorities.Promotional equity
Over the last two years the rate of job promotion for female employees (21%) was slightly higher than that of males (19%), and the rate of promotion for minority employees (22%) was slightly higher than that of non-minorities (19%).Improving female representation at the executive level
The percent of Devon Manager and Executive roles performed by female employees improved from 26% at the end of 2017 to 29% at the end of 2019.Hiring minority talent
Over the last two years Devon has hired minority employees at a rate of 13% compared to a 7% rate for non-minority employees.Minority representation in leadership
The percent of Devon Manager and Executive roles performed by minority employees decreased from 10% at the end of 2017 to 8% at the end of 2019. However, the percentage of Devon Field Supervisory roles performed by minority employees improved from 11% to 15% over the same period.Female and minority representation in the workforce
Over the last two years, our female population has decreased by 3%. Our minority population has grown by 2% over the same time period.Our CultureThe guiding principles of our workforce strategy are fairness, opportunity and the chance for every Devon employee to fully participate and be heard. We want our employees to make an impact every day.Attracting and retaining high performersDevon’s success depends on employees who demonstrate integrity, accountability, perseverance and a passion for building our business and delivering results. Our efforts to create a workforce with these qualities start with offering equal opportunity in all aspects of employment.To attract and retain high performing individuals and to help them contribute to a shared mission at work, Devon provides wellness programs, amenities and comprehensive benefits. Our employee-friendly practices include flexible work schedules, part-time work and telecommuting, and in 2019 we added time off for foster child placement to our parental leave coverage. Our employees are able to take paid parental leave, work a part-time schedule or work from home as needed, and many took advantage of our flexible work schedule in 2019. We monitor our workplace practices, as well as training and development opportunities, to ensure they meet our business needs and support our employees’ individual situations.As part of our compensation program, in 2019 we expanded our stock awards to give every employee an equity stake in our business. Workplace practices at a glanceAlternate Work Schedule (or 9/80) allows flexible work schedules for most employees. By working an additional hour on eight out of nine workdays during a given 10-day pay period, employees can take off every other Friday, resulting in 26 additional paid days off per year.Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support for employees and their family members free of charge. The EAP offers confidential assistance for a variety of life’s challenges that could affect health, relationships and/or job effectiveness. Access to experienced counselors, financial experts, staff attorneys, elder-care consultants and concierge services is included in EAP services available 365 days a year, 24 hours a day.Paid parental leave is available for new parents, offering up to two weeks of leave for the care of, and bonding with, a biological, adopted or foster child. In addition to paid parental leave, maternity leave for birth or adoption of a child is paid for up to eight weeks.Military leave is available to deployed employee military service members. They receive full salary for three months and differential pay above the military standard for an additional nine months. Devon service members and their families enrolled in the health care plan will also remain covered for 12 months.Flexible workplace enables those who need or want to work from home one or two days per week to do so. It’s a pilot program instituted during the coronavirus pandemic and we believe the flexibility has helped us achieve the win-win of employee satisfaction and productivity. We will continue with flexible workplace through year-end 2020 and then we’ll evaluate how best to proceed – for our people and our business.In 2019, we added time off for our employees who placed foster children in their homes.OUR CULTURECreating a team with a winning mindset In recent years, Devon has transformed into a returns-driven U.S. oil-growth company while also advancing our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. We streamlined processes, improved our cost structure, divested noncore assets and reduced layers of management to speed and simplify decision-making. For many employees, the changes led to broader roles with more direct impact on our business. With employees having a better view of these individual impacts, the trust and accountability increased, with broad awareness of progress toward shared goals. Our leaders are encouraging this culture with frequent conversations to create clarity, context and accountability. We’ve set clear operational and financial goals and enhanced our internal communications to update employees on our progress toward achieving them. For example, we reached an important cost-savings target many months ahead of schedule – an early indicator that our desired culture was taking hold.Performance management has shifted from annual appraisals to frequent conversations focused on alignment, growth and development, so employees know what they need to do to make an impact every day. To gauge our progress, we use topical surveys shown by research to be more effective than time-consuming annual questionnaires. These short, focused surveys give us quick results, so we can take action on timely issues such as benefits use and leadership strategies. Surveys conducted in 2019 and early 2020 indicate our culture and strategies are having a positive impact on our workforce.Using a new model for performance management is helping to drive better communication at every level of the company.The intangibles in a culture of trust create tangible business results. 88%OF EMPLOYEES SURVEYED SAID THEY RECEIVED JUST THE RIGHT AMOUNT OF FEEDBACK FROM THEIR LEADER96%OF EMPLOYEES SURVEYED SAID THE FEEDBACK WAS HELPFULInclusion and DiversityDevon’s vision for Inclusion and Diversity is: Every person contributing to their fullest capability and making a positive impact every day. We encourage a range of thought, experiences and perspectives in our business.Bringing together a variety of experiences and points of viewDelivering strong operational and financial results in a safe, environmentally and socially responsible way requires the expertise and positive contributions of every Devon employee. We promote inclusion and diversity (I&D) throughout the company to bring a range of thought, experiences and points of view to our problem-solving and decision-making processes. In 2019, we updated our I&D governance structure and strategy to achieve our I&D vision: Every person contributing to their fullest and making a positive impact every day. The I&D Leadership Team, consisting of senior leaders, champions strategies to achieve the vision and supports others by coaching, motivating, breaking down barriers and perhaps most important, simply listening. The all-volunteer Inclusion Action Team strives to proactively increase awareness, identify challenges and find innovative ways to achieve Devon’s I&D vision and strategy. Our Human Resources team guides and advises team activities through strategic support, tools and resources for success.Listening to different perspectives – a fundamental aspect of I&D – is a core element of Devon’s culture. To get feedback on how inclusion and diversity impacts our culture, the Inclusion Action Team facilitated small group sessions called DiversiTEA Talks in 2019. Employees enjoyed hearing the personal experiences that were shared, and the team plans to continue the conversations to strengthen I&D throughout the company. Acting on an Inclusion Action Team suggestion, the company sponsored and participated in the Oklahoma City Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Parade for the second year in 2020. To amplify our commitment to I&D and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, we partnered with fifth-graders involved in our Design + Do STEM program. With help from Devon volunteers, the students designed and built the parade float and walked with our employees in the parade.Devon employees were proud to participate in the national celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in January 2020.INCLUSION AND DIVERSITYThe status quo is not acceptableDevon’s commitment to inclusion and diversity has never been stronger.In 2020, business-as-usual has been declared obsolete. While a pandemic created disruption across the globe, acts of racial injustice against Black Americans came to the forefront after the killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and others. Can Devon do more to fight systemic racism? That’s the question we’re asking ourselves as a company. One of the first steps we’re taking is to listen, then to learn from those interactions and, in time,  to build new relationships in the communities where we live and work. We’re going to build these relationships with community partners focused on social justice and racial equality. We believe it’s time for change, and Devon will be a part of it. To do that, we’re asking ourselves: How can we deepen our understanding, engage in conversations and become the problem-solvers worthy of the leadership position we hold as a company? Already, we’re listening, but we recognize that finding solutions will take time and persistence. In the days following the tragic events of spring 2020, our president and CEO, Dave Hager, sent a series of communications to all Devon employees that set the stage for new expectations, including: “The status quo is not acceptable. We care too deeply for each other to let the current environment continue. We will be open to tough conversations, learn from the experiences of our colleagues and ensure Devon is a place where everyone can share our thoughts and feelings without judgement. Taking positive steps to improve our communities and our company is just the beginning.” Leaders are devoting even more time to listening to our employees and learning about their experiences inside and outside the workplace. Employees have shared personal stories about talking to their children about racism, encountering non-inclusive conduct and wanting to learn how to better confront racism when they see it. These types of conversations are both informative and eye-opening as we strive to create a culture where employees feel free to be their authentic selves.At Devon, we offer employees an ongoing discussion series, “Living our Values,” which we’ve updated to include an “up-stander vs. bystander” component. Participants learn about tactical choices they can make in their own behavior when they observe bias or harassment. Whether they confront it directly or raise the issue later with someone else, we’re helping individuals to focus on active, helpful steps they can take Devon has since 2017 had an Inclusion Action Team (IAT) that seeks to encourage workplace engagement, and we’ve dramatically increased employees’ awareness of this team through a membership drive across the organization. Dedicated communications channels, small group meetings and committed executive level participation have uncovered issues we’ll address in the workplace and in our communities.With the combined resources of the IAT, executive-level sponsors, community relations and human resources experts and others, our commitment to drive change has never been greater. These groups are listening, learning and making real connections. The changes they cultivate will lead to greater transparency across the organization and continue to make Devon a great place to build a career. We will not stand for the status quo. We will drive change together and report on our progess.“We will be open to tough conversations, learn from the experiences of our colleagues and ensure Devon is a place where everyone can share our thoughts and feelings without judgement.”Dave Hager
President and CEO“I’m proud to be a member of the IAT because I have a voice. I’m able to be a part of something that’s bigger than me. I get to witness change at its inception.”Anita Dunbar
Human Resources ProfessionalINCLUSION AND DIVERSITYEncouraging women in our industryDevon wants to encourage more women to work in the oil and gas industry and for our company. When growth in our Delaware Basin operations created demand for more lease operators, we invested in a 12-week training program to attract applicants. In marketing the program, we identified women who were interested but not familiar with the role. We’ve now hired women into lease operator positions – and those hired out of the training program are more likely to stay with Devon, reducing turnover. We expect to adapt this successful program for other operating areas as the need arises.Devon has a large presence in the Women’s Energy Network of Greater Oklahoma (WEN OK), an organization dedicated to empowering women in the energy industry. The company sponsors the chapter and employee memberships as part of our commitment to professional development. Of WEN OK’s 1,000 members, 120 are Devon employees, including the president, president elect, two committee chairs, a board advisor and 20% of members in the mentoring program. WEN OK’s networking, leadership and volunteer opportunities benefit both our employees and Devon. In particular, individual contributors say that expanding their network and having mentor relationships expands their insights.To attract and retain more women to technology jobs, Devon supports Oklahoma Women in Technology (OKWIT) and its efforts to bridge the gender gap in STEM fields. With women accounting for only 26% of qualified applicants for technology jobs in the U.S., we believe our involvement in OKWIT can help expand the number of women graduating with STEM degrees and applying for these jobs. Our employees benefit from OKWIT’s professional-development, networking, mentoring and leadership opportunities. In 2019, Devon employees held three of OKWIT’s eight board positions. About 40 Devon employees attended, volunteered for or facilitated events like the 2019 Fall Retreat, which was attended by more than 450 teachers and students, and the Annual OKWIT Awards Gala, the only event in Oklahoma that celebrates women in technology. Supporting OKWIT is consistent with Devon’s broader commitment to STEM activities.Devon is well represented in the Women’s Energy Network. United Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.In a traditionally male-dominated sector, Devon is taking steps to increase women’s participation in the workforce and to promote equal opportunities for leadership. As Devon looks to the future, facilitating STEM education and training for women broadens the company’s access to talent and allows incorporation of diverse perspectives. Devon has been nationally recognized at the highest leadership level by 2020 Women on Boards for having at least 20% of the company’s board of director seats filled by women (27%).Employee WellnessWe help employees improve their physical, mental and financial well-being, clearing the way for them to be focused and effective. Prevention, convenient tools and high-quality programs are hallmarks of Devon’s approach to wellness.Strong productivity and engagementDevon has long recognized that healthy, happy employees are more likely to have the focus and productivity needed to deliver results. We first invested in formal programs to help employees achieve physical, mental and financial well-being in 2012. Since then, we’ve experienced strong productivity and engagement, low absenteeism and high retention rates. In addition, the combination of our wellness programs and generous health care benefits has helped keep Devon’s medical insurance premium costs flat or below national rates of increase, excluding large one-time claims. Best of all, employees tell us that they’ve improved their health and changed their lives with the help of our wellness offerings. Devon is maintaining the most effective core programs, even while cutting overall costs, because we understand the positive impact wellness has on our workforce and our business.Prevention for physical and mental healthTo encourage employees to be proactive about their health and well-being, Devon covers the cost of annual physical exams, annual vision screenings, two annual dental exams, colonoscopies, mammograms, prostate exams and well-woman exams. For convenience, we offer on-site mammography twice each year. Employee participation in preventive cancer screenings in 2019 exceeded national benchmarks up to 20% in some categories.In 2019, 60% of Devon employees received an annual physical exam from their personal physician, an increase from 58% in 2018. Nearly 800 physicals were completed at the Doc, the medical clinic we established so employees and their families could get a high standard of care and personal attention with short wait times near our corporate headquarters in Oklahoma City. Additionally, 29 employees received annual physicals on-site at our Weatherford, Oklahoma, field office in 2019. We support employees who want to make healthy lifestyle changes and provide high-quality, no-cost offerings to help them prevent chronic illnesses and health problems. These include programs for diabetes support, a pre-diabetes version for field employees, and tobacco cessation. Eligible employees also can take part in Drop at the Doc, a 22-week physician-led weight-loss program.  Through education efforts, Devon makes our workforce aware of common mental health issues like anxiety, depression, addiction and insomnia, as well as treatment options available to employees enrolled in our medical plan. In addition, employees can receive three free counseling sessions through our Employee Assistance Program (EAP).We encourage employees to take advantage of our wellness programs by awarding points for activities like getting a physical exam or completing a financial wellness series. They can track points and progress on our online portal. Employees who accumulate 1,000 points in a year receive up to $2,500 in contributions to their health savings account (HSA). A large number of Devon employees set aside money in an HSA for qualified medical expenses, and the average HSA balance has increased for the past three years. Employee engagement in our wellness programs was strong in 2019, with 95% of employees registered on our online portal, 72% completing their well-being assessment and 82% earning at least 1,000 participation points.Financial well-being in all phases of lifeDebt, day-to-day financial challenges and saving for retirement can affect people’s sense of well-being. Devon’s financial wellness program provides confidential and unbiased financial guidance and a wide range of resources at no cost to employees. Employees can take a third-party financial assessment, receive one-on-one consultations with experts and participate in onsite and web-based workshops as part of our financial wellness program. We’re at the top of our industry for 401(k) plan contributions, with over 99% of employees contributing to the plan in 2019 and the percentage of their paycheck contributions growing every year from 2016 through 2019. We believe it’s because our employees are well informed about the importance of retirement savings on their financial well-being.To help employees understand financial requirements based on their phase in life, Devon hosted a well-attended series of classes on estate planning, debt management, retirement planning and long-term care planning in 2019. The classes will be available again in 2020. Ultimately, we believe giving our employees opportunities to improve their well-being will enhance Devon’s ability to be a sustainable business. The Doc, Devon’s on-site medical clinic in Oklahoma City, provides care and convenience for employees.EMPLOYEE WELLNESS401 (k)Deferral Participation Rate 
(percentage of employees who contribute to the plan)99.1%100%98.7%98.6%96.2%95%90%2017201820162019Average Deferral Rate 
(actual percentage of paycheck that employees contribute)8%6.2%5.9%5.9%5.5%4%0%2016201820172019HSAAverage HSA account balance for 
Devon employees 
(as of 3/31 each year)United Nations member states adopted 
17 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.We aim to deliver tools and resources that support our employees’ pursuit of healthy lives, stability  and well-being. Devon takes a holistic approach to employee wellness, promoting physical, mental and financial health. The Doc, a medical clinic we established near our corporate headquarters in Oklahoma City, allows employees and their families to get a high standard of care and personal attention with short wait times. Devon’s financial wellness program provides confidential and unbiased financial guidance and a wide range of resources at no cost to employees.  $5k$4,749$3,979$4k$3,558$3k201820192017Performance MetricsDownload spreadsheetENVIRONMENT METRICS 1 2017 2018 2019 Direct GHG Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2 2.39 2.73           2.61   By Constituent       Carbon Dioxide (million tonnes CO2e) 1.54 1.92 1.88       Methane (million tonnes CO2e) 0.85 0.81 0.73       Nitrous Oxide (million tonnes CO2e) 0.001 0.001 0.002   By Source       Flaring / Venting (million tonnes CO2e) 0.91 1.34 1.15       Combustion (million tonnes CO2e) 1.24 1.18 1.28       Other (million tonnes CO2e) 0.25 0.20 0.19 Indirect Emissions - Electricity Use (million tonnes CO2e)3 0.26 0.25 0.18 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (million tonnes CO2e)2, 3 2.65 2.98 2.79 GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/MBOE)2 11.65 12.34 9.96 Despite increased activity levels, Devon’s GHG emissions fell in 2019, driven in part by efforts to expand our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program and improve our venting and flaring performance. Methane Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/MBOE)2 4.16 3.65 2.80 Methane Emissions Intensity (% of natural gas produced)4 0.31% 0.32% 0.28% Continued efforts to capture methane to avoid venting and flaring and expanding our LDAR program led to lower methane emissions in 2019. Devon’s methane intensity rate (% of natural gas produced) will be used to track progress towards Devon’s goal of achieving and maintaining a methane intensity rate of 0.28% or lower by 2025. achieving and maintaining a methane intensity rate of 0.28% or lower by 2025.  Flaring Intensity (% of natural gas produced)5 0.27% 0.74% 0.77% Energy Used - Fuel and Electricity Use (trillion BTU)3 38.22 24.76 28.31 Consumption of electricity represents a small portion of our overall emissions profile. Water Usage (million bbl)6  43.80 59.40 92.50      Recycled (million bbl)  4.67 11.75 17.73      Sourced (million bbl)  39.13 47.65 74.77 Water Usage Intensity (bbl/boe produced) 6 0.22 0.29 0.45 Water Usage Intensity (million bbl/well completion) 6 0.20 0.21 0.25 Devon’s total water use varies with activity levels, targeted formations and lateral lengths, and includes fresh, non-fresh and recycled water volumes. We seek alternatives to fresh water supplies, where possible. In 2019, recycled and non-fresh (brackish) water accounted for more than 80% of the water we used in our Delaware Basin operations. 
We are also an industry leader in developing recycled-water technologies and best practices. Reportable Spill Events Released to the Environment (events)7 156 213 158 Reportable Spill Volumes Released to the Environment (barrels)7 4,098 3,985 2,669 When a spill occurs, we remediate, investigate the cause and take corrective action to prevent recurrence. 1	The environment metrics have been calculated using the best available data at the time of publication. Historical metrics are subject to change as we continuously seek to 			improve our data management practices, data sources, and calculation methodologies in order to provide the highest level of transparency, consistency and accuracy.2	We include all reportable emissions under EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP) for Devon operated facilities, as well as non-reportable emissions from our 			production assets and, beginning in reporting year 2019, gathering and boosting assets.
3	We calculate our reported emissions using EPA fuel and electricity emissions factors.		4	Our methane emissions intensity rate calculation includes all natural gas produced at Devon operated facilities and all methane emissions from Devon facilities associated 			with the production of oil and natural gas. Click here to see Devon’s calculation methodology for methane emissions intensity.5	Our flaring intensity rate calculation includes all natural gas produced at facilities operated by Devon in 2019 and the flared volumes associated with the production of oil 			and natural gas.6	Our water usage includes all water sources used in completions activities at facilities operated by Devon in 2019.7	Reportable spill events and volumes exclude a well-control event that occurred in 2019.PERFORMANCE METRICSSAFETY METRICS 2017 2018 2019 Fatalities (Employee and contractor workforce) 1 0 1 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) - 
Employee + Contractor 0.55 0.53 0.54      TRIR - Employee 0.63 0.41 0.48      TRIR - Contractor 0.53 0.55 0.55 Serious Incident & Fatality (SIF) Recordable Rate - Employee + Contractor 0.08 0.06 0.08 Days Away Restricted Transfer (DART) Incident Rate - Employee + Contractor 0.18 0.26 0.25      DART Incident Rate - Employee 0.30 0.12 0.34      DART Incident Rate - Contractor 0.15 0.28 0.23 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) - Employee + Contractor 0.12 0.12 0.17      LTIR - Employee 0.18 0.12 0.34      LTIR - Contractor 0.10 0.12 0.14 Preventable Vehicle Incident Rate (per million miles) 0.85 1.00 1.62 Employee Hours (million) 5.4 4.9 4.2 Contractor Hours (million) 18.4 24.7 21.6 GOVERNANCE METRICS 2017 2018 2019 Independent Board Members 78% 80% 91% Currently, 9 of our 12 board members (75%) qualify as independent under NYSE standards and SEC regulations. Women Board Members 22% 20% 27% Currently three women (25%), including the chairs of Devon's Audit and Governance Committees, currently serve on our board of directors. Contributions - Trades & Political (thousands) $1,062 $494 $2,144 In 2019, we began disclosing non-deductible trade association dues. Lobbying - Federal & State (thousands) $1,542 $905 $1,178 Devon's lobbying and political activity is disclosed via public agencies, as well as through the company's Political Activity and Lobbying Report available on our website. SOCIAL METRIC 2017 2018 2019 Social Investments (in millions) $6.7 $7.0 $6.2 PERFORMANCE METRICSWORKFORCE METRICS 2017 2018 2019 Headcount (total company) 2,552 2,134 1,767 Minorities and Women as a Percentage of Workforce8      Minorities 17% 18% 19%      Women 28% 26% 25% Minorities and Women as a Percentage of Leadership      Minorities 11% 11% 11%      Women 18% 17% 18% Years of Service      Less than 5 years 50% 41% 31%      5-9 years 26% 32% 42%      10-14 years 14% 17% 18%      15-19 years 5% 6% 5%      20-24 years 2% 2% 2%      25+ years 3% 2% 2% Median Age 38 39 39 Attrition Rate 6% 9% 8% 8As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.Reporting FrameworksThis report was prepared with content correlated to voluntary frameworks and standards established by IPIECA, the oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social performance, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Devon continues to strive for increased transparency on issues that are top-of-mind for our stakeholders, as we believe ESG transparency is important to building a sustainable and economically competitive company.IPIECA
Sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industry (4th edition, 2020)The primary framework for this report is the Sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industry developed by IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). The issues and indicators in this guidance have been selected based on industry consensus, together with significant insights and suggestions from an independent panel of stakeholders with expertise in the sector and sustainability reporting.The below IPIECA index identifies where the referenced data may be found in this report or other publicly available disclosures.IPIECA ISSUE INDICATORS REFERENCE GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS GOVERNANCE AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS GOV-1: Governance approach Sustainability Report (SR) – About This Report, Core Values: The Devon Way, Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, EHS Philosophy GOV-2: Management systems SR-About This Report, SR-Ethics and Integrity, SR-Our Culture BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY GOV-3: Preventing corruption SR-Ethics and Integrity, SR-Workforce Safety, Anti-Corruption Policy, Supplier Qualification Requirements, Ethics & Compliance Helpline GOV-4: Transparency of payments to host governments  Not Applicable GOV-5: Public advocacy and lobbying SR-Governance Overview, SR-Public Advocacy, Anti-Corruption Policy, Political Activity and Lobbying Report CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CLIMATE STRATEGY AND RISK CCE-1: Climate governance and strategy SR-Climate Change, SR-Risk Management, Climate Change Assessment Report, CDP Climate Response CCE-2: Climate risk and opportunities SR-Air Emissions, Climate Change Assessment Report, CDP Climate Response TECHNOLOGY CCE-3: Lower-carbon technology SR-Air Emissions, CDP Climate Response EMISSIONS CCE-4: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SR-Air Emissions, SR-Performance Metrics, CDP Climate Response CCE-5: Methane emissions SR-Air Emissions, SR-Performance Metrics, CDP Climate Response ENERGY USE CCE-6: Energy use SR-Air Emissions, SR-Performance Metrics, CDP Climate Response FLARING CCE-7: Flared gas SR-Air Emissions, SR-Performance Metrics, CDP Climate Response IPIECA ISSUE INDICATORS REFERENCE ENVIRONMENT WATER ENV-1: Freshwater SR-Water Management, SR-Performance Metrics, CDP Water Response ENV-2: Discharges to water Not Disclosed BIODIVERSITY ENV-3: Biodiversity policy and strategy SR-Land Conservation ENV-4: Protected and priority areas for biodiversity conservation Not Disclosed AIR EMISSIONS ENV-5: Emissions to air SR-Air Emissions, CDP Climate Response SPILLS ENV-6: Spills to the environment SR-Spill Prevention, SR-Well Safety, SR-Emergency Preparedness, 
CDP Water Response MATERIALS MANAGEMENT ENV-7: Materials management SR-Waste Management, SR-Spill Prevention, SR-Well Safety, SR-Water Management DECOMMISSIONING ENV-8: Decommissioning Not Disclosed SAFETY, HEALTH AND SECURITY WORKFORCE PROTECTION SHS-1: Safety, health and security engagement SR-Safety Overview, SR-Workforce Safety, EHS Philosophy, 
SR-Emergency Preparedness, Supplier Qualification Requirements SHS-2: Workforce and community health SR-Pandemic Response, SR-Workforce Overview, SR-Culture, 
SR-Employee Wellness SHS-3: Occupational injury and illness incidents SR-Safety Overview, SR-Workforce Safety, SR-Performance Metrics SHS-4: Transport safety SR-Safety Overview, SR-Workforce Safety, SR-Community Engagement, SR-Performance Metrics PRODUCT HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK SHS-5: Product stewardship SR-Waste Management, SR-Workforce Safety, Safety Data Sheets, 
EHS Philosophy PROCESS SAFETY SHS-6: Process safety Not Disclosed SECURITY SHS-7: Security risk management SR-Emergency Preparedness, SR-Risk Management, SR-Cybersecurity SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT SOC-1: Human rights due diligence SR-Human Rights, Statement on Human Rights, SR-Ethics and Integrity, Ethics & Compliance Helpline SOC-2: Suppliers and human rights Statement on Human Rights, Supplier Qualification Requirements SOC-3: Security and human rights Not Applicable LABOR PRACTICES SOC-4: Site-based labor practices and worker accommodation SR-Workforce Safety, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics SOC-5: Workforce diversity and inclusion SR-Inclusion and Diversity SOC-6: Workforce engagement SR-Workforce Overview, Ethics & Compliance Helpline SOC-7: Workforce training and development SR-Our Culture, SR-Workforce Safety SOC-8: Workforce non-retaliation and grievance mechanisms Ethics & Compliance Helpline COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SOC-9: Community impacts and engagement SR-About This Report, SR-Community Engagement, SR-Seismicity, SR-Well Safety SOC-10: Engagement with Indigenous Peoples Statement on Human Rights SOC-11: Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement Not Applicable SOC-12: Community grievance mechanisms Ethics & Compliance Helpline, Statement on Human Rights SOC-13: Social investment SR-Community Engagement, SR-STEM, SR-Volunteerism, 
SR-Philanthropy, SR-Performance Metrics, Corporate Giving Policy LOCAL CONTENT SOC-14: Local procurement and supplier development SR-Community Engagement SOC-15: Local hiring practices SR-Workforce Overview REPORTING FRAMEWORKSREPORTING FRAMEWORKSTCFD
Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (June 2017)The TCFD seeks to develop recommendations for voluntary climate-related financial disclosures as a tool for investors and other stakeholders to assess risks associated with climate change. Devon published a standalone Climate Change Assessment Report in 2018, followed by an updated version aligned with TCFD in 2020.CORE ELEMENT TCFD DISCLOSURE REFERENCE GOVERNANCE
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate Change Assessment Report (CCAR), Sustainability Report (SR)-Environment Overview, CDP Climate Response , Proxy Statement b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. CCAR, CDP Climate Response, Proxy Statement STRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. CCAR, SR-Air Emissions and Climate Change, CDP Climate Response b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. CCAR, SR-Air Emissions and Climate Change, CDP Climate Response, Form 10-K c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. CCAR, SR-Air Emissions and Climate Change, CDP Climate Response, Form 10-K RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. CCAR, SR-Risk Management, CDP Climate Response b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. CCAR, SR-Risk Management c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. CCAR, SR-Risk Management METRICS AND TARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. CCAR, SR-Air Emissions, CDP Climate Response b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. CCAR, SR-Environment Overview, CDP Climate Response c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. CCAR, SR-Air Emissions, CDP Climate Response, Proxy Statement REPORTING FRAMEWORKSSASB
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standard (version 2018-10)The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) connects businesses and investors on the financial impacts of sustainability. SASB’s mission is to help businesses around the world identify, manage and report on the sustainability topics that matter most to their investors. In response to growing investor interest in SASB, we conducted a comparative analysis using SASB indicators against our current reporting process. As of 2020, we still rely heavily on CDP Climate, CDP Water and our own materiality assessment to determine our top issues and methodologies for reporting. Various SASB indicators request different reporting methodologies but use the same underlying raw data that we use for our CDP responses. As such, Devon intends to use the SASB materiality profile for the oil and gas industry as an additional reference point when assessing the sustainability issues most likely to impact our business. We will determine what additional SASB-specific measurements Devon may adopt in the future based upon future assessments.SASB TOPIC CODE ACCOUNTING/ACTIVITY METRIC REFERENCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS EM-EP-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage methane, percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations Sustainability Report (SR)-Air Emissions, 
SR-Performance Metrics, CDP Climate Response EM-EP-110a.2 Amount of gross global Scope 1 emissions from: (1) flared hydrocarbons, (2) other combustion, (3) process emissions, (4) other vented emissions, and (5) fugitive emissions SR-Air Emissions, SR-Performance Metrics, 
CDP Climate Response EM-EP-110a.3 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets SR-Air Emissions, CDP Climate Response AIR QUALITY EM-EP-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOX (excluding N2O), (2) SOX, (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) particulate matter (PM10) Not Disclosed WATER MANAGEMENT EM-EP-140a.1 1) Total fresh water withdrawn, (2) total fresh water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress SR-Performance Metrics, SR-Water Management, CDP Water Response EM-EP-140a.2 Volume of produced water and flowback generated; percentage (1) discharged, (2) injected, (3) recycled; hydrocarbon content in discharged water SR-Water Management, CDP Water Response EM-EP-140a.3 Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there is public disclosure of all fracturing fluid chemicals used Not Disclosed EM-EP-140a.4 Percentage of hydraulic fracturing sites where ground or surface water quality deteriorated compared to a baseline Not Disclosed BIODIVERSITY IMPACTS EM-EP-160a.1 Description of environmental management policies and practices for active sites SR-Land Conservation EM-EP-160a.2 Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, volume in Arctic, volume near shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10, and volume recovered SR-Spill Prevention, SR-Performance Metrics EM-EP-160a.3 (1) Proved and (2) probable reserves in or near sites with protected conservation status or endangered species habitat Not Disclosed SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES EM-EP-210a.1 (1) Proved and (2) probable reserves in or near areas of conflict Not Applicable EM-EP-210a.2 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or near indigenous land Not Disclosed EM-EP-210a.3 Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights, and operation in areas of conflict Statement on Human Rights SASB TOPIC CODE ACCOUNTING/ACTIVITY METRIC REFERENCE COMMUNITY RELATIONS EM-EP-210b.1 Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities associated with community rights and interests SR-Social Overview EM-EP-210b.2 Number and duration of non-technical delays Not Disclosed WORKFORCE HEALTH 
& SAFETY EM-EP-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR), and (4) average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training for (a) full-time employees, (b) contract employees, and (c) short-service employees SR-Workforce Safety, SR-Performance Metrics EM-EP-320a.2 Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of safety and emergency preparedness throughout the value chain and throughout the exploration and production lifecycle SR-Safety Overview, SR-Workforce Safety, 
SR-Emergency Preparedness RESERVES VALUATION & CAPITAL EXPENDITURES EM-EP-420a.1 Sensitivity of hydrocarbon reserve levels to future price projection scenarios that account for a price on carbon emissions Climate Change Assessment Report EM-EP-420a.2 Estimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves Not Disclosed EM-EP-420a.3 Amount invested in renewable energy, revenue generated by renewable energy sales Not Applicable EM-EP-420a.4 Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or climate regulation influence the capital expenditure strategy for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets Climate Change Assessment Report, Form 10-K BUSINESS ETHICS & PAYMENTS TRANSPARENCY EM-EP-510a.1 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index Not Applicable EM-EP-510a.2 Description of the management system for prevention of corruption and bribery throughout the value chain SR-Governance, Anti-Corruption Policy, CDP Climate Response MANAGEMENT OF THE LEGAL & REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT EM-EP-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry Climate Change Assessment Report, Form 10-K, Political Activity and Lobbying Report CRITICAL INCIDENT RISK MANAGEMENT EM-EP-540a.1 Process Safety Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1) Not Disclosed EM-EP-540a.2 Description of management systems used to identify and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risks SR-Workforce Safety, SR-Emergency Preparedness ACTIVITY METRICS EM-EP-000.A Production of oil Form 10-K Production of natural gas Form 10-K Production of synthetic oil Not Applicable Production of synthetic gas Not Applicable EM-EP-000.B Number of offshore sites Not Applicable EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites Website-Operations REPORTING FRAMEWORKSREPORTING FRAMEWORKSUnited Nations’ Sustainable Development GoalsAt Devon, one way we reflect on our role in society is by viewing our work through the lens of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs. The SDGs are the globally agreed-upon action plan for providing affordable and clean energy, protecting our planet, and promoting peace and prosperity for all people. We identified nine SDGs for which we believe Devon makes the greatest contribution. The following table summarizes those nine SDGs and where discussion of those topics can be found in this report.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL REFERENCE SDG Goal 3 – Good Health and Well-Being SR-Employee Wellness SDG Goal 4 – Quality Education   SR-STEM SDG Goal 5 – Gender Equality SR-Inclusion and Diversity SDG Goal 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation SR-Water Management SDG Goal 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy SR-Climate Change SDG Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth SR-Workforce Safety SDG Goal 13 – Climate Action SR-Risk Management SDG Goal 15 – Life on Land SR-Land Conservation SDG Goal 17 – Partnerships SR-Overview DisclaimerThis report contains terms, standards and reporting metrics used by IPIECA, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG, together with IPIECA, TCFD and SASB, the “Frameworks”). The contents of this report are intended as guidance only and may not be comprehensive in scope or coverage, including as to such Frameworks. Devon does not intend to and is not endorsing or adopting phrases, specific terms or recommendations from the Frameworks. Non-financial and non-GAAP information, such as that included in this report, is subject to more potential limitations than financial information, given the methods used for calculating or estimating such information. Devon does not make any express or implied representations or warranties and shall not assume any liability whatsoever for providing guidance or using these Frameworks, or for any errors, mistakes or omissions in this report. Additionally, the concept of materiality used in this report is not intended to correspond to the concept of materiality associated with the disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  Please refer to our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC for information about the risks and uncertainties to our business and operations, and our industry in general.This report covers our owned and operated businesses and does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers, contractors and partners unless otherwise noted. This report does not distinguish between the activities and operations of our ultimate parent company (Devon Energy Corporation) and those of our subsidiaries.This report includes “forward-looking statements” as defined by the SEC. Such statements relate to the manner in which Devon intends to conduct certain of its activities, based on management’s current plans and expectations. Such statements are not promises or guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. See the Safe Harbor disclosure at the end of this report. Devon’s actual activities, including the development, implementation or continuation of any program, target or initiative discussed in this report may differ materially in the future. The forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date of submittal of our responses to this report, even if subsequently made available by Devon on its website or otherwise. Devon does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Safe Harbor Some of the information provided in this report includes “forward-looking statements” as defined by the SEC. Forward-looking statements are often identified by use of the words “forecasts,” “projections,” “estimates,” “plans,” “expectations, “targets,” “opportunities,” “potential,” “outlook” and other similar terminology. Such statements concerning future performance are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause Devon’s actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. Risks and uncertainties are described in more detail in the “Risk Factors” section of our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.The forward-looking statements provided in this report are based on management’s examination of historical operating trends, the information which was used to prepare reserve reports and other data in Devon’s possession or available from third parties. Devon cautions that its future oil, natural gas and NGL production, revenues and expenses are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the exploration for and development, production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs. 
These risks include, but are not limited to, price volatility, inflation or lack of availability 
of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling risks, political changes, changes in laws or regulations, the uncertainty inherent in estimating future oil and gas production or reserves and, as noted above, other risks identified in our Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.NYSE: DVNwww.devonenergy.com            Corporate Headquarters Devon Energy333 W. Sheridan Ave.Oklahoma City, OK 73102-5015405-235-3611Sustainability Report ContactsShea Snyder405-552-4782shea.snyder@dvn.comTim Hartley405-552-4994 tim.hartley@dvn.com011320