SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT Clean Energy Our commitment to clean energy includes 100% clean electricity by 2040, tripling our energy efficiency by 2030, and total support for the use of electric vehicles. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT Public Safety When the pandemic began, we helped set up field hospitals, powered testing sites, and made face shields for healthcare workers. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT Efficiency To reduce customers’ overall energy use, we’re offering rebates and incentives that will total $1.5 billion by 2025. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Renewable Energy We’re the second-largest owner of solar electricity in North America and the seventh largest in the world. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Innovation We’re the first utility in America to install natural-gas detectors that can find gas leaks early and alert emergency responders faster than ever. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Accountability Our company made Newsweek’s list of America’s most responsible companies. Newsweek honors companies that are “good citizens and give back to the communities they operate in.” CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY Local Support The pandemic led to a rise in food insecurity. In 2020, we donated more than $800,000 to organizations that feed the hungry. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY Protecting People During the pandemic, we discontinued trips to customers’ homes for meter readings and other non-emergencies to keep the public and our employees safe. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY Enhanced Customer Experience Thanks to our technology, customers can use Google and Amazon Alexa to manage their accounts. Report Introduction Company Profile Sustainability Strategy R&D / Innovation Company Profile Report Introduction Consolidated Edison, Inc. is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy-delivery companies, with approximately $12 billion in revenues and $63 billion in assets. The company provides a wide range of energy-related products and services to its customers through the following subsidiaries: • Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY), a regulated utility providing electric, gas and steam service to customers in New York City and Westchester County, New York • Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R), a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,300-square-mile-area in southeastern New York State and northern New Jersey • Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses, Inc. (CEB), which through its subsidiaries develops, owns and operates renewable and sustainable energy infrastructure projects and provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers • Con Edison Transmission (CET), which through its subsidiaries invests in electric transmission projects to bring clean energy to customers. Read our 2020 Annual Report. REPORT INTRODUCTION - COMPANY PROFILE Revenue by Business 2020 (million $) Board of Directors  As of January 1, 2021.  Audit Committee  Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee  Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee  Executive Committee  Finance Committee  Management Development and Compensation Committee  George Campbell, Jr.     Chair  Ellen V. Futter    John F. Killian  Chair     Timothy P. Cawley  John McAvoy  Chair  Armando J. Olivera   Chair   Michael W. Ranger   Chair and Lead Director     Linda S. Sanford     L. Frederick Sutherland   Chair   William J. Murrow     Deirdre Stanley    Karol V. Mason    Dwight A. McBride    Financial Highlights (million $ except per-share information and statistical data) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Operating revenues $12,919 $12,554 $12,075 $12,033 $12,337 $12,574 $12,246 Net income for common stock $1,092 $1,193 $1,245 $1,525 $1,382 $1,343 $1,101 Basic earnings per common share $3.73 $4.07 $4.15 $4.97 $4.43 $4.09 $3.29 Dividends per share $2.52 $2.60 $2.68 $2.76 $2.86 $2.96 $3.06 Dividend payout ratio 68% 64% 65% 56% 65% 72% 93% Average common shares outstanding 292.9 293 300.4 307.1 311.7 328.5 334.8 Total assets $44,071 $45,642 $48,255 $48,111 $53,920 $58,079 $62,895 Capital expenditures $2,721 $3,418 $5,235 $3,606 $5,249 $3,676 $4,085 Common equity ratio 52.2% 52.1% 49.3% 51.1% 49.0% 49.6% 48.3% Return on equity 8.8% 9.3% 9.1% 10.4% 8.8% 8.2% 7.6% Market capitalization $19,300 $18,800 $22,100 $26,100 $24,500 $30,100 $24,700 Stock price per share (year end) $66.01 $64.27 $73.68 $84.95 $76.46 $90.47 $72.27 Dividend yield (year end) 3.8% 4.0% 3.6% 3.2% 3.7% 3.3% 4.2% Total shareholder return 24.8% 1.4% 18.9% 19.3% (6.6%) 22.5% (17.0%) Sustainability Strategy Report Introduction Con Edison is committed to helping make a transformational impact on the environment, our region, and the lives of the people we serve. The company’s sustainability strategy goes hand in hand with our guiding principles of: • Safety, • Operational excellence, and • Enhancing the customer experience. Through implementing our strategy, we will mitigate the effects of climate change even as we harden our critical infrastructure in anticipation of climate change impacts. We have focused our strategy on the following elements: • Delivering our Clean Energy Commitment, which includes: – Significantly ramped up energy efficiency initiatives – Goal of 100% clean electricity by 2040 – Investments in electric vehicle make-ready – Accelerating reduction of fossil fuels for heating • Expansion of our national renewable electric production business – currently the second-largest owner of solar electricity production in North America • Developing transmission opportunities to bring clean energy to customers • Protecting our critical infrastructure against the impacts of climate change and cyber attacks • Offering diversity equity and inclusion through and to our workforce • Maintaining sound governance practices REPORT INTRODUCTION - SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our Corporate Strategy Stems  from Our Guiding Principles Our corporate strategy stems from our three principles, embracing the growing worldwide concern over the impacts of climate change and the desire of customers and the public to have increasing say over how energy is produced and used. Accordingly, our strategy involves three areas where we can positively impact society and our planet while building value for our stakeholders: Customer Focused Value Oriented • Strengthen our core utility business through sustainable means • Pursue additional regulated growth opportunities that add value for customers and our capital providers as New York and New Jersey pursue clean energy agendas • Grow, outside our core businesses, existing clean energy businesses and pursue additional clean energy growth opportunities consistent with our risk appetite Strategic Provide safe and Provide stead, Strengthen core utility reliable service predictable earnings delivery business Pursue additional regulatedEnhance the Maintain balance growth opportunities to add valuecustomer experience sheet stability in the evolving industry Grow existing clean energy businessAchieve operational Pay attractive, an pursue additional clean energyexcellence and cost growing dividends growth opportunities consistent withoptimization our risk appetite Successful implementation of our corporate strategy will enable us to continue to provide steady, predictable earnings, maintain balance sheet stability, and pay increasing dividends for our shareholders – in 2021 we raised our annualized dividend for the 47th consecutive year. Core Utility Business Strategy: Safety Safety is the cornerstone of all that we do at Con Edison. We continue to strive for a zero-harm work environment for our employees and the public we serve. We have been aggressive in upgrading our systems against severe weather, having invested $1 billion over four years following Superstorm Sandy. We coordinated with Westchester County in New York to invest an additional $100 million to fortify our electric system following a pair of successive severe storms in 2018. Orange & Rockland (O&R) invested $47 million in storm hardening from 2018-2020. In our gas delivery systems, we have improved safety as well as reducing harmful methane emissions through our accelerated and prioritized distribution pipe replacement. Orange & Rockland (O&R) completed the retirement of its entire low-pressure gas system and continues to focus on retirement of the remaining leak prone pipe by 2029. Consolidated Edison Company of New York (CECONY) is on track to complete its priority pipe replacement program in 2038. CECONY and O&R were the first utilities to install smart natural-gas detectors that monitor the air in our customers’ basements, sending alerts to homeowners and emergency responders when a gas leak is detected. Monitoring the safety performance of our electric and gas distribution systems is also a priority, so we conduct surveys of our entire electric and gas systems monthly for stray voltage and leaks, respectively, going far beyond industry standards. Core Utility Business Strategy: Enhancing the customer experience Our customers want more access to renewables, energy efficiency, demand response, storage, and information to help them manage their energy usage and bills. We are more than 60% complete in our $1.4 billion, multi-year, smart meter investment. By the program’s completion at the end of 2022, we will have installed more than 5 million smart meters. Smart meters are central to our efforts to meet the evolving needs of customers by providing greater insight into energy use with near real-time data—truly a transformation from the days of a single manual reading each month. We are already seeing other benefits from our smart meter rollout. Integrating smart meters with our outage management system, as we have done at O&R, has resulted in improved customer restoration times following storm outages. Net savings from smart meters are expected to accumulate to $1 billion over the life of the assets. The environmental benefits of smart meters are substantial as well: we expect to be able to reduce distribution voltage by as much as 3%, resulting in a one-and-a-half percent reduction in energy consumption. Smart meters also make possible more interactive rate designs that send the right signals to customers to be efficient in their energy consumption. During storm events, our smart-meter infrastructure helps to avoid truck rolls to restored outages, further decreasing carbon emissions. Sequenced with our smart meter rollout are two customer-focused investments totaling in aggregate more than $500 million: • A new customer service system that will further enhance our energy efficiency and demand response programs, and • A next-generation program that will advance online and mobile customer experiences. Core Utility Business Strategy: Operational Excellence and Cost Optimization Over its long history, Con Edison has operated the most reliable electric delivery system in the country by a sizeable margin. Nevertheless, we recognize that we can always improve. We are deploying sensors, using robotics to monitor our systems, applying analytics, and using other technologies to achieve the operational excellence that our customers deserve. We invest more than $3 billion each year in our energy systems using a risk-based approach to maximize the value of each dollar spent. We use industry-changing practices such as conservation voltage optimization to give customers just the right amount of voltage they need at their outlets and not more. This helps us better manage peak demand and cut pollution. Minimizing risk is key to operational excellence. We continue to invest in and enhance the security of our cyber and physical systems. We have participated in many large-scale drills with the government and other major utilities to prepare for cyber and physical threats to the U.S. energy grid and to develop technology to speed up restoration. When it comes to a cleaner, more efficient future, implementation of our strategy will reduce harmful emissions and expand our portfolio of renewable energy production. Our targets include reducing SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) emissions by 5% annually from current levels, keeping us well ahead of our commitment to the EPA. SF6 is a nontoxic, nonflammable greenhouse gas, with a warming potential more than 22,000 times higher than carbon dioxide, that can remain in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. We have a dedicated team and targeted programs to replace or retire equipment that uses SF6, including circuit breakers. We also have a targeted effort to reduce methane (CH4) emissions from our natural gas distribution system. CH4 is the main constituent of natural gas. In 2016, Con Edison joined 40 other local distribution companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program. The goal of this program is to reduce methane emissions by replacing a significant number of natural gas mains. CECONY’s goal is to replace 4% of its priority pipe, i.e., cast iron and unprotected steel mains (without cathodic protection), each year. This will put CECONY on target to replace all its priority pipe by 2038. O&R completed the retirement of its entire low-pressure gas system and continues to focus on the retirement of the remaining leak prone pipe by 2029. Our Clean Energy Commitment Our broad energy efforts are focused on helping address climate risks. We are the 2nd largest owner and operator of solar electricity production in North America. Our portfolio includes 2,800 MW portfolio of utility-scale solar- and wind-powered electric generation in 20 states. And in early 2021, we partnered in the development of a landmark 100-MW battery storage project in New York City. These efforts are part of the company’s commitment to lead and help deliver the transition to the clean energy future that our customers deserve and expect. We are working together with government, our customers, industry, and other stakeholders to help rapidly reduce the use of fossil fuels. This is our vision for a clean, smart, and reliable energy future—for all our customers, our children, and future generations. Tripling Energy Efficiency by 2030 • By avoiding unnecessary energy use, energy efficiency is the cleanest technology • Plan to invest $1.5 billion in energy efficiency by 2025 to meet statewide targets • Since 2009, more than 1.3 million customers have upgraded to more efficient equipment, saving about 9 million metric tons of carbon emissions, equal to taking more than one million cars off the road 100% Clean Electricity by 2040 • We want to use our expertise in developing, owning, and operating renewable generation and are seeking governmental authorization to add thousands of megawatts of medium- and large-scale renewable generation in New York • We want to continue investing in new electric transmission and storage to support the increased use of clean energy resources • Our support for customer-sited solar energy enabled 45,000 local solar installations as of the end of 2020 All-in Support for Electric Vehicles • We will accelerate the move toward electric cars, trucks, and buses by providing the infrastructure to connect thousands of new public and customer-owned charging stations • We have played a key role in the 2nd largest State-authorized electric vehicle make-ready initiative in the U.S. • CECONY and O&R will invest more than $350 million by 2025 to develop EV charging stations in our service areas with the following targets: – CECONY targets 18,539 Level 2 (L2) plugs and 457 DCFC plugs (fast charging) – O&R targets 2,845 Level 2 (L2) plugs and 71 DCFC plugs (fast charging) Accelerating Reduction of Fossil Fuels for Heating • We will expand our efforts to reduce the use of fossil fuels for heating through energy efficiency, investing in emerging technologies, and our innovative clean-energy technologies, including our Smart Solutions program • We are an anchor sponsor of a project called the Low Carbon Resource Initiative with Electric Power Research Institute exploring low-carbon fuels such as green hydrogen — a carbon-free fuel made from water by using excess energy from renewables like wind and solar. And we are investing in renewable natural gas. Our Clean Energy Commitment  is available on our website. Green Bonds We successfully executed our first issuance of Green Bonds in March 2020. We issued one of the largest Green Bond offerings of $1.6 billion consisting of $600 million 10-year 3.35% debentures and $1,000 million 3.95% 30-year debentures. The proceeds were primarily used to support our smart meter and energy efficiency investments. Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses As part of our firm commitment to renewable energy, Con Edison’s Clean Energy Businesses continued growing by investing approximately $600 million in renewable projects in 2020, expanding its footprint to 20 states and operating a total of 2,868 megawatts of aggregate solar and wind capacity by the end of 2020. Our assets are comprised of 85% solar and 15% wind. Our Clean Energy Businesses is the 2nd largest producer of solar energy in the U.S. and 7th largest in the world. Renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind, produce energy when the sun is shining or the wind is blowing. That makes battery storage especially important for storing power when it is produced and delivering it when it is needed. Battery storage can help ensure reliability and can reduce peak demand. Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses has a dedicated battery storage team and is actively integrating battery storage into new renewable development and operating assets when economical, and is offering battery storage for projects they are developing on behalf of their renewable energy and energy efficiency customers. We continue to make our customers aware of energy efficiency improvements that will help them save money on their bills and give them more control over their energy usage. We work regularly with customers and regulators to test new models for the distribution of energy. Additional Opportunities in Electric Transmission To connect new renewable energy projects to customers, Con Edison is pursuing opportunities to own electric transmission. New York State, our principle state regulatory jurisdiction, has a goal of 70% renewable electricity by 2030, which will require significant investment in the state’s electric high-voltage system. During the 4th quarter of 2020, CECONY filed with the New York State Public Service Commission to build three electric transmission projects at an estimated cost of $780 million. These projects will allow electric generating peaking plants owned by others that will not meet the 2025 NOx emission rules to close and will also enable the delivery of renewable generation from offshore and upstate. The first project would need to be in service by 2023, and the other two projects would need to be in service in 2025. CECONY and O&R joined other New York utilities in a joint filing to develop additional electric transmission projects that implement the State’s climate mandates of the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act and the Accelerated Renewable Energy Growth and Community Benefit Act. Con Edison Transmission Con Edison Transmission (CET) is the company’s FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) regulated subsidiary that invests in new electric transmission to support the increased use of clean energy resources, including offshore wind. CET is a 45.7% owner in the NY Transco that will own a $600 million electric transmission line that will enhance the grid’s reliability and bring renewable energy to customers. That line is scheduled to be in service in December 2023, and along with another segment under construction, it will increase capacity by 1,850 MW. We are interested in the transmission, to support offshore wind including associated underwater or “wet” transmission. We are not pursuing ownership of offshore wind generation currently. At this early stage, we have decided that the risks associated with building offshore wind in the U.S. are too high for our shareholders. We do not consider the gas transmission assets that we own to be core to our business, and we will not be making further investments in this area. We announced in February 2021 that we are pursuing strategic alternatives for our 50% ownership interest in Stagecoach Gas Services. Climate Change Resilience and Adaptation To address the risks of climate change to our energy infrastructure, in December 2020, the company released our Climate Change Implementation Plan, a follow-up to our landmark 2019 Climate Change Vulnerability Study. The 36-month study, performed in conjunction with ICF International and Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, evaluated our present-day infrastructure serving New York City and Westchester County, design specifications and procedures under a range of potential climate futures. The plan reflects not only the experience of experts across Con Edison, but also the feedback, input, and experience of more than 50 stakeholders, including New York State Department of Public Service staff, municipal representatives, and environmental advocacy organizations. The company selected science-based, future climate pathways to prepare our energy delivery systems for the upper end of potential climate change, beyond the goals set out in the Paris Agreement. The plan addresses mitigation measures in response to identified company-specific climate-driven risks: • Sea level rise • Coastal storm surge • Inland flooding from intense rainfall • Hurricane-Strength winds, and • Extreme heat The study currently estimates that we may need to invest between $1.8 billion and $5.2 billion by 2050 on targeted programs to protect our electric, gas and steam delivery systems and our customers from the impacts of climate change. Con Edison has already begun using its climate change projections for decision making and planning processes. In addition, the company has formed a new executive-level committee focused on climate risk and resilience. While the Climate Change Resilience and Adaptation Plan provides a strong foundation for action, Con Edison will assess its adaptation efforts over time based on new science and customer needs. The company will review these climate projections annually and update them at least every five years. The company will provide regular public reporting on its progress through its annual Sustainability Report and other disclosures. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion At Con Edison, we have a long-standing commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Our vision is to be a company whose values and behaviors foster a culture of inclusion and respect for all. Our corporate Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) strategy sets the foundation to achieve this vision and drives all our efforts to foster an inclusive and equitable workplace. Our strategy anchors our direction to ensuring that our employees feel seen, heard, and valued for their unique and individual talents. Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Strategy is built on four key elements – ongoing learning and competency building; inclusive and visible leadership support; reviewing our systems, policies, and procedures to eliminate potential barriers to inclusion; celebrating and acknowledging the diversity of our workforce. ADVANCING CONNECTING DIVERSITY, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, EQUITY, & INCLUSION & INCLUSION THROUGHOUT THE THROUGH LEARNING COMPANY Laying the Foundation FOSTERING A DIVERSE,  COMMUNICATING  EQUITABLE, & INCLUSIVE  & ENGAGING  ENVIRONMENT  Last summer, after the murders of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, we, like many other companies, used this time as an opportunity for self-reflection, asking, what more can we do to further support our employees and address any potential inequities and bias that may exist in our workplace. To that end, we developed a 14-point Action Plan, built on a two-pronged approach: 1) we are focused on data-driven change to ensure that our employees at all levels reflect the diversity of our communities; and 2) we are also focused on enabling culture transformation to drive the behaviors and mindsets that support a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Our Action Plan is supported by our newly formed Diversity & Inclusion Task Force – a cross functional team of employees that will look at demographic representation, identify any gaps, review policies and procedures, and help to further advance the overall experience of inclusion for all employees. Our leaders, Employee Resource Groups and local D&I councils are actively engaged in open dialogue about race, racism, and systemic inequality, and have committed to learning more about how to foster safe spaces where these conversations can continue. While we are proud of the progress that we are making, we are still not where we want to be. There is more work to be done and we are fully committed. Maintaining Sound Governance Practices: Setting Priorities and Strategy The Company has a governance structure and strategy in place to harness the skills and intellect of our employees consistent with sound, sustainable business principles. As disclosed in our Proxy Statement, the Company is firmly committed to sustainability that is broadly overseen by the Board (see Corporate Sustainability). The Board reviews and discusses various sustainability topics throughout the year and routinely considers environmental issues (including climate issues) and assesses how they impact the Company’s operations, strategies, and risk profile. In addition, the Board has delegated to the appropriate committees, responsibility for the specific sustainability categories relating to the oversight of risks with which such committees are charged. The Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee oversees sustainability considerations relating to safety and the environment and reviews the Company’s Annual Sustainability Report prior to its publication. In discharging its responsibilities, the Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee reviews, at each of its meetings, certain key performance indicators relating to climate risk, including energy efficiency and environmentally beneficial electrification. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is charged with sustainability matters relating to governance. The Management, Development, and Compensation Committee’s responsibilities include oversight of sustainability considerations relating to human capital management. The Management, Development, and Compensation Committee annually reviews performance results as well as proposed performance indicators for the following year. Committees not specifically tasked with oversight of sustainability also periodically review matters related to sustainability. To help guide and oversee our sustainability strategy, we have developed a governance structure that extends from our board of directors to the employee level. Our structure includes: • Safety, Environment, Operations, and Sustainability Committee of the Board • Vice president-level Environment, Social, and Governance Committee We engaged BSR, a leading sustainability consulting firm, to assist us in developing our sustainability materiality assessment and determine our key sustainability priorities, and in 2019 we worked with New York University in refreshing that assessment and resulting priorities. We have integrated our sustainability priorities and will include the integration of the Climate Change Implementation Plan, with our long-range planning. Our 20-year plan for our electric and gas businesses is designed to help us navigate today’s challenges while preparing for changes in the energy landscape. The plans are available on our website at the following links: • Electric Long Range Plan • Gas Long Range Plan To hear more about our strides toward a more sustainable future, visit our Soundcloud. R&D/Innovation Report Introduction An innovative spirit and hard work are two of our company’s greatest assets. Our research and development teams work diligently to find solutions that make the workplace safer and improve our operations and our customers’ quality of life. Some of our numerous ongoing projects are described below. Safety • Piloting thermal scanning systems and disinfecting ultraviolet light technologies in preparation for post-COVID workplace re-entry, along with benchmarking on best practices for the post-COVID workplace. • Developed and demonstrated the initial prototype of an electronic job safety briefing app, designed to help mitigate high hazard injuries and allow for completion of comprehensive job briefings while maintaining socially safe distances. • Conducted shop testing of the 16-inch plastic pipe squeeze-off tool that can isolate gas flow anywhere on the distribution system. Benefits include enhanced public safety and system integrity in the event of an emergency. • Partnered in the successful development of a low-cost optically based online corrosion monitoring system. The system was recently patented and will be used to help monitor conditions on underground network distribution transformers and avoid a potential event such as a transformer oil leak. • Successfully field-tested a second generation breaker racking robot prototype. Fulfillment of all technical requirements and completion of a final prototype will allow for remote racking of substation breakers, thereby minimizing exposure risk of substation operators to arc flash hazards and reducing soft tissue injuries from handling heavy circuit breakers. REPORT INTRODUCTION - R&D/INNOVATION Operational Excellence Customer Experience industry-wide R&D initiative to advance • Developing a more robust weather forecasting and outage prediction platform, with capability to do scenario and benchmarking analysis. • Demonstrated the potential of Electrohydraulic Fracturing (EHF) to revolutionize how we excavate rock and concrete. EHF technology is anticipated to have low sound and dust generation and reduce cost and time compared to traditional techniques. • Developed software using blockchain technology to provide distributed energy resource (DER) customers with information on electric feeder outages that may affect their ability to sell electricity. The app will realize cost savings from adding end-to-end smart contract intelligence to the current scheduling process. • Developed a thermal imaging tool for through-cover inspections that will reduce jobsite set-up, reduce necessary personal protective equipment, and allow for more frequent inspections. This tool will allow us to track low level hotspot conditions and mitigate them before developing into a higher risk condition. • Tested the capability of incremental alarm settings on in-home Natural Gas Detectors (NGDs) integrated with Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI). Currently, NGDs have one alarm setting, while future units could have multiple settings in increments of 5% LEL (lower explosive limit), ranging from 5%–25% LEL. Alarming in increments provides insights into the severity of future gas leak alarms (GLAs) from the AMI NGDs. • Tested the efficacy of a passive safety device installed on gas metering piping with the ability to automatically shut off the flow of gas in the event of a fire. Clean Energy • Launched a joint R&D/Transportation Operations project for development of an electric bucket truck prototype as part of the Company’s effort to transition its vehicle fleet to electric. The prototype is expected to be ready for testing by 2022. • Participating as an anchor sponsor in the EPRI/GTI Low-Carbon Resources Initiative (LCRI), a five-year $100 million development of zero and low carbon energy resources, such as green hydrogen and synthetic methane, to meet the carbon reduction goals of New York State’s Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA). • Joined the Carbon to Value Initiative’s Carbontech Leadership Council (CLC), a three-year initiative to advance carbontech innovations toward decarbonization, such as carbon capture, utilization and storage. • Demonstrated the effectiveness and efficiency of a self-contained heat pump system that extracts thermal energy from a building’s wastewater, with cooling capabilities for simultaneous domestic hot water production and air conditioning while reducing harmful emissions and decreasing energy resource needs. • Participating as a founding member in an industry-wide interest group to investigate the impact of projected temperature trends and increased weather events on utilities’ operations and planning. Awards and Patents • Awarded a new patent for low pressure gas main stop-offs. The “Emergency Main Stop-Off System (EMSOS)” is an alternative to installing valves on existing large diameter gas mains, thereby avoiding the need for large scale excavation and decreasing customer interruption. • Granted a patent jointly with Xerox for the invention “Optical Monitoring to Detect Corrosion of Power Grid Components”. Developed as part of a U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) project to develop, prototype, and demonstrate a low-cost, optically based, online monitoring system for underground network distribution transformers. • Presented with the 2020 John B. McGowan Sr. Research Award from the American Gas Association for work on natural gas detector projects. • Collaborated on six projects that received Electric Power Research Institute Technology Transfer Awards. Awards & Recognition Report Introduction Sustainability is an umbrella that covers everything we do as a company. As we continue to serve our customers, promote safety and help preserve the environment, we receive recognition and many prestigious awards for our projects and operational excellence. Here is a sample of our recent honors: Safety & Environment • CECONY and O&R were recognized by PA Consulting Group as recipients of the 2020 ReliabilityOne™ Award for Outstanding Reliability Performance in the Northeast Region Metropolitan Service Area and Suburban/Rural Service Area, respectively. • Con Edison is recognized as the first U.S utility to install smart natural-gas detectors designed to provide both customers and emergency responders with early warnings of potential gas leaks early. For developing the communications technology used in Con Edison’s natural-gas detectors, Itron won a second consecutive Public Safety Solution of the Year honor at the IoT Breakthrough Awards. • O&R received the Tree Line USA Award from the Arbor Day Foundation for the 19th consecutive year. • The Smart Electric Power Alliance honored Con Edison for our commitment to carbon reduction. Operational Excellence • Con Edison made Newsweek America’s list of most responsible companies. The list recognizes the top 300 U.S. companies covering Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance. • Rick Trieste, department manager in Research & Development, won the John B. McGowan Sr. Research Award from the American Gas Association for his work on our natural gas detector project. REPORT INTRODUCTION - AWARDS & RECOGNITION • Twenty-four of our employees received Technology Transfer Awards from EPRI for findings that will improve electrical service, enhance worker and public safety and help energy companies fend off cyberattacks. • At the 24th Annual Videographer Awards, we received two honors in the Corporate Image category and one each in the Internal Company News and Informational categories. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion • Con Edison ranked 30th in New York State on Forbes’s list of Best Employers in New York State. We also ranked in the top five among utilities on the Forbes list of Best Employers for Diversity. • Con Edison made Latina Magazine’s list of the top companies for Latina professionals. • On the Military Times list of 100 Best Employers for Vets, Con Edison ranked No. 8. This is the third time our company has made the list. • As You Sow, an organization focused on environmental and corporate responsibility, ranks Con Edsion among the ten best companies when it comes to integrating diversity, equity, and inclusion into our policies and practices. Customer Experience • Con Edison made Neilson Norman Group’s list of the world’s 10 best intranets and shared design trends that make community building a top priority. • Con Edison received the Utility Customer Experience Award from ESource 2020 for the Outage Customer Experience Dashboard. • Patrick Prieto, a senior specialist in Customer Assistance, won the ASPIRA Latino Achievers Award for promoting diversity and inclusion by helping others make their lives better. Social & Governance • Con Edison was recognized as a Trendsetter among S&P 500 companies in the 2020 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability with a score of 94.3 out of 100. Safety & Environment Employee Health & Safety Public Safety GHG Emissions Reductions Air Quality / Non-GHG Emissions Waste Management Habitat Electric Vehicles Oil-to-Gas Conversions Water ISO Certification Pipeline Safety Management System Employee Health & Safety Safety & Environment In 2020, CECONY’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration injury and illness rate of 0.91 was lower than our goal of 1.00, in a time when CECONY continued to operate during a global pandemic and unprecedented challenges throughout the year. We had 114 recordable employee injuries last year and experienced one significant high-hazard injury. CECONY remains focused on achieving a zero-accident workplace and remains committed to ensuring safety is not only a top priority, but a core principle embedded in our culture. CECONY has reduced injuries by more than 75% since 2009. In 2020, Orange & Rockland achieved its best injury and illness rate in any year, 0.82, had one significant high-hazard injury, and has seen an 83% reduction in injuries and illnesses since 2009. Key focus areas for sustained improvement include: • Giving a voice to safety by promoting a first-class safety culture, making safety personal, and emphasizing that safety is the focus of every task, every job, every day. • Focusing on high-hazard injury prevention by closing gaps prior to injuries through proactively identifying and addressing unseen hazards. • Improving our ability to prevent injuries before they happen by enhancing our Close Call program, such as through the development of an app for employees to use. • Encouraging safety leadership, or a culture in which employees proactively take ownership of and the lead on safety issues, through training, mentoring and the use of technology. • Using and developing tools to help drive us towards our goal of a zero-harm workplace by leveraging data, thorough job briefings, and via a focus on achieving 100% procedural compliance. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY Con Edison of New York OSHA Rate 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 Orange and Rockland OSHA Rate Orange & Rockland continues its progress toward a zero-harm workplace thanks to the joint union-management Corporate Safety Committee, Company Safety Team, 6.0 5.5 5.0 4.5 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 and 12 organization-specific safety teams. O&R strives to achieve an injury and illness Public Safety Safety & Environment We invested more than $3.23 billion in 2020 to fortify our electric, gas, and steam infrastructure. This investment underscores our commitment to provide energy to millions of customers efficiently and responsibly while protecting the environment and keeping people safe throughout our service area. Electric Con Edison continues to develop tools, techniques, and management strategies to improve safety, troubleshoot problems, and increase efficiency. In 2020, Electric Operations’ Distribution Engineering team worked to advance our thermal imaging capabilities by developing an industry-first thermal and visual borescope camera to help our crews quickly and safely inspect underground electric distribution manholes for high temperature anomalies that may indicate equipment repairs are required. This tool is the latest addition to the technology that Con Edison is deploying to help reduce the number of manhole events. Con Edison continues to work to reduce manhole events with multiple programs, including its industry recognized latched manhole technology and its vented manhole cover that reduce manhole displacements. Con Edison’s underground networks are surveyed for contact voltage 12 times a year, using mobile detectors. In 2020, we found and eliminated 6,042 cases of contact voltage. Of those, 5,502 cases (91%) were on non-Con Edison equipment (streetlights, electric signs, and other structures). We performed 26,954 inspections of our underground system (manholes, service boxes, and transformer vaults). O&R’s electric system testing is completed at least once every five years. In 2020, O&R found and eliminated 14 cases of contact voltage — 13 on company-owned equipment — and performed 45,004 inspections and 38,822 tests. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - PUBLIC SAFETY Gas Con Edison continues to apply a public safety risk mitigation strategy that includes the elements of prevention, enhanced detection, and best in class response. Many of these initiatives are industry leading and on the cutting edge of technology. Prevention The Company continues to significantly invest in its main replacement program to remove its cast iron and unprotected steel gas mains from its inventory. The Company has replaced 421 miles of such mains in the last five years. Along with other enhanced quality measures, the Company requires 100% independent inspections of all plastic joints installed to ensure quality and compliance. Furthermore, the Company has a robust and proactive damage prevention program that promotes awareness in the contractor community and utilizes predictive analytics to ensure additional contractor oversight before street work is performed near our critical facilities. The year 2020 saw the lowest level of contractor damages to our system in our recorded history. Detection Con Edison performs monthly gas leak surveys of our 4,300 mile gas distribution system, far in excess of the traditional annual survey performed in the industry. The frequency of these surveys allows us to detect leaks on our system as they occur, so that repair can be scheduled in a timely manner. Additionally, the Company has developed a first.of-its-kind natural gas detector that is integrated with our advanced metering infrastructure. These detectors automatically notify our Gas Emergency Control Center of potential public gas leak emergencies, which Con Edison and the fire department then respond to and investigate. We piloted these detectors in 2018, began full deployment in 2020, and will be installing them in every customer’s home in the next five years. Furthermore, Con Edison has a comprehensive, multichannel, and multilingual campaign to educate customers and the public at large— an estimated 10 million people across New York City and Westchester County—about gas safety and the urgency of reporting gas leaks. We reach customers primarily through direct mailings, youth outreach efforts, advertising, digital initiatives (such as email campaigns, conEd.com and social media), and community events. We also continued our successful media campaign, Smell Gas, Act Fast, featuring videos and social media posts that inform customers on what to do if they smell gas. The videos are in English, Spanish, Chinese, and Korean. Response Con Edison emergency response performance is best-in-class. In 2020, the Company responded to gas leaks across the system within 30 minutes, 98% of the time, the best performance in the Company’s history. Furthermore, our close relationship with the Fire Department of New York and Westchester County Emergency Services has ensured that every event is responded to with the utmost urgency and is mitigated quickly. In 2019, Con Edison worked with Westchester County Department of Emergency Services to build a new hands-on gas leak emergency training facility for local fire departments to aid in their ability to effectively and safely respond to natural gas leaks. Orange & Rockland We have continued our focus on enhancing public safety by modernizing our gas delivery system. Investments to replace leak-prone pipe, primarily unprotected steel and Aldyl gas mains, have resulted in fewer incoming, outside leaks. In 2020, we replaced more than 20 miles of gas main. We quickly respond to gas odor and carbon monoxide calls, and in 2020 we achieved a historical best response rate—responding to more than 93% of calls in 30 minutes. By providing education to and direct oversight of those performing excavation work near our gas system, our performance continues to be strong relative to third party damages to our gas system. We continue to perform gas leak patrols of our distribution system and have kept the number of open leaks low throughout the year. We continued to perform internal corrosion inspections and offered residential methane detectors free of charge to interested customers. We continued to strategically deploy AMI-enabled, natural gas detectors in the territory. O&R has a comprehensive campaign to educate customers and the public at large about gas safety and the urgency of reporting gas leaks. We reach customers primarily through direct mailings, advertising, digital initiatives, and community events. Steam Con Edison continues to implement a “prevent, detect, and respond” risk mitigation strategy with a deliberate focus on public safety. Many of these initiatives are industry leading and on the cutting edge of technology. For the “prevent” part of the strategy, the Company continues significant investments in its steam system assessment and main inspection programs that use advanced data analytics to identify areas where specific infrastructure investment is needed. Starting in 2020, the Company completed the first generation of their assessment model and has inspected approximately 3,000 feet of steam main. The Company also recently completed the construction of a full-scale computational fluid dynamics flow model known as the Kongsberg model. This model simulates the flow of steam and condensate through the piping system using actual field conditions reported from various devices. This model is the first of its kind in the industry and can alert our Engineering/ Operations teams to potential conditions that might increase the risk of a water hammer event. Besides these preventive efforts, the Company also has a robust monthly customer seminar program that educates our customers on how to properly and safely utilize our steam service in their buildings. Con Edison’s “detect” risk mitigation strategy includes performing weekly/bi-weekly (depending on the season) visual surveys of the 105-mile steam distribution system. The Company also developed and is enhancing our remote monitoring system. The sensors associated with this system have the capability to detect defective steam traps, excessive water levels within our steam manholes, as well as the performance of drainage pumps. This system automatically notifies our Steam Troubleshoot Dispatch Center of a potential public safety emergency that requires immediate attention. Additional improvements to the system are currently in the research and development stages with planned pilots scheduled for 2021. Con Edison’s “respond” risk mitigation strategy focuses on rapid response, repair, and partnership with external agencies. In 2021, the Company responded to vapor conditions across the system within 45 minutes, 95.1% of the time. Steam Operations has consistently met this critical response time goal. These performances are also attributed to the close relationship between Con Edison and many of the first responders, including the Fire Department of New York City and the Department of Environmental Protection. Overall, the Company conducted twenty-one (21) training sessions for public and emergency officials on how to properly respond to steam incidents. The Company also met with various agencies throughout the year to familiarize them with the steam system, hazard recognition methods, and the Company’s internal emergency response procedures. The Company also conducted drills to test its emergency response process/procedure for steam safety incidents as well as potential oil spill events. GHG Emissions Reductions Safety & Environment We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and firmly support efforts by local, state, and federal agencies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have reduced our carbon emissions by 54% since 2005. Sixty percent of Con Edison’s annual steam production comes from co-generation, which lowers emissions by one million tons of carbon dioxide, CO2, per year compared to conventional fossil generation. We continue to report voluntarily to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on our efforts to lower emissions of sulfur hexafluoride, SF6, from our electrical equipment, and we worked with Electric Power Research Institute to develop a new SF6 leak sealing technique. We are a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program with the aim of reducing methane emissions from gas distribution. We work with experts and seek out new methane leak detection technology to enhance the efforts of our leak survey crews and conduct monthly leak inspections of our entire gas mains system. As part of our ongoing efforts, we continue to accelerate the replacement of leak prone pipe, and respond to the vital warning signals provided by our residential methane detectors. We are installing smart meters in our service area, providing the ability to optimize energy usage and improve efficiency which helps lower carbon emissions. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS Con Edison, Inc. Direct GHG Emissions - Scope 1 (thousand metric tons CO2e) Avoided Emissions Compared to 2005 Baseline SF6 Emissions Methane Emissions CO2 Emissions 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from CEI-owned or controlled sources (e.g., steam generating stations) • 33.4 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent total emission avoided since 2005 • We have reduced our carbon footprint by 54 percent since 2005 – the equivalent of taking 500,000 vehicles off the road Note: Emissions from electric generation at the Con Edison Development electric generating plants, which were sold in 2008, have been removed from the above data set. Indirect Emissions  Indirect emissions – Scope 2  Other indirect emissions or Scope  (million metric tons CO2e)  3 total (million metric tons CO2e)  2020 0.92 29.5 2019 1.16 32.5 2018 1.24 35.0 2017 1.35 33.9 2016 1.32 41.1 2015 1.32 41.8 2014 1.09 40.9 2013 1.19 N/A 2012  1.11  N/A  Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions  associated with delivering products to  2011  1.51  N/A  customers (e.g., electrical transmission losses)  Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions2010 1.37 N/A associated with customers using CEI products (e.g., customers’ use of delivered gas)2009 1.42 N/A Steam Environmental Efforts We provide customers with FDA-quality steam, of which 60% is co-generated. Because the steam is co-generated, customers can apply for points toward their Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification and increase their score in Energy Star’s portfolio manager. Our co-generated steam reduces carbon emissions by approximately 25% of what would have been otherwise emitted through traditional boilers—that is equal to removing approximately 200,000 vehicles from the road every year. Our customers also benefit from the advantages of a centralized district steam system which reduces onsite emissions. These centralized investments benefit all customer buildings. The ability of the district system to aggregate a wide variety of customer load profiles also allows for a higher average efficiency than what can be achieved at a single location. All these benefits are reflected in the most recent NYC Local Law 97, where our district steam system was identified as the lowest greenhouse gas emitting energy source per unit of energy delivered. In alignment with the city’s and state’s commitments to significantly reduce greenhouse gases by 2050, we are evaluating all opportunities that could help lower our environmental footprint. We acknowledge that business as usual is not and cannot be the way of the future to achieve these goals, which is why we are taking a more forward-thinking approach, conducting research and evaluating opportunities for more efficient generation and customer programs, while leveraging existing and emerging technologies. To continue supporting our customers in a changing environment, Steam Operations has been proactive in several efforts, such as benchmarking with other district systems in cities that are leveraging their district energy networks to achieve their carbon reduction goals. Steam Operations has also established an initial list of carbon-reduction technologies to evaluate and determine the feasibility of implementation with the existing steam system. These technologies include alternative fuel sources, production via electric boilers with renewable energy, expanding and/or converting to hot water systems, wasted heat recovery sources, and other emission reduction technologies. Steam Operations has also been an active member in discussions and studies as regulations and city and state plans evolve. Energy Efficiency Customers’ Emissions Please refer to the Energy Efficiency section under Customer & Community. Reduction of SF6 Emissions In accordance with a 1999 memorandum of understanding between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Con Edison, we agreed to reduce our emissions of SF6 gas (sulfur hexafluoride) by 5% annually from our 1996 baseline. In 2020, we released about 98% less SF6 than in 1996, well ahead of our commitment to the EPA. SF6 is a nontoxic, nonflammable greenhouse gas, with a warming potential more than 22,000 times higher than carbon dioxide, that can remain in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. There is no viable alternative to SF6, which is a highly efficient insulating medium and arc extinguisher used throughout the energy industry in different types of equipment, including high-voltage breakers and gas-insulated switchgear. Limiting emissions will contribute to a cleaner environment and help to reduce global warming. Con Edison highly values environmental excellence. While we have greatly reduced our emissions in the past decade, we are striving to continue to reduce our emissions even lower. We established a 5 year plan at the start of 2020 to reduce emissions by 500 pounds annually. This is a rate of more than 5% annually from the current levels. In the first year (2020), we have achieved our goal. To reduce SF6 emissions we use varying using a tracking software program to enable programs and a dedicated team to address quick and efficient repairs of trouble equipment. leaking equipment in a timely matter. We have The team then uses best management several targeted programs to replace or retire practices, including innovative new leak sealing SF6 equipment, including circuit breakers, techniques to make the necessary repairs, as automatic ground switches and gas-insulated well as handling the gas properly with minimal switchgear. Also, the dedicated team constantly emissions. monitors the emissions of all equipment daily Con Edison, Inc. Greenhouse Gas Emissions in 2020 (million metric tons CO2e) CO2 2.45 CH4 0.23 SF6 0.06 Gas Environmental Efforts Con Edison performs gas leak surveys that far exceed the survey interval requirements prescribed by federal and NY state regulations for identifying natural gas leaks on a timely basis. And to continuously improve our leak survey process, we seek out new leak detection technology. For example, we are currently working with Colorado State University—an expert on methane emissions—to evaluate leak detection technology and to enhance the performance of our survey crews. Methane Challenge In 2016, Con Edison joined 40 other local distribution companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge. The goal of this program is to reduce methane emissions by replacing a significant number of natural gas mains. Our participation in this program was a natural extension of our participation in the Natural Gas STAR program, which we helped found in 1993. The Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge is an EPA/partner company collaboration that promotes and tracks ambitious, transparent commitments to voluntarily reduce methane emissions beyond regulatory requirements. Our goal is to replace 4% of our cast iron and unprotected steel mains each year. Since 2017, we have replaced 342 miles of such main, which represents an average replacement rate of 4.5%. The Company also performs monthly leak surveys of the entire distribution system to proactively detect methane emissions and make associated repairs to the gas system. Con Edison is an industry leader in repairing 85% of all gas leaks within 60 days, including leaks considered to be non-hazardous. In addition, Con Edison is looking into several initiatives to meet New York’s Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act targets of having 85% carbon emissions reductions by 2050. Recently, the Company joined 36 other natural gas companies in the ONE Future Coalition to reduce industry methane emissions to 1% or less by 2025. We are also exploring new tools and technologies that would aid in mitigating emissions during normal operations, and continue to conduct field trials of enhanced leak detection technology. Air Quality  & Non-GHG Emissions Safety & Environment We predominantly use natural gas for energy production. However, to maintain reliability during periods of gas-system limitations, we retain backup fuel sources. No. 4 oil and Kerosene are the backup fuels currently in use at our steam and electric generating stations. By the end of 2024, our generating units using No. 4 oil will be fully transitioned to No. 2 oil, which is lighter and has a lower concentration of criteria pollutants than No. 4 oil, and aligns with local mandates aimed at reducing local air pollution and GHG emissions. Direct Emissions (thousand metric tons) NO x SO2 2020 1.00 0.02 2019 1.23 0.09 2018 1.37 0.20 2017 1.16 0.11 2016 1.24 0.13 2015 1.49 0.32 2014 1.65 0.33 2013 1.90 0.54 2012 1.79 0.56 2011 2.17 0.93 2010 2.47 1.28 2009 2.49 1.53 2008 2.31 1.41 2007 2.79 1.92 2006 2.27 1.73 2005 3.33 2.63 Waste Management Safety & Environment Tons of hazardous waste are captured and shipped by Con Edison and O&R each year to licensed commercial waste-handling facilities. Much of this waste is presumed lead-contaminated and comes from cleaning our underground electric facilities, including manholes and transformer vaults. The costs of cleaning these facilities and the amount of hazardous waste generated have been reduced substantially since 1998—the year we launched a waste program managed by our employees that rendered lead virtually inert and therefore no longer hazardous. In 2019, Con Edison removed approximately 7,500 tons of hazardous waste to support the removal of four retired fuel oil tanks. O&R’s recycling program continues a long-established partnership with Rockland ARC, a local organization that provides support for the mentally disabled. Since 1991, O&R recycling has saved more than 1 million cubic feet in landfill space and has led to the avoidance of tens of thousands of dollars for waste disposal costs annually. Con Edison and O&R recycle or auction for sale tons of non-hazardous waste, including retired fleet vehicles, forklifts, tool carts, old cables, streetlights, reflectors, meters, and paper products. CECONY Waste 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Hazardous waste 17,547 11,371 12,070 10,600 10,360 17,381 19,472generated (tons) Remediation 545 31 18 7,195 11,939 111 223waste (tons) Hazardous waste numbers are higher in 2019 and 2020 due to the large volume of waste removed from Hudson Avenue as well as a large volume of waste removed from Seaview Avenue in 2020. Tank removal projects at both locations have been completed, and we do not expect to see any significant waste from these locations. 43 SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - WASTE MANAGEMENT Habitat & Biodiversity Safety & Environment We continue to work closely with community and government stakeholders to promote biodiversity, protect environmentally sensitive areas, and comply with local, state, and federal environmental regulations. To identify and mitigate environmental impacts, Con Edison’s Environment, Health, & Safety department collaborates across our engineering and planning groups to conduct comprehensive environmental review projects before they are undertaken. Whether it is a large-scale construction project or a small-scale service installation, environmental impacts are reviewed during project planning so that proper controls can be incorporated into the project’s design. We continue to solicit input from the impacted community and government stakeholders early in the design process to further mitigate any concerns. Our main goal is to minimize our work footprint and restore any disturbed areas to preconstruction conditions, regardless of project size. Within New York City, we have built upon our collaborative and communicative efforts with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, and we continue to refine our practices for work in and around city-owned trees and public parks. We understand how vital these resources are to the health and well.being of all New Yorkers and the important role they play in contributing to clean air and water, reductions in energy costs, increases in property values, and beautification of our streets and parks. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - HABITAT & BIODIVERSITY Con Edison has also continued to build upon our relationship with the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission by codifying best management practices and permitting guidelines for projects within designated historic districts and individual landmarks, in addition to archaeologically significant locations. We have implemented new construction guidelines to protect NYC Department of Environmental Protection’s newly installed “green infrastructure assets,” such as bioswales, rain gardens, and porous pavement that are being constructed along the Department of Transportation rights-of-way in the outer boroughs. Outside New York City, Con Edison continues to comply with our New York State Public Service Commission-approved Overhead Transmission Vegetation Management Program, which encompasses more than 2,000 acres. Our cumulative efforts have encouraged biological diversity by protecting native plants, selectively pruning or cutting undesirable species, and increasing public awareness for threatened and endangered species through community partnerships. As a founding member of Electric Power Research Institute’s Power-in-Pollinator Initiative, our vegetation management program currently supports the protection of the monarch butterfly, which is at risk of becoming listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. Additionally, our Clean Energy Businesses collaborate with our stakeholders to incorporate responsible environmental stewardship that promotes biodiversity and protects environmentally sensitive areas in compliance with local, state, and federal environmental regulations. In the solar sector we have multiple projects, such as Panoche Valley Solar, Wistaria, Lost Hills, and Copper Mountain, where we are monitoring listed and protected species and have implemented extensive mitigation and conservation measures for various species and habitats. We also support third-party research on and around sites in order to better understand habitat behaviors. In the wind sector, we have teamed up with regional wind energy producers and the American Wind Energy Association to mitigate potential impacts to the California condor by supporting extensive species recovery efforts with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and third-party organizations such as the San Diego Zoo and Peregrine Foundation. Additionally, we monitor whooping crane migration zones and seasonal flights that allow our operations to adjust turbines as needed to prevent mortalities. Ongoing operations and maintenance procedures utilize best land management practices to monitor and repair potential areas of storm-related erosion into nearby waterways. Electric Vehicles Safety & Environment Recognizing that the transportation sector is one of the largest sources of carbon emissions in our service area and our nation, we are taking the lead in supporting the acceleration of electric vehicle (EV) adoption by our customers. We are making significant infrastructure investments to facilitate installation of thousands of EV chargers across our service area, and we offer other incentive programs to EV station operators and drivers. We know that access to EV charging at home and on the road is a leading barrier to our customers choosing to purchase EVs. In order to help alleviate this impediment to EV adoption, in 2020 we launched a major program to support the development of widespread and visible charging stations at diverse locations across our service area such as parking lots, retail locations, apartment buildings, and workplaces. This program for smaller vehicles like cars and smaller vans is the second-largest utility program targeting the EV charging marketplace in the country. Our utilities will be investing more that $350 million including customer incentives by 2025 to develop EV charging stations in our service areas with targets as follows: • CECONY – targeting 18,539 Level 2 (L2) plugs and 457 DCFC plugs (fast charging) • O&R – targeting 2,845 Level 2 (L2) plugs and 71 DCFC plugs (fast charging) SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - ELECTRIC VEHICLES In 2020 we also launched a pilot incentive program to support electrification of larger fleet vehicles such as school and transit buses and delivery trucks. Finally, in 2020 we expanded our SmartCharge NY program that provides financial rewards to participating customers across all vehicle types in our service area for charging outside of the peak periods on the grid. Last year 1,145 new cars and 15 New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) buses joined the program, for a total of 3,411 cars and 28 trucks and buses participating in the program. Additionally, we are working on two active demonstration projects that will help improve access to and viability of clean transportation. We are working with NYCDOT to test installation of curbside EV chargers to increase access to EV charging and test customer acceptance of chargers on the streets in their communities. We also have an operational vehicle-to-grid (V2G) school bus initiative that is supporting electric school buses in the White Plains school district. These buses transport schoolchildren during the school year while the buses are also being tested as grid support assets during the summer when the students are on holiday and grid needs are greatest. In support of our clean energy commitment, our EV strategy governs the transition of our fleet of smaller vehicles to electrified vehicles. To accelerate that transition, 100% of new smaller vehicles purchased will be electrified and we will expand the availability of fleet charging stations. As a further commitment, our goal is that 100% of our small vehicle fleet will be electrified by 2040. We will also explore, through Research and Development, alternative technologies to reduce fossil fuels for medium and heavy-duty trucks. Oil-to-Gas Conversions Safety & Environment In 2020 Con Edison converted 64 buildings from heavy heating oil to gas. Since the start of our conversion program in 2011, we have converted more than 4,600 large buildings burning heavy heating oil; we also converted more than 3,800 customers from No. 2 grade oil. The company’s conversions since 2011 kept more than 582 tons of fine particulate matter from the air in 2020, which is a significant impact on air quality within the New York City portion of our service territory. New York City has the cleanest air in five decades, largely as a result of these building conversions. While we’ve completed our Area Growth marketing and construction program, we continue to see customer-driven requests in converting from oil of all grades. In 2020, O&R converted 75 customers from various grades of heating oil to natural gas. O&R has since concluded its gas expansion program. Currently, for customers who have requested new natural gas service or upgrades, O&R will both support and serve these customers with natural gas while also providing incentives to customers to install non-pipe solutions and alternatives, such as heat pumps. We will expand efforts to reduce the use of fossil fuels for heating through energy efficiency, investing in emerging technologies, and our innovative clean-energy technologies, including our Smart Solutions program. We are the anchor sponsor of a project called the Low Carbon Resource Initiative with Electric Power Research Institute exploring low-carbon fuels such as green hydrogen — a carbon-free fuel made from water by using excess energy from renewables like wind and solar. And we are investing in renewable natural gas. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS Con Edison, Inc. Utility Customer Conversions to Gas CECONY O&R 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Water Safety & Environment We recognize the importance of preserving natural resources. As one of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s largest water customers, we are obligated to our stakeholders and the environment to minimize the amount of water utilized to produce steam. The company’s overall water footprint is largely converted into steam, which is an integral source of clean, efficient energy distributed to our customers for a variety of uses such as heat, hot water, air conditioning, sterilization, and food processing. We are continually focused on efficiency improvement initiatives and executing water treatment system enhancements that minimize our water footprint throughout the steam system. Con Edison Steam Operations - DEP Municipal Water Use (billion gallons) Water Used to Produce Electricity Water Used to Produce Steam Steam Purchased by Customers 4 0.220.170.18 0.29 0.300.15 0.24 On average, more than 65% of Steam Operations’ water footprint is distributed to customers as steam energy purchased for their needs. This chart displays steam operations data only: Con Edison facility added approximately 0.11 billion gallons in 2019 and consumed an estimated 0.07 billion gallons of water in 2020. ISO Certification Safety & Environment The Con Edison Environmental Management System (EMS) is certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001:2015 standard. The purpose of the ISO 14001:2015 standard is to provide a framework and systematic approach to environmental management. ISO 14001:2015 requires a commitment from all levels of the Con Edison organization, led by the top management, to environmental protection through pollution prevention and continuous improvement. ISO 14001 certification gives Con Edison and their stakeholders a means of verification that the EMS is operating at a world-class standard. Con Edison though implementation of an ISO 14001 certified EMS is committed to: • Improving safety and environmental performance • Strengthening regulatory compliance • Enhancing relationships with our stakeholders • Identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential • Promoting wise and effective use of natural resources We have, over 18 consecutive years, maintained ISO 14001 certification through a rigorous third-party certification process. In 2017, our certification was upgraded from ISO 14001:2004 to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard by a two-week audit conducted by Intertek Testing Services NA, a third-party auditor. We received our re-certification in 2020. Our chemical laboratory operations are third-party certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2005, general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories standard. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - ISO CERTIFICATION Pipeline Safety Management System Safety & Environment The Con Edison Gas Organization’s Pipeline Safety Management System (PSMS) adheres to the American Petroleum Institute (API) 1173 Recommended Practice. The purpose of this recommended practice is to provide a framework and a structured method to manage a gas organization effectively, resulting in a logical and repeatable approach driving continuous improvement and reducing risks. This requires a commitment from all levels of the Gas Organization, led by top management promoting the intentional and regular review of our organization’s safety programs that contributes to public safety, employee safety and a zero-harm workplace. The Gas Organization through the implementation of PSMS is committed to: • Relentless and prominent attention on safety • Developing a culture of mutual accountability • High performance and awareness in the activities we do on a daily basis to support pipeline and public safety • Promoting the Plan-Do-Check-Act continuous improvement model to achieve Operational Excellence SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - PIPELINE SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In 2019, Con Edison Gas Operations became the first utility in the country to receive an assessment from the American Petroleum Institute on our Pipeline Safety Management System implementation, receiving a rating of conformance with the standard set by API. Adoption of a Pipeline Safety Management System reinforces our commitment to our internal and external stakeholders to be a best.in-class organization. 