MANAGING OUR BUSINESS POLICY MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY IMPACT EPA PROPOSED CARBON EMISSIONS REGULATIONS In June 2014, the EPA proposed limits on CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired generators above 73 MW under §111(d) of the Clean Air Act. The proposal seeks a 30-percent reduction in CO2 emissions from the nation’s 2005 levels by 2030. To determine achievable reductions for each state, EPA modeled a “Best System of Emissions Reduction” using four “Building Blocks”: 1) improved heat rates for coal-fired plants; 2) increased utilization of natural gas combined cycle plants; 3) generation from nuclear and renewables; and 4) energy efficiency. New York’s target is a 44-percent reduction from 2012 levels by 2030. States do not have to follow the building blocks in their compliance strategy and have considerable flexibility in implementing the rule, including regional implementation plans. EPA highlighted RGGI as an example of a regional implementation plan. On December 1, Con Edison submitted joint comments with other NY transmission owners, generators, and national and regional clean energy groups. We also participated in EEI and AGA comments. EPA scheduled the final rule for release in June 2015. New York has few coal-fired plants and already relies heavily on natural gas generation; accordingly, increased renewable generation (including Canadian hydro) and energy efficiency could be the primary means for meeting the target. In its projection, EPA anticipates energy generated by non-hydro renewables in the state will increase by approximately five times 2012 levels, and assumes energy efficiency will reduce end-use by 11 percent by 2030 when compared to business-as-usual forecasts. The NYISO has expressed concern about the implications of these changes on reliability. Con Edison is generally supportive of EPA’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while allowing for the continued reliable operation of the power grid. EPA should modify its “best system of emissions reduction” to better reflect the operational realities of the power system, ensure equity among state targets, and recognize the reductions already achieved by early-action states like New York. EPA should accept RGGI as New York’s compliance mechanism. The rule will likely result in encouraging the development of large-scale renewable resources and expanded transmission projects within the state. NY Transco, a partnership of the state’s investor-owned transmission companies, will facilitate transmission development that can access renewable energy, and Con Edison is prepared to take on the role of procuring renewable energy for its customers. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RATE CASE At the close of 2013 parties to Con Edison’s rate cases for electric, gas, and steam agreed to a Joint Proposal (JP) resulting in a two-year electric rate plan and three-year rate plans for gas and steam effective January 1, 2014. The result was a revenue requirement freeze for electric, gas, and steam over the term of their respective rate plans. Major components of the joint proposal include the following: Investment in capital projects and programs to address reliability, storm hardening and resiliency, new business and oil-to-gas conversions Continuation of revenue decoupling mechanisms for electric and gas Enhanced low-income discount programs for electric and gas customers Modifications and additions to the electric, gas, and steam safety and reliability performance and customer service metrics Additions to the leak-prone gas pipe replacement program and new reliability program to target replacement of leak-prone pipe in flood zones in New York City and Westchester County Improvement and expansion of the oil-to-gas conversion program Approval of current storm hardening projects and programs, and conditional approval of future projects that are reviewed by an ongoing stakeholder collaborative Consideration of non-wires alternative plan (e.g., distributed resources) for the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, expecting significant load growth Company study of future use of Hudson Avenue Property Steam customers now eligible for bill credits (in place now for electric and gas customers) in certain circumstances of a storm outage The Joint Proposal was supported by the following signatories: Con Edison Department of Public Service Staff City of New York Consumer Power Advocates New York Energy Consumers Council, Inc. New York Power Authority Utility Intervention Unit (NY Department of State) Astoria Generating Company, L.P. Pace Energy and Climate Center Columbia Center for Climate Change Law Environmental Defense Fund NRG Energy Subsequently, on February 21, 2014, the PSC issued an order approving the rate plans in the joint proposal with two relatively minor modifications. The full Joint Proposal and PSC Order (http://documents.dps.ny.gov/public/Common/ViewDoc.aspx? DocRefId=%7b3881B193-8115-4BA0-A01A-B8D373D59726%7d) can be found on the New York Public Service Commission Site. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS ENERGY HIGHWAY AND THE INDIAN POINT CONTINGENCY private partnerships to renew the State’ environment and creating opportunities for economic growth and job creation. Accordingly, the PSC initiated two proceedings seeking 1,000 MW of AC transmission upgrades to reduce transmission constraints from upstate to downstate, and transmission, generation, and demand side management solutions to maintain reliability in the event the nuclear power plants at Indian Point are shut down. Con Edison and the New York Power Authority (NYPA) were directed to develop an Indian Point Contingency Plan for solutions to address a possible 2016 Indian Point retirement. In response to the Energy Highway initiative, the New York State transmission owner (NYTOs), including Con Edison and Orange and Rockland, proposed to create and jointly own a transmission company, New York Transmission Company (NY Transco) to develop, construct, and own transmission facilities in New York State. On behalf of NY Transco, the NYTOs submitted responses to the PSC proceedings. Con Edison and NYPA also submitted three Transco projects in the Indian Point proceeding. More information is available at the NY Transco website. In November 2013, the PSC approved the three NY Transco projects proposed by Con Edison with NYPA and New York State Electric and Gas Corporation (NYSEG) to prepare for potential Indian Point shutdown in 2016. Two of the projects, Ramapo to Rock Tavern and Staten Island Unbottling, will be developed by Con Edison until they can be transferred to NY Transco. In its order, the PSC also endorsed the NY Transco cost allocation for these projects and supported the plan to file with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for rate recovery for the three Indian Point Projects. In a separate order in the same proceeding, the PSC approved a proposal filed by Con Edison and New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) to reduce load by 100 MW by the summer of 2016 using energy efficiency and demand reduction projects, plus another 25 MW through new combined heat and power projects. In response to the Energy Highway initiative, It was originally envisioned that New York State Transmission Owners (NYTOs) would form a public-private partnership to create and jointly own a transmission company, New York Transmission Company (NY Transco), which would develop and own transmission facilities in New York State. Legislative authority needed by NYPA and LIPA to join has not been enacted. As a result, the investor-owned NYTOs created the NY Transco in Fall 2014. The NY Transco filed with the FERC on December 4, 2014 for transmission rates, including incentives, cost allocation, and permission to assume utility assets. In October 2013, NY Transco filed a transmission siting application with the NYPSC to build four transmission projects totaling $1.3 billion that address congestion from upstate to downstate. The proceeding is competitive, with other developers seeking Article VII certificates to build similar upstate/downstate transmission solutions. In November 2013, the NYPSC approved the three NY Transco projects proposed by Con Edison, NYPA and NYSEG to prepare for potential Indian Point shutdown in 2016. In its order, the NYPSC also endorsed the NY Transco cost allocation for these projects and supported NY Transco’s plan to file with FERC for rate recovery. In a subsequent order the NYPSC endorsed a different cost allocation for projects resulting from the AC Transmission proceeding. Responding to a PSC request for transmission developers to revise their proposals to minimize customer impact, in January 2015 the NY Transco filed updates to its projects so that the visual impact of transmission towers will be mitigated and all transmission will be constructed on existing rights of way or utility owned property. More information is available at nytransco.com (http://nytransco.com/). As part of the Commission s approvals in November 2013, Con Edison was authorized to work jointly with New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) to implement demand-side management and combined-heat-and-power programs, using direct financial incentives, as part of a “no regrets” solution in response to the Indian Point Contingency Plan. The company and NYSERDA now administer the Demand Management Program, targeting 125 MW of permanent, peak-coincident electric load reductions by June 2016 through energy efficiency and demand reduction projects as well as new combined-heat-and-power projects. The total investment is estimated to be $285 million (consisting of incentives and administrative costs), excluding carrying costs. The company was authorized to recover all costs from its customers on a deferred basis over a 10-year period and the company will accrue the cost to finance the deferred expenditures using its allowed pre-tax weighted cost of capital rate. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS REGIONAL GREENHOUSE GAS INITIATIVE Since 2009, Con Edison has been subject to carbon dioxide emissions regulations established by New York State as part of its participation in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). The Initiative, a cooperative effort by nine northeastern and mid-Atlantic states (RGGI States), established a decreasing cap on carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation that will lead to a 15-percent reduction in regional emissions between 2014 and 2020. Under RGGI, affected electric generators are required to obtain emission allowances to cover their carbon dioxide emissions, available primarily through auctions administered by participating states or a secondary market. While Con Edison sold most of its power plants in the late 1990s, the company still owns one power plant that is subject to the RGGI cap: the East River Generating Station. Con Edison of New York met its requirement of 6.3 million allowances for the first RGGI compliance period (2009—2011) and is managing auction purchases in preparation for complying with the second compliance period (2012—2014). In February 2013, after a comprehensive stakeholder review, the RGGI States proposed major changes to the RGGI program, including a one-time, 45-percent reduction in the regional emissions cap for 2014, and further reductions of 2.5 percent each year from 2015 to 2020. Additionally, the RGGI States implemented a new cost containment mechanism, supported by Con Edison, which will limit the impact of allowance price spikes on the supply portion of our customers’ bills. New York State adopted the new rules, and the lower, 91-million ton cap is effective as of January 1, 2014. Under the revised RGGI emissions cap, New York will receive incremental revenues from allowance auctions, above and beyond the $728 million it has collected through the first 26 auctions. As agreed upon in the original “model rule” of the RGGI partnership, each participating state directs its own strategy to invest its auction proceeds in a manner that supports its unique policy objectives, needs, and circumstances. This policy raises redistribution concerns if states invest funds in programs outside of the electric sector. In New York, for example, more than half of the RGGI-funded investments to date were allocated to programs that either indirectly benefit electric customers, or do not benefit them at all. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARD New York’ 19 percent in 2004). Currently, NYSERDA implements the RPS program for the customers of investor-owned utilities, using funding of $3 billion from electric customers. The company’ renewable energy consumption in the state. NYSERDA administers two primary programs to provide incentives to renewable energy projects: the ‘Customer-Sited Tier’ program funds renewable energy resources (mostly solar) installed on customer property behind the customer’s meter; the ‘Main Tier’ program competitively solicits large renewable resources, offering 20 year contracts for their renewable energy attributes. 92 percent of the program’s renewable energy comes from the Main Tier. NYSERDA has achieved about half of its portion of the 2015 goal, but in a recent review acknowledged that it was likely to fall short of achieving the 30 percent goal by the end of 2015. NYSERDA’s CEF proposal does not contain any funding for large renewable resources. DPS Staff has proposed having the utilities take over the Main Tier program and purchase both the renewable energy attributes and power from new renewable projects through long-term contracts. The state’s utilities are willing to procure renewable energy, but have advocated strongly of favor of allowing utilities to own renewable energy resources as a primary procurement method. DPS Staff will issue a large-scale renewables options paper in mid-2015. In 2014, NYSERDA reported that the environmental benefits of electricity generated by renewable generation from 2006 through 2013, as opposed to the State’s “system-mix,” amounts to reduced emissions of approximately 5,400 tons of nitrogen oxides, 10,600 tons of sulfur dioxides, and 5.3 million tons of carbon dioxide. NYSERDA issued one solicitation for new renewable resources in 2014, and announced in November 2014 that it would procure 164 MW of incremental renewable energy from wind and hydro resources in New York State. NYSERDA has issued one RPS solicitation in 2015 and plans to issue another RPS solicitation in 2016. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SYSTEMS BENEFIT CHARGE The System Benefits Charge (SBC) program funds technology and market development (T&MD) activities relevant to the energy system. The PSC uses the SBC to support research and development efforts that serve as a feeder of new technologies to be incorporated into the state’s energy-efficiency and renewable energy programs. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority implements the program under the PSC’s supervision. When the program was reauthorized by the PSC in 2011 through 2016 it was estimated that collections from our customers will provide at least $150 million over the five-year term of the program. In 2013, $26.3 million in SBC charges were collected from the utilities’ electric customers. The T&MD programs currently funded by the SBC are expected to continue after 2016, funded under the Clean Energy Fund collections once those are approved by the NYPSC. NEW YORK GREEN BANK On October 28, 2013, the companies and other investor-owned utilities in New York State made a joint filing to the PSC supporting the establishment of the New York Green Bank, an entity with the mission to advance the state by reducing or eliminating financing-related barriers to clean energy adoption by customers. Con Edison offered comments related to future funding for the Green Bank, such as using RGGI funds. On December 19, 2013, the PSC approved the establishment of the New York Green Bank, with an initial capitalization of $218 million, comprised of $165 million of funds from NYSERDA and utility energy efficiency and renewable energy budgets, and $45 million of RGGI funds allocated to the New York Green Bank by NYSERDA. The New York Green Bank has stated that it has a goal of reaching a capitalization of $1 billion, and in December 2014 NYSERDA submitted a petition to the NYPSC requesting $781 million in funds (to be provided over four years, 2015-2018) to achieve the Green Bank’s capitalization goal. The company filed comments supporting the overall goals of the Green Bank but expressed concern about the impact on customers and suggested a number of ways to mitigate that impact, including raising a portion of the funds from other electric customers who might not otherwise contribute to the Green Bank, such as LIPA and NYPA customers, and relying on RGGI funds to provide a portion of the requested capital. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT Public policy decisions at all levels of government can have significant implications for the companies systems we manage, and the future direction of the companies. Accordingly, Con Edison exercises its fundamental right and responsibility to participate in the political process. We adhere to all applicable national, state, and local laws and regulations governing the public policy process, and have internal policies and practices so that we adhere to applicable reporting requirements. Our engagement in the political process is grounded in and guided by our commitment to our Standards of Business Conduct. Our efforts in this regard meet high ethical standards, are done in accordance with strict company procedures and guidelines, and in a manner that demonstrates accountability and transparency. No corporate funds are used for political contributions to candidates or political parties. The companies do not make independent expenditures in support of or in opposition to a candidate or political party. No corporate payments have been made, nor do we intend to make payments, to influence the outcome of ballot measures. Con Edison Political Action Committee The Consolidated Edison Inc. Employees’ Political Action Committee (CEIPAC) is a non-partisan political action committee. The CEIPAC is funded entirely through voluntary contributions from eligible employees; employees are not reimbursed, directly or indirectly, for political donations or expenses. Contributions are reported to relevant federal, state and local campaign finance agencies, as required by law. Political disbursements made through the CEIPAC are made without regard to the personal or political preferences of Company officers and executives. The current members of the CEIPAC Executive Committee are the: Vice President & Controller of Con Edison of New York (CECONY), Senior Vice President Public Affairs of CECONY, Vice President Government Relations of CECONY, President and Chief Executive Officer of Consolidated Edison Solutions, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Orange and Rockland Utilities. The CEIPAC Executive Committee factors in many criteria when deciding whether to approve contributions, including a candidate’s position on issues; voting records; incumbents leadership on key committees; and the extent of a member company’s presence in a district. Con Edison’s internal auditing department conducts periodic reviews of CEIPAC’s practices and procedures, and an independent auditing firm audits the financial statements of the CEIPAC on a yearly basis. Grassroots Advocacy Network Con Edison’s Grassroots Advocacy Network engages employees and retirees in the evolving political landscape, educating them on issues important to them and the company. Through the Grassroots Network, employees and retirees receive monthly newsletters, updates on policy and political issues and information on elections and voting. The Grassroots Network also provides opportunities for employees and retirees to attend events on emerging topics of interest and engage their local elected officials by taking action on relevant issues that come up throughout the year. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS Governance and Business Ethics At Con Edison we recognize the need for strong corporate values. Through the years, one of the most important lessons we have learned is that having a strong financial foundation and operational excellence are only part of what it takes to continue a company’s success. We firmly believe that doing business in an open, ethical, and fair manner creates business success that benefits all our stakeholders — our investors, our customers, and our employees. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS GOVERNANCE The Environment, Health, and Safety Committee of the Board of Directors governs Con Edison’s overall EH&S programs. Since its inception in 1995, this committee has met four times per year to review the status of Con Edison’s EH&S efforts. Typically, Con Edison’s chairman, utility presidents, general counsel, and EH&S vice president participate in these meetings. The vice president of corporate EH&S is responsible for developing programs to ensure compliance, and to work toward EH&S excellence. In addition, corporate EH&S supports the operating departments responsible for maintaining day-to-day compliance with standards. The corporate EH&S vice president reports directly to Con Edison of New York’s president. Throughout 2014, the EH&S vice president headed an EH&S Committee to oversee and implement the company’s strategic plan. The team consists of the Senior Vice Presidents from operating departments, the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, and leaders from the Law Department, Occupational Health, Human Resources, Auditing, and EH&S. This committee also develops strategic and annual goals that help drive the company’s EH&S and sustainability efforts. The EH&S vice president and appropriate EH&S leaders meet quarterly with Con Edison’s chairman and monthly with the president of Con Edison of New York to review the status of major EH&S projects and issues. As a part of senior management’s commitment to EH&S excellence, the following strategic independent oversight functions have been established. Office of the Corporate Ombudsman – provides employees with an independent office to which they can confidentially refer suspected violations of Con Edison’s Code of Conduct, including EH&S requirements, or ethical and legal concerns. The ombudsman and the deputy ombudsman have the authority to either investigate these matters or refer them to appropriate authorities within the company. Environment and Safety Review Board– consists of outside consultants who are independent attorneys. The board reports to the chairman on components of EH&S programs and the status of efforts to attain EH&S excellence. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS BUSINESS ETHICS Strong business ethics are a core value of Con Edison. Through the years, one of the most important lessons we have learned is that having a strong financial foundation and operational excellence are only part of what it takes to continue a company’s success. We also recognize that our Standards of Business Conduct are an integral component of a sustainable company. Reflecting the company’s continuing commitment to ethical operations, the Business Ethics and Compliance group was significantly restructured and strengthened in 2012, and further expanded in 2013 and 2014. Con Edison’s Standards of Business Conduct are founded upon our values of service, honesty, concern, courtesy, excellence and teamwork, and our commitment to our major stakeholders: our customers, fellow employees, communities, and shareholders. The Standards set forth the basic principles that employees must follow in their day-to.day work, which allow the company to carry out our commitments to our customers, our communities, our fellow employees, our shareholders, our business partners, and the public. We completed an update of the Standards of Business Conduct, which was released to all employees of Con Edison of New York, O&R, and the competitive energy businesses in early 2013. Training on various ethics topics is completed annually by all employees of Con Edison of New York, O&R and the competitive energy businesses. We also conduct ethics and compliance training for new employees, new supervisors, and new managers, and administer FERC-required ethics training. The department also increases the visibility of our ethics messages among all CEI companies through coordinated, themed communications campaigns. In 2013, Con Edison began the Values in Actions (VIA) Advisors network with 15 representatives. This network of employees, nominated by their officers, assist with the dissemination of ethics and compliance messages and act as a resource for fellow employees regarding integrity-related issues within the business units. In 2014, we expanded the VIA Advisors network to include employees from 27 company organizations and each of our major business units – providing greater representation throughout the company. We encourage employees to seek advice, ask questions, and report concerns. We provide several resources, including a confidential Ethics Helpline, webform, and email address, for employees to contact their ethics and compliance office. Employees may also contact their supervisors or managers, or the Corporate Ombudsman, among others, to raise issues. A group of individuals within the Business Ethics and Compliance group is dedicated to investigating allegations of employee misconduct. Department members are active members of the Ethics and Compliance Officers Association, and the FERC group of the Edison Electric Institute. A Con Edison of New York employee has served as chair of the Ethics and Compliance Officer Association’s (ECOA) Utilities Industry Group, and others have presented and participated at the ECOA’s annual conferences. BEC employees are also representatives on the company’s Enterprise Risk Management Committee, the Compliance Risk Management team, the Contractor Compliance Committee and the Contractor Oversight Steering Committee. Just as we keep our employees knowledgeable of their ethical responsibilities, we also work to educate our vendors and contractors on the Standards of Business Conduct. Our Vendor Outreach Program, launched in 2014, provides assistance to Con Edison vendors in developing their own ethics and compliance programs. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS AUDITING AND ISO CERTIFICATION Auditing and ISO Certification To ensure the effectiveness of financial systems and operational performance, our auditing department provides an independent, fair, and objective appraisal of our facilities, operations, systems, and programs. These audits are performed in accordance with priorities established by the General Auditor in consultation with the CEO and the board Additionally, we recognize that third-party verification of our efforts is also of value and so we have our EH&S management system ISO-14001 certified. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS AUDITING AND ISO CERTIFICATION AUDITING Consolidated Edison, Inc. (CEI) conducts an auditing program for all affected subsidiaries and affiliates. Both facility operations and companywide programs undergo periodic audits to determine compliance with regulations and procedures, as well as the adequacy of EH&S management systems in use. EH&S audits are conducted by a division of Con Edison of New York’s Corporate Auditing department. Under corporate audit policy, this group audits facilities and programs. The EH&S Auditing Group is staffed with personnel experienced in auditing protocols, regulatory requirements, and company procedures. The EH&S Auditing Group has developed standard protocols tailored to each area of concern that may be encountered at facilities operated by the company to ensure comprehensive and consistent audits. Formal audit reports are prepared and distributed to all officers whose organizations have responsibilities for corrective actions based on audit findings. Senior officers receive copies of audit reports. The ombudsman, independent auditors, and the Environmental Quality Review Board also receive EH&S audit reports. The board’s audit committee receives a summary of all audits performed on a quarterly basis. Environmental, Health, and Safety Protocols Air Pollution Control Asbestos Management Astoria Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facility (TSDF) CERCLA – EPCRA Employee Health and Medical Issues Employee Safety Industrial Hygiene Loss Prevention and Emergency Response Marine Terminals Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) Pesticide Management Protection of Wildlife Solid and Hazardous Waste Management Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plans (SPCC) Underground Storage Tanks Water Pollution Control In addition, we have established a formal self-assessment program for company organizations to monitor their own compliance systematically. The EH&S Auditing Group administers this program by developing the self-assessment protocols, training personnel in their use, and monitoring compliance with program guidelines. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS AUDITING AND ISO CERTIFICATION ISO CERTIFICATION The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was created to standardize products, manufacturing processes, and management systems. Certification to the ISO Standards provides stakeholders a means of validating that Con Edison is operating effective management systems. Additionally, ISO Standards provide a framework for continual improvement throughout the company. Con Edison of New York’s Environmental Management System is certified to the ISO 14001:2004(E), Environmental Management Systems Standard and the company’s Chemical Laboratory operations are certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2005(E), general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories standard. It is the policy of Con Edison to be a leader in protecting the environment and ensuring the health and safety of employees and the public. The company is committed to improving safety and environmental performance; strengthening environment, health and safety (EH&S) compliance; enhancing relationships with its stakeholders; identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential, and promoting wise and effective use of natural resources. In addition to complying with all applicable laws and regulations, Con Edison will: a. Pursue opportunities to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Con Edison programs that protect people, property, and the environment. b. Be responsive to the concerns of its stakeholders, both internal and external. c. Integrate EH&S considerations into its work and project planning. d. Model sustainable behaviors internally, promote sustainable behavior externally, and maintain a commitment to the prevention of pollution. e. Pursue opportunities, programs, and policies that support sustainable business practices and the reduction of EH&S risk. f. Provide the leadership and training for employees to exercise their initiative and achieve EH&S expectations. g. Manage an integrated health and wellness promotion program that fosters a healthy, engaged, and motivated workforce. h. Promote a “predict and prevent” mindset through proactive self-assessment. i. Set metrics and targets to drive continual improvement and review them on an annual basis to measure and assess Con Edison’s EH&S performance. j. Utilize an EH&S management system to enhance its efforts.