HABITAT AND BIODIVERSITY We aim to reduce our impact on natural ecosystems in order to protect habitats and biodiversity. Our Land and Vegetation Management program was developed, in part, to encourage biological diversity along our overhead transmission rights-of-way (ROW). This is achieved by three primary practices: Selective management of vegetation to provide a diversified habitat as a means to enhance and maintain a diversified mix of wildlife on the ROW Disposal of wood waste on-site in a manner that provides cover and protection for a variety of birds, mammals and reptiles Protection of site conditions and plants to encourage reproduction and spreading of desirable grasses, forbs, and shrubs Additionally, Con Edison of New York has worked with various NGOs to inventory flora and fauna on portions of our ROW and is currently working with a local university to study coyote populations along the rights-of-way. In 2013, five fine mesh screens were installed to filter fish, eggs, and larvae from the intake of the East River Generating Station. This measure, plus the installation of a dedicated fish-return system, helped to reduce the impact of the plant on the river, in compliance with governing regulations. The fish-return system uses a low-pressure spray wash to gently remove any aquatic organisms trapped on the new fine mesh screens, and delicately return them to the river. The system is currently undergoing tests, and we expect the results to confirm a considerable reduction in our station’s impact on East River aquatic life. Last year Con Edison also joined the New York City Audubon Society, the Chrysler Building, Rockefeller Center, the Time Warner Center, and others to make migration season safer for millions of birds by turning out the lights. From midnight to dawn, September 1 through November 1, Con Edison darkened the iconic clock tower at the company’s Manhattan headquarters to help decrease the number of bird deaths caused by artificial lights. Migrating birds – confused by glass and light from tall buildings, and sometimes blinded by inclement weather – face the danger of colliding with a building or structure at night. Birds use the stars and moon to navigate, so light from urban structures can confuse their natural navigation instincts, often with deadly consequences. It is estimated that some 90,000 birds die each year in New York City after colliding with buildings. Managing our Legacy Hazardous substances, including asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and coal tar, have historically been used or produced by Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland operations. Some of these sites (many of which are no longer owned by the company) still contain measurable levels of materials that are left over from historic operations. We have made substantial investments in investigating and, when necessary, remediating these sites, and we strive to do so with minimal impact to property owners and our neighbors. We are working closely with local, state, and federal regulatory agencies to identify and address sites that may be impacted by historic operations. A substantial number of sites are addressed under voluntary cleanup programs, where we have committed to minimize adverse impacts on health and the environment. In addition, the company is working closely with the community, keeping the public informed and aware of current projects and programs, through regular meetings, signs and notices, and an informational company website. We work hard to minimize disruptions to the local community, and monitor our impacts on a real-time basis throughout our remediation projects. The company is held financially responsible under state and federal laws for its impacts to these sites and the remediation of impacted areas. The company sets aside money for the investigation and cleanup of these sites. For more information, please see our annual 10K report. Many of Con Edison of New York’s current remediation sites were formerly the location of manufactured gas plants (MGP), where the company made and distributed manufactured combustible gas. From the early 1800s to the mid-1900s, Con Edison, like many other utilities of its time, manufactured gas in such plants and distributed it in parts of New York City and in Westchester County. At the time, this gas provided many benefits to the community, including heating homes and businesses, and lighting the city’s streetlamps. However, some of the byproducts of this production may be harmful to human health and the environment. Through the end of 2013, investigations were started at all 51 Con Edison of New York MGP Sites, and were completed at all or portions of 32 of those sites. Remedial investigations have been completed at all seven Orange and Rockland MGP Sites. Orange and Rockland has received the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation’s decision regarding the remedial work to be performed at five of those sites, one of which has been completed. During 2013, Orange and Rockland spent approximately $6 million for its remediation programs, including approximately $4.8 million for its MGP program, and Con Edison of New York spent approximately $35 million for its remediation programs, including approximately $21 million for its MGP program. CLIMATE CHANGE Con Edison acknowledges that climate change is an important challenge, and we are designing our work with consideration of climate forecasts. Addressing climate change will need to involve all sectors of the economy and all sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In support of this Key Sustainability Aspect, we have identified seven climate change principles to guide our efforts: 1. Work with federal, state, and local governments, and other stakeholders to address climate change 2. Maintain an inventory of the company’s direct and indirect GHG emissions 3. Consider the potential impact of business decisions on GHG emissions 4. Pursue improvements in energy efficiency in our operations to reduce our GHG emissions 5. Advocate, promote, and support energy efficiency improvements among our customers 6. Support new technology development in coordination with other key industry stakeholders 7. Support development of renewable sources of energy and other generation that reduces emissions, including GHGs There are two approaches to handle climate change – adaptation and mitigation. To learn more about our mitigation efforts, visit the Air Quality section of this report. To learn more about our efforts in adaptation, see the Resiliency (3b-resiliency.html) section of this report. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SAFETY Safety At Con Edison we are committed to safety, and we strive to achieve an injury-free workplace. We coordinate a robust safety program, communicate with our employees every day about the importance of identifying and mitigating hazards, and work to empower employees to take ownership of their own safety and that of their teammates. We also rely on our employees to identify ways that we can improve safety. These combined efforts resulted in another great year of safety performance, with Con Edison of New York achieving an OSHA rate of 1.25, and Orange and Rockland reducing their rate to 2.01. The safety of our contractors and members of the public are equally priorities for Con Edison. More about our efforts to keep contractors and the public safe are discussed in this report’s Contractor and Public safety sections. EMPLOYEE Working toward an injury-free workplace requires commitment from all levels, from the CEO to the entry-level employee. Con Edison has made gains in establishing a strong safety culture that encourages employees to internalize and apply the corporate commitment to safety every day on every job. As a result of their personal commitment to safety, many Con Edison employees, working independently or in teams, introduce significant innovations that can be applied company-wide. These initiatives substantially reduce safety risks associated with recurring work, or common tasks. Some employee-developed technologies are so distinctive that they are awarded patents, and in certain cases, the methods and technical innovations draw interest from other utility companies nationwide. Some examples include outfitting a company vehicle with new ergonomic tools that could be taken to various job locations and tested on-site for instant feedback, innovating a gas meter exchange process that allows employees to safely swap out gas meters without disrupting customer service, and modifying solar panel installation processes to improve safe performance. PERFORMANCE Con Edison’s commitment to safety helped continue to drive performance improvement in 2013. Our safety program and communications support all personnel as they work together toward an injury-free workplace and to improve public safety. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland share lessons learned and ideas through company communications, event reporting and various safety committees. The OSHA Incidence Rate is a federal standard for quantifying the frequency of work-related injuries and illnesses. In 2009, Con Edison of New York committed to a five-year goal of achieving an OSHA Incidence Rate of 1.50 or lower by 2014. In 2013, the company surpassed its goal by achieving a rate of 1.25. While our OSHA Incidence Rates were at an all-time low last year, we recognize that reducing the severity of injuries is most important. Four of Con Edison of New York’s 157 injuries in 2013 were categorized as a “significant high-hazard.” Orange and Rockland achieved an OSHA Incidence Rate of 2.01 in 2013, bettering its goal of 3.00 or lower. At Orange and Rockland, programs and processes are designed to heighten safety awareness while reducing occupational injuries and preventable motor vehicle accidents. In 2013, these programs and processes included the following: Use of the No Injury Program (Close Call) to identify and mitigate risks prior to an accident or incident Continued use of the Pro-Activity Injury Prevention Program to reduce injuries related to strains, sprains, and ergonomic stressors Supporting Safety Team ad-hoc committees in evaluating accident trends and developing recommendations for reductions in both occupational injuries and preventable motor vehicle accidents Promotion of the company’s Forward First Program, which trains drivers to park vehicles in such a way that they can later leave the spot by driving forward – this simple concept reduces hazards associated with backing up HUMAN PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT Analysis of injury trends shows that the majority of Con Edison’s safety incidents are caused by human performance factors, or human error. Human performance evaluates how certain behaviors or actions can result in errors, and how modifying those behaviors and actions can prevent them. We seek to avoid repeating errors by analyzing the lessons learned from past events. In order to manage human performance, our team uses error-avoidance tools such as: Training Effective communication Questioning attitude Procedure adherence Self-check/peer-check Job briefings With the continued use of error-avoidance tools, we have seen tremendous improvement in areas such as operating errors, OSHA recordable injuries, and significant human performance incidents. For example, in 2009, we had 68 operating errors, compared to 2013 where we only had 41. This shows how human performance initiatives have positively influenced our performance. Employees are much more aware of the human performance lapses that result in safety-related incidents, including motor vehicle collisions. The increase in human performance awareness coupled with the use of error-prevention tools has raised employees’ focus of “being in the moment,” and resulted in increased situational awareness and reductions in errors, accidents, and injuries. Going forward we are developing a human performance awareness e-learning module that could be used as an introduction for new employees and also as a refresher for existing employees. This will help strengthen our goal of becoming an injury-free company. COMMUNICATION At Con Edison, open communication is critical to success and continued improvement in our safety performance. We offer a number of means by which safety information can be communicated to employees, but also so that employees can communicate safety concerns to supervisors and subject matter experts who are able to address them quickly and effectively. For example, Orange and Rockland communicates safety messages through health and safety training programs, skills-training programs, and daily job briefings by supervisors and crew chiefs. Animated safety messages are relayed on electronic bulletin boards throughout the facilities and "Safety Grams" are documents distributed to employees on timely issues such as recent accidents or seasonal safety concerns. We deployed the (THINK)(ASK)(PLAN) program to Orange and Rockland for the third year in 2013. CONTRACTOR SAFETY When Con Edison enters into a relationship with a service contractor (such as for excavation, construction, or system maintenance), we verify that the vendor has the financial resources and insurance to meet our needs. We then conduct a rigorous environmental, health, and safety review of the vendor to validate its environment, health and safety programs, including a review of injuries, and any OSHA citations. In certain cases, we require contractors to participate in environment, health, and safety training (available through on-line programs). Contractor health and safety programs and site-and task-specific plans are reviewed by company subject matter experts and EH&S personnel before the contractor begins work. Where a contractor has experienced recent accidents or violations on Con Edison assignments, we may require them to hire a third-party monitor to ensure that they are performing work in accordance with applicable environment, health, and safety requirements. Con Edison’s Purchasing Department issues a quarterly Newsletter for Contractors, covering recent violations, new regulations, and best EH&S practices employed by exemplary contractors. Contractors regularly undergo on-site inspections by trained and experienced Con Edison personnel, whose observations form the basis of semi-annual report cards. We also maintain a Contractor Oversight System, and a special Action Line is in place for employees to report contractor environmental, health, and safety violations and potentially risky behavior. Our Purchasing Department uses a special committee to review contractor violations and assess disciplinary action (e.g. replace site manager or field personnel, undergo special training, or lose eligibility for further contracts for a specified period of time). These steps help to ensure that contractors work safely on company assignments, and in compliance with applicable environment, health, and safety regulations. Achieving continuing improvement in contractor OSHA Incidence Rates is a key performance measure at Con Edison of New York. In 2013, the company’s contractors collectively had an OSHA Incidence Rate of 1.57, surpassing the goal of 1.86 or lower established for the year. Similarly, Orange and Rockland follows a defined procedure for ensuring that contractors follow safe and environmentally compliant practices. Orange and Rockland began tracking its contractor OSHA Incidence Rate in 2012, and in 2013, added the contractor OSHA rate as a Key Performance Indicator. O&R contractors recorded a rate of 2.97, which met their goal not to exceed a rate of 3.0. Orange and Rockland requires contractors to complete and submit an environmental, health, and safety program prior to commencement of work. These documents are reviewed and accepted by the Orange and Rockland EH&S department. This department, as well as the organizations responsible for the contractors performing the work activities, conducts field audits of work sites to ensure that the contractor is in compliance with their scope of work and associated work rules. Deficiencies or infractions are documented and entered into the Contractor Oversight System and used to negotiate future contracts. PUBLIC SAFETY Con Edison is committed to public safety, and we incorporate safety considerations into our system planning, design work, and system operations. We conduct formal periodic inspections, testing, and maintenance of our electric, gas, and steam transmission and distribution infrastructure to ensure that system elements will continue to provide safe and reliable service. Our work in the street meets extensive requirements for work-area protection to keep our employees and the public safe from potential hazards. Our safety teams and committees meet regularly to identify and share best practices to quickly mitigate street-work hazards. Con Edison of New York regularly communicates safety information to customers in the Customer News bill insert. Orange and Rockland customers receive an insert titled @home. These publications include energy safety information, seasonal safety tips, severe weather safety advice, and reminders about staying safe around downed power lines. In addition, Orange and Rockland and Con Edison of New York offer safety tips on their websites, including information about residential electric and gas use, carbon monoxide, and generator safety. Con Edison also sends e-mails to customers with energy safety tips and storm safety information before and during severe weather to remind customers how to report outages. CONTACT VOLTAGE TESTING Con Edison of New York performs ongoing extensive contact-voltage testing. Contact voltage is the presence of electrical energy where it should not be present, such as on traffic lights, lampposts, and sidewalk grates. We use a fleet of vehicle-mounted detectors to identify locations and sources of contact voltage. The high-tech vehicles are dispatched throughout the company’s service territory year-round, and use sensors to detect voltage as low as 1 V. Contact voltage is also detected manually. The mobile contact-voltage-detectors enable us to perform multiple scans of geographic areas more quickly than using manual testing alone. The vehicles have the advantage of not needing to make direct contact with a structure to test it for contact voltage. The manual testing program uses hand-held voltage detection equipment to survey structures in New York City and Westchester County once a year. The vehicles, however, are able to conduct system-wide surveys far more frequently. In 2013, our mobile detectors completed 13 system sweeps and found and eliminated 3,272 cases of contact voltage. Of these cases, 1,466, approximately 45 percent, were on non-Con Edison equipment, such as streetlights, electric signs, and other structures. Orange and Rockland carries out comparable contact-voltage testing in its territory. Orange and Rockland tested 33,893 overhead and 3,687 underground distribution structures in 2013, along with 2,523 traffic signals and streetlights. In 2013, there was only one stray-voltage finding in excess of 1 V identified in the O&R service territory. It was corrected, and there were no associated injuries. GAS DAMAGE PREVENTION In 2013, Con Edison of New York continued to work toward reducing damages to our gas system during excavations by either company employees or contractors. In addition to holding our contractor’s financially responsible, we’ve also begun to use technology to identify our structures prior to excavation. Going beyond the typical mapping and mark-out approach, Con Edison of New York has partnered with the Gas Technology Institute to assess the effectiveness of radio-frequency identification (RFID) electronic markers in locating underground gas facilities in congested infrastructure areas. Use of these markers will allow company employees and contractors to identify gas facilities with greater precision. Additionally, a cross-functional team has been sharing best practices with personnel at Orange & Rockland focused on damage prevention. STEAM REMOTE MONITORING Water is a central element in the production of steam, but too much water can actually wreak havoc on New York’s steam system. Water that leaks into underground structures and submerges steam piping can severely impact its stability. The presence of enough water can cause the steam within the pipes to condense into a liquid state and damage the pipe’s integrity. This process, called water hammer, can lead to a failure of the infrastructure. Con Edison of New York’s Steam Remote Monitoring System (RMS) detects water levels from external sources within manhole structures, and monitors condensate removal device functionality to prevent water hammer. The system alerts operators about unsafe water levels or failed equipment that could impact underground steam infrastructure. Depending on the intensity of the alarm and imminence of danger, crews can respond to investigate an alarming structure to assess the condition and take the necessary actions to make the situation safer. To date, over 660 locations have been equipped with the remote monitoring infrastructure. We plan to install an additional 125 in 2014. 