Committed to Climate Action Sustainability Report 2019 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Chairman’s Letter The start of a new decade at Con Edison can be summed up in two words: clean energy. As leaders and innovators in the industry in addressing climate change, we’re already off to a great start having reduced our own carbon footprint by more than 50%. This is in addition to becoming the second largest solar producer in North America and the seventh largest in the world. But there is so much more for us to accomplish. For our business, and for the planet. As always, our three priorities—safety, operational excellence, and the customer experience—guide us toward protecting the environment, maintaining our best-in-class reliability, and creating a sustainable future for the company. Our people—the women and men of Con Edison—are what make us such an incredible company, and so safety is always our top concern. Many parts of the company are going accident free. But we can’t feel good about that progress because five of our fellow employees suffered high-hazard injuries last year. That’s five too many. In the coming year we are redoubling our efforts toward our goal of a zero-harm workplace. The first quarter of the year opened with the unprecedented attack of the coronavirus, requiring an extreme attention to safety and wellness, to keep both our customers and ourselves healthy. New York was the epicenter of this terrible crisis, and sadly, scores of our own employees tested positive. Even more heartbreaking, we lost colleagues to the virus. Our workforce had to work differently in many instances to maintain essential service for our customers—from separating crews into multiple vehicles to taking temperatures of employees arriving at our critical facilities. We have benefited from long term planning—we have had a pandemic planning team for close to a decade that meets regularly, has response procedures, a playbook, and performs drills and table tops periodically. We also have a well-established and effectively honed Incident Command System structure that provides the emergency management resources we need. In the days following our coronavirus response, we will be assessing long-term impact to our business and the service territory. But as this report will demonstrate, we are a strong company with dedicated employees and a long tradition of commitment to our communities. When it comes to climate action, Con Edison envisions a clean future for the world’s most complex energy grid. Powering the lives of 10 million people, we are committed to building tomorrow’s grid in a manner that supports renewable energy sources like solar and offshore wind, while empowering customers to make smarter energy choices. The first part of our climate response is to mitigate the risks of volatile weather on our systems. Our recent Climate Change Vulnerability Study stresses the importance of preparing our infrastructure to withstand and bounce back from the impacts of these extreme events. Over the next year, we’ll be developing an implementation plan that details our priority actions for the next five, 10, and 20 years. Simultaneously, reducing carbon emissions is vital to our long-term sustainability. We’re already a top producer of solar energy, with a presence in 19 states. To accomplish the ambitious state and city climate goals, however, we are advocating for utility ownership of renewable projects right here at home in New York. Bold climate action like this will also help us achieve our own ambitious goal of 100% clean energy by 2040, which is part of our Clean Energy Commitment. A considerable amount of greenhouse gas emissions in New York City comes from cars, trucks, and other vehicles—estimated at 30% of the city’s carbon production. That’s why Con Edison is paving the way for more electric vehicles on the road. We’re bringing electric vehicle charging stations to streets of New York in all five boroughs. We’re also helping customers switch to electric vehicles by offering lower rates for charging off-peak along with tools that allow customers to comparison shop and save. We’re doing our part on this front, too. We are transitioning our fleet of light-duty vehicles to electric vehicles and will explore opportunities and alternative technologies to reduce our use of fossil fuels for our medium- and heavy-duty trucks. To do all this and more, our electric system needs to advance. It needs to accommodate large-scale wind and solar projects, electric heating, and electric vehicles. Large commercial buildings, businesses, and homes must be more energy efficient to achieve our state and city goals for emission reduction, too. Our ever-expanding array of energy efficiency opportunities have helped more than one million customers and prevented 7 million metric tons of carbon emissions, equal to taking more than one million cars off the road. We can’t stop there, though. As part of our Clean Energy Commitment, we plan to aggressively pursue reductions in overall energy use by tripling our energy efficiency programs and plan to invest over $1.5 billion by 2025. To tap into the best and most promising technologies available in clean energy, we’re seeking innovative, new solutions that will help customers reduce reliance on natural gas, offset the need to build additional pipeline infrastructure, and help New York State achieve its clean energy goals. How we accomplish all this begins with solid corporate governance practices and a diverse and inclusive workforce. Our board of directors is 50% diverse in terms of gender, race, and ethnicity, with an impressive blend of skills, tenure, backgrounds, and experiences. We conduct year-round shareholder engagement to hear from our stakeholders and continuously improve our governance practices and disclosures. Similarly, the creation of a sustainable business relies heavily on recruitment and retainment of top-notch people at all levels of the company. It starts by investing in the growth of our current workforce through tuition reimbursement, leadership and technical training, and priority access to internal job opportunities. From there, we turn our attention to recruiting diverse talent, veterans, and women. In fact, the percent of women hired has increased to 41%—that’s nearly 10% more than the previous year. By making sure our workplace is diverse, inclusive, and respectful, everyone has an opportunity to offer their best work and ideas. Finally, a sustainable future isn’t possible without an intense focus on enriching the heart of our region—neighborhoods and communities. Last year we provided $12.6 million to area non-profits, which included organizations helping to foster the next generation of our workforce. We continue to commit time, talent, and treasure to mentoring students through the company’s job-shadow program. We partner with Energy Tech High School, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and the Fresh Air Fund, and these efforts promote technical careers and a future diverse talent pool. In the decade ahead, our ultimate goal is to help our people, our communities, our business, and the planet thrive. Whether we’re combating climate change or preparing students for green careers, Con Edison is committed to tackling head-on the challenges of today to make tomorrow cleaner and brighter. — John McAvoy, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Consolidated Edison, Inc. REPORT INTRODUCTION COMPANY PROFILE Company Profile Consolidated Edison, Inc. is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy-delivery companies, with approximately $13 billion in revenues and $58 billion in assets. The company provides a wide range of energy-related products and services to its customers through the following subsidiaries: Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) (http://www.coned.com/), a regulated utility providing electric, gas and steam service to customers in New York City and Westchester County, New York Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R) (http://www.oru.com/index.html), a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,300-square-mile-area in southeastern New York State and northern New Jersey Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses, Inc. (CEB) (https://conedceb.com/), which through its subsidiaries develops, owns and operates renewable energy infrastructure projects and provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers Con Edison Transmission (CET) (http://www.conedtransmission.com/), which through its subsidiaries invests in electric and natural gas transmission projects Read our 2019 Annual Report (https://investor.conedison.com/financial.information/annual-reports?c=61493&p=irol-reportsannual). Revenue by Business (million $) Board Of Directors REPORT INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainability Strategy Con Edison is dedicated to making a transformational impact on the environment, our region, and the lives of the people we serve. We have a governance structure and strategy in place to harness the skills and intellect of our employees consistent with sound, sustainable principles. Governance: Setting Priorities and Strategy As disclosed in our Proxy Statement, the Company is firmly committed to sustainability which is broadly overseen by the Board (see Corporate Sustainability). The Board reviews and discusses various sustainability topics throughout the year and routinely considers environmental issues (including climate issues) and assesses how they impact the Company’s operations, strategies and risk profile. In 2019, the Board’s strategy meeting focused on climate change. The Board received a presentation on the transition to a clean energy future by an outside consultant as well as presentations on current renewable energy policy trends and the impact of climate change on operations. In addition, the Board has delegated to the appropriate committees, responsibility for the specific sustainability categories relating to the oversight of risks with which such committees are charged. The Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee oversees sustainability issues relating to safety and the environment and reviews the Company’s Annual Sustainability Report prior to its publication. In discharging its responsibilities, the Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee reviews, at each of its meetings, certain key performance indicators relating to climate risk, including energy efficiency and environmental beneficial electrification. In 2019, the Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee also reviewed and discussed presentations relating to safety and customer service. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is charged with sustainability matters relating to governance and in 2019 reviewed and discussed a presentation regarding governance benchmarking. The Management, Development, and Compensation Committee’s responsibilities include oversight of sustainability issues relating to human capital management. The Management, Development, and Compensation Committee annually reviews performance results as well as proposed performance indicators for the following year. Committees not specifically tasked with oversight of sustainability also periodically review sustainability related issues. In 2019, the Audit Committee reviewed and discussed presentations regarding fraud prevention and detection activities and certain recommendations with respect to financial governance oversight. Our sustainability governance structure also extends to management and employee levels, including: Vice president-level Environment, Social, and Governance Committee Sustainability Leadership Council Volunteer sustainability ambassadors We engaged BSR, a leading sustainability consulting firm, to assist us in developing our sustainability materiality assessment and determine our key sustainability priorities, and in 2019 we worked with New York University in refreshing that assessment and resulting priorities. We have integrated our sustainability priorities with our long-range planning. Our 20-year plan for our electric and gas businesses is designed to help us navigate today’s challenges while preparing for changes in the energy landscape. The plans are available on our website at the following links: Electric Long Range Plan (https://www.coned.com/-/media/files/coned/documents/our-energy-future/our-energy.projects/electric-long-range-plan.pdf) Gas Long Range Plan (https://www.coned.com/-/media/files/coned/documents/our-energy-future/our-energy-projects/gas.long-range-plan.pdf) In December 2019, we released our Climate Change Vulnerability Study in conjunction with ICF International and Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. The 36-month study evaluated our present-day infrastructure, design specifications and procedures under a range of potential climate futures. The study identified the most climate-driven risks: Sea level rise Coastal storm surge Inland flooding from intense rainfall Hurricane-Strength winds, and Extreme heat The study estimates that we may need to invest between $1.8 billion and $5.2 billion by 2050 on targeted programs to protect our electric, gas and steam delivery systems and our customers from the impacts of climate change. An implementation plan is under development and will be completed by December 31, 2020. Our Guiding Principles Our Climate Change Vulnerability Study is consistent with three guiding principles we have adopted for protecting the environment, maintaining our best-in-class reliability, and managing customer costs — safety, operational excellence, and enhancing the customer experience. Our strategy grows from these three priorities and embraces the growing concern globally over the impacts of climate change and the desire of customers and the public to have increasing say over how their energy is produced and used. Accordingly, our strategy involves three areas where we can positively impact society and our planet while building value for our stakeholders: Strengthen our core utility business Pursue additional regulated growth opportunities to add value in the evolving industry Grow existing clean energy businesses and pursue additional clean energy growth opportunities consistent with our risk appetite Customer Focused  Value Oriented  Strategic  Provide safe and reliable service  Provide steady, predictable earnings  Strengthen core utility delivery business  Pursue additional regulated growth  Enhance the customer experience  Maintain balance sheet stability  opportunities to add value in the evolving  industry  Grow existing clean energy businesses  Achieve operational excellence and cost optimization  Pay attractive, growing dividends  and pursue additional clean energy growth opportunities consistent with our  risk appetite  Core Utility Business Strategy: Safety Safety is the cornerstone of all that we do at Con Edison. We continue to strive for a zero-harm work environment for our employees and the public we serve. We have been aggressive in upgrading our systems against severe weather, having invested $1 billion over four years following Super Storm Sandy. We coordinated with Westchester County in New York to invest an additional $100 million to fortify our electric system following a pair of successive severe storms in 2018. In our gas systems, we have focused on safety as well as reducing harmful methane emissions through our priority pipe replacement. Orange & Rockland completed its priority pipe replacement program and retired its low-pressure gas system. Con Edison replaced 97 miles of priority pipe in 2019 and is on track to complete its program in 2036. Con Edison was the first utility in the country to install natural-gas detectors that monitor the air where our gas service pipes enter buildings, and in 2019 we completed more than 9,000 installations. Surveillance of our electric and gas systems is also a priority as we conduct surveys of our entire electric and gas systems monthly, going far beyond industry standards. Core Utility Business Strategy: Enhancing the customer experience Our customers have made it clear that they want more access to renewables, energy efficiency, demand response, storage, and information to help them manage their energy usage and bills. As part of our $1.4 billion, multi-year, smart meter investment, we have installed 3 million smart meters to date and will install the remaining 2 million customer meters over the next several years. Smart meters are the cornerstone of our efforts to meet the evolving needs of customers by providing greater insights into energy use with near real-time data—a truly transformational technology. Sequenced with our smart meter rollout are two customer-focused investments: A new $421 million customer service system that will further enhance our energy efficiency and demand response programs, and A $68 million Next Generation Customer Experience program that will advance our digital customerexperience. Our energy efficiency programs have helped more than one million customers and prevented 7 million metric tons of carbon emissions, equal to taking more than one million cars off the road. To advance customer adoption of electric vehicles and support New York’s ambitious environmental goals, we are also rolling out 60 electric vehicle charging stations at public parking spaces across New York City’s five boroughs. Core Utility Business Strategy: Operational Excellence and Cost Optimization Con Edison’s electric system has historically been the most reliable electric system in the country by a sizeable margin. Nevertheless, we recognize that we can do better. We are deploying sensors, using robotics to monitor our systems, leveraging analytics, and using other technologies to achieve the operational excellence that our customers demand. Minimizing risk is key to operational excellence. We continue to invest in and enhance our cyber and physical security. Last year, we participated in multiple large-scale drills with the government and other major utilities to prepare for cyber and physical threats to the U.S. power grid and to develop technology to speed up restoration. When it comes to a cleaner, more efficient future, our strategy involves reducing harmful emissions and expanding our portfolio of renewable energy production. Clean Energy Businesses The Clean Energy Businesses are forecasted to grow over time, as state-level clean energy targets and advancements in renewable technologies present opportunities for investment. Of our approximately 3,000 megawatts of renewable energy production in operation or under development, 85% is solar and 15% is wind. We have projects in 19 states in the U.S. and are the 7th largest owner and producer of solar electricity in the world and the second largest in North America. The pursuit of our strategic objectives should enable us to continue to provide steady, predictable earnings, maintain balance sheet stability, and pay attractive, growing dividends for our shareholders. Additional Regulated Opportunities in Electric Transmission In order to connect new renewable energy projects to customers, Con Edison is pursuing opportunities to develop and own electric transmission. New York State, our principle state regulatory jurisdiction, has a goal of 70% renewable electricity by 2030. REPORT INTRODUCTION R&D/INNOVATION R&D/Innovation An innovative spirit and hard work are two of our company’s greatest assets. Our research and development teams work diligently to find solutions that make the workplace safer and improve our customers’ quality of life. Some of our numerous ongoing projects are described below. Safety The newly patented system and method of monitoring a utility underground structure, which uses sensors to monitor the atmosphere and alert of any changes from “steady state,” will improve system safety and reliability by allowing us to take action before a potential event. The patent-pending circuit breaker cubicle inspection and repair safety device will allow for repairs without the need to take outages on substation bus sections and provide enhanced safety for mechanics during inspection and repairs, thus saving labor time and enhancing substation reliability. Development of a patent-pending breaker-racking robot prototype will allow for remote racking of substation breakers. For substation operators, it will minimize exposure risk to arc flash hazards and decrease soft tissue injuries from handling heavy circuit breakers. Initial testing demonstrated the robot’s collision avoidance system, self-alignment and racking engagement capabilities, and ability to provide status indications and robot operations alarms. An elevated pressure flow control system utilizing inflatable stoppers for gas mains was modified and tested for the Con Edison system. This is an improvement over traditional methods as it is smaller and lighter, thereby lowering the risk of injury and reducing labor and material costs. 