Stakeholder Engagement Overview Recognizing that regular communication with our stockholders enables the Company to better understand their viewpoints and to obtain feedback regarding issues that are of interest to them, the Company continued to engage, in a mostly virtual format, with stockholders due to COVID-19. The Company values stockholder input and is committed to taking such input into consideration in making executive compensation and governance decisions. Stockholder Engagement Overview 3. Off-season Engagement and 4. Engagement Prior to1. Annual Meeting 2. Post-Annual Meeting Evaluation of Best Practices Annual Meeting Stockholders may engage with  Review voting results in light of  Engage with stockholders to better  Seek feedback on potential  Board members and senior  existing practices, as well as feedback  understand their viewpoints and inform  matters for stockholder  management  received from stockholders during  Board and committee discussions  consideration at the annual  proxy engagement season and annual  meeting  meeting  Stockholders may ask questions  Review corporate governance trends,  Explore corporate ESG best practices  Discuss stockholder  and voice opinions about the  regulatory developments and the  proposals with proponents,  Company, its practices, policies  Company’s corporate governance  when appropriate  and operations  documents, policies and procedures  Voting results for management  Determine topics for discussion during  Report results of stockholder engagement  Publish annual report and  and stockholder proposals are  off-season stockholder engagement  team activities to Corporate Governance  proxy statement  determined  and Nominating Committee and the Board  Evaluate and discuss potential changes to Company executive compensation and governance practices and disclosures 2020 Stockholder Engagement Highlights During 2021, the Company held its second annual ESG webinar, participated in over 600 meetings, including investor conferences and virtual roadshows targeting the U.S., Europe, Canada, and Australia, with a broad range of stockholders, including index funds, union and public pension funds, actively-managed funds, ESG-focused funds, and stockholder advisory firms. (i) Enhanced disclosures concerning political lobbying activities, resulting in an increase in the Company’s CPA-Zicklin Index for Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability score to 100 from 94.3; (ii) Broadened our Clean Energy Businesses’ disclosures; (iii) Expanded our diversity, equity, and inclusion reporting through disclosure of the Company’s Federal Employee Report EEO-1 that provides further transparency on the make-up of our workforce; (iv) Released the Company’s updated Clean Energy Commitment; and (v) Further refined the disclosures in its proxy to, among other things, provide clearer and more accessible information on human capital management. During 2021, the Company engaged virtually  with stockholders holding in aggregate 36% of shares outstanding and 27% of the Company’s  Stockholder Engagement Teams  debentures.  Members of Core Stockholder  Others Included in Stockholder  Key topics of shareholder engagement on  Engagement Team  Engagement Efforts  corporate governance related issues included Con Edison of New York’s Climate Change  Chief Financial Officer  CEO and subsidiary Presidents  Adaptation and Resiliency Plan; the Company’s corporate strategy; pursuit of net-zero-carbon.emission goals including reimagining our gas distribution system; diversity, equity and inclusion; disclosure practices including ESG standardized reporting; corporate governance; political spending and lobbying practices; and Treasurer Other senior officers and business unit heads Investor Relations Office of the Corporate Secretary Environment, Health & Safety Department Corporate Affairs operations and financial matters (including Strategic Planningissues raised by COVID-19). In response to stockholder feedback received Throughout the year, the Company communicates stockholder feedback to the Board and itsduring 2021, the Company: committees, and the Board considers this feedback in making its decisions. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & COLLABORATION Energy Efficiency, Renewables &  Distributed Energy Customer & Community As part of our firm commitment to renewable energy, Con Edison’s Clean Energy Businesses continued growing by investing approximately $400 million in renewable projects in 2021 and operating a total of 3,061 megawatts of aggregate solar and wind capacity at the end of 2021. Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland, Inc. (O&R) remain committed to the clean energy goals of both New York State and New York City. With ambitious targets for Distributed Solar, Energy Storage and Zero Emissions Vehicles, both Companies continue to work with policy makers and stakeholders to remove barriers to Distributed Generation (DG) interconnection. Both CECONY and O&R publish a Distributed System Implementation Plan every two years, most recently in June 2020, that serves as a five-year outlook in areas such as Integrated Planning, Information Sharing and Market Services. The Implementation Plan is used to engage the stakeholder community in the processes and programs that continue to shape the Distributed System Platform. CECONY and O&R continue to participate in the Interconnection Technical Working Group (ITWG) and the Interconnection Policy Working Group (IPWG), in which we work with the DG community on issues that advance improvements in the Standard Interconnection Requirements (SIR) and policies that shape the connection process. In addition, both Companies continue to publish Hosting Capacity Maps for Distributed Solar and Electric Vehicle development. Through the bi-annual Hosting Capacity Stakeholder Working group we have most recently begun to solicit feedback and align on approaches to add Storage Hosting Capacity maps to the portal in 2022. C&C - ENERGY EFFICIENCY, RENEWABLES & DISTRIBUTED ENERGY CECONY and O&R continue to work with the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) on its implementation of a Distributed Energy Resource (DER) Aggregator Market in compliance with FERC Order 2222. A DER Aggregator Market will allow smaller DGs connected on the distribution system to participate in the NYISO Wholesale Energy Market. Both Companies understand the need to continue to expand the value sets that DERs can leverage from the electric grid as well as use these resources to provide services that can enhance grid flexibility. Technology continues to be a valuable component to overall value and through an effort by the New York State utilities, there is an increasing focus on smart inverter functionality, which is the ability for an inverter to take operating signals and parameters and adjust based upon grid needs. Smart inverter functionality will be a core component to enhancing the relationship between the distribution system and DG. Finally, CECONY and O&R recognize the value of increased data and information sharing. Beginning in 2021 and moving forward, CECONY and O&R are working with stakeholders and the PSC to investigate more efficient and robust means of exchanging system and customer data through the Integrated Energy Data Resource and Data Access Framework efforts. Energy Efficiency & Demand Response Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland, Inc. (O&R) offer a broad array of energy efficiency initiatives designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, lower customer bills, and give New Yorkers control over their energy choices. CECONY and O&R are leaders in sustainability and have ramped up energy efficiency efforts that are facilitating New York’s ambitious clean energy goals. We are working with partners across our service territory to better serve low- and moderate-income customers as well as providing choices to our customer to reduce their reliance on fossil fuels through adoption of beneficial electrification technologies such as heat pumps and electric transportation. Additionally, CECONY and O&R are increasing its focus on achieving deeper and longer-lived energy efficiency savings by targeting more impactful technology upgrades. Our customers are as diverse as the area we serve. That’s why we have targeted efficiency programs to help us deliver cost-effective and customer-centric energy efficiency offerings that emphasize the clear benefits and impacts of energy efficiency. We focus on four primary customer segments—commercial and industrial, small business, multifamily, and residential—designing our offerings to meet each customer group’s needs. Our goal is to give customers multiple options and opportunities to reduce their energy use. In 2021, CECONY provided electric and gas customers over $200 million in incentives to choose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment. Customer upgrades last year made through CECONY energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 867,280 megawatt hours and saved 711,029 dekatherms of gas—that is the equivalent to taking more than 99,654 cars off the road or powering 55,180 homes for one year. Technology is giving households and businesses new ways to reduce energy use, and CECONY is at the forefront in helping customers get more value for their money while protecting the environment. In 2021, CECONY invested $97 million on over 9,700 customer projects installing heat pumps as part of our Clean Heat Program. O&R customers who upgraded to high efficiency energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other energy efficient equipment received $5.0 million in incentives from us in 2021. O&R provides instant in-store rebates and on the MY ORU Store, our online customer marketplace, to make it easy for customers to make energy efficient choices. In addition, our Rockland Electric Company (RECO) customers now have the opportunity to participate in rebate programs with a portfolio of energy efficiency and demand response programs which launched in mid-2021. This three-year, $18.1 million plan will help customers reduce their energy bills, convert to clean heating technologies, reduce peak demand, and lower their carbon emissions. The My ORU Store provides a one-stop shop, contact-less shopping experience by introducing customers to innovative smart home technologies, including smart thermostats, security cameras, smart plugs, wireless dimmable LED lighting, and electric vehicle chargers. Through instant rebates at checkout, incentives were given to customers to help lower cost and increase adoption of energy efficient technologies. Through the My ORU Store, O&R partnered with the local water utility, SUEZ NY, to support its water conservation program by offering instant rebates to mutual customers on water and energy efficient products. This collaboration continues to help customers save water and energy and in turn lower their utility bills. Along with “virtual advisors”, available to help customers find appropriate products and services, the My ORU Store platform provides educational information about solar generation and energy storage, and renewable heat pump technology. More recently smart thermostat purchasers were given the opportunity to enroll in the demand response program during the online transaction process. By bundling offers, such as products and programs, the customer enrollment process is streamlined and program participation has increased. With the recent launch of energy efficiency programs in RECO’s New Jersey service territory, the My ORU Store platform was expanded to include a new platform for RECO customers. The platform, branded with the familiar RECO logo offers similar products, services, and online tools as well as rebates on electric measures including lighting, advanced power strips and smart thermostats. O&R is using technology to give households and businesses new ways to reduce their energy use, and get more value for their money, all while supporting the environment. For example, in 2021, upgrades made by customers through our energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 73,000 megawatt hours and saved 37,000 dekatherms of gas. This reduced our carbon emissions by more than 194,000 tons, which is equivalent to taking more than 41,000 cars off the road. Of the total O&R rebates issued in 2021, two projects stand out. An industrial recycling company upgraded its inefficient lighting with LEDs and received a rebate of $148,000, saving over 1,800 MWh, and a payback on its investment of just under two years. A local hospital received a $126,000 rebate to address inefficient lighting, saving over 1,265 MWh of energy. Annual Incremental CO2 Reductions Through Energy Efficiency Programs (metric tons) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Data is from CECONY + O&R Renewables Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland, Inc. (O&R) continue to support New York State’s ambitious clean energy policies, including the State’s goal to source 70% of its energy from renewable resources by 2030, 100% greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)-free electricity by 2040, and an 85% reduction in New York State’s GHG emissions by 2050. For the past decade, CECONY and O&R, along with Sustainable CUNY at City University of New York, government agencies, and other parties, have encouraged residents and businesses to consider solar to reduce their energy bills and protect the environment. Our customers are responding. Using the power of the sun, our customers installed more than 581 megawatts of clean, renewable power by year-end 2021. This total includes 42,992 CECONY installations and 10,659 O&R installations. Con Edison Inc. believes that all customers should have access to clean energy, regardless of income level, whether they own or rent or whether they live in a house or an apartment. CECONY continues to explore opportunities to be more innovative in renewable and energy storage installations. In 2021, CECONY relaunched a piloted device, ConnectDER, enabling residential customers to realize additional savings while providing the Company’s engineering teams with solar production data to better forecast and plan system needs. CECONY also enhanced microprocessor relays to allow additional solar capacity to export power into our network systems, enabling the construction of additional community solar projects at higher capacities across the territory. O&R continues interconnecting distributed energy resources (DER) at an increasing rate, and is actively seeking opportunities to increase hosting capacity. O&R is participating in a Smart Inverter Working Group to establish best practices for enabling smart inverter technology throughout the service territory. O&R began the NSYERDA PON 4128 Smart Inverter project that will test smart inverter functionality in a laboratory environment, and then install the inverters in the field to confirm system interoperability. O&R continued participation in the IEEE Interconnection Commissioning Program to identify, train and certify individuals for the commissioning of any installed DER interconnection to enhance compliance with IEEE 1547, which informs critical utility engineering and business practices for DERs in markets worldwide. A streamlined, standards-based process for interconnecting renewables and other DERs could reduce the cost and complexity among utilities, developers, and owners. The O&R Clean Heat program exceeded our expectations in 2021, achieving twice the annual target for heat pump energy savings. Both contractors and customers are realizing the benefits of this efficient clean heat renewable alternative that significantly saves energy and reduces carbon emissions compared to the fossil fuel alternatives. Through these initiatives, CECONY and O&R are helping realize a greener energy future. As noted above, both CECONY and O&R continue efforts to expand distributed solar and other distributed energy resources throughout each service territory. The chart on the following page shows cumulative interconnection for distributed solar since 2019: Cumulative Utility Customer Solar MW Installation CECONY O&R 398 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Energy Storage Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R) is helping New York achieve its ambitious energy storage goals of 1,500 megawatts (MW) by 2025 and 6,000MW[2] by 2030 through a variety of efforts. Energy storage plays a critical role in our clean energy future and we continue to actively engage with the State’s Department of Public Service and the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority to support storage policy goals. In 2019, CECONY and O&R issued a request for proposals (RFP) as part of our bulk solicitation program that solicited dispatch rights to utility-scale storage projects connected directly to the grid. The first project awarded a contract as a part of the bulk storage solicitation program is a 100MW energy storage system being developed on the previous site of the Poletti Gas Turbine Plant in Astoria, Queens. This project is one of many CECONY plans to award in order to achieve a minimum of 300 MW of energy storage dispatch rights. The next round of projects, subject of an RFP released July 2021, will target operation in 2025. While O&R did not identify a winner for its first round of solicitation for its bulk storage effort, O&R subsequently amended its RFP to take into account feedback from the vendor community. O&R released an RFP for the second round of solicitation in 2021 and is currently in the process of evaluating the various vendor bids and identifying at least 10 MW of battery storage in the O&R service territory. CECONY and O&R are also leading a variety of projects and programs where we are testing new storage business models, building utility capabilities, engaging third party providers, and supporting customers to interconnect energy storage. Through 2021, CECONY has interconnected a total of 275 distribution-connected energy storage systems, totaling 18.3 MW of capacity, and O&R also interconnected 117 total projects for a total of 4.7 MW. Of the 117 O&R projects, 115 were behind-the-meter residential energy storage systems, totaling 1.1 MW of capacity. In 2018, CECONY commissioned its first utility-owned storage project, a lithium-iron phosphate battery designed for 2 MW / 12 megawatt hours (MWh) in Ozone Park, Queens. The battery was built to provide grid support in the Brooklyn Queens Demand Management area. Last year, the battery was deployed 23 times to provide demand relief during summer heat. CECONY plans to use this battery to provide market services to the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO). Building on this model, CECONY requested funding and received authorization for both utility-owned and third party-owned “make ready” energy storage in its current rate case covering 2019 – 2022. CECONY will be installing a utility-owned 7.5 MW / 30 MWh battery energy storage system at a Staten Island substation to provide peak shaving, demand relief, system support to absorb power during periods of high customer solar output, and replace temporary fossil generators needed during system contingencies. In addition, this battery storage system may provide market services to the NYISO. CECONY will also be working on a first.of-its-kind “make ready” storage model for the co-location of 4.95 MW / 15.6 MWH of energy storage and 18 electric vehicle charging (EVC) stations on utility property with public access to EVC. CECONY is facilitating direct access to the distribution grid to monetize multiple value streams and develop a better understanding of how energy storage can facilitate the adoption of EVC on the grid through localized peak demand management. O&R commissioned its first utility-owned storage project in Pomona, NY in December 2020. The battery storage system is currently 3 MW/12 MWh with the potential to be upgraded to 4.5 MW/ 18 MWh. O&R currently maintains operational control over the Pomona battery storage system to support the reliability of its distribution system and provide peak demand reduction. The Pomona battery storage system has successfully provided peak demand reduction and enhanced system reliability. Following its initial energization in December 2020, O&R dispatched the battery storage system throughout the summer of 2021 for demand relief purposes. O&R’s visibility into its distribution system needs allows it to dispatch the battery storage system when beneficial to the system. To date, the battery storage system has been discharged for demand relief only during the summer period and otherwise is not in use. CECONY and O&R continues to implement energy storage demonstration projects to test new business models. As part of the 4 MW/ 4 MWh customer-sited business model demonstration, Beyond behind-the-meter (BTM) will deploy front-of-the-meter storage at up to four customer sites to provide grid support. Two sites are operational and a third is expected to be commissioned in early 2022. Each project will provide distribution demand and voltage relief and reduce network peak demand while testing the ability to collect revenues for participating in NYISO markets. Through its Innovative Storage Business Model demonstration project, O&R is working with partners to develop innovative business models for driving down the cost of energy storage investments by enabling storage assets to participate in multiple markets, providing benefits and incentives to multiple stakeholders. O&R is working with its vendor Sunrun to explore how residential solar-plus.storage systems can provide resiliency benefits to customers, provide demand relief benefits to the utility’s local distribution system and also earn additional revenues from participating in NYISO electricity markets. O&R plans to deploy at least 300 residential solar-plus-storage systems within the next three years as part of this demonstration project. The total project portfolio will be approximately 2.1 MW / 4.7 MWh. This project will also be the first of its kind to participate in the NYISO wholesale market. In recent years, due to FERC Order 2222, distributed energy resources (DER) aggregation philosophy has gained traction. This project with aggregated of residential solar and storage systems will be bid into the NYISO market when NYISO allows enrollment of DER aggregation into the wholesale market. CECONY and O&R also supports energy storage through Non-Wire Solutions (NWS, also sometimes referred to as Non-Wires Alternatives (NWA)). Both Companies consider and often include storage as a significant portion of our demand relief portfolios. CECONY is supporting and incenting third-party owned and operated energy storage for local demand relief as an integral part of the portfolio of solutions in three program areas across eight distribution networks: Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management (Crown Heights, Ridgewood, and Richmond Hill), Water Street/ Plymouth (Williamsburg and Prospect Park) and Newtown (Borden, Sunnyside, and Maspeth). CECONY’s NWS projects group have installed 4.8 MW of energy storage as of 2021, with an additional 10.3 MW contracted for commercial operation in 2023. O&R has two open procurements for energy storage systems to meet distribution system needs in place of traditional utility solutions. O&R’s Monsey project will aim to defer the upgrade of an existing substation. Due to extensive demand growth in the Monsey area, the current substation will not have adequate capacity to serve the forecasted demand. The Monsey non-wires alternative plans to deploy a portfolio of 15 MW / 58 MWh batteries at three separate locations in the Monsey area to defer the upgrade of this substation. The Monsey project is currently going through the siting and permitting process. After successful completion of siting and permitting O&R will execute a contract with the vendor to install the battery systems. O&R also recently executed a contract for the West Warwick NWA project. This project will use three separate energy storage systems to address distribution system constraints. The project will use a total of 12 MW / 57 MWh battery to defer the construction of a new transmission/distribution substation. O&R expects the batteries to be deployed and fully operations for summer 2022. O&R has also held several outreach discussions with the local town and the first responders to address concerns that they may have. O&R has also recently identified a successful NWA project to move forward. The Sparkill NWA is a 2 MW/12 MWh project located in the Hamlet of Sparkill in the town of Orangetown. The project has successfully passed the benefits-cost analysis and is net positive. This project will be moving forward in the future with an expected in-service date of 2023. The procurement process for the Sparkill NWA project will start shortly. O&R is also conducting direct procurement of battery storage assets. O&R plans to procure 6MW/24MWh of energy storage systems to provide for demand in their rapidly growing Woodbury area. These batteries will be owned by O&R. O&R expects to release an RFP for the battery procurement in 2022 with an in-service date of 2024 for the battery systems. Con Edison built on the success of the existing demand response programs by releasing a second Dynamic Load Management RFP in November of 2021. This solicitation is anticipated to give energy storage systems participating in demand response revenue certainty, which is expected to decrease barriers to installing energy storage in the service territories. Winners of the RFP will have 3 to 5-year contracts starting in 2023 to provide demand relief when called upon. These longer-term contracts are expected to provide revenue certainty for distribution services. This should provide energy storage developers more opportunity to participate compared with the existing demand response programs, especially the Auto-DLM Program which places a premium on rapid response. Past programs managed by CECONY to further the proliferation of energy storage included a Demand Management Program that incented 1.5 MW of lithium ion and valve-regulated lead acid chemistries between 2017-2019. CECONY continues to take the lead in addressing energy storage safety and zoning concerns, working closely with New York City’s Department of Buildings, Fire Department, the Mayor’s Office of Sustainability, and Department of City Planning, as well as battery technology developers and NYSERDA. CECONY engages with City and State agencies and storage stakeholders on storage matters including the development of emergency response procedures, technical requirements, and energy storage rules. CECONY will continue to collaborate with stakeholders to advance the safe installation and operation of energy storage systems in New York. O&R has also led multiple initiatives to educate and inform their various “authorities having jurisdiction” (AHJs). As municipalities update their local zoning and permitting to incorporate battery storage systems (both front of the meter and behind the meter batteries), O&R has taken an active role to make sure proper requirements are being reflected for storage in these local zoning laws. O&R recently met with concerned neighbors and town officials to inform them about battery storage systems, their benefits and their various safety systems. O&R is also taking an active role in informing and educating the first responders and fire departments on the safety aspect of energy storage systems. O&R wants first responders to understand the various safety aspects built into energy storage systems and their role in case of any battery emergencies. O&R is addressing questions from all stakeholders on both “Front of the Meter” storage and “Behind the Meter Storage”. On multiple occasions O&R worked with industry professionals and external vendors to bring in safety experts that successfully addressed all concerns from local fire department and local AHJs. CECONY, in its 2022 rate case, is proposing to establish a new Energy Storage Organization to develop an enterprise-wide storage strategy and implementation plan. The Storage Organization will provide operational and performance monitoring for all storage assets and delivery channels, as well as program development to create new products and deployment channels to achieve the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA) storage goals. The organization will be comprised of analysts to support the policy and strategy functions, project and program managers to support bulk procurement and program management, subject matter experts who will support the shared services functions, and engineers, construction, and maintenance personnel to support distribution projects. Energy storage is a transformational technology that can provide numerous benefits to the electric system, and ultimately, to electric customers. CECONY and O&R envision a future in which storage provides support to our electric delivery system, enables the operation of intermittent renewable resources, and reduces GHG emissions and other local emissions. Declining costs and broader proliferation of storage will help customers and communities adopt these technologies. Storage will allow customers to manage their usage, participate in energy programs, respond to more cost-reflective rate designs, such as hourly pricing and demand-based rate structures, and integrate new applications, like EV charging. [2] Note this was increased from 3,000 MW to a target of 6,000 MW by 2030 as per Governor Hochul’s New York State of the State Address. Renewable Energy and our Facilities Customer & Community Con Edison’s Clean Energy Commitment aims to provide 100% clean power for the buildings it occupies by 2030. These facilities equate to approximately three million square feet of office space and work locations. In anticipation of 2030, we’re implementing clean energy solutions at both existing facilities and new construction projects. At the end of 2021, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) released a RFP to solicit recommendations from architectural, engineering, and energy consulting services for the best course of action to achieve our 100% clean power goal at all Company-owned facilities. Reducing the Carbon Footprint of Our Facilities CECONY is pursuing Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certifications for a variety of real estate projects. We are in the process of finalizing our LEED certification in Building Design and Construction for one of our data centers. LEED certification is a rare designation for data centers, and ours will be one of approximately 20 LEED-certified data centers in the U.S. and 70 LEED-certified data centers globally. The servers at the data center were replaced with new, energy-efficient servers. Modular air-cooled chillers were installed to cool the servers. Modular air-cooled chillers do not require the large amount of water consumed by an evaporative cooling tower and water-cooled chiller system, providing a sustainable solution for the often water-intensive process of cooling servers. These chillers can decrease and vary their power consumption to match the heat load of the building and provide greater system reliability. The installation of these chillers resulted in over 40% water use reduction. The data center boasts 100% LED interior and exterior lighting. Other environmental design improvements include the addition of bike racks and a solar-reflective roof covering. We are actively pursuing LEED certifications for two other projects. The renovation of our former Van Nest Cable Lab will be evaluated for sustainability and energy efficiency under the LEED Interior Design and Construction (Commercial Interiors) framework. The former cable lab will become an office space for employees in the Bronx. The project will prioritize the use of locally-sourced materials, interiors will be furnished with recycled carpeting and furniture to the extent feasible, and an all-electric HVAC system will be installed. LED lighting and low-flow water fixtures are also key features of this renovation. We are currently designing the new Sherman Creek Service Center with the goal of achieving at minimum LEED Gold certification for new office construction. This new service center will include both a green roof and a solar canopy that will help power the facility. The station will also have an all-electric variable refrigerant flow HVAC system in lieu of a gas-fired system. Powering our Headquarters with Solar As a strong proponent of solar power, Con Edison installed its own photovoltaic electric generation system at the CECONY headquarters in 2014. The photovoltaic array was installed on the roof of the 19th Floor. A major design goal of the project was to integrate the largest possible PV system given the limited space available. Today, the system consists of 209 solar panels, which accumulate to a total 53.295kW DC nameplate capacity. This PV electric generation system helps power our headquarters building, reducing our own facility’s carbon footprint. Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Customer & Community Attraction Learning and Inclusion continues to attract, develop, and retain talented employees who possess a broad array of skills, backgrounds, and experiences. We know that diversity is a key driver of innovation and high performance, and therefore our goal is to capitalize on these benefits while also resembling the communities we serve. At Con Edison, we offer many exciting career opportunities, and we continue to stand out as an employer of choice. In 2021, 709 new employees joined the company, including 21 percent women and 56 percent people of color. Our talent acquisition strategies are designed to attract and engage candidates from many sources, including, targeted job fairs, social media, professional industry associations, the military, and partnerships with educational institutions. Our partnerships are important to us as they enable us to develop a diverse talent pipeline of candidates throughout our recruiting territory. For example. collaborating with Nontraditional Employment for Women, Hour Children and Helmets to Hardhats are key resources in helping us attract more women to non-traditional jobs. We also work with community, nonprofit, and professional groups, including the Society or Women Engineers (SWE), National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME), and American Association of Black in Energy (AABE). To further invest in the communities we serve, Con Edison partnered with several New York City Career and Technical High Schools to support their curriculum development and develop strong school-to-industry pipelines. C&C - TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & RETENTION This is an exciting time in our Company, and we are well positioned to engage students who are interested in careers in the utility sector. Through our Leadership Development program, we recruit recent college graduates and provide them with opportunities to gain leadership skills and practical experiences that promote critical thinking and analysis. Our 2021 LDP cohort consists of 48 percent women and 64 percent people of color. Our veteran strategy continues to be an important part of our talent pipeline. We recruited former active-duty personnel and current members of the National Guard and Reserves. Con Edison is also an active member of Veterans in Energy in Washington, DC. which provides the company with a national presence in the Veterans sector. In 2021 we continued to partner with the Veterans Administration to market career opportunities to disabled veterans. We engaged with many veteran strategic partners to help build and support our veteran pipeline, including, Soldier for Life, Ft Drum NY, NYS Department of Military Affairs, and The Wounded Warrior Project. In 2021, among other awards, Con Edison was recognized for its veteran hiring efforts in the Military Times – “Best for Vets” Designation, for the fourth year in a row and Vets Index 2021 “Three Star Award”. By leveraging the Veterans of Con Edison Employee Resource Group and over 200 strategic partnerships, we hired 68 veterans in 2021. Development & Retention We care about our employees, and we are committed to their success. We make it a priority to help them build skills and knowledge to further their growth and careers, including developing additional leadership competencies, attending continuing education classes, and providing tuition reimbursement. Our corporate mentoring programs – “Corporate Mentoring Program” and “Executive Mentoring Program” – provide multiple opportunities to connect more skilled and experienced employees with newer or less experienced employees to share insights and professional guidance, while also growing important networks within the company. We understand the critical role that sponsorship plays in career development and advancement. In 2021 we launched our Executive Sponsorship Program, a 24-month experience designed for high potential leaders. The program supported high participation among women and people of color. Providing underrepresented groups with executive connections is an important step in our efforts to develop our employees and build a broadly diverse and inclusive leadership team. To encourage wide-spread career development, our suite of career management resources includes internal and external training to enhance job knowledge, career development workshops, and a robust online career management site. Our leadership curriculum is designed to improve the ability of managers to lead employees effectively, handle problems creatively, and shepherd teams to elevated performance. More than 7,600 employees attended these programs and continue to benefit from an array of tools, assessments and resources that assist with their professional development. As we moved toward a hybrid work environment, we focused on the needs of our leaders and proactively offered a new series of short, focused virtual workshops on Navigating the Next Normal. This sequel to our prior years’ series provided guidance, tips, and tools for leaders of employees returning to the workplace and working in distributed teams and reinforced key themes of open communication, enhancing productivity, and creating synergy. The past two years saw the pandemic’s impact on our society in significant ways. As part of our response to the COVID crisis the company offered mental health counseling, bereavement counseling, parenting and home school resources, emergency childcare for essential workers, and training for managers on how to manage with empathy and compassion. At an annual turnover rate of approximately 6.4 percent, our overall retention rate continues to be high, with 42 percent due to retirements. We attribute the company’s low turnover to our persistent focus on diversity, equity and inclusion, employee development, and commitment to fostering a culture where everyone feels welcomed and valued. Skills Training Our critical focus continues to be to ensure our workforce has the right skills, knowledge, and capabilities to work in a safe manner while meeting the needs of our customers. To achieve this goal, we provide continuous state-of-the-art training and development to our employees in a wide variety of areas. The company offers robust training programs in gas, electric, customer, steam, construction, engineering, and substation operations, as well as driver training. These programs ensure employee skills, knowledge, and performance are maintained at the highest levels. Our Learning Center fosters a culture of continuous improvement, centered on safety, operational excellence, diversity, equity and inclusion, and enhancing the customer experience. With safety as our key business priority, we partner with our operating organizations to strengthen our focus on a zero-harm culture, which includes several digital learning modules. Operational Excellence Guiding Principles are integrated into our training curriculum and highlight the need to respect the complexity, power, and unforgiving nature of our energy systems and encourage all to manage them safely. This effort includes a focus on Human Performance Improvement (HPI) tools, mindfulness, psychological safety, and cyber awareness. In 2021, we partnered with our internal business partners and stakeholders to meet the high testing and training demand for new entry-level utility workers. We safely and successfully tested and trained 230 employees for Electric Operations. Our purposeful field visit program continues to support our efforts to enhance the learning experience, using insights from live events to assess potential gaps and training requirements and providing opportunities for real-time constructive feedback. Training Effectiveness Committee are the liaison between our operating areas and training teams, and they serve to achieve, improve, and maintain quality and consistency in training. Ongoing meetings with subject matter experts from various areas allow a collective review of training activities, including curriculum, new policies and procedures, annual goals, career path and tests to ensure consistency, relevancy, and effectiveness in training offerings. In 2021, we made headway in designing and implementing the early phase of our new digital learning initiative, which promises to transform how our employees learn now and into the future. This is an opportunity to innovative and leverage technology to improve curriculum content and to provide employees with deeper learning experiences in-and-outside of the classroom. We have already begun to enhance our digital portfolio to incorporate various learning tools to facilitate learning, such as e-books and technical training. Also, 132 digital tools, including 63 virtual classes, were created in 2021. Our strategic focus on developing our people benefits our employees and helps us attract and retain a richly diverse and inclusive workforce at all levels. Training 2017 2018 2019 2020 2020 Hours of instructor-led, skill-based  703,385 544,557 543,706 497,602 527,101and leadership training Hours of eLearning 157,197 132,490 121,861 159,318 149,809 Employees taking part in a  114 77 298 216 110mentoring program Employees taking advantage of  589 572 575 538 485tuition aid Workforce Diversity & Inclusion Customer & Community At Con Edison, we have a long-standing commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Our vision is to be a company whose values and behaviors foster a culture of inclusion and respect for all. We know that a diverse and inclusive company is a stronger, more successful company. Despite this company’s longstanding commitment, we recognized the need to redouble our efforts to making sure our workplace is inclusive and respectful. Our corporate Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) strategy continues to anchor our direction to ensuring that our employees feel seen, heard, and valued for their unique and individual talents. Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion strategy is built on four key elements – ongoing learning and competency building; inclusive and visible leadership support; reviewing our systems, policies, and procedures to eliminate potential barriers to inclusion; celebrating and acknowledging the diversity of our workforce. In addition, we implemented our 14-point Action Plan, built on a two-pronged approach: 1. Data-driven change to ensure that our employees at all levels reflect the diversity of our communities; and 2. Culture transformation to drive the behaviors and mindsets that support a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Our Action Plan is supported by our DEI Task Force. Our transformation will not be complete until every one of our employees feel valued, included, and able to reach their full potential. To achieve this, we need to back up our commitments with action, implementing systems, policies, and processes that support and sustain inclusion. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - WORKFORCE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION We are making progress on our DEI goals, and we will keep working at it. We are leveraging more data to help us further understand gaps that may exist and help inform decision making; teams are becoming more diverse, including our leadership team; our grassroots networks, such as Employee Resource Groups and Local DEI Councils are facilitating critical conversations to increase awareness about cultural differences and to educate us about a variety of topics relevant to the business. We remain committed to ensuring that we are tapping the full talents of our workforce and creating an environment in which our employees feel respected, valued, and appreciated. Our people will always be our greatest strength—and the incredible range of culture, experience, and perspective makes the company stronger. Diversity 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total workforce 15,255 14,955 14,596 14,063 13,871 Management 6,430 6,424 6,394 6,317 6,287 Union 8,825 8,531 8,202 7,746 7,584 People of Color in  7,317 7,220 7,080 6,892 6,890the workforce People of Color share 48% 48% 49% 49% 50% Women in the  3,210 3,179 3,123 3,083 3,036workforce Women share 21% 21% 21% 22% 22% General Managers, 266 270 282 255 287Directors, & Above To learn more, read our Annual Diversity & Inclusion Report. People of Color in GMs, 78 78 807385Directors, & Above People of Color Share 29% 28% 28% 29% 30% Women in GMs,  82 848979 98Directors, & Above Women Share 31% 31% 32% 31% 34% Volunteerism Customer & Community Despite the upheaval created by COVID-19, employees at Con Edison and Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R) answered the call to donate their own time and resources in the communities we serve. Keeping the health and safety of our workers and the general public top of mind, we engaged in many virtual volunteer activities throughout the year. We also maintained social distancing while working on various outdoor projects in our service area. To further enhance the quality of life in our communities, we continued to provide financial support, in-kind contributions and service on boards of hundreds of nonprofit organizations dedicated to the arts, environmental stewardship, civics and education. As part of our commitment to a clean energy future, Con Edison employees lend their time and skills volunteering with partner groups committed to environmental equity and helping disadvantaged communities. In 2021, 227 Company employees volunteered a total of 2,002 hours at community events and programs in our service territory. Employee volunteerism is integral to the Company’s support for environmental stewardship. For the first time, we brought together three nonprofit partners for a day of service on Governors Island. Our employees volunteered on Governors Island with Billion Oyster Project, Grow NYC, and Friends of Governors Island. Volunteers spent the day building oyster gabions (artificial reef cages) for the Hudson River, preparing teaching gardens, as well as removing invasive species on walkways. Volunteer opportunities both strengthen the Company’s connections to local communities and make Con Edison employees a part of our commitment to environmental partnerships. We also participated in virtual volunteer events that support environmental education, including career panels, mentoring, and tutoring. These opportunities help us spread awareness about Green Jobs, as well as internships and training programs. We are particularly proud of our efforts to provide help and inspire hope through volunteerism during a time that has challenged us as never before. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - VOLUNTEERISM 