R&D/Innovation An innovative spirit and hard work are two of our company’s greatest assets. Our research and development teams work diligently to find solutions that make the workplace safer and improve our customers’ quality of life. Our numerous ongoing projects are described below. Safety We are: promoting a new natural gas detector we developed for home use that can detect gas at significantly lower concentrations than commercial natural gas detectors on the market; plus, these residential gas detectors can be integrated with the Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) communication network developing a machine with advanced automated technology that allows workers to remotely perform key cable-splicing operations, the first of its kind for a utility company developing technology for removing breakers that will reduce the risk of exposure to potential arc flash and soft-tissue injuries using two ergonomic devices that reduce the risk of back injuries caused by repetitive motion or heavy work; one device is worn over a worker’s clothes, the other clips onto a worker’s belt Operational Excellence We are: developing a thermal imaging borescope that can be fed through manhole covers, which will improve inspections developing a tool that uses electrical energy to fracture rock or concrete encountered during jobs requiring excavation conducting non-intrusive detection for anomalies (disbondment) on the corrosion-protective coating of buried transmission pipes, a measure that will reduce dielectric fluid leaks collaborating with energy companies and the Department of Homeland Security to review best practices in cybersecurity at electric-steam generating plants and at our gas facilities endeavoring to better control voltage levels on feeder lines that run from substations to the electric distribution system, which will increase efficiency, reduce overall energy use, manage energy demand during peak periods, and help facilitate the integration of solar and other distributed energy resources Customer Experience We have: implemented testing software that can provide financial incentives to customers who charge their electric vehicles during our system’s off-peak periods, and we are deploying the Connect DER meter collar to facilitate customer installations of solar generation; the meter collar fits right onto the Con Edison electric meter, avoiding the need for a separate device to meter the output of the solar panels and renewable energy credits generated worked with the Fire Department of New York on a first-of-its-kind program to test the safety of lithium ion and other battery chemistries before they are installed in large city buildings installed advanced steam-heating control in a Long Island City building that lets occupants use a smart wall thermostat to schedule their desired apartment temperature, giving customers control to save money and increase comfort continued to work with New York City and the Department of Buildings to create standards and regulation for widespread customer adoption of natural gas detectors REPORT INTRODUCTION AWARDS & RECOGNITION Awards & Recognition As we continue to serve our customers, promote safety, and help preserve the environment, we receive many recognitions and prestigious awards for our projects and operational excellence. Here is a sample from our list of recent honors: Honored for “forging the path for a new energy future,” by The New York League of Conservation Voters, a group that includes business leaders, politicians and environmental leaders Our company was recognized by PA Consulting Group with their ReliabilityOne Northeast Region Award for Outstanding Reliability Performance Our company has been recognized as one of the nation’s top employers: Hispanic Network named us to its “Best of the Best” list of America’s top companies; Latina Style selected us as one of the 50 best companies for Latinas for the 13th year; Black Enterprise magazine included us on their list of the top 50 companies for diversity; Forbes put us on their best employers list at No.176 – in the top 10 of 22 energy companies; DiversityInc ranked us No. 6 for top energy companies in hiring, training, and promoting a diverse workforce Con Edison was honored in 2018 as an Energy Star ® Partner of the Year by the Environmental Protection Agency for our “outstanding support of Energy Star-certified products as it leverages the Energy Star certification platform to guide its customers to better energy usage decisions” Con Edison is No. 48 overall among U.S. companies – and No. 5 among U.S. energy companies – in Newsweek Green Rankings; Newsweek ranks companies based on corporate sustainability and environmental impact 10 Con Edison employees won Technology Transfer Awards from the Electric Power Research Institute, a national energy research organization Con Edison won the prestigious award for Outstanding Corporate Supplier Diversity Program at the 45th Anniversary Reception & Awards Program held by the National Minority Business Council, one of the nation’s oldest minority business development & advocacy organizations Con Edison scored 95 out of 100 on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2018 Corporate Equality Index, which rates workplaces on lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender equality Con Edison and O&R was one of EEI’s Emergency Assistance Award winners for our response to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma O&R has been United Way of Rockland County’s largest corporate donor for 17 consecutive years, contributing $4.5 million since partnering with the organization in 1993 O&R became the first East Coast-based utility to be Gold Shovel Standard-certified; all employees who break ground as part of their job completed their excavator training O&R has been awarded the Tree Line USA award from the Arbor Day Foundationfor 17 consecutive years Sustainability is an umbrella that covers everything we do as a company. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY Employee Health & Safety In 2018, Con Edison’s injury and illness rate of 1.32 exceeded our goal of 1.10, but was still one of the top five lowest OSHA rates after the company’s historically lowest rate in 2017. We had 149 recordable employee injuries last year, and experienced two high-hazard injuries. The company remains focused on achieving a zero–accident workplace, and remains committed to ensuring safety is more than a top priority, but a core principle embedded in our culture. Con Edison has reduced injuries by more than 60% since 2009. Orange and Rockland achieved its OSHA rate goal in 2018 and has seen a 69% reduction in injuries since 2009. Among the reasons for the improvement: strong, constructive partnerships between management and union leadership on safety formalized job planning, with special emphasis on high-energy jobs, in every organization robust and thorough job briefings to ensure a comprehensive understanding of the risks to be assessed and mitigated on every job open communication and inclusion on every job at every level Con Edison of New York Orange and Rockland continues our progress toward a zero-harm workplace, with continued improvement thanks to our joint union-management Corporate Safety Committee, Company Safety Team, and 12 organization-specific safety teams. O&R is seeking to have an injury and illness incidence rate in the first quartile when compared to our utility peers. In an effort to improve our motor vehicle and driver performance, we have begun using artificial intelligence drive cameras in many of our vehicles. This ensures our drivers remain focused on zero-harm. Our communications program incorporates lessons learned from these cameras, root cause analysis results (from injury and collision reviews), close call reporting, and other measures that have also contributed to our overall performance. Orange and Rockland SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT PUBLIC SAFETY Public Safety We invested more than $3 billion in 2018 to fortify our electric, gas, and steam infrastructure. This investment underscores our commitment to providing energy to millions of customers efficiently and responsibly while protecting the environment and keeping people safe throughout our service area. ELECTRIC Con Edison continues to develop tools, techniques, and management strategies to improve safety, troubleshoot problems, and increase efficiency. Distribution Engineering and Electric Operations teams developed thermal imaging for scanning secondary assets in high-activity areas for incipient faults and introduced latched vented manhole covers. These efforts complement previously existing programs including stray voltage detection, cover venting, and underground inspection. Con Edison’s underground networks are surveyed for contact voltage 12 times a year, using mobile detectors. In 2018, we found and eliminated 8,806 cases of contact voltage. Of those, 6,911 cases (78%) were on non-CECONY equipment (streetlights, electric signs, and other structures). We performed more than 16,471 inspections of our underground system (manholes, service boxes, and transformer vaults). O&R’s electric system testing is completed at least once every five years. In 2018, O&R found and eliminated one case of contact voltage, all on company-owned equipment, and performed 32,377 inspections and 27,913 tests. GAS As part of our ongoing effort to reduce our carbon footprint and sharpen our focus on natural gas safety, we worked with the New York State Public Service Commission, New York City, and the Environmental Defense Fund to develop a program to identify and reduce emissions from small volume, non-hazardous leaks of methane gas. This effort is not mandated by regulations. Historically, non-hazardous leaks were prioritized and scheduled for repair based on the availability of resources and other factors such as age of the leak and complexity of the repair. In 2017 and 2018, we focused on reducing the backlog of the non.hazardous leaks by successfully prioritizing and eliminating 140 out of the top 150 gas leaks. We continued to maintain historically low levels of our total leaks through 2018 and reduced the time it takes to repair all of our leaks to historically low levels. We have significantly increased investments that modernize our gas delivery system, further enhancing public safety and reducing leaks. The investments include accelerating our cast iron and unprotected steel gas main replacement program. In 2018, we replaced 91.7 miles of such mains (the most we’ve ever replaced in one year). We continue to perform monthly gas leak patrols of our entire gas distribution system, and have improved our emergency response procedures by working with the Fire Department of New York as well as coordinating with key city agencies. We are also continuing to work closely with the New York City Department of Buildings to establish requirements and protocols related to gas pipe inspections in buildings and the mandated use of residential methane detectors. In 2018 we launched a pilot program to install 9,000 natural gas detectors in buildings that send a signal to our emergency response center when a leak develops. We also continued our successful media campaign, Smell Gas, Act Fast, featuring videos and social media posts that inform customers on what to do if they smell gas. The videos are in English, Spanish, Chinese, and Korean. STEAM We provide steam service to some 3 million people in Manhattan through an underground network of pipes. By generating steam primarily through co-generation, we provide efficient production and reduce emissions that would otherwise be generated by localized boilers and equipment. We focus on identifying ways to lower costs to customers, maintain high reliability, improve resiliency, and protect the environment. On July 19, 2018, a steam main rupture occurred at the intersection of Fifth Ave. and 21st Street. No serious injuries occurred, though five people were treated for minor first-aid injuries and released at the scene. We immediately enacted our Corporate Emergency Response Plan mobilizing all necessary resources to mitigate the overall impact of the incident to the public, businesses, and all our customers. The cause of the rupture is still under investigation, but we are evaluating what actions can potentially be taken to better prevent such incidents. Through the remainder of 2018, we continued to strive for safe and efficient operations while meeting our customers’ needs and maintaining focus on continued bill reductions. We concluded the year with an overall system reliability rate of 99.97% and met a peak demand of 7.9 million pounds of steam on January 5, 2018. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS GHG Emissions Reductions We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and firmly support efforts by local, state, and federal agencies to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have reduced our carbon emissions by 49% since 2005. Sixty percent of Con Edison’s annual steam production comes from co-generation, which lowers emissions by one million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) per year. We work voluntarily with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to lower emissions of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) from our electrical equipment. We joined 40 other companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program with the aim of reducing methane emissions. Our residential methane detectors provide customers with a vital warning signal for potential gas leaks. After collaborating with the Environmental Defense Fund, we developed improvements to our leak-detection and repair programs. We are installing smart meters in our service area, which helps lower carbon emissions through conservation voltage optimization, giving customers just the right amount of voltage they need and not more. Con Edison, Inc. Direct GHG Emissions - Scope 1 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from CEI-owned or controlled sources (e.g., steam generating stations) 30.4 million metric tons total emission avoided. INDIRECT EMISSIONS INDIRECT  Indirect emissions - Scope 2 (million  Other indirect emissions or Scope 3 total (million  EMISSIONS  metric tons CO.e)  metric tons CO.e)  2018  1.24  35.0  2017  1.35  33.9  2016  1.32  41.1  2015  1.32  41.8  2014  1.09  40.9  2013  1.19  N/A  2012  1.11  N/A  2011  1.51  N/A  2010  1.37  N/A  2009  1.42  N/A  Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with delivering products to customers (e.g., electrical transmission losses) Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with customers using CEI products (e.g., customers’ use of delivered gas) STEAM ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS We strive to provide customers with FDA-quality steam, of which 60% is co-generated. Because the steam is co-generated, customers can apply for points toward their Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification and increase their score in Energy Star’s Portfolio Manager. Our co-generated steam reduces CO2 emissions by approximately 25% of what would have been otherwise emitted through traditional boilers — that’s equal to removing approximately 200,000 vehicles from the road every year. Our customers also benefit from the advantages of steam being a district heating system through the absence of onsite emissions and centralized investments that benefit all customer buildings. The ability of the district system to aggregate a wide variety of customer load profiles also allows for a higher average efficiency than what can be achieved at a single location. In 2018, the steam system had a slight increase in fuel oil usage levels with 3% fuel oil use and 97% natural gas, versus the 2% fuel oil and 98% natural gas use in both 2016 and 2017. This is a result of the colder winter temperatures experienced and limitations imposed on the natural gas supply system that occur in conjunction. Steam Operations’ 2018 carbon footprint was 110lb CO2/Mlb of steam delivered to customers (1 Mlb = 1,000 lb). ENERGY EFFICIENCY CUSTOMERS' EMISSIONS Our customers are as diverse as the city we serve. That’s why we have targeted, cost-effective and customer-centric energy efficiency offerings that emphasize clear benefits and impacts. We focus on four primary customer segments — commercial and industrial, small business, multifamily, and residential — designing offerings to meet each customer group’s needs. This gives our customers multiple options and opportunities to reduce their energy use based on their unique needs. Electric customers who chose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment received $65.8 million in incentives in 2018, a 19% increase from the previous year. Our gas customers received $11.1 million in incentives, a 155% increase from the previous year. Technology is giving households and businesses new ways to reduce their energy use, and we’re on the forefront of helping customers get more value for their money, while protecting the environment. Upgrades made by customers last year through our energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 395,200 megawatt hours and saved 588,100 dekatherms of gas—that’s equivalent to taking more than 66,000 cars off the road, or enough energy to power 37,000 homes for one year. Proposals for new electric and gas energy efficiency programs would put New Yorkers on a path toward a cleaner energy future. Reductions in carbon emissions and more renewable energy options will help New York achieve short-term targets and potentially reach 2050 clean energy goals. Total Metric Tons of Avoided CO. Equivalent Energy Services partnered with Energy Efficiency to help streamline the distributed generation process and assist customers like never before through customer engagement, technology enhancements, and business process improvement. These improvements helped us achieve a 20% increase in customer satisfaction on large distributed generation projects in 2018. Also last year, Con Edison interconnected 53 MW (about 6,000 cases) worth of distributed energy resources including solar, CHP, fuel cells, and battery storage. A large contributor to this was about 34 MW of residential solar installations. O&R customers who upgraded to high efficiency energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment received $2.7 million in incentives from us in 2018. As a result of these upgrades, more than 6,000 O&R customers reduced their bills and lowered their carbon footprint. The My ORU Store, our online customer marketplace, provided customers with a one-stop shopping experience and introduced customers to innovative smart home technologies, including smart thermostats, along with a myriad of connected-home products, like Wi-Fi security cameras, smart plugs, wireless dimmable lighting, and electric vehicle chargers. Through My ORU Store, O&R partnered with the local water utility, SUEZ NY, to support their water conservation program by offering instant rebates to mutual customers on water and energy efficient products. The program strives to help customers save water and energy and in turn lower their utility bills. We are on the forefront of using technology to give households and businesses new ways to reduce their energy use, get more value for their money, while protecting the environment. For example, upgrades made by customers through our energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 24,000 MWh and saved 9,332 dekatherms of gas. This brought our carbon reduction to more than 103,000 tons, which is equivalent to taking more than 22,000 cars off the road. Of the total O&R rebates issued in 2018, two large projects stand out. One is the city of Middletown in Orange County. The customer upgraded lighting at all their municipal buildings, along with their LED streetlights recently purchased from O&R. The city’s upgrades amount to an estimated savings of 1,685 MWh, which is equal to approximately $225,000 per year. The other customer is a large retail company in Rockland County, who upgraded entirely to LED lighting and is estimated to save 800 MWh, equal to about $95,000 per year. Learn more about how energy efficiency upgrades can save money and protect the environment at our website www.oru.com/save (http://www.oru.com/save). REDUCTION OF SF6 EMISSIONS In the past decade, we have greatly reduced emissions of SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride), a greenhouse gas with a warming potential more than 22,000 times higher than carbon dioxide. SF6 is a non-toxic, non-flammable gas that can remain in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. There is no viable alternative to SF6, which is a highly efficient insulating medium and arc extinguisher used throughout the energy industry in different types of equipment, including high-voltage breakers and gas-insulated switchgear. But limiting SF6 emissions is imperative for a cleaner environment. In accordance with a 1999 Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Con Edison, we agreed to reduce SF6 emissions by 5% annually from a 1996 baseline. In 2018, we released about 97% less SF6 than in 1999, well ahead of our commitment to the EPA. Our reductions in SF6 emissions are achieved through maintenance programs that address SF6 gas leaks and targeted replacement of our equipment. To further limit SF6 emissions, our Fix-It-Now team makes rapid repairs a priority and emphasizes best management practices for gas handling. Con Edison, Inc. GreenHouse Gas Emissions (Pie Chart) METHANE CHALLENGE In 2016, Con Edison joined 40 other local distribution companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program. The goal of this program is to reduce methane emissions by replacing a significant number of natural gas mains. Our participation in this program was a natural extension of our participation in the Natural Gas STAR program, which we helped found in 1993. The Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program is an EPA/partner company collaboration that promotes and tracks ambitious, transparent commitments to voluntarily reduce methane emissions beyond regulatory requirements. Our goal was to replace 4% of our cast iron and unprotected steel mains (without cathodic protection) by the end of 2018. Since entering this partnership, we have exceeded that replacement goal by more than six miles the first year, replacing 86.3 miles of main in 2017, which represents 4.3% of our total mains inventory. We also exceeded our 2018 goal of 85 miles by replacing 92 miles of mains, which represents 4.7% of the new total. (Specific details on how we would reach our goals were in our implementation plan, submitted to the EPA in 2016.) As a comparison of how we’ve successfully increased main replacement, between 2014 and 2016 we replaced an average of more than 70 miles of main annually. LEAKS Con Edison performs gas leak surveys that far exceed the survey interval requirements prescribed by Federal and NY State regulations for identifying natural gas leaks on a timely basis. And to continuously improve our leak survey process, we seek out new leak detection technology. We’re evaluating the ABB MobileGuard™ technology and working with Colorado State University — an expert on methane emissions — to enhance the performance of our survey crews. In 2016, as part of the gas rate case settlement, we committed to continue our work with the Environmental Defense Fund and others to further enhance our leak detection efforts. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT AIR QUALITY/NON-GHG EMISSIONS Air Quality/Non-GHG Emissions We predominantly use natural gas for energy production. However, to maintain reliability during periods of gas-system limitations, we retain a backup fuel source. While we had been using No. 6 oil as a backup fuel, two of our steam and electric generating stations have now been converted to be able to burn No. 4 oil instead. This oil is lighter and has a lower concentration of criteria pollutants. All Con Edison units will be converted to have the capability to burn a lighter oil as currently required by law, and in keeping with New York City’s goal of reducing GHG emissions. DIRECT EMISSIONS (thousand metric tons ) 