Governance Experience has taught us that the combination of a solid financial foundation, operational excellence, the highest ethical standards, and the utmost regard for our employees and the people and communities we serve are the bedrock qualities of a successful company. Since its inception in 1995 as a standing Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, the Environment, Health & Safety Committee of the Board of Directors has met at least four times a year to oversee the Company’s EH&S efforts relating to the protection of the environment, sustainability, and the health and safety of Company employees and the public. The EH&S vice president, together with senior management, is responsible for developing strategic goals and programs to ensure compliance and support the Company’s commitment to and continued work to achieve EH&S excellence. Part of senior management’s commitment to EH&S includes independent oversight. The Office of the Corporate Ombudsman, reporting directly to the Chairman, provides employees with an independent office to which they may confidentially report suspected violations of our Code of Conduct including ethical, legal, or EH&S concerns. Our Environment, Health & Safety Review Board (“EH&S Review Board”) consists of outside consultants who are independent attorneys. The EH&S Review Board reports directly to the chairman. The role of the EH&S Review Board is to review the Company’s management of both regulatory and internal requirements and assess whether its implementation is consistent with the Company’s commitment to strive for excellence. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & COLLABORATION Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration Con Edison works closely with communities to ensure our company’s operational mission is understood and accessible in the communities we serve. For example, we work with local community groups including business improvement districts, chambers of commerce, and local development corporations to inform them about programs such as energy efficiency programs and how to do business with Con Edison. POLICY & REGULATORY IMPACT CECONY and O&R steadfastly support New York State’s clean energy policies and goals, including plans to reduce GHG emissions 40 percent from 1990 levels by 2030, get 50 percent of our energy from renewable resources by 2030, and increase energy efficiency in buildings 23 percent by 2030. We work in partnership with our customers, various third parties, and other energy companies to seek innovative ways to achieve clean energy goals. We take pride in our ability to act quickly and responsibly to meet our customers’ needs. We are working to establish a value-based compensation structure for distributed energy resources that will eventually replace net metering in New York, while continuing to encourage solar and other distributed energy installations. We formed the Solar Progress Partnership to work collaboratively with solar developers in the New York regulatory process. SHAREHOLDERS We are the longest listed company on the New York Stock Exchange and we have increased dividends to our shareholders for 43 consecutive years. The company expects its adjusted earnings for 2017 to be in the range of $3.95 to $4.15 per share. We expect to meet our 2017 capital requirements through internally generated funds and the issuance of securities. Our plans include the issuance of between $1,000 million and $1,800 million of long-term debt, most of which would be at the utilities, and the issuance of additional debt secured by our renewable electric-production projects. Our plans also include the issuance of up to $350 million of common equity under our dividend reinvestment, employee stock purchase, and long-term incentive plans. For more information, refer to our Shareholder Services (https://www.conedison.com/en/investors/shareholder-services). Con Edison, Inc. Earnings and Dividends STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS Materials for the Arts Con Edison supports Materials for the Arts Education Center in Queens, which offers programs to educate teachers, students, and the public on the merits of creatively reusing materials. Programs include professional development, field trips, in-school residencies, and art-activity booths at community events. GrowNYC We support Project Farmhouse, a center for sustainability and education in New York City and the site for GrowNYC programs on environmental issues through the lens of food, horticulture, arts, recycling, cooking, and community education. The site includes a hydroponic wall—a grow wall with moving trays designed to rotate plants so they all get the ideal amount of water, fertilizer, and light. Bronx River Alliance We have long supported the Bronx River Alliance and its work to engage volunteers for the reclamation of the Bronx River Corridor. Con Edison’s capital gift helped provide lead funding for a new facility, River House. River House includes a boat house for dozens of canoes and kayaks, a nature classroom, and a multipurpose community room. It also features green design elements including a geothermal heating and cooling system, solar panels, and shaded greenery. Rockland Farm Alliance O&R supports the Rockland Farm Alliance’s Agricultural Education Program, an interactive educational program for local students who participate in all aspects of the farm including soil preparation, seeding, irrigation, and harvesting. The students also explore the environmental and nutritional benefits of organic farming and learn where food comes from, as well as the relationship between fresh healthy food and nutrition. The final piece for the students is learning the importance of protecting natural resources and open space in their community. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY, RENEWABLES & DISTRIBUTED ENERGY Energy Efficiency, Renewables & Distributed Energy As part of our commitment to alternative forms of energy, including large-scale battery storage, CEBs invested $2.5 billion in renewable-resource projects in 16 states. Con Edison Development began operation of a 2-megawatt, 8-megawatt-hour battery storage system at one of its solar facilities in California. Renewable sources, such as solar and wind, produce energy when the sun is shining or the wind is blowing. That means the value of batteries to store power when it is produced, and deliver power when it is needed, is especially important to the electricity grid in terms of ensuring reliability and reducing peak demand. Twenty four percent of electricity used by O&R customers was generated from renewable-energy resources. We continue to make our customers aware of energy-efficiency improvements that will help them save money on their bills and give them more control over their energy usage. We work regularly with customers and regulators to test new models for the distribution of energy. ENERGY EFFICIENCY & DEMAND RESPONSE Customers who chose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment received $40.8 million in incentives from us in 2016. O&R customers purchased 649 six-packs of LED lights the Monday after Thanksgiving (a.k.a., Cyber Monday)—the highest single-day sales for a specific product since the O&R online store went live in January 2016. Technology is giving households and businesses new ways to reduce their energy use, and we’re in the forefront in helping customers get more value for their money while protecting the environment. For example, upgrades made by customers last year through our energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 160,200 megawatt hours and saved 266,500 dekatherms of gas—that’s equivalent to taking more than 23,000 cars off the road. In addition, Con Edison has filed innovative proposals to better manage natural gas use and to help meet the growing heating needs of its customers, including doubling the size of the program that pays building owners for conservation measures. The proposals would put New Yorkers on a path toward a cleaner energy future, with reductions in carbon emissions and more renewable energy options that achieve goals in both the short term and potentially through 2050. More information on the proposals can be found here (https://www.coned.com/en/about-con.edison/media/news/20171003/new-ways-to-meet-growing-natural-gas-customer.needs). Meanwhile, our crews continue to lay the groundwork for the introduction of smart meters, installing nearly 200 access-point and relay devices on utility poles along our AMI network. Most meters will communicate first with a neighboring meter or relay device. Since the meters can talk to each other, a meter can pass on information from other meters. Data will be sent to an access point, connected to Con Edison or Orange & Rockland centralized data systems, allowing vital information to be reported quickly and minimizing the potential loss of data. Con Edison, Inc. Utility Customer Cumulative Energy Savings REV PROJECTS Con Edison continues to take a leading role in making distributed energy resources (DERs) available to customers. Our Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management project aligns very nicely with New York’s REV initiative. Instead of spending $1.2 billion to build a substation to serve Brooklyn and Queens, we issued an RFI that provided alternative forms of energy. We awarded contracts and procured smart thermostats, lighting controls, batteries, and other distributed energy resources to meet the demands of customers during the peak period of 4:00 p.m. to midnight while easing the burden on our substations. RENEWABLES Con Edison is warmed by the news that New York City residents and businesses are using the power of the sun to generate more than 110 megawatts of clean, renewable energy. That’s enough energy to power over 16,000 homes. At O&R, the number of solar projects increased for the 10th consecutive year—to 5,395 in 2016. O&R implemented a community net metering program, intended to allow customers who cannot install rooftop solar to participate. For the past decade, CECONY and O&R along with Sustainable CUNY (at the City University of New York), government agencies, and other parties have encouraged residents and businesses to consider solar to reduce their energy bills and protect the environment. CECONY and O&R want clean energy, including solar, to be available to customers of all income levels, whether they live in a house or an apartment. We advocate policies that ensure funding for the kind of robust grid that makes solar energy possible. We completed more than 12,500 solar installations in our service territory by the end of 2016. We make the interconnection quick and easy for customers who choose solar. For example, we don’t require an engineering review for systems under 25 kilowatts. We even installed solar panels on a roof of our headquarters building in Manhattan. The 200 panels generate 40 kilowatts of energy. In 2018, we will begin making renewable energy available to low-income customers by placing solar panels on company roofs and grounds. The New York Public Service Commission says our innovative solar program “is filling a niche that hasn’t been fully served in the state.” We are also a member of the Solar Progress Partnership, a group of six New York State energy companies and four leading solar companies. The partnership wants solar energy to continue to develop in a way that is fair to all customers and that provides sufficient funding for a reliable grid. Cumulative Utility Customer MW Installation LARGE SCALE BATTERY STORAGE This year Con Edison will be installing a novel 800 kilowatt-hour portable emergency generator using lithium batteries at a company facility for testing and evaluation. We have also developed two new utility-scale distributed battery storage projects this year totaling 8 megawatt hours. These projects will test new business models for economically deploying distributed storage on the system, either through a customer-sited, aggregated model or mobile battery trailer. The projects are expected to be in service in summer 2018 and January 2019, respectively. Each project will provide distribution relief and reduce network peak demand that may have otherwise been served by diesel mobile generators or peak-power generation facilities. Additionally, O&R is in the planning stages of a demonstration project that would support the deployment of large scale battery storage. Con Edison has taken the lead in addressing concerns around battery safety working closely with the Fire Department of New York (FDNY), battery technology developers, and the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) on a battery safety testing program. Con Edison and NYSERDA partnered on an effort to better characterize battery hazards and suppression agent performance through burn tests by an independent lab as well as tests by Con Edison at FDNY’s training facility. New response procedures and permitting requirements are under development as a result of this testing program. We will continue to work with the FDNY, battery technology vendors, and NYSERDA on this effort. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & RETENTION Talent Attraction, Development & Retention We launched a career management resource center in 2016 that is interactive, user-friendly, and dynamic while meeting our employees’ needs. This online platform is designed to increase employee awareness of the processes, tools, and resources available for career management. We remain committed to helping employees plan and achieve their professional goals. We offer coaching, career counseling, and workshops to employees on topics such as interviewing skills, resume writing, effective communication, and conflict management. Sessions offered include Development Plan Workshop, Managing Workplace Conflict, Situational Leadership, Leadership Challenge, and Business Academy. Our three formal mentoring programs—Executive, Corporate, and Women in Nontraditional Careers—continue to support the development of a diverse and inclusive workplace. Our tuition-aid program reimburses eligible employees who seek higher education to enhance their careers. Employees may qualify for up to 100 percent reimbursement of tuition costs after earning a degree. In 2016, 607 employees participated in the tuition-aid program. Of the 607, sixty percent were minorities and thirty-nine percent were women. Our Leadership Academy for Supervisors continues to prepare supervisors for their critical role as frontline leaders. The Academy’s core curriculum covers essential skills in leadership, ranging from coaching to managing workplace conflict, as well as corporate-wide training requirements related to safety, compliance, and diversity and inclusion. As of June 2017, 420 employees were enrolled and over 100 have completed the program. Con Edison, Inc. Minorities and Women in the Workplace CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY WORKFORCE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Workforce Diversity & Inclusion We continued our corporate strategy for diversity and inclusion in 2016. Our focus is to strengthen inclusion by engaging employees at all levels of the company. The diversity of our 15,000 employees continues to be essential to our success. We remain committed to providing our employees with a workplace that fosters a culture of inclusion, equity, and respect for all. Equal employment opportunities, affirmative action, and diversity and inclusion are fundamental principles at our company. Our commitment to these principles is as vital as our mission of providing energy services to customers safely, reliably, and efficiently. Diversity and inclusion empower us all to see more clearly, think more broadly, and engage more fully as we evolve, innovate, and imagine the future ahead. Hispanic Network magazine named us to its Best of the Best list of the nation’s top companies. Latina Style selected us as one of the 50 best companies for Latinas for the twelfth year. We earned a place on Black Enterprise magazine’s list of the top 40 companies for diversity. DiversityInc has recognized us as a top energy company for hiring, training, and promoting a diverse workplace. To learn more, read our 2016 Diversity & Inclusion Report (https://www.coned.com/-/media/files/coned/documents/about.us/diversity/diversity-report-2016.pdf). CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY TRAINING & PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Training & Professional Development Achieving a diverse culture starts with attracting and recruiting a broad range of candidates who represent the diverse communities we serve. We seek talent from a variety of sources: the Internet targeted job fairs partnerships with academic institutions professional industry associations the military specialty firms and other organizations Our recruitment efforts continued to support our efforts to foster an inclusive workforce. Of the 1,134 employees hired in 2016, 50 percent were minorities and 28 percent were women. Minorities accounted for 49 percent of all promotions in 2016. Twenty-four percent of those promoted were women. The percentage of minorities working as general managers, directors, and above was 30 percent; women also comprised 30 percent of those employed as general managers, directors, and above. CECONY employees participated in more than 731,000 hours of skills-based training in the past year. O&R employees had 46,000 hours of skills-based training in 2016. O&R launched three schools to teach linespersons in 2016, with four more planned in 2017. O&R has seen a 65-percent increase in the number of skills-based courses offered locally in the past three years. Partnerships with colleges and universities allow us to tap into the next generation of employees—those who will help us lead and grow, and develop innovative and creative solutions for our customers. In 2016, CECONY recruited 34 management associates into the Growth Opportunities for Leadership Development program, of which 47 percent were minorities and 50 percent were women. Con Edison’s 2016 training and professional development initiatives reflect our commitment to attracting and recruiting the best talent as well as continuing the development of our most valuable asset – our people. In January 2017, Con Edison, in partnership with the Center for Energy Workforce Development (CEWD), National Grid, Soldier for Life, and Jefferson Community College, started the Natural Gas Boot Camp for the northeast region—the first of its kind. The boot camp includes eight weeks of training, both instructor-led and hands-on, to help prepare transitioning veterans for entry-level mechanic positions that would meet anticipated hiring needs over the next five years in Gas Operations. This program has been recognized by CEWD as a major accomplishment for the New York State Troops to Energy Jobs consortium. In 2016, we also launched a summer internship program with Energy Tech High School, a partnership with National Grid, the New York City Board of Education, and LaGuardia Community College in which students can obtain college credits and have an opportunity to attend LaGuardia to pursue an associate’s degree in Electrical Engineering or Mechanical Engineering while learning the skills needed for hard-to-fill technical positions. This is our first internship program since Energy Tech High School opened in September 2013. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERISM Volunteerism Enhancing the fabric of our communities is not only what we do, it’s who we are. We provide financial support, in-kind contributions, and board service to hundreds of nonprofits dedicated to the arts, environmental stewardship, community, civics, and education. Employees at CECONY and O&R donate their own time and resources through our volunteer program to give back to the communities we serve. During 2016, CECONY and O&R employees volunteered more than 12,000 hours of their own time at over 250 events. Whether it’s volunteering at a soup kitchen, cleaning up parks, planting and pruning trees, mentoring students, serving disadvantaged people, rehabilitating homes for veterans, career coaching, or any number of other activities, the happiness, fulfillment, and renewed energy our employees experience is priceless. A dedicated employee engagement platform that lists volunteering events makes it easy for employees, as well as retirees and their families, to give back. DATA SNAPSHOT COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW Consolidated Edison, Inc., is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy-delivery companies, with approximately $12 billion in annual revenues and $49 billion in assets. For more than 180 years, we have served the world’s most dynamic and demanding marketplace—metropolitan New York. We provide a wide range of energy-related products and services to our customers through our regulated energy companies and our competitive energy businesses. CONSOLIDATED EDISON COMPANY OF NEW YORK, INC. (CECONY) CECONY is a regulated utility providing electric, gas, and steam service in New York City and Westchester County, New York. CECONY provides electric service to approximately 3.4 million customers in all of New York City (except a part of Queens) and most of Westchester County, an approximately 660 square mile service area with a population of more than nine million. CECONY delivers gas to approximately 1.1 million customers in Manhattan, the Bronx, parts of Queens and most of Westchester County. CECONY operates the largest steam distribution system in the United States by producing and delivering approximately 19,979 MMlb of steam annually to approximately 1,649 customers in parts of Manhattan. ORANGE AND ROCKLAND UTILITIES, INC. (O&R) O&R is a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,300-square-mile area in southeastern New York State and northern New Jersey. O&R and its utility subsidiary, Rockland Electric Company (RECO) provide electric service to approximately 0.3 million customers in southeastern New York and northern New Jersey and O&R delivers gas to over 0.1 million customers in southeastern New York. CON EDISON CLEAN ENERGY BUSINESSES, INC. (CEB) CEB develops, owns, and operates renewable and energy infrastructure projects and provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers through its subsidiaries Consolidated Edison Development, Inc. (Con Edison Development), Consolidated Edison Energy, Inc. (Con Edison Energy) and Consolidated Edison Solutions, Inc. (Con Edison Solutions). CON EDISON TRANSMISSION, INC. (CET) CET invests in electric transmission facilities and natural gas pipeline and storage facilities through its subsidiaries Consolidated Edison Transmission, LLC (CET Electric) and Con Edison Gas Pipeline and Storage, LLC (CET Gas). Revenue by Business BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors DATA SNAPSHOT OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Financial Highlights SHAREHOLDERS Con Edison, Inc. Earnings and Dividends WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT Training Diversity DATA SNAPSHOT ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Con Edison, Inc. Direct GHG Emissions - Scope 1 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from CEI owned or controlled sources (e.g., steam-generating stations) Con Edison, Inc. GreenHouse Gas Emissions (Pie Chart) INDIRECT EMISSIONS Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with delivering products to customers (e.g., electrical transmission losses) Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with customers using CEI products (e.g., customers’ use of delivered gas) WATER Con Edison of New York DEP Municipal Water Use Water Quality CON EDISON OF NEW YORK ENVIRONMENTAL RELEASES RESOURCE CONSERVATION Con Edison Of New York Non-Hazardous Waste Generation Con Edison of New York Waste Con Edison of New York energy consumption DATA SNAPSHOT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT OSHA Rate Con Edison of New York Orange and Rockland CORPORATE CULTURE SUPPLIER DIVERSITY 