MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SAFETY PERFORMANCE Con Edison’s commitment to safety again drove performance improvement in 2014. Our safety program and communications support all personnel as they work together toward an injury-free workplace and to improve public safety. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland share lessons learned and ideas through company communications, event reporting and various safety committees. The OSHA Incidence Rate is a federal standard for quantifying the frequency of work-related injuries and illnesses. In 2009, Con Edison of New York committed to a five-year goal of achieving an OSHA Incidence Rate of 1.50 or lower by 2014. In 2014, the company surpassed its goal by achieving a rate of 1.31. While our OSHA Incidence Rates were at an all-time low last year, we recognize that reducing the severity of injuries is most important. Two of Con Edison of New York’s 158 injuries in 2014 were categorized as a “significant high-hazard.” Although no high severity injury is acceptable, this level marks a 50-percent reduction from prior year’s performance, and the all-time lowest number since the metric was introduced in 2008. Orange and Rockland achieved an OSHA Incidence Rate of 1.26 in 2014, bettering its goal of 2.50 or lower. At Orange and Rockland, programs and processes are designed to heighten safety awareness while reducing occupational injuries and preventable motor vehicle collisions. In 2014, these programs and processes included the following: Use of the No Injury Program (Close Call) to identify and mitigate risks prior to an incident. In 2014, Orange and Rockland revised their program to enhance mitigation and reduction of risk across the company. Continued use of physical and occupational therapists to reduce the potential for injuries related to strains, sprains, and ergonomic stressors. Supporting Safety Team ad-hoc committees in evaluating accident trends and developing recommendations for reducing both occupational injuries and motor vehicle collisions. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SAFETY JOB PLANNING Safety is critical in every step of the job, especially during planning. Con Edison incorporates safety considerations in the planning process procedurally through the environment, health, and safety review of every project the company undertakes, ensuring the review of safety issues in the early planning and design phase. An evaluation of the task hazards and safety precautions is reviewed with employees during the job briefing prior to every job and whenever the job changes. We also coach on adherence to planning and observance of safety best practices during Job Site Safety Exchanges. A Job Safety Analysis (JSA) identifies potential hazards associated with each step of a particular job or task, recommends steps to eliminate or reduce them, and specifies controls needed to perform the job or task safely. They are designed to be used during the planning phase of projects, and can also be used for job briefings as a means of evaluating each step of the task at hand. Supervisors can use the findings of a JSA to eliminate and prevent hazards in their workplaces. The JSA program continued to grow in 2014, with an additional 19 tasks completed using the standard JSA template that was developed for all organizations. A majority of tasks reviewed and completed focused on electrical tasks in the Overhead area of Electric Operations. In 2015, Con Edison is encouraging collaborative efforts related to safety improvements, and JSAs are being recommended as a way to achieve that Key Performance Indicator. To achieve a Zero-Harm culture across Con Edison, we will engage all employees in building shared values that prevent harm to one another, the public, and the environment. This program element will use the JSA as a tool/reference during the creation of job briefings, and as a reference during Job Site Safety Exchanges (JSSE). MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SAFETY SELF ASSESSMENT Analysis of injury trends shows that a significant portion of Con Edison’s safety incidents are caused by human performance factors, or human error. Human performance evaluates how certain behaviors or actions can result in errors, and how modifying those behaviors and actions can prevent them. We seek to identify the situations when errors are most likely to be made and apply the appropriate tools to prevent them. In addition, we analyze lessons learned from past events to avoid repeating errors. Tools we use to avoid errors include: Training Effective communication Questioning attitude Procedure adherence Self-check/peer-check Job briefings In 2014, the focus was on “self-assessment.” This is the formal or informal process of identifying one’s own opportunities for improvement by comparing present practices and results with desired practices, results, and standards. Because no one knows how things are done better than those working in the organizations, “self-assessments” can be the most effective means of identifying latent weaknesses within the organization. With the continued use of error-avoidance tools, we have seen tremendous improvement in areas such as operating errors, OSHA recordable injuries, and significant human performance incidents. Human performance initiatives have positively influenced our performance. Employees are much more aware of the human performance lapses that result in safety-related incidents, including motor vehicle collisions. The increase in human performance awareness coupled with the use of error-prevention tools has raised employees’ focus of “being in the moment,” and resulted in increased situational awareness and reductions in errors, injuries, and incidents in general. In 2014, we developed the human performance awareness e-learning module. This was used as awareness training for all Central Operations’ employees, and as an introduction for new employees. Going forward, it is the intention that all organizations within the company will develop a similar approach, which will help strengthen our goal of becoming an injury-free company. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SAFETY COMMUNICATION At Con Edison, open communication is critical to success and continued improvement in our safety and environmental performance. We communicate safety messages to employees through health and safety training programs, skills-training programs, and daily job briefings by supervisors and crew chiefs. We encourage employees to submit “Close Calls” – incidents that had the potential to cause injury, property damage, or environmental harm, but didn’t. Lessons learned from these events can prevent similar occurrences from happening again. Con Edison communicates urgent safety and environmental need-to-know information such as recent incidents, or seasonal messaging to its employees through “EH&S Alerts,” which are targeted e-mails with a distinctive format that identifies them as priority communications. In 2015, we will improve our outreach to our field forces by expanding the reach of our messaging via new electronic screens at work locations. Orange and Rockland’s Corporate Communications group continues to partner with its safety experts to reinforce important employee messages across all internal platforms. Themes ranging from slip, trip, and fall prevention to tick bite protection are covered via Orange and Rockland’s weekly newsletter, intranet, electronic messaging boards, posters, safety videos, and monthly Orange and Rockland update presentations. The (Think)(Ask)(Plan) program remains our brand for safety-related communications and was highlighted in a 2014 video series focused on worksite safety. We also communicate the importance of job briefings, signage, flagging, personal protective equipment inspection, seatbelts, wheel chocks, safety vests, and safety cones in 15-second video vignettes. These communications to employees on timely issues such as recent accidents or seasonal safety concerns supplement information distributed in “Safety Grams,” supervisor updates, and weekly and monthly reports. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS SAFETY CONTRACTOR When Con Edison enters into a relationship with a service contractor (such as for excavation, construction, or system maintenance), we verify that the vendor has the financial resources and insurance to meet our needs. We then conduct a rigorous review of the vendor to validate its environment, health, and safety programs, including a review of environmental compliance violations, past safety performance, and any OSHA citations. Depending on the scope of work, we will also perform a telephone interview and ask targeted questions to ensure that the vendor can maintain compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Contractors are expected to perform to the same level as our own workforce and must comply with Con Edison’s EH&S requirements, including the Rules We Live By and Time Out procedures. Further, Con Edison includes contractor injury incidence as a component of the Safety Index, setting a performance goal equal to that for company employees. Contractor health and safety programs and site-and task-specific environmental, health, and safety plans (eHASPs) are reviewed by company subject matter experts and EH&S personnel before the contractor begins work. We offer several resources to help contractors develop suitable eHASPs, including online training, an eHASP template and numerous guidance documents. Where a contractor has experienced recent incidents or violations on Con Edison assignments, we may require them to hire a third-party monitor to ensure that they are performing work in accordance with applicable environment, health, and safety requirements. Con Edison’s Supply Chain department issues a quarterly Newsletter for Contractors, covering recent violations, new regulations, and best EH&S practices employed by exemplary contractors. Contractors regularly undergo on-site inspections by trained and experienced Con Edison personnel, whose observations form the basis of semi-annual report cards. We also maintain a Contractor Oversight System, and a special Action Line is in place for employees to report contractor environmental, health, and safety violations and potentially risky behavior. A Supply Chain committee reviews contractor violations and assesses disciplinary action (e.g. replace site manager or field personnel, undergo special training, or lose eligibility for further contracts for a specified period of time). These steps help assure that contractors work safely on company assignments, and in compliance with applicable environment, health, and safety regulations. Achieving continuing improvement in contractor OSHA Incidence Rates is a key performance measure at Con Edison of New York. In 2014, the company’s contractors collectively had an OSHA Incidence Rate of 1.01, surpassing the goal of 1.50 or lower established for the year. Orange and Rockland requires contractors to complete and submit an environmental, health, and safety program prior to commencement of work. These documents are reviewed and accepted by O&R’s EH&S department. This department, as well as the organizations responsible for the contractors performing the work activities, conducts field audits of work sites to ensure that the contractor is in compliance with their scope of work and associated work rules. Deficiencies or infractions are documented and entered into the Contractor Oversight System and used to negotiate future contracts. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS POLICY MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY IMPACT Policy Management and Regulatory Impact Con Edison operates in a highly regulated environment and is affected by regulatory and social policy adopted at the federal, state, and municipal level. A number of significant proceedings that may impact the sustainability of electric service in New York were initiated by or received significant focus from the New York Public Service Commission (NYPSC) in 2014. These proceedings include: Reforming the Energy Vision (REV), which assesses the impact of distributed energy resources on the utility business model; the Clean Energy Fund (CEF) which will consider the future path of clean energy activities implemented by the New York State Energy Research & Development Authority (NYSERDA); the Renewable Portfolio Standard program which funds renewable energy projects in the state; and the New York Green Bank, which seeks to remove barriers to using private capital to fund clean energy projects in the state. In addition, the US Environmental Protection Agency proposed a rulemaking that would seek to limit CO2 emissions from existing electric generation plants. The NYPSC also approved a settlement for rate filings affecting Con Edison’s electric, gas, and steam services. The company seeks to provide input on state policy management and regulatory impact as we advocate our business positions and coordinate consistent regulatory and policy communications to meet the needs of our customers and shareholders. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS POLICY MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY IMPACT REFORMING THE ENERGY VISION In April 2014 the NYPSC established the REV proceeding with the purpose of examining the electric utility regulatory and business model in the context of the potential growth of distributed electric resources and the development of new technologies. The NYPSC articulated six core policy outcomes intended to better align the role and operations of utilities to enable market-and customer-driven change: Customer engagement Distributed market animation System-wide efficiency Fuel and resource diversity System reliability and resiliency Carbon reduction In August 2014, the NYPSC issued its Straw Proposal on “Track 1” policy issues in the REV proceeding, focusing on the operational aspects of creating energy markets at the distribution level. In the proposal, markets would operate via a Distributed System Platform, addressing distribution system planning and operations issues with inclusion of a market operations role. Other issues contemplated in Track 1 include utility ownership of distributed energy resources, sharing of customer and system information, benefit-cost analysis, demonstration projects, and clean energy programs. Significantly, the Straw Proposal included consideration of the state’s utilities taking over the role of renewable energy procurement from NYSERDA. Con Edison has expressed interest in assuming this role, provided it is allowed to directly own renewable resources because such ownership is a less expensive way to procure renewable energy compared to long term contracts between utilities and private developers. “Track 2” of the proceeding addresses New York’s regulatory framework and explores changes that could be made to better align utility interests with policy objectives. Issues under consideration include: rate and tariff design, alternate regulatory schemes such as the U.K.’s ‘RIIO’ regulatory model, and performance-based regulation. At a November technical conference on Track 2 sponsored by NYU for the Commission’s benefit, expert speakers counseled a measured approach to regulatory changes Commission rulemakings have been issued on narrow and well-defined REV issues. The Commission issued an order in Track 1 on February 26, 2015. The order confirms that the incumbent utilities will operate the Distributed System Platform, establishes a separate track to consider the issue of large scale renewable energy in the state, but only allows utilities to own distributed energy resources in the cases of energy storage on utility property, to facilitate programs for low and moderate income customers, as part of demonstration projects and as a backstop if the market does not respond. A straw proposal on Track 2 is expected in the second quarter of 2015. Specific issues receiving early attention include: Deferring utility infrastructure investments-Targeted use of distributed resources and energy efficiency has the potential to defer utility infrastructure investments. In line with the REV vision, the NYPSC recently approved a Con Edison proposal for the Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management program (BQDM) that would defer the need to build a major substation in an area with higher-than-forecast growth. The BQDM program aims to locate 52 MW of distributed resources, thus pushing the need for a new substation from 2017 until 2024. The NYPSC also approved the company’s proposal to earn a rate of return on the costs of the project and incentives related to achieving resource acquisition targets, supplier diversity, and lower costs for customer-side solutions. The NYPSC will allow Con Edison to install and own energy storage devices on its own property when directly integrated into utility distribution services as part of the program, but will only allow ownership of distributed generation if the market does not respond to requests for these types of resources. Demonstration Projects.Stakeholder Processes-Two stakeholder processes were launched in January 2015. The first is focusing on the technology platform needed to animate distributed energy markets, and the second is focusing on market design elements. The state’s utilities are participating in each process. MANAGING OUR BUSINESS POLICY MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY IMPACT CLEAN ENERGY FUND New York currently has ratepayer-funded public policy programs focused on energy efficiency (Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard program, EEPS), renewable energy (Renewable Portfolio Standard program, RPS), and energy R&D (Technology and Market Development programs, T&MD). NYSERDA implements the RPS and T&MD programs entirely, and NYSERDA and the utilities implement the EEPS program. In total, these programs collect $368 million annually from Con Edison’s and O&R’s customers via a bill surcharge. They will expire at the end of 2015 unless reauthorized by the NYPSC. In May 2014, the NYPSC proposed to consolidate these funds into a single Clean Energy Fund (CEF) and, in the process, substantially change how NYSERDA uses these funds to align with the Reforming the Energy Vision (REV) proceeding. NYSERDA issued a Clean Energy Fund proposal in September 2014, but the NYPSC has required it to issue additional information on the Clean Energy Fund, which is due on June 8, 2015. NYSERDA also proposes collecting $782 million from PSC-jurisdictional electric customers to fully capitalize the NY Green Bank at $1 billion. NYSERDA has been reaching out to utilities and stakeholders for input on its proposed plan, and has indicated it will shift its focus to upstream market development and away from incentive-based programs. Utilities may take over energy efficiency programs and renewable energy procurement from NYSERDA.