Waste Management Safety & Environment Solid Waste Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R) continue to minimize waste by emphasizing an end-of-life mindset during job planning that considers minimizing future waste streams during each phase of work, including project and process design, purchasing, and waste disposal. This is an integral part of our process to meet waste reduction goals. The solid waste recycling programs at CECONY and O&R are supported by corporate policies aimed at reducing the non-hazardous waste we produce. The vast majority of our solid waste streams are recycled or auctioned, including retired fleet vehicles, forklifts, tool carts, old cables, streetlights, reflectors, meters, and paper products. CECONY requires source separation of a variety of waste streams, including cable, paper, wood, plastic and certain metals. Last year, to further enhance our solid waste management program, we introduced a new waste characterization process to help prevent over- and under-characterization of hazardous waste. The new process is now codified in a corporate procedure. Employees must complete a “checklist” that demonstrates the reasoning (such as a lab test) for the classification of any collected waste. This process will help categorize all waste correctly and will likely reduce the amount of waste sent to hazardous waste disposal facilities due to mischaracterization. Hazardous Waste In any given year, emergency work impacts the volume of hazardous waste we encounter at Con Edison, making it difficult to set annual hazardous waste reduction goals. Lead largely from urban runoff can be found in the manholes and transformer vaults associated with our underground electric system. Over the past 24 years, we’ve drastically reduced the volume of hazardous waste generated through our lead waste stabilization process. In 1998, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) approved CECONY’s request to develop a process that stabilizes lead waste that would otherwise be considered hazardous and renders it non-hazardous. The process was first implemented in the early 2000s and we confirm the efficacy of our lead waste stabilization through sampling before disposing of it. In 2021, our processes reduced our hazardous waste stream by more than 31,000 tons. Radioactive Waste At Con Edison, we recognize that the management and disposal of radioactive waste is an important issue. While we do not generate radioactive waste, we do have procedures in place that provide guidelines for its management and disposal so that we are prepared should we encounter this type of waste. We maintain a Radiation Safety Officer as well as Radioactive Waste Material subject matter expert on staff to address management and disposal matters. Emerging Waste Streams Con Edison is working with regulators and industry leaders to plan for emerging waste streams associated with renewable technologies such as solar panels, electric vehicle batteries, and wind turbines. Habitat & Biodiversity Safety & Environment There has never been a more important time to protect nature’s assets than now. Biological diversity or biodiversity refers to the wide variety of living species on Earth. Protecting biodiversity increases ecosystems’ resilience to the increasing shocks brought on by extreme weather and climate change. In many parts of our service territory, we are surrounded by or near lush woodlands, productive wetlands, diverse wildlife, and integrated waterways that create a truly unique environment for the millions of people and species who live here. Some of the main drivers of biodiversity loss are land use changes, development, climate change, pollution, and invasive species. To help combat biodiversity loss, we are developing a sustainable business strategy that aims to preserve and enhance biodiversity. Our strategy will be guided by the following high-level objectives: 1. Strengthening our corporate governance on biodiversity 2. Assessing biodiversity impacts across our company’s value chain 3. Increasing our performance by implementing action plans with mitigation targets 4. Monitoring and reporting on our biodiversity efforts using globally recognized metrics We are committed to evaluating ways to incorporate biodiversity protection measures through all aspects of our business. Below, we outline a few mitigation measures and initiatives Con Edison currently uses to support our goals of promoting and protecting our natural environment. • We strive to incorporate sustainable design engineering to systematically identify and mitigate environmental concerns during project planning and construction. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - HABITAT & BIODIVERSITY • Our workers and contractors work under the same best-management practice hierarchy during construction and operations. Our environmental procedures have all been independently audited and certified by the ISO-14001 environmental management standards. • Our Strategic Partnerships program funds multiple nonprofit organizations that address local environmental threats, further the preservation of biodiversity, and enhance ecosystem services. Comprehensive Vegetation Management To power our vast service territory, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland, Inc. (O&R) manage more than 8,100 acres of land under Overhead Transmission Lines to provide reliable and safe service for our customers. We use an industry-leading vegetation management program that follows best management practices developed in coordination with the Electric Power Research Institute. We encourage biological diversity along the Transmission Line Right-of-Ways by protecting native plants and threatened and endangered species with the assistance of trained experts, selectively pruning or cutting undesirable species, and increasing public awareness of threatened and endangered species through community partnerships. For the last 13 years, CECONY and O&R have been recognized as a “Tree Line USA” utility by the Arbor Day Foundation for utilizing best practices in utility arboriculture. The award acknowledges our national leadership in promoting the dual goals of providing safe, reliable electric service and preserving abundant, healthy trees across our service territory. Our efforts to train our workers in quality tree-care practices and educate customers to plant appropriate trees near utility lines result in a healthier, more sustainable relationship between trees and our electrical utility lines year after year. Our year-round vegetation management program involves safely managing trees near 1,400 miles of distribution lines, making it an integral part of providing reliable service while enhancing the urban forest in which we live. Biodiversity Initiatives O&R’s Forestburgh Conference Center Native Meadow Enhancement Project Over the last two years, we identified a native pollinator enhancement opportunity at O&R’s Forestburgh Conference Center, where staff had been mowing a two-acre field. Mowing was stopped and eight integral species of native plants were planted, totaling over 3,000 plugs that returned the meadow to its natural state. These native species will bloom throughout the year and are particularly valuable to local pollinators. Our species list includes Common Milkweed, Wild Bergamot, and Smooth Blue Aster. As the meadow developed, supplemental native buds were planted to boost the diversity and abundance of the meadow. Bird houses and solitary bee homes were installed throughout the area to provide shelter and support reproduction. O&R created a vegetable garden adjacent to the new meadow for a farm.to-table dining program. The native meadow enhancement project was a pilot task that will shape our planning for more biodiversity protection and native habitat enhancement. The project also supports the New York State Pollinator Protection Plan, one of the state’s main biodiversity protection programs. Protecting Aquatic Life at the East River Generating Station The East River Generating Station is the only one of our steam stations with a cooling water intake structure (CWIS). This system draws water from the East River into the plant to cool two of our electricity-producing units. Con Edison uses the best technology available to minimize the impact on marine life as water is pumped in and out of the station. The river water entering the station flows through at least four traveling screens that prevent entrained fish and other marine life from entering the station. Marine life that is caught by the traveling screens either remains stationary against the screens or is held in a trough at the bottom of each screen. The traveling screens move upward on an elevator-like system. At the top, a gentle spray removes fish and other marine life from the screens, after which they are returned to the river via an aqueduct that deposits them away from the station’s intake pumps. Installation of this CWIS system and biological monitoring was developed in coordination with the Electric Power Research Institute and exceeds all state regulations and federal law requirements, protecting marine wildlife while supplying safe, reliable steam heat to New York City. Con Edison Transmission: Sustainable Design Con Edison Transmission’s (CET) commitment to minimizing the environmental and wildlife impacts of its projects is demonstrated by its most recently proposed project, Clean Link New Jersey. Clean Link New Jersey uses an underground power corridor design to link offshore wind power to New Jersey’s electric transmission system. This use of a single power corridor and underground direct current cable will result in a smaller project footprint, reducing environmental disturbances and impact to wildlife along the coastline and lessening the impact to onshore communities. When designing new projects, CET considers the onshore and offshore environments and employs technology to reduce project impacts to the environment and the public. This focus in the design process on sustainability enables CET to propose projects with reduced impact to natural habitat while preparing our communities to embrace a clean energy future. Clean Energy Businesses: Supporting Biodiversity Land Management Con Edison’s competitive Clean Energy Businesses (CEBs) have robust programs in place to incorporate environmental stewardship into our business planning, which in turn help promote biodiversity in the areas across the country where we work. During the development phase of new projects, risks to threatened and endangered species are always evaluated and considered. In cases where a project would present significant risk to high biodiversity value areas, we will consider alternative project locations with no or fewer impacts. For other projects, investments are made to protect environmentally-sensitive areas and wildlife in compliance with local, state, and federal environmental regulations. For instance, at the Campbell County Wind Farm in South Dakota, we were able to place about 90% of the wind turbines on farmland to avoid habitat loss for grassland species. To compensate for the seven turbines that were placed in grassland areas, we secured 200 acres of perpetual grassland easements in Campbell County, which were donated as offsets. One of the species found in the Campbell County area is the Whooping Crane, which is a federally listed endangered species. Due to the location of this project within the Whooping Crane migration pathway, we monitor Whooping Crane migration and seasonal flights, allowing our operations to adjust turbines as needed to help prevent mortalities. We also consult with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to provide protections for the Bald Eagle and Golden Eagle at this facility through mitigation and monitoring efforts. In our solar portfolio, we have multiple projects where the protection of threatened and endangered species has been an integral part of planning and operating these facilities. For instance at Panoche Valley Solar, Lost Hills, and Copper Mountain, we monitor threatened and endangered species and have implemented extensive mitigation and conservation measures to protect these species and their habitats. At Panoche Valley Solar in California, we secured the permanent protection and management of over 25,000 acres of habitat – over 15 times the acreage of our solar field. Prior to and during the construction of the facility, hundreds of Giant Kangaroo Rats, which are a California endangered species, were successfully relocated to non-project space to maintain and preserve this species. The San Joaquin Kit Fox, a California threatened species that occurs in this area, is currently being monitored by local researchers at California State University in order to better understand habitat and species behavior around the project site. During the construction phase of the Copper Mountain Solar project in Clark County, Nevada, we supported the Clark County Desert Conservation Program to help relocate the Desert Tortoise, another federally-listed threatened species that we took special care to protect. During construction and ongoing operations, the CEBs utilize best management practices to minimize disturbances to habitat and species. We provide environmental training to our workers that is specific to local species so that those working on a project are informed of the biodiversity measures for the site. We engage in land management practices to monitor and repair areas where storm-related erosion could impact nearby waterways, use seed mixes that enhance pollinator plant species, lower speed limits, and perform regular inspections for species prior to engaging in activities. At Con Edison’s Clean Energy Businesses, we approach biodiversity both proactively, by working with stakeholders when we begin a new project, and consistently as we maintain a completed facility. It is critical to us that our efforts to build a clean energy future are carried out in a manner that protects and nurtures the diverse animal and plant life that call the land surrounding our sites their home. Remediation and Reuse of Former Utility Property Safety & Environment Enabling the Responsible Remediation, Repurposing and Redevelopment of Former Utility Facilities and Real Properties Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R) (collectively and individually referred to as the “Company” below) formerly owned, own, or manage numerous real properties in the greater New York City area. Among these are former electric generation and distribution facilities and former Manufactured Gas Plants (MGPs), that were operated as early as the mid-1800s until the mid-twentieth century to convert coal to gas for lighting, cooking, and other uses prior to the widespread use of electricity and the advent of natural gas pipelines. Due to changes in generation technology, demand, and user distribution, a facility may need to be relocated, consolidated with other operations, or retired. Properties that have been consolidated or are no longer serving a utility function are available either for re-use for another utility function within the Company or become surplus. Surplus property is available to be divested so that it can serve a new productive function in the community in which it is located. Many former properties, particularly the former MGPs, were divested decades ago prior to the modern era of environmental cleanup standards and regulations. These owned or formerly-owned utility properties are investigated and remediated as necessary by a dedicated staff of scientists, engineers, and technical experts (the Remediation Group), that has been in place since the early 1990s. The work performed by the Remediation Group has matured into a comprehensive Site Investigation and Remediation (SIR) program that includes a community outreach program. The SIR program staff lead the Company’s efforts to SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - REMEDIATION AND REUSE investigate these sites for the presence of historic operations impacts, and if necessary, undertake remediation, as applicable, in close coordination with federal, state, and local regulators. The Company develops comprehensive work plans to complete investigations and remediation in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and cleanup standards. Where possible, we seek to coordinate activities with third-party redevelopment plans to achieve efficient remedies that repurpose the sites for productive use. To prepare for the sale of real property that is owned by the Company but no longer needed, the Company performs certain activities, including an environmental assessment or investigation, the implementation of remedial action if deemed necessary, and ultimately, formal reclassification to “non-utility” status. The environmental assessment is typically conducted by our SIR program staff and follows a multi-step process. Initially, data and information are obtained about the history of a property prior to ownership and during the Company’s development and operations on the property. Due to the long industrial history of these parcels, the next stage of assessment entails site investigation and serves to determine the current environmental conditions. The findings from the assessment or investigation are used to determine what, if any, remedial action may be necessary to render the property suitable for sale. These determinations are made based on the intended future use of the property and applicable regulatory requirements. Reclassification, Sale and Redevelopment Case Study: Former Kent Avenue Generating Station An example of reclassifying and selling a property for redevelopment is the parcel at 500 Kent Avenue located in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, NY. The parcel consisted of a single tax lot that covers approximately 2.65 acres and included approximately 600 linear feet of waterfront. The property housed power generating facilities dating back to 1906 and, after its acquisition in 1962, CECONY continued to use it for this purpose. By 1999, electric generation operations ceased, and the property was reclassified as non-utility. Subsequently, CECONY commenced demolition of the generating station structures and performed an initial site investigation. By 2009, CECONY had completed demolition of all the building structures and environmental investigations at the property. In 2010, in response to the detection of residues from a former MGP that operated on the southern portion of the property between 1873 and around 1935 (when it was owned by another utility), CECONY amended its 2002 Voluntary Cleanup Agreement (VCA) with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (the DEC) to include the investigation and remediation of the Kent Avenue property. CECONY completed remediation of the property in accordance with the terms of the VCA in February 2014. The DEC issued a No Further Action determination in April 2015, acknowledging that the property could be returned “to productive use of benefit to the entire community.” CECONY then put the property up for sale. After identifying a prospective purchaser, and pursuant to Section 70 of the New York Public Service Law, CECONY filed a request for authorization from the New York State Public Service Commission (the PSC) to finalize the sale and transfer the property. The PSC granted the authorization and in 2019 CECONY sold the Kent Avenue property, making it available for commercial use and a contributing resource for economic development of the Brooklyn waterfront. Electric Vehicles Safety & Environment Recognizing that the transportation sector is one of the largest sources of carbon emissions in our service area and our nation, we are taking the lead in supporting the acceleration of electric vehicle (EV) adoption by our customers. Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) is making significant infrastructure investments to facilitate installation of thousands of EV chargers across our service area, and we offer other incentive programs to EV station operators and drivers to ease the impact of EVs on the grid and make transition to EVs more affordable. We know that access to EV charging is a leading barrier to our customers choosing to purchase EVs. In order to help alleviate these concerns, in 2020 CECONY launched our PowerReady EV infrastructure incentive program to support the development of widespread and visible charging stations at diverse locations across our service area such as parking lots, retail locations, apartment buildings, and workplaces. This program for cars and other light duty motor vehicles is one of the largest utility programs targeting the EV charging industry in the country. It will provide up to $252 million of customer incentives with a goal to support the connection of about 20,000 EV charging plugs to the grid through 2025. In 2021, as part of the program, CECONY facilitated the build-out of the largest publicly accessible universal charging hub in the Americas in Brooklyn. The Company’s efforts have also created a high level of market interest with a charger application queue level that we anticipate will enable CECONY to achieve the 2025 target significantly ahead of schedule. In 2020, CECONY also launched a pilot incentive program to support electrification of larger fleet vehicles such as school buses, transit buses, and delivery trucks. Finally, in 2020 CECONY expanded our SmartCharge NY program, which continues to be one of the most successful-managed charging programs in the world and provides financial rewards to participating customers across all vehicle types in our service area, when they charge outside of the peak consumption periods on the grid. The year 2021 saw continued gains in off peak EV charging, with enrollment pushing to over 5,000 passenger cars participating in the program. Additionally, CECONY is working on two active demonstration projects that will help improve access to and viability of clean transportation. In conjunction with New York City Department of Transportation, we will install over 100 publicly accessible curbside charging posts across all five boroughs, with over 80 already commissioned in 2021, to increase access to EV charging and test customer acceptance of chargers on the streets in their community. CECONY also has an operational vehicle-to.grid (V2G) school bus initiative with the White Plains school district. The V2G initiative will be completed in early 2022, with findings expected to be presented publicly soon thereafter. The electric school buses in the White Plains school district transport school children during the school year. In the summer, the buses are also being tested as grid support assets when the students are on holiday and grid needs are greatest. In support of our Clean Energy Commitment, 100% of new light-duty vehicles being purchased by CECONY and Orange & Rockland (O&R) are EVs. Through the retirement of existing fossil fuel vehicles, our goal is that 80% of our light-duty fleet will be electrified by 2030 and 100% by 2035. We are also pursuing, through Research and Development, alternative technologies to reduce fossil fuels for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles. Oil-to-Gas Conversions Safety & Environment In 2021 CECONY converted 64 buildings from heavy heating oil to gas. Since the start of our conversion program in 2011, we have converted almost 4,700 large buildings burning heavy heating oil; we also converted approximately 4,000 customers from No. 2 grade oil. The company’s program kept more than 589 tons of fine particulate matter from the air, which has had a significant impact on air quality within the New York City portion of our service territory. While we have completed this program, we continue to see customer-driven requests in converting from oil of all grades, especially due to the requirement under New York City law to eliminate the use of No. 4 grade oil in boilers by January 1, 2030. In 2019, CECONY stopped accepting applications for new natural gas connections in most of our Westchester service area. Currently, for customers who have requested new natural gas service or upgrades, CECONY will continue to honor these requests in line with applicable regulatory requirements while also offering incentives to customers to install non-pipe solutions and alternatives, such as heat pumps. Orange & Rockland, Inc. (O&R) concluded its gas expansion program in 2019. Currently, for customers who have requested new natural gas service or upgrades, O&R will continue to honor these requests in line with applicable regulatory requirements while also offering incentives to customers to install non-pipe solutions and alternatives, such as heat pumps. In 2021, O&R converted 70 customers from various grades of heating oil to natural gas and helped to install 448 heat pumps in the service territory. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS Con Edison, Inc. Utility Customer Conversions to Gas CECONY O&R 1,200 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Note: CECONY numbers only represent building conversions from heavy heating oil 