MANAGING OUR BUSINESS POLICY MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY IMPACT Policy Management and Regulatory Impact Con Edison operates in a highly regulated environment and is affected by regulatory and social policy adopted at the federal, state, and municipal level. Between the settlement of the company’s rate filing, activities related to the Moreland Commission on Utility Storm Preparation and Response, continuing implementation of the State’s Energy Highway initiative, contingency preparation for the prospective retirement of the Indian Point Energy Center, revisions to the State’s energy efficiency and renewable energy policies, changes to the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) program, and creation of the New York Green Bank, 2013 was a particularly active year. The company is focused on policy management and regulatory impact as we advocate our business positions and coordinate consistent regulatory and policy communications to meet the needs of our customers and shareholders. RATE CASE At the close of 2013 parties to Con Edison’s rate cases for electric, gas, and steam agreed to a Joint Proposal (JP) resulting in a two-year electric rate plan and three-year rate plans for gas and steam effective January 1, 2014. The result was a revenue requirement freeze for electric, gas, and steam over the term of their respective rate plans. Major components of the joint proposal include the following: Investment in capital projects and programs to address reliability, storm hardening and resiliency, new business and oil-to-gas conversions Continuation of revenue decoupling mechanisms for electric and gas Enhanced low-income discount programs for electric and gas customers Modifications and additions to the electric, gas, and steam safety and reliability performance and customer service metrics Additions to the leak-prone gas pipe replacement program and new reliability program to target replacement of leak-prone pipe in flood zones in New York City and Westchester County Improvement and expansion of the oil-to-gas conversion program Approval of current storm hardening projects and programs, and conditional approval of future projects that are reviewed by an ongoing stakeholder collaborative Consideration of non-wires alternative plan (e.g., distributed resources) for the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, expecting significant load growth Company study of future use of Hudson Avenue Property Steam customers now eligible for bill credits (in place now for electric and gas customers) in certain circumstances of a storm outage The Joint Proposal was supported by the following signatories: Con Edison Department of Public Service Staff City of New York Consumer Power Advocates New York Energy Consumers Council, Inc. New York Power Authority Utility Intervention Unit (NY Department of State) Astoria Generating Company, L.P. Pace Energy and Climate Center Columbia Center for Climate Change Law Environmental Defense Fund NRG Energy Subsequently, on February 21, 2014, the PSC issued an order approving the rate plans in the JP with two relatively minor modifications. The full Joint Proposal and PSC Order can be found on the New York Public Service Commission Site. MORELAND COMMISSION INITIATIVES The Moreland Commission made a number of suggestions to enhance utility response to extreme weather events. These include initiatives that result in new ways for the NY Public Service Commission (PSC) to measure utility performance during a catastrophic storm. The PSC approved a storm scorecard in December 2013 to quantitatively assess electric utility performance after a “significant outage.” The scorecard will be applied for all outage events three days or longer, and others as deemed necessary by the PSC. For Con Edison, the only utility in the state with a significant underground network system, the scorecard will also be used during network outages. We expressed concern that some aspects of the new storm scorecard, including some performance measures will create perverse incentives for utilities to manage restoration to maximize scorecard results. While not opposing use of the scorecard to measure storm performance, the companies suggested that the relative weighting of different “areas of interest,” e.g., safety, should be re-evaluated based on our operational experience with recent storms. The PSC also approved a proposal by the state’s utilities to share information regarding stockpiled material during a storm recovery effort. Working with the other utilities in the state, Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland developed a methodology to establish a state-wide inventory of critical utility equipment and materials used for emergency restoration activities to support the reliability of the State’s electric system. In an emergency, this inventory can be accessed by utilities across the State, supporting efforts to restore customers more quickly during a wide-spread outage. THE ENERGY HIGHWAY AND THE INDIAN POINT CONTINGENCY PLAN In 2012 Governor Cuomo championed the Energy Highway Initiative promoting public-private partnerships to renew the State’s energy infrastructure while protecting the environment and creating opportunities for economic growth and job creation. Accordingly, the PSC initiated two proceedings seeking 1,000 MW of AC transmission upgrades to reduce transmission constraints from upstate to downstate, and transmission, generation, and demand side management solutions to maintain reliability in the event the nuclear power plants at Indian Point are shut down. Con Edison and the New York Power Authority (NYPA) were directed to develop an Indian Point Contingency Plan for solutions to address a possible 2016 Indian Point retirement. In response to the Energy Highway initiative, the New York State transmission owner (NYTOs), including Con Edison and Orange and Rockland, proposed to create and jointly own a transmission company, New York Transmission Company (NY Transco) to develop, construct, and own transmission facilities in New York State. On behalf of NY Transco, the NYTOs submitted responses to the PSC proceedings. Con Edison and NYPA also submitted three Transco projects in the Indian Point proceeding. More information is available at the NY Transco website. In November 2013, the PSC approved the three NY Transco projects proposed by Con Edison with NYPA and New York State Electric and Gas Corporation (NYSEG) to prepare for potential Indian Point shutdown in 2016. Two of the projects, Ramapo to Rock Tavern and Staten Island Unbottling, will be developed by Con Edison until they can be transferred to NY Transco. In its order, the PSC also endorsed the NY Transco cost allocation for these projects and supported the plan to file with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for rate recovery for the three Indian Point Projects. In a separate order in the same proceeding, the PSC approved a proposal filed by Con Edison and New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) to reduce load by 100 MW by the summer of 2016 using energy efficiency and demand reduction projects, plus another 25 MW through new combined heat and power projects. REGIONAL GREENHOUSE GAS INITIATIVE Since 2009, Con Edison has been subject to carbon dioxide emissions regulations established by New York State as part of its participation in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). The Initiative, a cooperative effort by nine northeastern and mid-Atlantic states (RGGI States), established a decreasing cap on carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation that will lead to a 15-percent reduction in regional emissions between 2014 and 2020. Under RGGI, affected electric generators are required to obtain emission allowances to cover their carbon dioxide emissions, available primarily through auctions administered by participating states or a secondary market. While Con Edison of New York sold most of its power plants in the late 1990s, the company still owns one power plant that is subject to the RGGI cap: the East River Generating Station. Con Edison of New York met its requirement of 6.3 million allowances for the first RGGI compliance period (2009—2011) and is managing auction purchases in preparation for complying with the second compliance period (2012—2014). In February 2013, after a comprehensive stakeholder review, the RGGI States proposed major changes to the RGGI program, including a one-time, 45 percent reduction in the regional emissions cap for 2014, and further reductions of 2.5 percent each year from 2015 to 2020. Additionally, the RGGI States implemented a new cost containment mechanism, supported by Con Edison, which will limit the impact of allowance price spikes on the supply portion of our customers’ bills. New York State adopted the new rules, and the lower, 91-million ton cap went into effect January 1, 2014. Under the revised RGGI emissions cap New York will receive incremental revenues from allowance auctions, above and beyond the $620 million it has collected through the first 23 auctions. As agreed upon in the original “model rule” of the RGGI partnership, each participating state directs its own strategy to invest its auction proceeds in a manner that supports its unique policy objectives, needs, and circumstances. This policy raises redistribution concerns if states invest funds in programs outside of the electric sector. In New York, for example, more than half of the RGGI-funded investments to date were allocated to programs that either indirectly benefit electric customers, or do not benefit them at all. RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARD The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), as the State’s central procurement agency, is responsible for implementing the renewable portfolio standard (RPS) established by the PSC in 2004 with funds collected from the State’s electric utility customers through the RPS charge established by the PSC. For large renewable resources, NYSERDA enters into long-term agreements with developers, and pays the developers renewable premiums based on the facilities’ energy output. Large renewable resources are grid-connected and sell their energy output in the wholesale energy market administered by the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO). For smaller, customer-sited resources, NYSERDA provides rebates when customers install eligible renewable technologies. The energy produced by customer-sited renewables reduces the overall level of non-renewable energy consumed. In 2013 the companies billed customers the PSC-mandated RPS charges of $109 million, up from $92 million in 2012 (and approximately $365 million cumulatively from 2006), to fund these RPS programs. The PSC has scheduled increases in the RPS charges reaching their maximum annual level of $151 million in 2015. In 2013, NYSERDA reported that the environmental benefits of electricity generated by renewable generation from 2006 through 2012, as opposed to the State’s “system-mix,” amounts to reduced emissions of approximately 4,028 tons of nitrogen oxides, 8,853 tons of sulfur dioxides, and 4.1 million tons of carbon dioxide. The PSC approved some programmatic adjustments to the RPS in 2013. These changes included expanding funding for customer-sited solar resources, and prohibiting out of state renewable resources from RPS eligibility. The companies supported expanded funding for solar, but questioned the ban on out-of-state resources because of the likely result of higher renewable energy prices for customers. ENERGY EFFICIENCY PORTFOLIO STANDARD The New York utilities and The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) are responsible for implementing energy efficiency programs through the Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS) established by the New York Public Service Commission (PSC). The utilities billed customers EEPS surcharges of approximately $100 million and $90 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, to fund these programs. More information about the use of these funds and activities of the utilities related to the EEPS program can be found in the Energy Efficiency and Demand Response section of this report. In addition, Con Edison implements a targeted demand-side management program and demand response programs which are detailed here (4a.customers.html#s4a1). SYSTEMS BENEFIT CHARGE The System Benefits Charge (SBC) program funds technology and market development (T&MD) activities relevant to the energy system. The New York Public Service Commission (PSC) uses the SBC to support research and development efforts that serve as a feeder of new technologies to be incorporated into the state’s energy-efficiency and renewable energy programs. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) implements the program under the PSC's supervision. When the program was reauthorized by the PSC in 2011 through 2017, it was estimated that collections from our customers would provide at least $150 million over the five-year term of the program. In 2013, $26.3 million in SBC charges were collected from the utilities’ electric customers. The current phase of the SBC program (2012-2016) will focus on a number of areas that should provide benefits to our customers, including smart grid technologies, electric vehicles, advanced clean power systems, advanced building designs, and environmental monitoring and evaluation. Like the RPS program, the SBC T&MD program raises concerns of geographic balance in the program's spending. Of particular concern is whether the program addresses the unique needs of electric customers in New York City and downstate. For example, research is needed to identify ways to incorporate the room air-conditioning units relied upon by residential customers in New York City into demand-response programs that currently use central thermostats to control temperatures. NEW YORK GREEN BANK On October 28, 2013, the companies and other investor-owned utilities in New York State made a joint filing to the New York Public Service Commission (PSC) supporting the establishment of the New York Green Bank, an entity with the mission to advance the State’s clean energy goals by reducing or eliminating financing-related barriers to clean energy adoption by customers. Con Edison offered comments related to future funding for the Green Bank, such as using Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) funds. On December 19, 2013, the PSC approved the establishment of the New York Green Bank, with an initial capitalization of $218 million comprised of $165 million of funds from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) and utility energy efficiency and renewable energy budgets, plus $45 million of RGGI funds allocated to the New York Green Bank by NYSERDA. The New York Green Bank has stated that it has a goal of reaching a capitalization of $1 billion, but it has not been determined how the additional funds will be provided. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT Public policy decisions at all levels of government can have significant implications for the companies’ customers, the energy systems we manage and the future direction of the companies. Accordingly, the companies exercise their fundamental right and responsibility to participate in the political process. We adhere to all applicable national, state and local laws and regulations governing the public policy process, and have internal policies and practices so that we adhere to applicable reporting requirements. Our engagement in the political process is grounded in and guided by our commitment to our Standards of Business Conduct. Our efforts in this regard meet high ethical standards, are done in accordance with strict company procedures and guidelines, and in a manner that demonstrates accountability and transparency. No corporate funds are used for political contributions to candidates or political parties. The companies do not make independent expenditures in support of or in opposition to a candidate or political party. No corporate payments have been made, nor do we intend to make payments, to influence the outcome of ballot measures. Con Edison Political Action Committee The Consolidated Edison Inc. Employees' Political Action Committee (CEIPAC) is a non-partisan political action committee. The CEIPAC is funded entirely through voluntary contributions from eligible employees; employees are not reimbursed, directly or indirectly, for political donations or expenses. Contributions are reported to relevant federal, state and local campaign finance agencies, as required by law. Political disbursements made through the CEIPAC are made without regard to the personal or political preferences of Company officers and executives. The current members of the CEIPAC Executive Committee are the: Vice President & Controller of Con Edison of New York (CECONY), Senior Vice President Public Affairs of CECONY, Vice President Government Relations of CECONY, President and Chief Executive Officer of Consolidated Edison Solutions, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Orange and Rockland Utilities. The CEIPAC Executive Committee factors in many criteria when deciding whether to approve contributions, including a candidate's position on issues; voting records; incumbents leadership on key committees; and the extent of a member company's presence in a district. Con Edison's internal auditing department conducts periodic reviews of CEIPAC's practices and procedures, and an independent auditing firm audits the financial statements of the CEIPAC on a yearly basis. Grassroots Advocacy Network Con Edison’s Grassroots Advocacy Network engages employees and retirees in the evolving political landscape, educating them on issues important to them and the company. Through the Grassroots Network, employees and retirees receive monthly newsletters, updates on policy and political issues and information on elections and voting. The Grassroots Network also provides opportunities for employees and retirees to attend events on emerging topics of interest and engage their local elected officials by taking action on relevant issues that come up throughout the year. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS Governance and Business Ethics At Con Edison we recognized the need for strong corporate values. Through the years, one of the most important lessons we have learned is that having a strong financial foundation and operational excellence are only part of what it takes to continue a company’s success. We firmly believe that doing business in an open, ethical, and fair manner creates business success that benefits all our stakeholders — our investors, our customers, and our employees. GOVERNANCE FOR EH&S The Environment, Health, and Safety Committee of the Board of Directors governs Con Edison’s overall EH&S programs. Since its inception in 1995, this committee has met four times per year to review the status of Con Edison’s EH&S efforts. Typically, Con Edison’s chairman, utility presidents, general counsel, and EH&S vice president participate in these meetings. The vice president of EH&S is responsible for developing programs to ensure compliance, and to work toward EH&S excellence. In addition, corporate EH&S supports the operating departments responsible for maintaining day-to-day compliance with standards. The EH&S vice president reports directly to Con Edison of New York’s president. Throughout 2013, the EH&S vice president headed an EH&S Leadership Team to oversee and implement the company’s strategic plan. The team consists of EH&S managers from operating departments, and representatives from the Law Department, Purchasing, Occupational Health, Human Resources, Auditing, and Corporate EH&S. This team contributes to development of strategic and annual goals that help drive Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland toward EH&S excellence. The EH&S vice president and appropriate EH&S leaders meet monthly with Con Edison’s chairman and the president of Con Edison of New York to review the status of major EH&S projects and issues. As a part of senior management’s commitment to EH&S excellence, the following strategic independent oversight functions have been established. Office of the Corporate Ombudsman – provides employees with an independent office to which they can confidentially refer suspected violations of Con Edison’s Code of Conduct, including EH&S requirements, or ethical and legal concerns. The ombudsman and the deputy ombudsman have the authority to either investigate these matters or refer them to appropriate authorities within the company. Environment and Safety Review Board– consists of outside consultants who are independent attorneys. The board reports to the chairman on components of EH&S programs and the status of efforts to attain EH&S excellence. Equal Employment Opportunity Affairs (EEOA) -The Company's EEO Policy is to provide equal employment opportunity without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, gender, age, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, citizenship, eligible veteran status, disability, or any other status protected by law. Employment decisions must be non-discriminatory, and working environments must be free of discrimination or harassment. The Company is committed to promote diversity in the workplace and maintain a culture of respect, dignity, and inclusiveness. In order to ensure implementation of this EEO Policy, the Company maintains an Equal Employment Opportunity Affairs (EEOA) office that accepts and investigates, through the Director of EEOA and his or her staff, complaints of violations of the EEO Policy and implement appropriate actions for violations. BUSINESS ETHICS Strong business ethics are a core value for Con Edison. Company departments are responsible for conducting ethics training for weekly personnel. Our corporate Code of Conduct is based on our corporate values: service, honesty, concern, courtesy, excellence, and teamwork. We have developed six principles for managing our work and maintaining our corporate values. Known as “The Way We Work” these principles include: Plan the Work and Work the Plan – We plan all activities, track progress, monitor results, and implement lessons learned. Continuous improvement is the goal, helping us maintain high standards for productivity, quality, environmental protection, and safety. Seek and Accept Responsibility – Our personnel are not afraid to take initiative, to suggest and implement improvements. Our corporate culture empowers us to admit and learn from mistakes, focusing on solving problems rather than laying blame. Communicate Openly – Our culture is open. We have regular meetings with management and union staff. We share information among our operating areas and with our shareholders and customers freely. Work in Teams – Con Edison fosters teamwork by respecting the skills, knowledge, and experience of all our employees. We value a strong management-union relationship. We encourage diversity. Improve Continuously – We strive to increase our efficiency and effectiveness every day. All employees are free to ask questions, to look for ways to improve our work. Just as we maintain and upgrade our hard assets, we offer training to our workforce over the entire length of their careers to ensure that our employees have the knowledge and experience to do their jobs. Celebrate Success – We believe that success breeds success. We provide quick and positive feedback to all employees, recognizing individual milestones and achievements. However, the company had been shaken by the criminal actions of employees in the past. In 2009, 14 construction employees were indicted for accepting kickbacks. During 2010, a former purchasing manager pleaded guilty to receiving more than $800,000 in bribes, and a section manager in was arrested for receiving $4 million in kickbacks from a contractor. The company worked diligently to establish whether these incidents were isolated or whether they were systemic and suggestive of both a breakdown of the company’s controls and an erosion of its culture of ethical conduct. It retained compliance consultants to exhaustively review all aspects of this issue. Even a single incident of this kind tarnishes every employee in the company, and such conduct must be purged from the work place. In 2012, Con Edison appointed a vice president to serve as Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer at the head of a Business Ethics and Compliance group. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2012, and every quarter since, the group has mounted a focused communications campaign with quarterly themes keyed to real-world ethics issues that may affect employees. In addition, the group distributed an up-to-date hard-copy edition of Con Edison’s Standards of Business Conduct to all employees. All employees are also required to complete an online Ethics Training curriculum at regular intervals. The Business Ethics and Compliance group maintains an intranet site that provides a central reference resource on ethics and the company’s standards of business conduct. The group also provides individual guidance on matters of ethics and integrity for any employee requesting help. Adherence to our Code of Conduct is a condition of employment for all of our employees. We do not tolerate violations of law or corporate policy. We encourage our employees to discuss any and all issues with their supervisors, and provide several ways for employees to confidentially report serious concerns. For more information on the company’s commitment to ethical behavior with suppliers, please see our Standards of Business Conduct (http://www.conedison.com/investor/pdfs/standards-of-business-conduct.pdf) and Avoiding Collusion (4e.supply_chain.html) section of this report. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR BUSINESS AUDITING AND ISO CERTIFICATION Auditing and ISO Certification To ensure the effectiveness of financial systems and operational performance, our auditing department provides an independent, fair, and objective appraisal of our facilities, operations, systems, and programs. These audits are performed in accordance with priorities established by the General Auditor in consultation with the CEO and the Audit Committee of the Board. Additionally, we recognize that third-party verification of our efforts is also of value and so we have our EH&S management system ISO-14001 certified. AUDITING Con Edison of New York runs a rigorous auditing program for all Con Edison subsidiaries. Both facility operations and company-wide programs (e.g., pollution prevention, right-to-know reporting) undergo periodic audits to determine compliance with regulations and procedures, as well as the adequacy of EH&S management systems in use. EH&S audits are conducted by a division of Con Edison of New York’s Corporate Auditing Department. Under corporate audit policy, this group audits all facilities and programs. The EH&S Auditing Group is staffed with dedicated personnel experienced in auditing protocols, regulatory requirements, and company procedures. The EH&S Auditing Group has developed standard protocols (including lists of questions) tailored to each area of concern that may be encountered at facilities operated by the company to ensure comprehensive and consistent audits. Formal audit reports are prepared and distributed to all officers whose organizations have responsibilities for corrective actions based on audit findings. Senior officers receive copies of audit reports as well as the EH&S Leadership Team. The ombudsman, independent auditors, and members of the Environmental Quality Review Board also receive EH&S audit reports. The Audit Committee of the Board receives a summary of all audits performed on a quarterly basis. Environmental Factors • Compliance • Management systems • PCBs • Asbestos, lead and mercury • Spill prevention • Air quality • Water quality • Solid/hazardous waste management • Storage tanks • Leaks and releases • Site remediation • Land use/fish and wildlife • Chemical use approval • Resource use (recycling/pollution prevention) Health and Safety Factors • Compliance • Management systems • Emergency response planning • Personnel safety • Transportation safety • Material/equipment safety • Industrial health and hygiene • Fire safety/emergency evacuation • Employee health and medical issues In addition, we have established a formal self-assessment program for company organizations to monitor their own compliance systematically. The EH&S Auditing Group administers this program by developing the self-assessment protocols, training personnel in their use, and monitoring compliance with program guidelines. ISO CERTIFICATION The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was created to standardize products, manufacturing processes, and management systems. Certification to the ISO Standards provides stakeholders a means of validating that Con Edison is operating effective management systems. Additionally, ISO Standards provide a framework for continual improvement throughout the company. Con Edison of New York’s Environmental Management System is certified to the ISO 14001:2004(E), Environmental Management Systems Standard and the company’s Chemical Laboratory operations are certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2005(E), General r equirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories Standard. It is the policy of Con Edison to be a leader in protecting the environment and ensuring the health and safety of its employees and the public. The company is committed to improving safety and environmental performance; strengthening environment, health and safety (EH&S) compliance; enhancing relationships with its stakeholders; identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential; and promoting wise and effective use of natural resources. In addition to complying with all applicable laws and regulations, Con Edison will: a. Pursue opportunities to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Con Edison programs that protect people, property, and the environment. b. Be responsive to the concerns of its stakeholders, both internal and external. c. Integrate EH&S considerations into its work and project planning. d. Model sustainable behaviors internally, promote sustainable behavior externally, and maintain a commitment to the prevention of pollution. e. Pursue opportunities, programs, and policies that support sustainable business practices and the reduction of EH&S risk. f. Provide the leadership and training for employees to exercise their initiative and achieve EH&S expectations. g. Manage an integrated health and wellness promotion program that fosters a healthy, engaged, and motivated workforce. h. Promote a “predict and prevent” mindset through proactive self-assessment. i. Set metrics and targets to drive continual improvement and review them on an annual basis to measure and assess Con Edison’s EH&S performance. j. Utilize an EH&S management system to enhance its efforts. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR BUSINESS COST MANAGEMENT Cost Management As part of our promise to provide our customers with safe, reliable service, we also recognize that every dollar that we invest has an impact on their bill each month. As a responsible corporate citizen and a publicly traded company, we need to invest in our system wisely, choosing which challenges to pursue, and following the most cost-effective options to overcome those challenges. Choosing the best cost-management strategies demonstrates that as a company we're getting the best return possible on the dollars we spend. Our excellence in cost management is achieved through communication, a collaborative approach to planning and implementation, as well as the application of ongoing and forward-looking analysis. It requires us to work each day in a more efficient and productive manner, and make a personal commitment to be accountable for the impact we have. We are also focused on cost consciousness, or the basics for productivity and cost control. We will ensure that expectations are established, communicated, and enforced, and that contracts and material costs are effectively controlled. Con Edison achieves cost-management excellence through the improvements in work volume and cost efficiencies, optimized use of overtime, reduced contractor costs, service and maintenance cost reductions, procurement of the most cost-effective energy supplies, elimination of work, and reduction in tax liabilities and other assessments. Several years ago, Con Edison made a large technology investment in order to create a new online resource to manage suppliers, purchasing, delivery, inventory, and other aspects of the supply chain. The finance and supply-chain components of this system went live in 2012, and matured throughout 2013. This new resource is called the Oracle Enterprise Business Suite (EBS). It replaced more than 60 former systems, including many that were developed in the 1960s and 1970s and coded in now obsolete computer languages, making them increasingly difficult to maintain. Serving as a cornerstone of Con Edison’s cost-management resources, Oracle EBS is an enterprise-wide software system that is based on Oracle’s financial and supply chain Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. It allows users to develop business plans and budgets, record financial transactions and analyze data, purchase materials and services, manage inventory, and report financial and purchasing data. In addition, data transparency and accountability at all levels have been integrated into the scope of these Oracle EBS capabilities. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY Reliability Maintaining service reliability is a top priority for Con Edison. This aspect of our sustainability is presented in terms of infrastructure investment by each company within Con Edison, the performance of our electric, gas and steam systems, and both the upgrades and lessons learned from key developments realized in 2013. ELECTRIC Con Edison is known for being one of the most reliable electric service providers in the U.S.—and has been the recipient of numerous reliability awards over the years, including PA Consulting’s 2013 ReliabilityOne award for the Northeast region. In 2013, the reliability of Con Edison of New York’s overhead power distribution system was 85 percent better than the industry average. When our underground system is included, the system is nine times more reliable than the national average. In 2013, Orange and Rockland set a company record for reliability performance, reflecting fewer non-storm-related service interruptions than ever before. PEAK PERFORMANCE Con Edison of New York’s e system performed very well in 2013, successfully serving a record peak demand of 13,322 MW on Friday July 19th, marking a recovery to pre.recession demand levels. Overall demand for electric energy exceeded 56,918,000 MWh in 2013, reflecting stronger weather patterns and growing economic activity. Demand for electricity grew fastest in Manhattan last year, at three percent year-over.year growth, compared to a range of 0.4 percent to 1.8 percent growth in the other boroughs and Westchester. Distribution feeder lines marked their best performance in 10 years and the system experienced fewer transformer failures than in any of the past five years, despite July weather that made the month the eighth warmest on record for the region. Orange and Rockland successfully met a peak demand of 1,561 MW on July 18, 2013. Overall demand for electric energy on the Orange & Rockland system exceeded 5,721,000 MWh in 2013. The system performed remarkably well throughout the remainder of the year, cutting the frequency of non-storm-related service interruptions to the lowest level on record. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland completed key electric infrastructure improvement initiatives in 2013, fortifying lines and equipment across the service territory. As in years past, we employed innovative techniques to meet increased demand in growing communities. Through reconfiguring existing system components, we boosted capacity of distribution networks in the Fordham Heights section of the Bronx and in lower Manhattan, avoiding costly transformer upgrades and the installation of additional cable. The completion of a smart distribution automated loop system in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn also enabled greater operational flexibility, providing needed load relief during periods of high demand. Another network reconfiguration completed in 2013 is using new technology to enhance reliability for 120,000 customers in Flushing, Queens. SMART GRID In addition to strengthening our system to better serve growing communities, we’re making our electricity networks smarter through leading-edge smart grid distribution automation technologies. In 2013, we installed more than 4,000 smart devices across our system, including remote sensors, monitoring systems, synchrophasors, and switches. Each device is integrated into our enhanced control system, expanding operators’ real-time view of system conditions and increasing their control over the system. We also partnered with our customers to successfully demonstrate a distributed energy resource management platform that seamlessly integrates customer-sited resources into a grid operator’s toolkit. The pilot demonstration included distributed generation, building management systems, battery storage, photovoltaics, and electric vehicles. ENERGY HIGHWAY In addition to strengthening our distribution networks, we are also partnering with other utilities to bolster New York’s high-voltage transmission system. For more information on this topic, please read on within the Policy Management and Regulatory Impact (2c-policy.html) section of this report KEY EVENT: METRO NORTH On September 13, 2013, Con Edison helped Metro North prepare for upgrades to their system by removing a key power delivery line from service. With the line out of service, Metro North and Con Edison planned to work on key system components and reconnect the line once upgrades were complete. The temporary system configuration left a key section of Metro North’s system powered by a single power-delivery connection to Con Edison’s system. As work was nearing completion twelve days later, the single line serving the Metro North system was damaged during our ongoing work to upgrade the facility. The damaged line could no longer provide service to Metro North’s system, leaving a portion of the New Haven line without electricity and disrupting train service for roughly 50,000 Metro North riders on September 25th, 26th, and 27th. Con Edison worked hand-in-hand with Metro North to safely restore service as quickly as possible. When Metro North’s original contingency plan to connect to Connecticut’s power supply system failed, Con Edison designed an alternative. Within eight hours, we had begun physically re-configuring our local residential distribution system nearby to support the large amount of power Metro North required. Working together, Metro North and Con Edison successfully restored partial service to the affected train route by Monday the 28th and had restored full service by the following Monday. As a result of the event, we have reviewed and enhanced work practices to mitigate the potential for a similar delivery line failure. Metro North has also upgraded its contingency plan resources. GAS Safely and reliably supplying natural gas service to our more than 1.2 million gas customers is a daily focus for both Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland. The fuel provides many benefits, including lower emissions and more moderate prices than heating oil alternatives. To meet rising customer demand, we are enhancing our infrastructure to increase capacity and to protect our customers from any reliability impact that might arise from a disruption to the interstate pipeline system. For all its benefits, natural gas also has risks. The invisible fuel dissolves in air and can only be detected by an odorant that is added to the fuel for safety or by specialized instrumentation. To protect customers, Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland work steadily to quickly respond to leak reports, identify, repair, and replace leak-prone pipes, and survey the system for new damage following weather events. SYSTEM PERFORMANCE Con Edison of New York customer use of natural gas reached its highest level in 2013 on December 17, when 1,596,947 Dth were drawn through the system. Con Edison of New York's total sales and transportation of natural gas reached nearly 280 billion Dth by year end, 2 percent higher than in 2012. Leak response improved in 2013: our personnel were on location within 30 minutes for 89.0 percent of the total possible leaks reported, and within 45 minutes for 99.4 percent of possible leaks reported. In Orange and Rockland, customer demand peaked at 202 million Dth on January 7. Throughout the year, Orange and Rockland sales and transportation of natural gas reached over 28 billion Dth of natural gas, 17 percent more than in 2012 INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADES Key improvements were made to our natural gas transmission and distribution network in 2013 to meet growing demand and enhance system reliability. Con Edison’s main replacement program continued, replacing 52 miles of leak-prone iron and steel pipe. We have replaced 279 miles of leak-prone pipe over the past five years. Significant upgrades were also made to Con Edison’s natural gas transmission interconnection infrastructure to increase capacity. A new interconnection to Con Edison of NY’s service territory was brought into lower Manhattan via the Texas Eastern Transmission (TETCO) pipeline. The project increases pipeline capacity into the Con Edison system and significantly improves system reliability in the event of an unexpected disruption at other transmission interconnections. Additional upgrades were made to pipeline system components serving the territory to increase capacity. Orange and Rockland also continued to replace cast iron and steel mains in 2013. In 2013, they replaced 93,000 feet of main, surpassing their goal of installing at least 90,000 feet annually. It has replaced 83 miles of leak-prone pipe over the past four years, significantly enhancing customer safety in the region. Both utilities survey their entire natural gas distribution infrastructure annually to detect outdoor leaks that may be emanating from underground pipes. We also conduct spot checks following major weather events to ensure storm water, salt, or road damage has not impacted our infrastructure. Both utilities also conduct annual customer awareness campaigns, sending scratch-and-sniff mailings to every customer to remind them what gas smells like and to encourage them to call as soon as they suspect a leak. KEY EVENT: NYACK COLLEGE On June 4, 2013, a grounds worker at Nyack College was leveling out some terrain on a hillside behind the college gymnasium. While digging with a backhoe, he struck and pulled a buried steel pipe with the bucket of the machine—setting in motion a chain of events that would injure eight people and destroy part of the historic campus. The worker had struck a natural gas service line and pulled it from a coupling located several hundred feet away. Though he couldn’t smell gas—and noticed no damage to the pipe where he stood—a one-inch gap had opened up at the coupling. Natural gas began to leak through the gap and migrated into the sewer system beneath the college. Since he saw no damage, the worker decided not to report the incident. Within a few hours, significant amounts of natural gas had accumulated in the basements of several buildings via the sewer system. All it took was something as small as a spark from the flip of a light switch to cause an explosion in the campus’ historic Sky Island lodge. Orange and Rockland responded to the event and took immediate action to reduce the risk of further injury to people or damage to the campus. With the help of the local fire and police departments, they evacuated students and faculty in the surrounding buildings, cut power to the campus, and discovered the source of the leak. The event underscores the danger natural gas can pose when leaks or damage to underground infrastructure go unreported. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland are members of Dig Safely New York, which provides a toll-free “Call Before You Dig” service for contractors and homeowners. Dial 8-1-1 to schedule a mark out before you dig. STEAM Con Edison provides steam service to customers in Manhattan, represented by about 1,700 accounts, through an underground network of steam pipes. By generating steam in large quantities at our generating stations, we increase the efficiency of steam production and reduce emissions that would otherwise be generated by customer-sited boilers and equipment. Con Edison’s steam system is changing to reduce costs to customers and to improve our environmental footprint. Our steam system performed well in 2013, meeting a 2013 peak demand of 8.9 million pounds per hour on January 23. The system experienced no major service disruptions, maintaining its 100 percent reliability rate. Our focus on public safety continued in 2013, as we developed and integrated remote monitoring of structures prone to impact following major weather events. GAS ADDITION Two Con Edison steam generating stations were converted in 2013 to burn natural gas as a primary fuel instead of oil, reducing fuel costs and emissions. The changes will cut CO2 emissions from the two stations by 23 percent (148,000 tons) each year and reduce customer costs by about 8.5 percent. In 2013, 90.9% of our steam was generated by burning natural gas. The units remain capable of burning either fuel in a supply shortage, increasing Con Edison’s steam fleet’s dual-fuel capability to roughly 88 percent of generation from 62 percent. This capability is particularly important to maintaining reliability and moderating price impacts during periods of high demand for natural gas, such as those we recently experienced. INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADE In addition to the steam generation upgrades discussed above, key enhancements were made to the steam distribution system in 2013. They included expanding the range of pressure used in the system. We consulted extensively with customers who would be affected by the change and ensured a smooth transition as the change was made. The new operating pressure will allow more efficient steam generation units to meet demand more of the time, reducing cost and emissions. 