MANAGING OUR BUSINESS COST MANAGEMENT Cost Management As part of our promise to provide our customers with safe, reliable service, we also recognize that every dollar that we invest has an impact on their bill each month. As a responsible corporate citizen and as a competitive business, we need to invest in our system wisely, choosing which challenges to pursue, and following the most cost-effective options to overcome those challenges. Choosing the best cost-management strategies demonstrates that as a company we’ return possible on the dollars we spend. Our excellence in cost management is achieved through communication, a collaborative approach to planning and implementation, as well as the application of ongoing and forward-looking analysis. It requires us to work each day in a more efficient and productive manner, and make a personal commitment to be accountable for the impact we have. We are also focused on cost consciousness, or the basics for productivity and cost control. We will ensure that expectations are established, communicated, and enforced, and that contracts and material costs are effectively controlled. Con Edison achieves cost-management excellence through the improvements in work volume and cost efficiencies, optimized use of overtime, reduced contractor costs, service and maintenance cost reductions, procurement of the most cost-effective energy supplies, elimination of work, and reduction in tax liabilities and other assessments. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY Reliability Maintaining our world-class service reliability is a top priority for Con Edison. Our investments in our electric, gas, and steam infrastructure demonstrates our commitment to providing reliable service for our customers today and for decades to come. Con Edison of New York’s 2014 reliability performance on the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) for 2014 included 107 per 1,000 system customers served, 343 per 1,000 non-network customers served, and 25.2 per 1,000 network customers served. Performance on the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) for the year included 3.02 hours, 1.83 hours, and 8.62 hours, respectively. ELECTRIC Con Edison is known for being one of the most reliable electric service providers in the U.S.—and has been the recipient of numerous reliability awards over the years, including PA Consulting’s 2014 ReliabilityOne award for the Northeast region. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY PEAK PERFORMANCE During the winter of 2013/2014 CECONY and O&R service territories experienced a polar vortex, a large pocket of very cold air, which sits over the polar region during the winter season and finds its way down to the U.S. Because of this phenomenon the winter had 32 days below freezing and 18 snow days, which was more than any year in the past five years. CECONY also saw the largest amount of rock salt dispersed in NYC in the last five years – 122% higher than the average amount of salt in the previous four years. The mixture of salt and water is highly conductive of electricity and advances the deterioration of cables, connections, and transformers creating the short-term result of increases in electrical shocks and failure of underground electrical equipment and the long-term result of the potential for future electric equipment failures. The number of electric shocks and manhole events more than doubled over the preceding winter. Despite the impacts of the polar vortex, Con Edison continued to provide reliable and cost effective service to its customers. The Company earned the PA Consulting Group’s 2014 Outstanding System Reliability Award. The award recognizes superior annual system-wide reliability performance for customers. We were also named best in the Northeast Region. Con Edison of New York’s electric system performed very well in 2014, successfully serving a peak demand of 11,763 MW on Wednesday July 2nd. However, electric delivery volumes decreased 1.1 percent from 2013 and were 0.9 percent lower than budget. After adjusting for variations, primarily weather, delivery volumes were 0.1 percent below 2013 and 0.3 percent below budget. Distribution feeder lines marked their best performance in 10 years and the system experienced fewer transformer failures than in any of the past eight years. Orange and Rockland successfully met a peak demand of 1,370 MW on July 2, 2014 at 3 p.m. The system performed well throughout the remainder of the year. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland completed key electric infrastructure improvement initiatives in 2014, fortifying lines and equipment across the service territory. CECONY’s robust and wide-reaching storm hardening program continued into its second year and began to reap important system benefits. In 2014, the Company installed submersible switches and replaced non-submersible transformers with submersible units. The Fulton and Bowling Green networks in Manhattan and the Brighton Beach network in Brooklyn were redesigned to allow flooded equipment and/or areas to be isolated instead of de-energizing the entire network.Based on analysis of actual damage sustained on the overhead distribution systems this year, CECONY estimates that more than 43,000 customer interruptions were avoided in 2014 as a result of the automatic switches and fuses that have been installed system-wide. CECONY also increased the reliability of 9 overhead auto loop systems by establishing spur loops and installing more resilient equipment. For its electric distribution substations, CECONY introduced improvements in 31 area substations. To provide for reliable service in the future, CECONY, along with other NY investor-owned utilities, formed the NY Transco LLC, a transmission company whose mission will be to construct and own transmission facilities that will reinforce and augment the existing backbone system in NY. Three projects have been identified for NY Transco: (i) a Ramapo to Rock Tavern line; (ii) the Staten Island Unbottling project; and (iii) the Fraser to Coopers Corners Reconductoring project. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY ENERGY HIGHWAY In addition to strengthening our distribution networks, we are also partnering with other utilities to bolster New York’s high-voltage transmission system. For more information on this topic, please read on within the Policy Management and Regulatory Impact (/managing-our-business/policy-management-and-regulatory-impact/) section of this report RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY REFORMING THE ENERGY VISION In April 2014 the NYPSC established the REV proceeding with the purpose of examining the electric utility regulatory and business model in the context of the potential growth of distributed electric resources and the development of new technologies. The NYPSC articulated six core policy outcomes intended to better align the role and operations of utilities to enable market-and customer-driven change: Customer engagement Distributed market animation System-wide efficiency Fuel and resource diversity System reliability and resiliency Carbon reduction In August 2014, the NYPSC issued its Straw Proposal on “Track 1” policy issues in the REV proceeding, focusing on the operational aspects of creating energy markets at the distribution level. In the proposal, markets would operate via a Distributed System Platform, addressing distribution system planning and operations issues with inclusion of a market operations role. Other issues contemplated in Track 1 include utility ownership of distributed energy resources, sharing of customer and system information, benefit-cost analysis, demonstration projects, and clean energy programs. Significantly, the Straw Proposal included consideration of the state’s utilities taking over the role of renewable energy procurement from NYSERDA. Con Edison has expressed interest in assuming this role, provided it is allowed to directly own renewable resources because such ownership is a less expensive way to procure renewable energy compared to long term contracts between utilities and private developers. “Track 2” of the proceeding addresses New York’s regulatory framework and explores changes that could be made to better align utility interests with policy objectives. Issues under consideration include: rate and tariff design, alternate regulatory schemes such as the U.K.’s ‘RIIO’ regulatory model, and performance-based regulation. At a November technical conference on Track 2 sponsored by NYU for the Commission’s benefit, expert speakers counseled a measured approach to regulatory changes. Commission rulemakings have been issued on narrow and well-defined REV issues. Further action on broader questions posed in Track 1 in the first quarter of 2015 and a straw proposal on Track 2 is now expected in the second quarter of 2015. Specific issues receiving early attention include: Deferring utility infrastructure investments-Targeted use of distributed resources and energy efficiency has the potential to defer utility infrastructure investments. In line with the REV vision, the NYPSC recently approved a Con Edison proposal for the Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management program (BQDM) that would defer the need to build a major substation in an area with higher-than-forecast growth. The BQDM program aims to locate 52 MW of distributed resources, thus pushing the need for a new substation from 2017 until 2024. The NYPSC also approved the company’s proposal to earn a rate of return on the costs of the project and incentives related to achieving resource acquisition targets, supplier diversity, and lower costs for customer-side solutions. The NYPSC will allow Con Edison to install and own energy storage devices on its own property as part of the program, but will only allow ownership of distributed generation if the market does not respond to requests for these types of resources. Demonstration Projects-Con Edison is currently developing a portfolio of demonstration projects designed to test REV concepts. Potential projects include electric vehicle charging, grid-connected community solar, multi-tenant advanced metering coupled with energy usage analysis, and variable pricing. Stakeholder Processes.RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY GAS Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland safely and reliably supply natural gas to more than 1.2 million gas customers. The fuel provides many benefits, including lower emissions and more moderate prices than heating oil alternatives. To meet rising customer demand, we are enhancing our infrastructure to increase capacity and to protect our customers from any reliability impact that might arise from a disruption to the interstate pipeline system. For all its benefits, natural gas also has risks. The invisible fuel dissolves in air and can only be detected by an odorant that is added to the fuel for safety or by specialized instrumentation. To protect customers, Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland immediately respond to leak reports, and identify, repair, and replace leak-prone pipes, and survey the system for new damage following weather events. SYSTEM PERFORMANCE Con Edison customer use of natural gas reached its peak for the 2014/2015 winter season through January at 1,118 MDt on January 7, 2015. Con Edison of New York’s total sales and transportation of natural gas exceeded 307,000 million MDt by year end, nearly 10 percent higher than in 2013. In Orange and Rockland, customer demand also peaked on January 7, 2015 at 191 MDt. Throughout the year, Orange and Rockland customers used 27,000 million MDt of natural gas, nearly 6 percent more than in 2013. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADES Key improvements were made to our natural gas transmission and distribution network in 2014 to meet growing demand and enhance system reliability. Con Edison’s main replacement program continued, replacing over 64 miles of leak-prone iron and steel pipe. In addition, we replaced 2.36 miles of leak prone iron and steel pipe in flood – prone areas. We have replaced 280 miles of leak-prone pipe over the past five years. Crews also replaced 4,729 customer service lines and converted nearly 1,500 large New York City buildings from oil to gas, and installed more than 2,000 other new business services in 2014. Significant upgrades were also made to Con Edison’s natural gas transmission interconnection infrastructure to increase capacity. A new interconnection to the TETCO pipeline was brought into service via the Spectra gate in lower Manhattan. The project increases pipeline capacity into the Con Edison system and significantly improves system reliability in the event an unexpected disruption at other transmission interconnections. Additional upgrades were made to pipeline system components serving the territory to increase capacity. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY STEAM Con Edison provides steam service for 1,691 accounts, representing approximately three million customers in Manhattan through an underground network of steam pipes. By generating steam primarily through cogeneration, we provide efficient steam production and reduce emissions that would otherwise be generated by customer-sited boilers and equipment. Con Edison’s steam system is evolving to reduce costs to customers, sustain optimal reliability, and help improve our environmental footprint. Our steam system performed well in 2014, meeting a peak demand of 8.9 million pounds on January 23. The system experienced no major service disruptions, maintaining its reliability rate of 100 percent. Our focus on public safety continued in 2014, progressing with the development and integration of the remote monitoring of structures prone to impact following major weather events. Steam Accomplishments One steam generating station eliminated the need for the existing 1,000 gallon bulk caustic storage tank, which is currently regulated by the jurisdiction of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC), and replaced it with two 120-gallon storage units. This effort has made the station environmentally friendlier and safer for our employees, while also reducing operating costs by approximately $15,000 per year in fees and inspections. This effort also eliminated the need for hazardous bulk chemical deliveries to the station. One steam generating station was awarded third place among 84 national stations considered for Emerson’s 2014 Reliability Program of the Year. The station used new technologies and process changes to streamline preventative maintenance work and reduced the forced outage rate. These measures increased steam availability to provide customers with a more economical and sustainable energy source. DUAL FUEL CAPABILITY Two Con Edison steam generating stations that were converted from oil to natural gas in 2013 cut CO2emissions by 21 percent (132,676 tons) in 2014. This reduction in emissions and fuel costs saved approximately $90 million, resulting in about a 10.percent drop in costs for our steam customers. All converted units remain capable of burning an alternate fuel in a supply shortage. This capability is particularly important to maintaining reliability and moderating price impacts during periods of high demand for natural gas. In 2014, another Con Edison steam generating station upgraded its kerosene system for operational purposes and installed new NOx burners to help lower the NOx output of the station. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RELIABILITY INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADES Key enhancements were made to the steam system in 2014 to help reduce Con Edison’s environmental footprint and maintain compliance with more stringent NOx RACT limits, which became effective July 1, 2014. Con Edison decreased the overall NOx rate for steam generating units by 17 percent in 2014 through increased use of natural gas and operational changes such as installing new NOx burners to certain steam generating stations to reduce NOx emissions. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RESILIENCY Resiliency In November 2012, a commission was formed under the Moreland Act to investigate New York power utilities’ preparation for and response to major storms affecting their service areas over the preceding two years. While reviewing the actions taken by these utilities during times of emergency, the commission issued specific recommendations to Governor Cuomo regarding what the commission felt were opportunities for improving storm preparation and response by the power sector. In June 2013, the City of New York, through the Office of the Mayor’s Special Initiative for Rebuilding and Resiliency and PlaNYC, released a plan identifying recommendations for rebuilding communities ravaged by Superstorm Sandy, and improving the resiliency of infrastructure throughout the city going forward. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland’s safe and reliable delivery of electricity, gas, and steam rely on urban and regional infrastructure. From 2013 to 2016, Con Edison has proposed to invest approximately $1 billion to improve the resiliency of the electric and gas delivery systems and the electrical and steam generating stations. In 2014 we reached the halfway point toward meeting that goal. Con Edison’s continued dedication to improving its service delivery during and after weather emergencies is discussed in this section. Resilience isn’t limited to our ability to withstand severe weather; we must also be ready to withstand manmade threats against our systems. Cyber and physical security are equally important to Con Edison, and in this section we discuss some proactive measures we are taking to protect our business and our stakeholders. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RESILIENCY CONTINUED POST-SANDY ENHANCEMENT We have proposed $1 billion in measures to fortify and protect our systems to withstand increasingly severe weather post-Superstorm Sandy. We plan to install stronger flood barriers and more submersible equipment, raise critical equipment, and strategically bring overhead power lines underground. We will install additional state-of-the art monitoring sensors, switches, and related smart-grid technologies to improve the flexibility of our system. Our long-range investment plan remains focused on keeping our systems reliable and safe for our customers. For Con Edison of New York’s electric substations and electric and steam generating stations, the highest risk of damage during a severe weather event is from flooding due to storm surge. Prior to Sandy, Con Edison already had a specification in place to protect new facilities and critical equipment from higher-than-expected potential flood levels. The damage caused by Sandy’s unprecedented flooding and the resulting impact to customers clearly identified the need to retrofit older facilities that were installed well before this specification was established. Con Edison acted immediately following Sandy to protect its stations for the 2013 hurricane season. This involved, at minimum, effectively protecting each impacted station against a potential repeat event. In parallel, we developed protective plans through 2016 and presented these plans to the Public Service Commission in electric, gas, and steam rate cases, with storm hardening as a central focus. Con Edison convened a Storm Hardening Collaborative in parallel with the rate cases to provide parties an opportunity to fully examine our proposals. A primary focus of the collaborative was the design standard for flood protection. Through discussions with the Public Service Commission, New York City officials, the Office of the Attorney General, and various other rate case parties including environmental groups, it was agreed that the company would revise its flood protection standard for the storm hardening program. Con Edison therefore established the most current FEMA 100-year flood level plus three feet as the new design standard for retrofitting stations and protecting critical equipment. This design standard will be applied to all future projects being pursued over the next three to four years. The majority of our storm hardening work will be completed in 2016, to protect our at-risk substations and generating stations against flooding. Protective storm hardening measures will continue to be installed through 2020. Con Edison of New York will also pursue a Climate Change Vulnerability Study that will project future changes in climate, particularly in humidity, heat and heat waves, and identify mitigation options to protect equipment and maintain reliable service. Orange and Rockland also faces reliability issues during severe weather. In Con Edison’s most-inland service territory comprising 1,350 square miles, flooding is less of an impending force against the predominantly above-ground system. With over 550 circuit miles of transmission line and 3,800 pole miles of overhead distribution line, Orange and Rockland must maintain reliable customer service threatened by high winds, falling trees, and ice and snow accumulation. Con Edison of New York completed approximately $79 million in storm hardening investments between 2013 and 2014 to protect substations and generating stations against another severe coastal storm event. Storm hardening measures were installed at nine substations and five generating stations that were impacted by Sandy. Measures included reinforced concrete flood walls around critical equipment, submersible pumps to control water infiltration, flood doors and gates at station openings, and expansive foam sealant in cable conduits and troughs. In addition, work commenced in 2014 to install backup electric generators, additional flood walls, gates and pumps, and other protective measures. For more information, please read on about Con Edison of New York’s plans, and Orange and Rockland’s plans to weather the next storm of the century. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RESILIENCY CYBERSECURITY Cybersecurity remains a priority at Con Edison, Orange and Rockland, and to the energy industry at large. The potential for a remote attacker to compromise customer accounts, gain access to protected information, affect physical equipment, and threaten system reliability has prompted a major change in utilities’ approach to their information networks and users over the past decade. At Con Edison and Orange and Rockland, we continue to expand our focus on cybersecurity in 2014. We expanded our cybersecurity which is based on ISO 27000’s Cybersecurity Framework. Under that program, a suite of processes, procedures, working groups, and executive-level oversight formally manages and governs cybersecurity practices across the company. We also formally commissioned our new CyberSecurity organization comprised of dedicated cyber security professionals responsible for preventative cyber security control technologies and for continuous monitoring and response to security threats and vulnerabilities for the company’s information networks. We continued to strengthen our network architecture by deploying state-of-the-art technologies to create layers of security that either prevent attacks or detect malicious behaviors. Our Network Operations Center was expanded in 2013 to monitor alerts. In addition, we continue segmenting networks to fully separate critical system components from basic business functions, thereby mitigating some insider threats. Through this process, we are designing our networks using industry best practices, building response capabilities in from the ground up. We are also continuing to build user awareness of “phishing” threats, where employees are tricked into downloading malware delivered via email. We conducted several drills targeting each employee and recording their responses. When an employee clicks on a link during an unannounced drill, they are presented with a “CyberAware” message instructing them why they should not have clicked on the link. We also continue to host and participate in various corporate and regional cyber exercises which expand participant awareness of potential cyber attacks and help develop response plans for each organization. Public-Private Partnership Con Edison and Orange and Rockland are both working hand-in-hand with federal and state agencies to keep abreast of new and evolving threats, benchmark best practices, evaluate our current defensive posture, and drill response to a potential event. We coordinate with the U.S. Departments of Energy (DOE) and Homeland Security (DHS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) on a range of issues related to cybersecurity. In 2014, we participated in the FBI and Department of Homeland Security’s New York City cross-sector cybersecurity drill and the co-led with the NY-ISO, the New York State electric specific cybersecurity drill. We will continue to support and engage in public-private efforts to improve cybersecurity in our sector. More locally, we look forward to further engagement at the state level through a utility cybersecurity benchmarking group we recently helped to establish. RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RESILIENCY PHYSICAL SECURITY Securing our critical infrastructure from physical damage or attack is an ongoing priority for Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland. To adequately safeguard our facilities, we continue to incorporate comprehensive security processes to protect the Company, its employees and its assets. We utilize the conceptual approach of deter, detect, delay, respond, and recover to build the foundation for securing our infrastructure. Our methodology focusses on multiple layers of different types of security. Many of our facilities have security guards. Security enhancements, including intrusion detection systems, closed circuit television monitored locally and remotely, card access systems, and contact alarms are already in place at key sites including substations, natural gas terminals, and control centers across our territory. We have a Security Operations Center where we monitor them, on a 24-hour, seven-day-per-week basis. This provides a central point for coordinating response protocols for security events and alarms. In addition, we are deploying a new enterprise security suite which will provide real-time monitoring of ingress and egress points within our facilities. This will incorporate all the different security systems into one platform. We are spending more than $73 million over the next five years to further enhance physical security measures across our system. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS Customers efficiency programs, the ability to convert from oil to gas, and our competitive business solutions are helping our customers to reduce their energy use, energy costs, and carbon footprint. We are also working to help our customers integrate new technologies like distributed generation and electric vehicles. Finally, we know our customers are interested in better communication, and in 2014, we made significant strides to make it easier for our customers to talk to us, whether online, through text messages, or on social media. ENERGY EFFICIENCY peak, helping us defer large capital investments (business value). MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS ENERGY EFFICIENCY PORTFOLIO STANDARD AND DEMAND.SIDE MANAGEMENT The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) and New York utilities are responsible for implementing the Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS) established by the New York Public Service Commission through energy efficiency, targeted demand-side management and demand-response programs. Through the utilities’ energy-efficiency programs, customers reduced their annual energy use by a cumulative 762,270 MWh and 1,059,556 DTHs from the programs’ inception in 2009 through 2014. Con Edison’s targeted demand-side management programs, which are designed for particular areas of the grid in need, assisted customers in reducing their annual energy use and resulted in the avoided release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere every year. The following is a listing of the programs that we currently offer: Residential Programs: Through Con Edison programs, customers are empowered to take control of their energy use, better manage their utility bills, and reduce their environmental impact. Residential programs include: Rebates for replacing old HVAC systems (Multifamily) Free smart thermostats Appliance recycling Commercial Programs: These programs give business owners and facility managers the tools they need to manage their energy use to best meet the needs of their businesses. Commercial and industrial programs include: Financial incentives to upgrade aging HVAC systems (Small Business) (Large Commercial & Industrial) Energy surveys and studies (Small Business)(Large Commercial & Industrial) Free smart thermostat (Small Business) Lighten Up! Small Business energy assessment and efficiency upgrades (Orange and Rockland) Commercial System Relief Program Distribution Load Relief Program We continually adjust our programs to respond to market conditions, which keeps our programs relevant and attractive to customers. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS DEMAND RESPONSE Demand response (DR) is another tool that can be used to help customers conserve in Con Edison’s service territory. In 2014, approximately 735 participants enrolled in the Distribution Load Relief (DLRP) program and 450 participants enrolled in the Commercial System Relief (CSRP) program with 200 MW and 145 MW of load reduction, respectively. Since the programs are generally called at different times, for different purposes, and may involve the same customer resources, the MW enrolled in the two programs cannot be considered additive. Nearly 33,000 residential and small business customers are enrolled in the Direct Load Control (DLC) and Residential Smart Appliance (RSAP) programs with approximately 50 MW of participation. Throughout the year, there were no days of events called across the DR programs, other than a one hour test event for each program. Con Edison won a 2014 Innovation Award from the Utility Analytics Institute for a software program that helps the company to reduce customer electrical usage at times of high demand. The Innovation Award recognizes companies that use analytics to transform their business. Con Edison’s program lets the company study usage patterns in electric networks, groups of networks and other geographic areas. The company can use that information to decide where options like energy efficiency, demand response, distributed generation and energy storage can most help the electrical-delivery system. Reducing usage at times when demandis high, such as on hot summer days, can help the utility delay or avoid capital investments in its infrastructure. By holding down capital investments, Con Edison saves customers money. COMPETITIVE SOLUTIONS Con Edison Solutions is a leading energy services company that provides competitive electricity and natural gas supply, renewable energy, sustainability services, cost-effective energy efficiency solutions, and energy performance contracting. In 2014, the company signed a $56 million contract with the U.S. Army Reserve’s 99th Regional Support Command (RSC) to provide energy efficiency services and operations and maintenance support at 90 sites in 11 states. The contract is a component of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Energy Savings Performance Contract (ESPC) program. Under this initiative, a limited number of qualified, private-sector energy service providers — selected on a competitive basis – can provide energy efficiency, renewable energy and water conservation services to federally owned buildings and facilities. According to federal officials, the Energy Department’s ESPC program is designed to save energy, reduce federal energy costs, cut greenhouse gas emissions, bring more cutting-edge technologies to use, strengthen national security and help strengthen the economy. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS DISTRIBUTED GENERATION AND MICROGRIDS Throughout the service territories of the regulated utilities, we are working to empower customers’ with an emphasis on targeting areas that maximize ratepayer benefits. There has been strong customer interest in distributed generation, and we are seeing rapid growth. As we strive to meet our customers’ generation is critical. The primary type of distributed generation (DG) in terms of MW installed is combined heat and power (CHP). At Con Edison of New York, 90 MW of large (greater than 1 MW) CHP projects came online between 2006 and 2011. Though large project installation slowed in 2011, there are multiple projects in development and we expect and additional 100 MW of large CHP by 2018. Small CHP (less than 1 MW) has also experienced increased growth thanks to a new, modular-CHP incentive program we developed with The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA). In the Orange and Rockland territories, over 24 MW of CHP has been installed. While CHP installations have been significant, Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland (O&R) customers have rapidly been installing solar photovoltaic (PV) panels as well. An additional 2,872 (Con Edison of New York – 2138, O&R – 734) customers installed solar PV last year alone, growing from 53 MW (Con Edison of New York – 34.8 MW, O&R-18.2 MW) at the start of 2014 to 84.5 MW (Con Edison of New York – 59.8 MW, O&R – 24.7 MW) by the end of year throughout Con Edison of New York and O&R’s territories. Solar power production has more than quadrupled across our service territory in the last four years, with a CAGR over 75 percent. Additionally, more than 65 MW (CE – 45.1 MW, O&R – 19.9 MW) of solar PV development are in the queue for interconnection. Large customer solar installations are on the rise thanks to new NYSERDA incentives from the NY Sun Program, which has earmarked almost $1 Billion for solar installations across the State by 2023. The future growth of Distributed Generation in our service territories will be closely tied to the outcomes of the Public Service Commission’s Reforming the Energy Vision (REV) Proceedings. One of the goals of REV is the creation of active markets where DG, and other forms of Distributed Energy Resources (DER), can provide services to the utility grid to help mitigate or alleviate traditional utility capital expenditures for infrastructure. An early example of these markets will be demonstrated by the Con Edison’s Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management Program, where by active solicitation and integration of customer-sided DER into Substation Planning efforts we are aiming to defer the construction of a $1 billion substation. In addition, O&R is requesting qualified and experienced vendors deliver innovative Demand Management (“DM”) solutions that provide distribution system load relief in its Pomona Load Pocket, potentially deferring the construction of a $56 million substation, which also includes the use of smart meters to allow customers to make more informed decisions about their energy use. In addition to the REV initiatives, NY State is trying to further expand the opportunities for customer’s to develop microgrid facilities through the NYSERDA NY Prize funding opportunity. A microgrid uses a mix of DG and DER technologies to provide resilient support to a portion of the utilities load which can also operate off-the-grid in times of natural disaster or utility need to provide basic services to the community. Both Con Edison and O&R will be working with various community groups and DG Developers who are participating in NY Prize in order to coordinate our electric system planning efforts as well as to drive value for all our ratepayers. Distributed Generation will continue to be an area of focus in 2015 and beyond. We will continue to identify ways that we can partner with our customers and regulators to ensure that customers are able to produce the power they want while keeping the distribution grid reliable and affordable for all. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS In 2011, the City of New York passed regulations phasing out the use of #4 and #6 heavy fuel oils. These fuel oils are typically only used to heat large buildings. When the fuel is combusted, soot and smog-forming pollutants are released into the atmosphere. As part of the city’s goals to reduce local pollutant emissions and improve air quality, permits for the use of #6 heavy heating oil will expire by the middle of 2015, and existing permits/renewals will expire for #4 fuel oil by the end of 2030. Con Edison anticipates that many of these large buildings will want to convert their primary fuel source to natural gas supplied from the company’s gas distribution system. Con Edison of New York estimated that 70 percent of the buildings in New York City that burn #4 or #6 heating oil were located within its gas distribution system’s service territory (as of April 2011). New demand for gas services is creating opportunities for the company to grow our gas business, but it also poses challenges to the logistics of our operations and the management of our infrastructure. We are seeing not only an increase in customers due to the NYC regulation requirements, but also an increase in #2 conversions due to customers’ interest in a lower costing source of fuel. In 2014 we worked with customers to convert 824 New York City buildings burning #4 or #6 fuel oil and 618 from #2 oil, resulting in a reduction of 311 tons of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) since 2011. More than 4,000 conversions have occurred in New York City alone over the last three years. Although Orange and Rockland counties in New York do not have any regulatory requirements associated with conversion, Orange and Rockland is also experiencing growth in oil-to-gas conversions. O&R converted nearly 6,000 customers in the last five years. In 2014, 266 conversions from oil or propane to natural gas were completed, representing one of the top three highest natural gas conversion rates in the last five years. To help manage these opportunities and challenges, Con Edison is tracking and setting annual goals for the number of customers who convert from heavy fuel oil to natural gas. At Con Edison of New York, we strive to get all customers connected at zero cost. The traditional approach was to connect customers on an individual basis (85 percent of those requesting received zero cost); however, with the new Area Growth Strategy, 100 percent received zero cost connections. Con Edison of New York’s Area Growth Strategy started in 2012 (first zones constructed in 2013) but the existing tariff was limiting. Working for more than 18 months with New York State Public Service Commission Staff, we were granted permission to use our proposed tariff amendment. Approved by the Commission in November with an effective date December 1, 2013, the new Area Growth tariff allows us to aggregate customers in a new way and evaluates projects based on their economics. Customers who previously would have a very high cost are now able to benefit from aggregating a larger area and get service for no cost. If one customer makes the entire project uneconomical, the company has flexibility to revise the boundaries of the zone. In short, this new tariff amendment allows us to apply a new revenue test and more closely align capital costs with actual anticipated revenue. Please visit our Oil-to-Gas Conversion website for more information, including how to begin the gas conversion process for your building. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS ELECTRIC VEHICLES The federal government has pledged to invest significant funds in alternative-fuel vehicles to address climate change and reduce carbon emissions. Con Edison recognizes the benefits of plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) as a green technology, offering drivers greater fuel-economy or using no fuel at all. For these reasons, the company is committed to making the transition from gasoline to electric vehicles as simple and convenient as possible. By end of year 2014, Con Edison had 3,622 electric vehicles throughout the Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland service territories – more than five times the population of 666 in 2012, and almost doubling the population of 2,040 in 2013. We anticipate that number to dramatically increase as consumer awareness rises and prices plateau. We anticipate over 5,800 electric vehicles on the system by the end of 2015, and we are preparing for over 16,400, electric vehicles to plug in by 2018. By encouraging energy-efficiency, off-peak charging, demand response programming, and distributed generation development, we will be able to manage the new loads for these electric vehicles on our grid. Con Edison will look to offer incentives to encourage customers to charge their PEVs during off-peak hours. As a step towards this effort, the company filed a new SC1 Time of Use (TOU) rate with the PSC in January 2015. It provides an adequate amount of off-peak hours for charging all EVs and can be used by residential customers that have a dedicated service for their EV. As of March 1, 2014, Con Edison offers a one-year price guarantee for residential EV owners who switch to the new SC1 Time-of-Use Rate. Additionally, Con Edison expanded its EV pilot program to 53 participants – 51 from Con Edison of New York, and two from O&R. The pilot focuses on evaluating the usefulness and accuracy of alternative meter technology to measure EV load separate from whole house load, as well as participants’ responsiveness to peak demand information. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS INFORMATION NEEDS At both Con Edison and Orange and Rockland, we are doing more than ever to better communicate with our customers where they are and in the way they prefer to hear from us. We made a major push in 2014 to proactively notify community boards, and elected officials when our work in their neighborhoods may be disruptive. We also send this information via email to customers living nearby, to help them plan around our work to minimize inconvenience. As our customers increasingly turn to social media to communicate with businesses, we are now monitoring our Twitter and Facebook accounts around-the-clock, ready to respond to questions and concerns. We use social media to share information about energy safety, storm-related outages, and tips to save money and energy. We are focused on meeting our customers’ expectations and bringing them new ways to do business with us. In 2015, we will begin rebuilding our website to improve customer interaction, improve self-service transactions, and make it easier to find information. That means improvements to welcome pages, menu structures, informational pages, secure login sections, and transactional processes. The improved online experience will cover our external website, mobile website, and mobile application interfaces. An improved “My Account” service center will make it easier for customers to view and pay bills, review account information, and submit meter readings, among other tasks. We also send monthly emails to customers with useful information about storm safety, energy conservation, rebate programs, and how to save money on their bills. A new video series, How Much Juice Does It Use?, was launched in 2014 to show customers how much energy is used by common household appliances. The videos are embedded in emails, shared on social media, and highlighted in customer newsletters. Con Edison’s quarterly Customer News is inserted in paper bills and sent electronically to approximately 1.7 million customers with email addresses on file. Orange and Rockland’s newsletter, @ Home, is inserted in customer bills. Both newsletters include energy and storm-safety information, tips to conserve energy, details about energy efficiency rebate programs, and information about reporting outages. In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, we are now doing more to communicate outage information during severe weather. According to their preference, customers can now opt-in to receive recorded telephone messages and text messages with estimates of when we expect to have their power restored. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS ENERGY AFFORDABILITY We recognize the importance of energy affordability and value for our customers. Our company continues to focus on the entire customer bill as well as the value customers get from our services, including the reliability of the system. We continue to make good progress on optimizing capital investment through supporting demand side management and employing new system designs and planning process improvements. Non-delivery costs account for roughly two thirds of the customer bill, including supply costs and taxes and fees. We recognize that we must advocate for our customers in all of these areas in order to help control costs. Low-income customers are eligible for discounts on their electric and gas service at both Con Edison of New York and O&R. Participants in Con Edison’s low-income electric discount program receive a $9.50 discount. For the low-income gas program, participants who use gas for heating receive a discount of $7.25 on their monthly minimum charge, as well as a discount of $0.4880 per therm for usage in the 4-90 therm block. Low-income program participants who only use gas for cooking receive a $1.50 discount on their monthly minimum charge. At O&R, participants in the electric low income discount program who heat with electric receive a $17.40 bill credit while all other electric customers will receive a $8.00 bill credit. For the low-income gas program, participants receive a bill credit of $11.63 on their monthly bill. Both Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland provide funding through customer and employee contributions for programs that provide financial assistance to customers who find themselves temporarily unable to pay their utility or home-heating bills because of emergency conditions. Con Edison of New York’s program is called EnergyShare, and it is administered by a local human services agency. The O&R program in New York State is called The Neighbor Fund. In New Jersey, program is called NJ Shares, and both are administered by human service agencies in the local communities. In addition, both companies inform customers about the Home Energy Assistance Program, commonly referred to as HEAP. HEAP is a federally funded program that helps low-income residents struggling with heating costs. HEAP also offers an emergency benefit for households in a heat or heat-related energy emergency. The HEAP heating equipment repair and replacement component is available to help eligible low-income homeowners repair or replace primary heating equipment necessary to keep the home’s primary heating source functional. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS Strategic Partnerships Con Edison has a long tradition of contributing to and maintaining the social, cultural, and economic vitality of our service areas. To do this, we’ve committed ourselves to providing financial or in-kind support to organizations whose activities advance strong, vibrant, and stable communities. We choose these groups carefully who focus on Science, Technology, Engineering & Math (STEM) education, environment, civics, community, and arts and culture, looking to their ability to use education, training, and special programs and events to enrich the quality of life of all New Yorkers. POWER OF GIVING Con Edison’s Power of Giving program extends beyond cash grants and is enhanced by a strong and loyal corps of employee and retiree volunteers, a robust board participation program, partnerships and collaborations and an employee matching gift program MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS CASH GRANTS Con Edison supports: Education groups with programs in math, science, engineering, energy, and technology for students from kindergarten through college. Environmental stewardship partners with programs that focus on energy efficiency, preservation of natural resources and parklands, environmental education, and green careers. Community partnership groups that focus on youth, housing services, landmarks preservation, education, and diversity. Civic programs that engage youth in the democratic process by providing them with the skills necessary to voice their opinions, affect policy changes, and remain civically engaged throughout their lives. Arts and culture organizations that contribute to society in a variety of ways from presenting visual and performing arts to the public to providing arts in education. A volunteer program that gives company employees, retirees, and their families a chance to donate their time and resources to make a difference in the communities we serve. Volunteers participate in diverse and innovative activities at nonprofits throughout New York City and Westchester County. 575 Con Edison employees and retirees donated 7,300 volunteer hours across New York City and Westchester County in 2014. The company’s in-kind donation program which provides resources including use of facilities, cross marketing opportunities and pro-bono services totaled over $1.7M. Con Edison also has a Board Participation Program through which employees serve on the governing boards of more than 150 nonprofit groups we support. Our participation on nonprofit boards strengthens our relationships with our nonprofit partners, increases our awareness of community issues, fosters a corporate culture of community involvement, and helps employees develop new skills. Along with our support, Con Edison also helps create synergies between community-based groups through partnerships and collaboration. We actively seek opportunities to foster partnerships and collaborations among nonprofits by connecting them with each other through programs or projects we support. Con Edison enhances its support of nonprofit organizations through in-kind, non-cash donations. For example, we donated services, and loaned labor, whereby an employee with a particular expertise or skill assists a nonprofit on a short-term project or program. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS YEAR IN REVIEW Con Edison supports hundreds of nonprofit organizations in New York City and Westchester County whose programs illustrate our dedication to healthy and sustainable communities. We commit our time and nearly $8 million in charitable funding to groups that focus on five areas: Education in science, technology, engineering, energy, and mathematics Environmental stewardship Community partnerships Civics Arts and culture Our Power of Giving program is more than cash grants. It also includes a strong and loyal volunteer corps, employee participation on nonprofit governing boards, partnerships and collaborations, in-kind contributions, and company matching of employee donations. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS ORGANIZATIONS WE SUPPORT Con Edison is a proud supporter of more than 930 nonprofit organizations throughout our service territory. Our support is focused on groups that contribute to education, arts and culture, civics, the environment, and community partnerships. The Madison Square Park Conservancy is the not-for-profit organization dedicated to keeping historic Madison Square Park and the adjacent Worth Square bright, beautiful and lively public spaces. The Conservancy works in partnership with the City of New York Parks and Recreation to operate Madison Square Park and is responsible for raising funds necessary to operate the park, including horticulture, park maintenance, sanitation, security, and free cultural programs, including two music series, rotating public art exhibitions, and children’s programming for park visitors. Con Edison funding nurtures and heightens the quality of Madison Square Park’s horticulture by making seasonal planting changes, while honoring the park’s original Victorian design; and second, to support free, public horticulture programming for youth, and regular volunteer activities in the park, both of which facilitate community involvement. For over 100 years, New Yorkers for Parks (NY4P) has built, protected, and promoted parks and open spaces in New York City. Today, NY4P is the citywide independent organization championing quality parks and open spaces for all New Yorkers in all neighborhoods. They achieve this mission through an integrated approach of research, advocacy, and strategic partnerships. New Yorkers for Parks conducts research and develops tangible policy recommendations around findings related to park development, management, and sustainability. Con Edison supports NY4P Daffodil Project, founded in 2001 as a living memorial to September 11. With over five million free bulbs planted citywide by more than 100,000 school children, parks and gardening groups, civic organizations, corporate volunteers, and other New Yorkers, it is one of the largest volunteer efforts in the city’s history. In 2014, over 500,000 more daffodils were planted throughout New York City. This would not have been possible without the support of Con Edison. Trees New York (TreesNY) is an environmental and urban forestry nonprofit organization. Their mission is to plant, preserve, and protect New York City’s urban forest through education, active citizen participation, and advocacy. TreesNY was founded in 1976 as a volunteer response to New York City’s devastating cutbacks in forestry and tree-related community services. Con Edison supports Trees New York’s Youth Environmental Literacy Program that educates New York City youth about the urban forest through hands-on activities and classroom studies. Students expand their knowledge of the environment while advancing their reading, language, and investigative skills. When students are introduced to environmental education at a young age, it increases the chance that they will be more engaged in community and environmental activities as young adults. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS EMPLOYEES Employees workforce through a competitive employee compensation program consisting of fair wages, augmented by a comprehensive benefits program. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS EMPLOYEES TRAINING Our current workforce has a median age of 43, and in the last 10 years has become younger, with a more equal distribution of employees over the various age spans. As of 2014, 28 percent of our workforce is 35 years of age or younger. More significantly, 48 percent of our workforce has 10 years of service or less. Much of our training and development programs address those employees who are within the first 10 years of service with us. In order to develop our changing workforce the company offers numerous ways for employees to develop their careers, both in the classroom, and on-the-job. The Learning Center is Con Edison’s training, meeting, and conference center in Long Island City, New York. The facility has 46 classrooms, 31 laboratories, a library, auditorium, and cafeteria. The Learning Center offers more than 800 classes, covering technical courses, as well as skills enhancement and leadership development for Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland employees. In 2014, employees spent 505,000 hours doing instructor-led skills-based and leadership training at the Learning Center. Additionally, employees spent over 100,000 hours doing eLearning on such topics as Enhancing Customer Relations, Standards of Business Conduct and Safety and Environment training. Many employees participated in multiple training courses. The Learning Center also coordinates periodic Technically Speaking Seminars and Strategic Issues Seminars which are designed to allow employees to learn more about what goes on around the company and industry related issues. Employees who attend Technically Speaking Seminars are eligible to receive Continuing Education Units (CEUs) through the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). We recognize that training can’t just happen at the Learning Center-some skills must be learned and refreshed on the job. Our Documented On-the-Job Training (DOJT) can be conducted at a workout location, yard, or jobsite. In 2014, our employees logged 216,000 hours of DOJT. The company also offers three levels of mentoring programs – corporate, executive, and women-in-non-traditional-careers. These programs are designed to allow employees to share knowledge, and to foster career development at all levels of the company. In 2014, 139 employees took part in the mentorship program. The company offers employees the benefit of a tuition-aid reimbursement program, allowing them to develop their skills in an academic setting. Employees qualify for up to 100-percent reimbursement of tuition costs after successfully completing a degree in a field related to the work of Con Edison. In 2014, 515 employees took advantage of tuition aid as they worked towards advanced degrees. Finally, the Career Center is an online site that provides employees the resources to achieve personal and professional success through Career Development. The site is designed to help employees learn how best to effectively use their strengths, how and when to network, and how to set short-and long-term career goals. In 2013, the first ever Talent Management Course Catalogue was released on the Career Center site. Designed to provide employees with key information about courses and programs that are available to help strengthen leadership and management skills, 34 courses, 12 programs, five workshops, five seminars, and four assessments are detailed as learning opportunities. This tool will be critical for employees to help themselves in their career development journey. DIVERSITY Con Edison is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy companies. We provide a wide range of energy-related products and services to our customers through two regulated utilities and our competitive energy businesses: Con Edison of New York, which delivers electricity, natural gas, and steam to customers in New York City and Westchester Orange and Rockland Utilities, which delivers electricity and natural gas to customers in parts of New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania Con Edison Solutions, Con Edison Energy and Con Edison Development (collectively called our competitive energy businesses), which provide retail and wholesale electricity supply and energy services As noted in its financial annual report, Con Edison had 14,601 employees in 2014. Of these employees, 46 percent are minorities and 20 percent are women. In 2014, minority representation increased from 45 to 46 percent, and the percentage of women remained steady at 20 percent. Of the 846 employees hired in 2014, 51 percent were minorities and 28 percent were women. Minorities accounted for 48 percent of all promotions in 2014. Twenty-four percent of promotions were earned by women. Of the total women promoted, 68 percent were minorities. The percentage of minorities in officer positions increased from 26 to 32 in 2014, and women made up 25 percent of positions in officer positions. Diversity report 2014 (http://www.coned.com/diversity/diversity-report-2014.pdf) MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS EMPLOYEES CORPORATE CULTURE A company-wide Voice of the Employee survey for Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland employees allowed the company to identify three areas as cultural imperatives at Con Edison, Inc.: Openness, fairness, and trust Cost consciousness Enhancing stakeholder relationships As the company strives to change our culture, our leadership is making significant efforts to address these three cultural imperatives. Every month, the Corporate Leadership Team meets for a full day to discuss the evolution of our culture change. A significant focus of 2014 was the integration of the business case and change management into “people systems.” For every change to programs or plans that in some way impacts our employees, leadership took special note to communicate the ”why,” or business case, behind those changes. We strive to develop messages that are clear, include facts, and reach hearts. We will continue to strive to be open, fair, trusted, and trusting, in all our relationships, both externally and internally. The company’s efforts focus on identifying observable behaviors, recognizing how perceptions become realities and how culture change can only happen as assumptions, mindsets, and ultimately, behaviors change. Changing culture is also about cascading new behaviors down throughout the company. This change will take time because behaviors are well-rooted but we will be diligent and persistent in working to bring about this change throughout all levels of our business. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Con Edison offers a competitive compensation and benefits program to attract and retain management and union employees. The wages and benefits of union personnel are negotiated with their respective labor unions Local 1-2, Utility Workers Union of America, and Local 3 and 503, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. In 2011, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our compensation and benefits programs for management employees that included: leadership interviews, focus groups, and surveys to find out our management employees preferences for their benefits programs. The ensuing changes implemented as a result of this employee feedback include everything employees perceive to be of value resulting from the employment relationship including compensation, paid holidays, vacation, sick leave, long-term disability insurance, medical insurance, a prescription drug plan, vision care, dental plan, commuter transportation reimbursement accounts, health-care and dependent-care reimbursement accounts, group term life insurance, a stock purchase and 401(k) savings program with a company match, and retirement benefits. To promote good health and wellness, the Company offers monetary incentives to union and management employees enrolled in a Cigna plan for completing a basic medical screening and/or health assessment (if applicable). Employees may also qualify for additional incentives if their spouse, also enrolled in a Cigna plan, completes a basic medical screening and/or health assessment (if applicable). The company also provides wellness programs that include annual flu vaccinations, a smoking cessation program, in-house counseling services for employees and family members with substance abuse problems, outside work-home wellness counseling for employees and their families, eldercare counseling and information services, life-planning seminars, and discounted admission to cultural institutions. MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders Con Edison is one of the largest companies in New York State, and plays a major role in the economic development of the New York metropolitan area. We employ more than 14,600 people, purchase goods and services from community-based organizations, and are one of the largest taxpayers in both the city and the state. Our managers identify significant business and operational risks and liabilities to the company, ensuring that they are prudently addressed to minimize their impacts on our performance. In 2014, Con Edison was again named winner of the 2014 Outstanding System Reliability Award (http://www.coned.com/newsroom/news/pr20141119.asp) by PA Consulting, top U.S. utility in the Newsweek Green Rankings (http://www.coned.com/newsroom/news/pr20140618.asp), and winner of an Innovation Award (http://www.coned.com/newsroom/news/pr20141104.asp) from the Utility Analytics Institute for development of a software program that aids in identifying programs to reduce customer electrical usage in times of high demand. Supply Chain At Con Edison, we recognize that our suppliers are an important part of our value chain and their performance can impact our sustainability. While we have an established purchasing program and have made progress in a number of areas related to sustainability. In 2013, we joined the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. We continue to partner with our utility peers to share and learn best practices to address sustainability issues throughout our supply chain as we look to improve our processes at Con Edison of New York and Orange Rockland, and better understand the social and environmental impact of our upstream suppliers. VENDOR APPROVAL AND TRACKING The regulated utilities have a strict vendor qualification process, ensuring that the companies we contract with are able to provide the highest quality goods and services at the most reasonable cost for our customers. Once approved, Con Edison monitors key risk indicators of all suppliers via periodic review of financial stability, sound policies and procedures regarding supplier performance and disclosure information, and monitoring of market trends and economic and financial forecasts. Con Edison’s Purchasing department defines select “critical suppliers” as critical component suppliers and non-substitutable suppliers. For these select critical suppliers, Purchasing collaborated with the Corporate ERM team and developed specific risk profiles outlining causes and consequences of loss of these critical suppliers and specific Key Risk Indicators and are continually monitored. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Con Edison’s award-winning supplier diversity program invites entrepreneurs and executives to partner with us in mutually beneficial business relationships. As we continue to serve the energy needs of the world’s most dynamic marketplace, we look forward to expanding our commercial relationships with New York’s vibrant community of women and minority entrepreneurs and business owners. Our unique model is based on the premise that our company can not only have a positive impact through its direct operational and supply chain activities but also that our sustainability efforts can realize a multiplier effect through our interaction with internal and external stakeholders. Our initiative is a collaboration with the Supplier Diversity program, Public Affairs, and Energy Efficiency. We have partnered with the non-profit organization Green City Force to develop a pipeline of employment for residents of the New York City Housing Projects to do energy efficiency related work. We have begun to receive commitments from minority-owned and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) to hire graduates of the Green City Force program and the first group of graduates has been hired. We collaborated with Con Edison’s Energy Efficiency team to host a “Tech Expo,” in which we gave major real estate owners a chance to learn about Con Edison-funded incentives that can help them use less energy. We introduced them to MWBE contractors and MWBE businesses that have cutting-edge technology to dramatically reduce the cost of their buildings and enhance the value of their real estate. We also worked with external groups to support our company’s commitment to sustainability. Working with the New York/New Jersey chapter of the National Minority Supplier Development Council we co-sponsored a major “Sustainability Summit.” This conference was organized with the purpose of identifying and promoting companies that foster a green supply chain and promote energy efficiency. Participants included representatives from major corporations, and investors interested in supporting the growth of companies in this field. A cornerstone of the supplier diversity program is company expenditures. Goods and services purchased from minority-and women-owned business enterprises totaled more than $277 million in 2014. Including fuel and gas, expenditures with minority-and women-owned businesses totaled more than $286 million. GREEN SPEND Along with a commitment to invest in our supplier diversity program, we also recognize that as a Fortune 500 company, the money we spend can also help to develop emerging markets, such as the development and supply of green products. For this reason, we have committed to spend $3 million annually on green products, which we exceeded in 2014. AVOIDING COLLUSION Ethical behavior is a priority at Con Edison, but in recent years we have been victimized by company employees and retirees as a result of several kickback schemes. The company immediately initiated an internal investigation after the uncovering of the first scheme and has cooperated with both federal and local authorities in their investigations. The company terminated employment of the arrested employees and ended its contracts with the vendors. We have made numerous procedural and organizational changes to help prevent these issues from recurring in the future. After the initial scheme was discovered in 2009, the company began to re-evaluate how critical positions in our Purchasing, Construction Management, and Energy Services departments are filled, which resulted in implementing a rotational policy to ensure that employees in these organizations periodically shift work and responsibilities. These changes reflect the company’s commitment to maintaining the trust of our ratepayers, shareholders, and community stakeholders. Moving forward, we continue to aggressively investigate all allegations of fraud, misconduct, and unethical behavior of our employees, and will continue to work with law enforcement when necessary. For more information on the company’s commitment to ethical behavior with suppliers, please see our Standards of Business Conduct (http://www.conedison.com/investor/pdfs/standards-of-business-conduct.pdf) and Business Ethics section of this report. COMPANY OVERVIEW Con Edison, Inc. (CEI) is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy companies, with over $12 billion in annual revenues and more than $44 billion in assets. The principal business segments of Con Edison, Inc. are Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. with regulated electric, gas, and steam utility activities; Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. with regulated electric and gas utility activities; and Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses. Con Edison, Inc. is headquartered in New York City with virtually all its revenues generated in the United States. Con Edison, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, ticker symbol ED. Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses participate in segments of the electricity industry that include electric generation from renewable sources, trading of electricity and fuel, sales of electricity to wholesale and retail customers, and sales of certain energy-related goods and services. For more information, please visit the CEI website, conEdison.com. COMPANY PROFILES CON EDISON OF NEW YORK Con Edison of New York (CECONY) is CEI’s largest subsidiary. It is a regulated utility providing electric service to approximately 3.4 million customers throughout New York City (except for a small area of Queens) and most of Westchester County. Con Edison of New York also provides natural gas service to approximately 1.1 million customers in Manhattan, the Bronx, and parts of Queens and Westchester. Con Edison of New York operates one of the world’s largest steam distribution systems, providing service for approximately 1,700 customers in Manhattan south of 96th Street. Steam is used year-round, for heat and hot water in the winter, and for air-conditioning in the summer. Overall, Con Edison of New York serves a population of nearly 10 million and more than 50 million annual visitors to New York City, throughout a service territory covering 660 square miles. Selected information on the scale of Con Edison of New York operations is provided in the following table. For more information visit the Con Edison of New York website, conEd.com. Orange and Rockland (O&R) is a wholly owned CEI-regulated subsidiary, headquartered in Pearl River, New York, that delivers both electricity and natural gas in southeastern New York and northeastern Pennsylvania, and electricity in northern New Jersey. O&R provides electric service to approximately 0.3 million customers and gas service to over 0.1 million customers in its service territory of 1,350 square miles and population of roughly 740,000. For more information, visit the O&R website, oru.com. Con Edison Solutions (CES) is a leading energy services company that provides competitive power supply, renewable energy, sustainability services, cost-effective energy-efficiency solutions, and performance contracting services for commercial, industrial, residential, and government customers nationwide. The company is based in Valhalla, New York, with offices in Burlington, Massachusetts; Cherry Hill, New Jersey; Falls Church, Virginia; Houston, Texas; Tampa, Florida; Overland Park, Kansas; Nashville, Tennessee, and Bloomington, Minnesota. The company offers innovative products, financial stability, and a commitment to customer service. The firm’s dedicated team of energy professionals delivers a broad range of energy solutions. Con Edison Solutions offers programs and services designed to help customers achieve their individual energy objectives. It is accredited as an Energy Services Provider (ESP) by the National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO). Con Edison Solutions serves retail electric commodity customers in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Texas, Illinois, Maine, Rhode Island, Ohio, and the District of Columbia, and retail gas commodity customers in New York and New Jersey. For more information, visit the CES website, conedsolutions.com. Con Edison Development (CED) develops, owns, and operates renewable and energy infrastructure projects. The company focuses its efforts on projects that provide stable earnings and leverage the core strengths of Consolidated Edison, Inc. CED functions as a growth vehicle for the Competitive Energy Businesses and focuses on renewable energy and gas assets as part of an overall corporate goal of responsible environmental stewardship. Through its deep resources and trusted relationships with a range of energy-related companies, Con Edison Development has built a robust pipeline of renewable energy projects, and has opportunistically grown its portfolio to more than 550 MW as of year-end 2014. For more information, visit the CED website, coneddev.com. Con Edison Energy (CEE) manages the output and fuel requirements for 5,100 MW of third-party generating plants in the Northeast. The company also provides wholesale hedging and risk management services to CES and CED. In addition, the company contracts for and optimizes energy assets such as transmission, ISO interfaces, natural gas storage and transportation. For more information, visit the CEE website, conedenergy.com. 