Operational Excellence 
Physical/Cyber Security  & Data Privacy Operational Excellence New technology brings new challenges, and both cybersecurity and physical security have been identified as key enterprise risks for the company. Our information security team works with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as our colleagues in the energy business, to identify and employ the latest technological tools to protect our customers and our equipment. We collaborate with these partners to share threat information and best practices, and conduct large-scale joint cybersecurity and physical security drills to help protect the electric industry against cyberattacks. Internally, an annual presentation on cybersecurity risks continues to be provided to the board and the audit committee has commenced reviewing more in-depth cybersecurity matters on a semi.annual basis. In addition, the board receives regular updates as to both cybersecurity and physical security risks from management. With the threat of cybercrime constantly becoming more acute, we continue to strengthen our data-protection efforts. Cybersecurity and physical security use a layered mitigation strategy that includes 24/7 monitoring, vulnerability assessments, employee education, and regular drills, and cybersecurity conducts phishing tests. We monitor approximately 2,000 cameras, Intrusion Detection Systems, duress alarms, and a card access system to restrict access. We consistently earn passing grades on audits that assess our cybersecurity and data-protection standards, and we are in compliance with reporting requirements from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and North American Electric Reliability Corporation. As for grid resiliency, there have been no material violations or fines due to non-compliance with physical and/or cybersecurity standards or regulations. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - PHYSICAL/CYBER SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY Ethical Business Practices Operational Excellence Our strong business ethics are founded on our corporate values and help us achieve our three priorities—safety, operational excellence, and customer service. We are committed to conducting business using the highest ethical standards. How we do business, how we treat our customers and business partners, and how we treat one another all contribute to how we are perceived in the marketplace and, ultimately, to our long-term viability. Our Values in Action Advisor network of 120 employees and our Business Ethics Council with 15 members assist the organization in maintaining a culture of integrity in their departments. In 2020, Business Ethics & Compliance raised awareness of ethics-related resources with an online quiz developed to test employees’ knowledge of ethics and compliance, fraud prevention, and cyber security. We continued enhancing our Ethics and Compliance Program working with peer utilities to review our programs. The peer review determined we have a very strong program, specifically the Standards of Business Conduct, training and communications, and our networks of ethics ambassadors known as the Values in Action (VIA) Advisors and Business Ethics Council. The 2020 Standards of Business Conduct training initially featured small-group, in-person training sessions discussing real-life work situations that could pose ethical dilemmas. In March, following the company’s guidance to maintain physical distance to prevent the spread of COVID-19, we suspended in-person training and moved to an online course featuring an interactive game format. Employees earned Ethics Champion badges after visiting virtual office locations around the country to identify ethics-related issues. Compliance Management initiated a Quality Center of Excellence (QCOE) to coordinate and enhance the efforts of existing Quality Management teams across the company. The QCOE will organize information sharing, learnings, data, and best practices that will strengthen integration of risk, compliance, and quality across the company. Compliance Management also evolved its core engagement approach to provide its client business units with expert guidance and an array of solutions customized to evaluate and improve compliance to regulatory requirements. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Climate Resilience Operational Excellence In recent years, Con Edison has adopted an ever more proactive, forward-looking approach to system resiliency to address increasingly severe weather due to climate change. After Superstorm Sandy, we upgraded our infrastructure to be resilient to a 100-year storm plus one foot of sea level rise. In 2019, we completed a multi-year Climate Change Vulnerability Study to understand local climate change projections, identify potential system vulnerabilities that could result from the changing climate, and explore potential adaptation options to protect our infrastructure. In 2020, Con Edison continued to make progress toward strengthening our energy systems to address the adverse impacts of climate change and natural disasters. We have changed the way we do business to address climate change risks and continue maintaining safe, reliable service for the millions of people who rely on us for power. Our efforts included adopting forecasting and design processes that more fully incorporate future impacts of climate change. Our Climate Change Implementation Plan, filed with the New York State Public Service Commission in December 2020, addressed the areas specified in our recent Rate Plan Order and significantly advanced our climate change governance structure. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - CLIMATE RESILIENCE Our key 2020 climate change resiliency accomplishments were: 1. Created a governance structure to manage climate change risks and build resilience: A newly created Climate Change Adaptation and Resiliency Corporate Instruction[1] establishes clear responsibilities within our company for climate change adaptation and resiliency efforts. It creates a new Climate Change Risk and Resilience Group, with oversight by an executive level Climate Risk and Resilience Committee. 2. Set a clear pathway to prepare our system: Our Climate Change Planning and Design Guideline (the Guideline) reflects the best available climate science and aligns with regional benchmarks. The Guideline will help us consistently evaluate our system and operations. We will review and update it over time, as needed, to help support continued safe operations and reliability. 3. Adjusted to how we plan and design infrastructure for increasing climate change: By reviewing our specifications, procedures, and practices against anticipated changing climate conditions, we better understand how to proactively adapt our planning, operations, and emergency response. We have already made changes to address climate risks that will support the resilience of our system and customers. We recognize that our approach needs to be flexible as more is learned about climate change impacts. Continued collaboration with stakeholders will be key to our ability to continue to provide safe, reliable, resilient energy to our customers in a changing climate. For more information please click here. [1] Con Edison uses Corporate Instructions to describe major courses of action in conducting Company business that impact major activities or functions of more than one department or affect all or a major segment of Company personnel. Core System Upgrades Operational Excellence The Advanced Meter Infrastructure (AMI) project is the largest project in company history. Some 5.3 million smart meters—comprised of roughly 4.0 million electric smart meters and 1.3 million gas devices—are being deployed across our service territory and will result in significant environmental, operational, and customer benefits. Smart meters put unprecedented control into the hands of our customers. With the company’s updated website and digital customer experience, customers can see their energy usage in near real-time and make smarter, more informed decisions about managing their energy usage, controlling costs, and helping the environment. Deployment of the communications network and smart meters began in 2017 and ends in 2022. More than 17,000 communications network devices have been installed throughout the company’s entire service area. In 2017, meter installations began in Staten Island, Westchester County, and Rockland County and mass deployment has been completed in these areas as well as in Orange and Sullivan Counties. Mass meter deployment continues in Brooklyn, Manhattan, the Bronx, and Queens. To date, more than 4.15 million electric smart meters and gas devices have been installed. The AMI Operations Control Center has been staffed 24/7 to monitor the communications network, as well as the meters and gas modules connected to the network. The AMI project team has also worked closely with Gas Operations and the AMI vendor to develop a first-of-its-kind, battery-powered natural gas detector that is integrated with the smart meter communications network. The natural gas detectors are safety devices that monitor the atmosphere where Con Edison’s gas service pipes enter our customers’ homes and buildings, most often in the basement. They provide an alert when natural gas levels in that area indicate a potential gas leak. Through the communications network, the detectors send a wireless alert to Con Edison if a potential gas OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - CORE SYSTEM UPGRADES leak is detected, allowing Con Edison and often the fire department to respond quickly. A pilot program to install 9,000 detectors began in October 2018 in parts of Westchester, and this pilot extended into Manhattan in 2019. The pilot program has been completed and the company began a multi-year program in September 2020 to deploy the natural gas detectors across our service territory. By the end of 2020, there were over 19,000 natural gas detectors installed. Smart meter data provides Con Edison and O&R with insight into outages and restoration, allowing us to see when a customer has power and to avoid sending a crew to a location where power has been restored. These avoided “truck rolls” reduce costs as well as assist in our overall environmental goals by reducing CO2 emissions. In 2020, over 15,000 unnecessary truck rolls were avoided for CECONY and over 5,000 for O&R. The additional insight which smart meters provide regarding outages and restorations also allows us to update how we address “nested” or “embedded” outages, which are outages where there are often no visible signs of damage and which are only found when we energize our electrical facilities. We can utilize the AMI system to quickly notify operators of these conditions while enhancing the communications that customers receive regarding restoration of service. Improvements in this area will continue to roll out over the next few years. Additionally, AMI will let CECONY operate the system at optimal voltages—known as conservation voltage optimization—reducing total energy consumption, as well as associated power-generation emissions. Analysis shows that information from the AMI system can be leveraged to reduce energy usage across CECONY’s service territory by approximately 1.5% on average, decreasing associated fuel use for committed generation resources. This results in 1.9% less total CO2 emissions across CECONY’s service territory and 1% total carbon reductions in New York State, due to reduction of power generated annually by fossil fuel plants. Engineers and planners will get more granular data, enabling potential design and operational improvements. CECONY began implementing voltage optimization in Staten Island at the end of 2018 and across Westchester and portions of Manhattan in 2019 as well as in the Bronx and Brooklyn in 2020. Voltage optimization will continue to be implemented across CECONY’s service territory through 2022. Con Edison invested $1.449 billion in our transmission and distribution systems in New York City and Westchester County to prepare for summer 2021. The investment includes upgrades and reinforcements of 40 network transformers and 130 overhead transformers. We also plan to upgrade 34 underground feeder sections and 165 spans of overhead cable. Con Edison projects that peak demand for electricity in the summer of 2021 will reach 12,880 megawatts. The record is 13,322 megawatts, which occurred at 5 p.m. on July 19, 2013. We are integrating new technology to make service more reliable. Con Edison has installed 5,500 devices in manholes to detect stray voltage, heat, and carbon monoxide in underground structures and communicate this information back to our engineers. Another 2,500 installations are planned for 2021. By remotely monitoring these conditions, we were able to reduce the risk of injury to the public or our employees. Con Edison has developed a new tool to inspect underground equipment in manhole structures for faults and other defects not visible to the human eye without having to remove the manhole cover. This new device is designed so crews can insert it through the vents in a manhole cover, reducing the setup time and physical effort needed to conduct a typical inspection. Using infrared technology, the device’s handheld monitor displays temperature anomalies that may indicate a need for equipment repairs. This tool is the latest addition to the technology Con Edison is deploying to help reduce the number of manhole events. Electric Transmission Pipe Enhancement We are investing $25 million in 2021 to proactively upgrade our underground transmission system. We plan to address 3,500 trench feet of leak-prone transmission feeder pipe using the method of installing welded steel sleeves in corroded areas and recoating the refurbished pipe. In 2020, we refurbished a total of 3,500 trench feet of piping and invested more than $10 million in spill response and remediation to improve the environment. We expect to continue to make significant progress in research and development to reduce the potential for future dielectric fluid spills. We are also continuing to pursue efforts to replace existing dielectric fluid-filled feeders with solid dielectric cable. The bulk of our underground transmission system consists of 660 miles of 69-, 138-, and 345- kilovolt feeders encased in steel pipe surrounded by high-pressure dielectric fluid (a non-toxic synthetic compound similar to mineral oil). The conductors inside our steel pipes are wrapped in paper insulation, filled with and pressurized by the dielectric fluid at a nominal pressure of 200 pounds per square inch. In some feeders the dielectric fluid is circulated and cooled to provide enhanced current-carrying capability. Approximately nine million gallons of dielectric fluid is contained within the feeders and the associated pressurization and cooling plants. Our leak-detection methods are some of the most sophisticated in the world: • We use real-time monitoring of some of the largest volume feeders to constantly check their integrity. • We infuse our dielectric fluid with a special tracer gas to help us rapidly locate and uncover leaks. • If significant leaks occur, we selectively remove feeders from service, placing them on reduced pressure to slow the leak rate. To repair leaks, we excavate to uncover the feeder pipes and apply a mechanical clamp to stop the flow. Permanent repairs are complete when a concentric steel barrel is welded over the clamp and the pipe. The pipe is then re-coated before the excavation is restored. Reliability Performance Con Edison is a recognized leader in reliability performance, consistently earning industry awards. Our overall system reliability in 2020 was 99.996%. Con Edison’s system reliability exceeds national and New York standards. The standards for measuring the reliability of distribution service are the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) and the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI). SAIFI is compiled annually, and the figure represents the number of service interruptions divided by the number of customers served. CAIDI, also compiled annually, represents the average time to restore service to interrupted customers. The CAIDI figure results from the total customer minutes of interruption divided by the total number of customers affected. For both figures, a low number indicates a better performance. 2020 NUMBERS FOR CECONY (electric) SAIFI: 0.185 CAIDI: 116 minutes 2020 NUMBERS FOR O&R (electric) SAIFI: 0.961 CAIDI: 100 minutes Customer Interruption Rate 2020 Customer Interrupted per 1,000 Customers Served National 1,050 New York  1,000(w/o Con Edison) Con Edison 469(Overhead) Con Edison 185(Overall) Con Edison 86(Network) National and New York State numbers from 2019. CECONY’s electric system is comprised of an overhead system as well as the largest underground network in the U.S. Gas Main Replacement In 2020, Con Edison modified the distribution main replacement goal from 90 miles to 62 miles due to impacts of the pandemic. The Company exceeded this goal by replacing 67 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel gas mains. In the last five years, the Company has replaced 421 miles of such mains. Besides upgrades to the distribution system, Con Edison continues to replace and upgrade the transmission system to ensure system reliability and incorporate new requirements established by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration in 2019. In 2020, O&R replaced 20 miles of leak-prone pipe. This replacement level met our company’s commitment to the New York State Public Service Commission. Fuel Mix & Generating Capacity Operational Excellence Con Edison is committed to advancing a clean energy future. We do not own coal fired power plants and 70% of Company-owned generation capacity was sourced from solar and wind in 2020. Additionally, Con Edison supports New York’s ambitious goals to transition to a low-carbon, clean energy future, which include but are not limited to 100% carbon-free power by 2040 and 70% renewable electricity by 2030. The fuel mix delivered through our energy systems is not controlled by the Company and is allocated by the New York Independent System Operator. CECONY & O&R Fuel Mix Allocated by NYISO for 2020 Hydro 8.7% Other 1.3% Wind 1.2% Oil 0.4% Coal 0.3% Solar 0.3% Con Edison-Owned Generating Capacity in 2020 Total: 10,245,998 MWh Supply Chain Operational Excellence Achieving our strategic priorities associated with safety, operational excellence, environmental stewardship, social responsibility, and cost savings is the mission of our Supply Chain organization. In 2020, we continued to leverage our procurement activities to make positive environmental impacts and contributions within the communities we serve. Supply Chain is also helping our company respond to customer expectations for a clean, smart, and reliable energy grid. Investments in this area include the execution of $22 million in battery storage contracts, $20 million in energy efficiency and demand management contracts, $5 million in smart meter AMI contracts, and $4 million in electric vehicle infrastructure contracts. In addition, we added 46 electric vehicles to support the transition of our own fleet of gasoline-powered light duty vehicles to electric vehicles. Our purchase of environmentally friendly products, such as hybrid vehicles, low-carbon fuels, recycled paper, and recycled carpet, exceeded $5 million. Last year we recruited 25 of our vendors to complete sustainability assessments and to develop measurable plans to improve their environmental performance related to factors such as water and energy use, waste production, and greenhouse gas emissions. We are also initiating a new process to negotiate and monitor sustainability-related commitments made by vendors on targeted contracts. Our Supply Chain sustainability initiatives also help to support our commitments for creating jobs within the communities we serve. In 2020, we purchased $322 million from women-owned and minority-owned businesses and our expenditures with small businesses exceeded $500 million. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - SUPPLY CHAIN Our Green Energy Opportunities Program is a great example of the contributions we are making within our service territory. Through this initiative we are leveraging energy efficiency projects that are subsidized by Con Edison to create contract opportunities for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises (MWBE) subcontractors and jobs for low-income New York City housing residents. This program is a partnership between our Energy Efficiency Program, Supply Chain, the energy efficiency services company Willdan Energy, and the non-profit organization Green City Force. Last year this program yielded $6 million in contract opportunities for MWBE subcontractors. It also provided job training related to electrical mechanical building systems, including lighting, HVAC, and refrigeration for 120 low-income New Yorkers, and employment for 70 community residents. Projects completed through this program helped Con Edison achieve its goals related to reducing energy use and associated costs for customers. In addition to contributing to our sustainability efforts, our diverse vendors also supported our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. MWBEs were able to support critical Supply Chain needs in creative ways. These diverse firms were able to provide Con Edison with over $4 million worth of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) such as hand sanitizer and masks at a time in which these items were in short supply. MWBEs also helped our company to create safe workspaces by retrofitting existing furniture with partitions. This effort will avoid the purchase of new furniture and thereby reduce costs and waste sent to landfills. This initiative is also an expansion of a partnership we have with a woman-owned business that is helping us to create a “closed loop” model in which we are repurposing used furniture that previously would have been sent to landfills and delivering impressive results. By leveraging this relationship, materials from our used furniture are utilized in a process to make remanufactured office furniture that we buy back at a 40% savings. This pilot program has helped us to avoid waste disposal costs by diverting over 250,000 pounds of waste from landfills, saving energy and reducing CO2 emissions. The positive contributions made in the communities we serve was recognized with a Supplier Diversity award from the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities Supplier Diversity Development Council. Supplier Diversity Expenditures MWBE / Small Business Spend ($millions) MWBE Spend Small Business Spend $700 $600 $500 $400 $300 $200 $100 Governance Operational Excellence Experience has taught us that the combination of a solid financial foundation, operational excellence, the highest ethical standards, and the utmost regard for our employees and the people and communities we serve are the bedrock qualities of a successful company. With that in mind, the company’s board of directors establishes committees to oversee various aspects of the company’s operations. Currently, the board of directors has six standing committees: (i) the audit committee, (ii) the corporate governance and nominating committee, (iii) the executive committee, (iv) the finance committee, (v) the management, development and compensation committee, and (vi) the safety, environment, operations and sustainability committee (SEOS committee), further information about each of which can be found here. A standing committee of the company’s board of directors, referred to as the planning and environmental committee, existed as early as 1973. In 1995, this committee became the company’s environment, health and safety committee (EH&S committee), whose primary responsibility was to oversee the company’s efforts relating to the protection of the environment, sustainability, and the health and safety of company employees and the public. At the end of 2018, the EH&S committee was dissolved and as of January 1, 2019, the company established a newly constituted SEOS committee. The primary responsibility of the SEOS committee is to oversee our efforts relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability, which includes operating in a safe, environmentally sensitive and socially responsible manner, guarding the health and safety of company employees and the public, supporting the development and success OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - GOVERNANCE of company employees, delivering value to customers and fostering growth to meet the expectations of investors. The SEOS committee, which meets at least four times a year, reviews at each of its meetings certain key performance indicators relating to climate risk, including energy efficiency, dielectric fluid management, SF6 gas emissions, and environmental beneficial electrification. In 2020, the company’s board of directors also received presentations that covered climate-related issues such as the company’s transition to a clean energy future, its strategy for achieving New York and New Jersey’s clean energy goals, and the company’s role in the evolving renewables market. At the management level, the company’s EH&S vice president, together with senior management, is responsible for developing strategic goals and programs to promote compliance and support the company’s commitment and continued work to achieve EH&S goals and operational excellence. As detailed in our Sustainability Strategy, the company’s environment, social, and governance committee works to strengthen sustainability across all aspects of the company. Part of senior management’s commitment to safety, the environment, operational excellence and sustainability includes independent oversight. The corporate ombudsman’s office, reporting directly to the CEO, provides employees with an independent office to which they may confidentially report suspected violations of our Standards of Business Conduct, including ethical, legal, sustainability or EH&S concerns. Our environment and safety review board consists of an attorney who reports directly to the CEO. The role of the environment and safety review board is to review the company’s management of both regulatory and internal requirements and assess whether such implementation is consistent with the company’s commitment to safety and environmental excellence. Public policy decisions can have significant implications for our customers, the energy systems we manage, and the future direction of our company. That’s why we participate in the political process, adhering to all the national, state, and local laws and regulations. Our engagement in the political process is grounded in and guided by our commitment to our Standards of Business Conduct. For further details click here. Enterprise Risk Management Operational Excellence The enterprise risk management (ERM) program was established to help protect the company’s long-term value for its shareowners, customers, and the communities it serves. The risk management team works closely with senior management and employees across all four subsidiaries (Con Edison, Orange & Rockland, Con Edison Transmission, and the Clean Energy Businesses) to proactively identify emerging issues and trends, align risk exposure to organizational priorities, drive risk informed business decisions and resource allocation, and monitor and assess known risks using quantitative metrics, sometimes known as key risk indicators. The cornerstone of Con Edison’s enterprise risk management program is its governance practices, which are designed to focus on managing relevant and material risks to its strategy and operations and to recognize emerging issues and trends that may shape future risk exposure. The team is led by the director of enterprise risk management. The director reports to the chief financial officer and works broadly with hundreds of employees across operating, shared services and corporate functions to manage the risk profile. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT The team creates and facilitates a risk management process framework, which includes risk identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring, and reporting. The audit committee of the board oversees the risk management framework and meets with the director of risk management at least annually to discuss program initiatives and to provide strategic direction for the program. The board of directors and its committees provide oversight of the company’s most material risks; these risks are managed by senior management and assessed, mitigated, monitored, and reported by employees. Public and employee safety, along with system reliability, the state of regulation within our service territories, and the viability of our business model, are some of the most important risks facing Con Edison. Some of these material risks are discussed in Con Edison’s 2020 Annual Report. To improve our ability to navigate an increasingly dynamic business landscape, the company’s ERM framework includes a process to identify and monitor relevant emerging issues and trends. Review of emerging issues and trends stretches our lens of focus, identifying threats and opportunities that may develop in the next two to ten years. The following are a few of the issues and trends that are being monitored as they develop and evolve: the emergence and application of artificial intelligence, long-term implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change’s impact to the company’s operations, a trend towards decarbonization of heating systems, the electrification of the transportation sector, and integration of distributed energy resources and renewable generation to the traditional electric grid. 