RELIABILITY AND RESILIENCY RESILIENCY Resiliency In November 2012, a commission was formed under the Moreland Act to investigate New York power utilities’ preparation for and response to major storms affecting their service areas over the past two years. While reviewing the actions taken by these utilities during times of emergency, the commission issued specific recommendations to Governor Cuomo regarding what the commission felt were opportunities for improving storm preparation and response by the power sector. In June 2013, the City of New York, through the Office of the Mayor’s Special Initiative for Rebuilding and Resiliency and PlaNYC, released a plan identifying recommendations for rebuilding communities ravaged by Superstorm Sandy, and improving the resiliency of infrastructure throughout the city. Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland’s safe and reliable delivery of electricity, gas, and steam rely on urban and regional infrastructure. From 2013 to 2016, Con Edison has proposed to invest approximately $1 billion to improve the resiliency of the electric and gas delivery systems and the electrical and steam generating stations. Con Edison’s continued dedication to improving its service delivery during and after weather emergencies is discussed in this section. We must also be resilient to threats against our systems and customer service that are not rooted in weather conditions or extreme acts of nature. Cyber and physical security are equally important to Con Edison, and in this section we discuss initiative and some proactive measures we are taking to keep our business and our stakeholders protected. POST-SANDY ENHANCEMENT In the post-Sandy era, Con Edison of New York will continue to invest in systems that are designed to withstand increasingly severe weather. We have proposed $1 billion in measures to fortify and protect our systems. We plan to install stronger flood barriers and more submersible equipment, raise critical equipment, and strategically bring overhead power lines underground. We will install additional state-of-the art monitoring sensors, switches, and related smart-grid technologies to improve the flexibility of our system. Our long-range investment plan remains focused on keeping our systems reliable and safe for our customers. For Con Edison of New York’s electric substations and electric and steam generating stations, the highest risk of damage during a severe weather event is from flooding due to storm surge. Prior to Sandy, Con Edison already had a specification in place to protect new facilities and critical equipment from higher-than-expected potential flood levels. The damage caused by Sandy’s unprecedented flooding and the resulting impact to customers clearly identified the need to retrofit older facilities that were installed well before this specification was established. Con Edison acted immediately following Sandy to protect its stations for the 2013 hurricane season. This involved, at minimum, effectively protecting each impacted station against a potential repeat event. In parallel, we developed protective plans through 2016 and presented these plans to the Public Service Commission in electric, gas, and steam rate cases, with storm hardening as a central focus. Con Edison convened a Storm Hardening Collaborative in parallel with the rate cases to provide parties an opportunity to fully examine our proposals. A primary focus of the collaborative was the design standard for flood protection. Through discussions with the Public Service Commission, New York City officials, the Office of the Attorney General, and various other rate case parties including environmental groups, it was agreed that the company would revise its flood protection standard for the storm hardening program. Con Edison therefore established the most current FEMA 100-year flood level plus three feet as the new design standard for retrofitting stations and protecting critical equipment. This design standard will be applied to all future projects being pursued in the Storm Hardening program over the next three to four years. In addition to preliminary measures already installed in 2013, protective storm hardening measures will be installed between 2014 and 2017 to protect our at-risk substations and generating stations against potential flooding from severe weather events exacerbated by future climate change and sea-level rise. Con Edison of New York will also pursue a Climate Change Vulnerability Study that will project future changes in climate, particularly in humidity, heat and heat waves, and identify mitigation options to protect equipment and maintain reliable service. Orange and Rockland also faces reliability issues during severe weather. In Con Edison’s most-inland service territory comprising 1,350 square miles, flooding is less of an impending force against the predominantly above-ground system. With over 550 circuit miles of transmission line and 3,800 pole miles of overhead distribution line, Orange and Rockland must maintain reliable customer service threatened by high winds, falling trees, and ice and snow accumulation. In response to the effects of Superstorm Sandy, Orange and Rockland has committed to spending $35 million in storm-hardening measures to strengthen the electric system and make it more flexible when repairs are needed. The projects and initiatives are being undertaking to reduce the number, frequency and duration of electric service outages the utility’s customers experience during severe storms, as well as to improve its information systems to more fully respond to customers’ needs. In 2013, Orange and Rockland completed four underground feeder construction projects and ten overhead feeder construction projects. Four more underground and ten more overhead projects are planned for 2014. In total, these modifications will aid in service reliability for the lines which were previously above ground. Orange and Rockland’s investment in storm hardening measures in 2013 reached $9.5 million, and is projected to be over $22 million in 2014. For more information, please read on about Con Edison of New York’s plans, and Orange and Rockland’s plans to weather the next storm of the century. Milestones Achieved in 2013 Con Edison of New York completed approximately $36 million in storm hardening investments in 2013 to protect substations and generating stations against another severe coastal storm event. Storm hardening measures were installed at nine substations and three generating stations that were impacted by Sandy. Measures included reinforced concrete flood walls around critical equipment, submersible pumps to control water infiltration, flood doors and gates at station openings, and expansive foam sealant in cable conduits and troughs. CYBERSECURITY Cybersecurity remains a priority at Con Edison of New York, Orange and Rockland, and to the energy industry at large. The potential for a remote attacker to compromise customer accounts, gain access to protected information, affect physical equipment, and threaten system reliability has prompted a major change in utilities’ approach to their information networks and users over the past decade. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT At Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland, we continued to expand our focus on cybersecurity in 2013. Our formal cybersecurity program uses ISO 27000’s Cybersecurity Framework. Under that program, a suite of processes, procedures, working groups, and executive-level oversight formally manages and governs cybersecurity practices across the company. We also formally commissioned our new Network Operations Center (NOC) —the “control center” for the company’s information networks. We continued to subject our networks to regular vulnerability assessments and network penetration tests, where “white hat” hackers are brought in to find any security flaws before they can be exploited by a malicious attacker. Lessons learned from these exercises are documented and addressed. We also continued to strengthen our network architecture by segmenting networks to fully segregate critical system components from basic business functions, thereby mitigating some insider threats. Through this process, we are designing our networks using industry best practices, building response capabilities in from the ground up. We are also working to build user awareness of “phishing” threats, where employees are targeted by e-mail and are tricked into downloading malware. We conducted several drills targeting each employee and recording their responses. When an employee clicks on a link during an unannounced drill, they are presented with a “CyberAware” message instructing them why they should not have clicked on the link. We also continue to host tabletop drills cross the company, which inform the development of cyber event response plans in each organization. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP Con Edison of New York and Orange & Rockland are both working hand-in-hand with federal and state agencies to keep abreast of new and evolving threats, benchmark best practices, evaluate our current defensive posture, and drill response to a potential event. We coordinate with the U.S. Departments of Energy (DOE) and Homeland Security (DHS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) on a range of issues related to cybersecurity. In 2013, we participated in NERC’s continent-wide cybersecurity drill GridEx II and in DOE’s “Poison Apple” drill. We will continue to support and engage in public-private efforts to improve cybersecurity in our sector. More locally, we look forward to further engagement with state regulators and peer utilities through a cybersecurity benchmarking group we recently helped to establish. PHYSICAL SECURITY 2013 brought heightened awareness of the importance of physical security to our nation’s energy systems. A structured attack on PG&E’s Metcalf substation in California highlighted the impact an informed attacker could have on energy infrastructure. Securing our critical infrastructure from physical damage or attack is an ongoing priority for Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland. Security enhancements, including intrusion detection systems, closed circuit television monitored locally and remotely, card access systems, and contact alarms, are already in place at key sites including substations, natural gas terminals, and control centers across our territory. We are spending more than $73 million over the next five years to further enhance physical security measures across our system. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS CUSTOMERS Customers At Con Edison we look to offer customers opportunities to cost-effectively manage their energy needs and provide quality experiences that engender trust. Our suite of energy efficiency programs, the ability to convert from oil to gas, and our competitive business solutions are helping our customers to reduce their energy use, energy costs, and carbon footprint. We also are working to help our customers integrate new technologies like distributed generation and electric vehicles. Finally, we know our customers are interested in better communication and in 2013 we made significant changes to the way we can conduct a two-way dialogue with our customers. ENERGY EFFICIENCY Our energy efficiency programs are a prime example of a sustainable effort – by reducing demand we reduce the cost burden for our customers (community), reduce emissions associated with electric generation (environment), and reduce our system peak, helping us defer large capital investments (business value). ENERGY EFFICIENCY PORTFOLIO STANDARD AND DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) and New York utilities are responsible for implementing the Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS) established by the New York Public Service Commission through energy efficiency, targeted demand-side management and demand-response programs. The utilities billed customers EEPS surcharges of approximately $100 million in 2013, up from $90 million in 2012, to fund these programs. Through the utilities’ energy-efficiency programs, customers reduced their annual energy use by a cumulative 659,500 MWh and 899,600 DTHs from the programs’ inception in 2009 through 2013, resulting in their avoiding the release of approximately 258,000 tons of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Con Edison’s targeted demand-side management programs, which are designed for particular areas of the grid in need, assisted customers in reducing their annual energy use and resulted in the avoided release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere every year. The following is a listing of the programs that we currently offer: Residential Programs: Through Con Edison programs, customers are empowered to take control of their energy use, better manage their utility bills, and reduce their environmental impact. Residential programs include: Rebates for replacing old HVAC systems (Multifamily) Free smart thermostats Appliance recycling Commercial Programs: These programs give business owners and facility managers the tools they need to manage their energy use to best meet the needs of their businesses. Commercial and industrial programs include: Financial incentives to upgrade aging HVAC systems (Small Business) (Large Commercial & Industrial) Energy surveys and studies (Small Business)(Large Commercial & Industrial) Free smart thermostat (Small Business) Lighten Up! Small Business energy assessment and efficiency upgrades (Orange and Rockland) Commercial System Relief Program Distribution Load Relief Program We continually adjust our programs to respond to market conditions, which keeps our programs relevant and attractive to customers. In 2014, customers will see changes that include more favorable incentives for small businesses, LED lighting being offered for wider use, new incentives for household appliances, and free kits with energy-saving equipment. DEMAND RESPONSE Demand response (DR) is another tool that can be used to help customers conserve in Con Edison of New York’s service territory. In 2013, more than 28,000 participants enrolled with 295 MW of load reduction. Throughout the year, there were nine days of events called across the DR programs. These programs include: Commercial System Relief Program (CSRP) & Distribution Load Relief Program (DLRP) Residential Direct Load Control (DLC) & Residential Smart Appliance Program (RSAP) Last year, Con Edison of New York and ThinkEco’s CoolNYC program won Outstanding Achievement in Residential Program Design and Implementation, and Outstanding Achievement in Pricing and Demand Response awards from The Association of Energy Services Professionals (AESP). CoolNYC is a demand response program for window air conditioners, which are one of the leading users of energy during New York City summers. New Yorkers can use a modlet and SmartAC technology to monitor their window air conditioner’s energy use and control it in real-time from any browser or smartphone. In December, the company filed for a new demand response tariff that we believe will dramatically expand enrollment for many years to come. Our filing directly addresses customer concerns by easing certain program restrictions on time and length of curtailments, as well as increasing incentives. COMPETITIVE SOLUTIONS Con Edison Solutions provides customers cost-effective energy efficiency solutions for commercial, industrial, residential, and government customers. In 2013, one of the company’s major successes was the delivery of almost $1.3 million total in guaranteed, annual energy savings for eight Missouri school districts that have launched aggressive conservation initiatives. The company's multi-faceted, cost-effective energy services performance contract (ESPC) program helps school districts replace old, inefficient, high-maintenance equipment with new energy-efficient equipment. The Missouri school district benefiting most from its energy initiative through is the Springfield Public School District, which saves $330,000 per year in reduced energy costs. The Harrisonville Cass R-IX School District in Harrisonville generates over $240,000 in annual savings. DISTRIBUTED GENERATION AND MICROGRIDS Throughout the service territories of the regulated utilities, we are working to empower customers’ innovative energy choices, with an emphasis on targeted areas. There has been strong customer interest in distributed generation, and we are seeing rapid growth. As we strive to meet our customers’ needs and expectations, a focus on distributed generation is critical. The primary type of distributed generation (DG) in terms of MW installed is combined heat and power (CHP). At Con Edison of New York (CECONY), 90 MW of large (greater than 1 MW) CHP projects came online between 2006 and 2011. Though large project installation slowed in 2011, there are multiple projects in development and we expect and additional 100 MW of large CHP by 2018. Small CHP (less than 1 MW) has also experienced strong growth thanks to a new, modular-CHP incentive program we developed with The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA). In the Orange and Rockland (O&R) territories, over 22 MW of CHP has been installed. While CHP installations have been significant, CECONY and O&R customers have rapidly been installing solar photovoltaic (PV) panels as well. An additional 1,190 (CECONY – 745, O&R – 445) customers installed solar PV last year alone, growing from 33 MW (CECONY – 20.2 MW, O&R – 12.78 MW) at the start of 2013 to 53 MW (CECONY – 34.8 MW, O&R – 18.21 MW) end of year throughout CECONY and O&R’s territories. Solar power production has quadrupled across our service territory in the last three years, with a compound annual growth rate of 75 percent. Additionally, more than 50 MW (CECONY – 37.3 MW, O&R – 12.7 MW) of solar PV development are in the queue for interconnection. Large customer solar installations are on the rise thanks to a new NYSERDA incentive for commercial installations greater than 200 kW. We continue to lead by example in green business practices and recently installed more than 200 panels at our corporate headquarters at 4 Irving Place in Manhattan. The panels, manufactured in the United States, generate 40 kilowatts of clean, renewable power. The annual electricity savings – about $7,000 – will be available for other investments on behalf of ratepayers. Along with assisting customers with the integration of DG projects onto our grid, the company has also worked toward other DG achievements in 2013 that included: The release of a new interconnection guide for large (2-20 MW) CHP projects Decreased PV interconnection processing time for residential customers through the utilization of a self-certification form in which the solar installer can self-perform the verification test for PV system 25 kW and under Leveraged smart-grid technology to implement multi-MW solar installations at locations such as Ramapo College and the Clarkstown Landfills in Orange and Rockland’s territory, and a 1.6-MW installation at Jetro Cash & Carry in the Con Edison of New York territory Introduced a new offset tariff/rate for Con Edison of New York customers that reduces the installation cost of campus-style cogeneration (General Rule 20.2.1B(7)&(8)) Advocated for “downstate balancing” and targeted incentives that are creating record incentive levels for DG. Distributed generation will continue to be an area of growth and focus in 2014 and beyond. We will continue to identify ways that we can partner with our customers and regulators to ensure that customers are able to produce the power they want while keeping the distribution grid reliable and affordable for all. OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS In 2011, the City of New York passed regulations phasing out the use of #4 and #6 heavy fuel oils. These fuel oils are typically only used to heat large buildings. When the fuel is combusted, soot and smog-forming pollutants are released into the atmosphere. As part of the city’s goals to reduce local pollutant emissions and improve air quality, the city will stop issuing new permits for #6 heavy fuel oil by the end of 2015, and will do the same for #4 fuel oil by the end of 2030. Con Edison anticipates that many of these large buildings will want to convert their primary fuel source to natural gas supplied from the company’s gas distribution system. Con Edison of New York estimated that 70 percent of the buildings in New York City that burn #4 or #6 heating oil were located within its gas distribution system’s service territory. New demand for gas services is creating opportunities for the company to grow our gas business, but it also poses challenges to the logistics of our operations and the management of our infrastructure. We are seeing not only an increase in customers due to the NYC regulation requirements, but also an increase in #2 conversions due to customers’ interest in a lower costing source of fuel. In 2013 we worked with customers to convert 780 New York City buildings burning #4 or #6 fuel oil and 513 from #2 oil, resulting in a reduction of 176 tons of fine particulate matter (PM2.5), and over 140,000 tons of CO2e. A total of over 2,400 conversions have occurred in Con Edison of New York’s system over the last three years, with projections for 2014 totaling more than 2,000 additional conversions. Although Orange and Rockland counties in New York do not have any regulatory requirements associated with conversion, Orange and Rockland is also experiencing growth due to oil-to-gas (OTG) conversion, adding over 5,000 customers in the last 4 years due to OTG conversions and new development. In 2013, 353 conversions from oil or propane to natural gas were completed, representing the highest natural gas conversion rate in the last four years. To help manage these opportunities and challenges, Con Edison is tracking and setting annual goals for the number of customers who convert from heavy fuel oil to natural gas. At Con Edison of New York, we strive to get all customers connected at zero cost. The traditional approach was to connect customers on an individual basis (85 percent of those requesting received zero cost); however, with the new Area Growth Strategy, 97 percent received zero cost. Con Edison of New York’s Area Growth Strategy started in 2012 (first zones constructed in 2013) but the existing tariff was limiting. Working for more than 18 months with New York State Public Service Commission Staff, we were granted permission to use our proposed tariff amendment. Approved by the Commission in November with an effective date December 1, 2013, the new Area Growth tariff allows us to aggregate customers in a new way and evaluates projects based on their economics. Customers who previously would have a very high cost are now able to benefit from aggregating a larger area and get service for no cost. If one customer makes the entire project uneconomical, the company has flexibility to revise the boundaries of the zone. In short, this new tariff amendment allows us to apply a new revenue test and more closely align capital costs with actual anticipated revenue. Please visit our Oil-to-Gas Conversion website (http://www.coned.com/gasconversions/) for more information, including how to begin the gas conversion process for your building. ELECTRIC VEHICLES The federal government has pledged to invest significant funds in alternative-fuel vehicles to address climate change and reduce carbon emissions. Con Edison recognizes the benefits of plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) as a green technology offering drivers greater fuel-economy or using no fuel at all. For these reasons, the company is committed to making the transition from gasoline to electric vehicles as simple and convenient as possible. In 2013, Con Edison had 2,040 electric vehicles throughout the Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland service territories, more than tripling the population of 666 in 2012. We anticipate that number to increase exponentially as consumer awareness rises and prices plateau. We anticipate 4,000 electric vehicles on the system by 2015, and we are preparing for as many as 40,000 electric vehicles to plug in by 2020. By encouraging energy-efficiency, off-peak charging, demand response programming, and distributed generation development, we will be able to manage the new loads for these electric vehicles on our grid. Con Edison will look to offer incentives to encourage customers to charge their PEVs during off-peak hours. As a step towards this effort, the Company offers a new residential time of use rate as of March 1, 2013 with a one-year price guarantee for EV customers. Additionally, Con Edison is expanding its EV Pilot Program to up to 50 participants. The objective of the pilot is to test alternative metering technology to measure EV load separate from whole house load, and to monitor charging habits of our customers. This will help us understand how customers charge their PEVs or if customers are willing and able to shift their charging to off-peak times. The information collected will help us develop future EV-specific time of use rates. INFORMATION NEEDS All Con Edison companies maintain web sites to provide useful information to customers and the public. We are working to provide expanded access for customers and we are increasing our use of various technologies to provide more dynamic, easier, quicker and more direct, interactions. We have nearly 1.5 million customer e-mail addresses on file at Con Edison of New York and 86,500 at Orange and Rockland. This allows us to use e-mail for communicating with customers regarding storm preparations, energy-efficiency, and safety. We have also implemented a program to e-mail notices of routine and emergency work to customers in an affected area. During power outages, restoration updates are provided by e-mail. Also, customers can use e-mail to contact us to make inquiries and requests and receive account information such as account statements. We recognize the potential of communicating with customers through their smartphones and we currently have about 740,000 cell phone numbers on file for Con Edison of New York customers. So far we are using text messaging to communicate outage information. Users can alert Con Edison that they are without power from any of the registered numbers associated with the account, request their estimated time of restoration (ETR) via text and receive the ETR in a text reply message. The application is being enhanced for customers to receive restoration notifications via text and be sent predictive and proactive text notifications regarding outages via text message. We foresee this capability being used by multiple family members who wish to receive updates on outages. Customer usage of the smartphone to interact with Con Edison of New York has increased exponentially. With the introduction of more self-service applications and the increasing customer ownership of smartphones, customer usage of our mobile version has grown from 148,000 visits in 2010, to just over 2 million visits in 2013. To date, mobile users accounted for roughly 23 percent of Con Edison of New York’s overall web traffic. We are focused on meeting our customers’ expectations and bringing them new ways to do business with us. Our daily conversations with customers on Twitter allow us to build our follower base and provide useful information about energy efficiency, storm preparations, community news, and renewable energy. The key to engagement is to keep the content appealing and interesting. Along with online and mobile initiatives, we are able to leverage our everyday paths of customer communication during storms or other emergencies. As part of our post-Sandy effort to improve communications, we streamlined our online storm central site, making it easier for customers to report outages, check their restoration times, find valuable safety tips, and advice on how to prepare for a storm. Online videos, posted on our website, sent out on twitter, embedded in e-blasts to customers and press releases to the media, have proven to be popular with our stakeholders. Our videos provide customers with information and advice ranging from how to save money on their bills to explaining how we restore power after a storm. More than 130,000 people have viewed them during 2013. Energy conservation tips consistently prove the most popular. We’re pleased that our successful engagement with customers using social media continues to gain recognition such as the Bulldog Reporter awarding Con Edison their Digital and Social PR Gold Medal for “Best Crisis Response” during Superstorm Sandy. ENERGY AND VALUE We recognize the importance of energy affordability for our customers. Our company continues to focus on the entire customer bill as well as the value customers get from our services, including the reliability of the system. We continue to make good progress on optimizing capital investment through supporting demand side management and employing new system designs and planning process improvements. Roughly two thirds of the customer bill is accounted for by non-delivery costs, including supply costs and taxes and fees, and we recognize that we must advocate for our customers in all of these areas in order to help control costs. For those customers who have challenges making their payments, there are options for assistance. Low-income customers are eligible for discount programs for both the Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland Electric and Gas services. Participants in the Con Edison of New York electric low income discount program will now receive a $9.50 discount (an increase of $1.00 from last year). For the low-income gas program, participants who use gas for heating receive a discount of $7.25 discount on their monthly minimum charge, as well as a discount of $0.4880 per therm for usage in the 4-90 therm block. Low-income program participants who only use gas for cooking receive a $1.50 discount on their monthly minimum charge. At Orange and Rockland, participants in the electric low income discount program who heat with electric will receive a $17.40 bill credit while all other electric customers will receive a $8.00 bill credit (an increase of $1.00 from last year). For the low-income gas program, participants receive a bill credit of $11.63 on their monthly bill. Both Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland provide funding through customer and employee contributions for programs that provides financial assistance to customers who find themselves temporarily unable to pay their utility or home-heating bills because of emergency conditions. The Con Edison of New York program is called EnergyShare, and it is administered by a local human services agency. The O&R program in New York State is called The Neighbor Fund, and in New Jersey the program is called NJ Shares. Both are administered by human service agencies in the local communities. In addition, both company web sites provide information for customers to contact the Home Energy Assistance Program, commonly referred to as HEAP. HEAP is a federally funded program that assists low-income individuals with the cost of heating their homes. HEAP also offers an emergency benefit for households in a heat or heat-related energy emergency. The HEAP heating equipment repair and replacement component is available to help eligible low-income homeowners repair or replace primary heating equipment necessary to keep the home’s primary heating source functional. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS Strategic Partnerships Con Edison has a long tradition of contributing to and maintaining the social, cultural, and economic vitality of our service areas. To do this, we’ve committed ourselves to providing financial or in-kind support to organizations whose activities advance strong, vibrant, and stable communities. We choose these groups carefully, looking to their ability to use education, training, and special programs and events, to enrich the quality of life of all New Yorkers. As on example of recognition for our community partnership activity, in a speech in Brooklyn on October 25 President Obama recognized Con Edison for our partnership with Energy Tech High School, which prepares young people for careers in the energy industry. POWER OF GIVING Con Edison’s Power of Giving program extends beyond cash grants and is enhanced by a strong and loyal corps of employee and retiree volunteers, a robust board participation program, partnerships and collaborations and an education matching gift program. CASH GRANTS Con Edison supports: Education groups with programs in math, science, engineering, energy, and technology for students from kindergarten through college. Environmental stewardship partners with programs that focus on energy efficiency, preservation of naturalresources and parklands, environmental education, and green careers. Community partnership groups that focus on youth, law enforcement, housing services, landmarks preservation, education, and diversity. Civic programs that provide young people ages 8 to 18 with the skills and opportunities for lifelong civic engagement. We seek to create interest in the democratic process by providing young people with the skills necessary to voice their opinions, affect policy changes, and remain civically engaged throughout their lives. Arts and culture organizations that contribute to society in a variety of ways from presenting visual and performing arts to the public to providing arts in education. A volunteer program that gives company employees, retirees, and their families a chance to donate their time and resources to make a difference in the communities we serve. Volunteers participate in diverse and innovative activities at nonprofits throughout New York City and Westchester County. Con Edison employees and retirees donated more than 5,900 volunteer hours across New York City and Westchester County in 2013. Con Edison also has a Board Participation Program through which employees serve on the governing boards of more than 150 nonprofit groups we support. That number increases every year. Our participation on nonprofit boards strengthens our relationships with our nonprofit partners, increases our awareness of community issues, fosters a corporate culture of community involvement, and helps employees develop new skills. Along with our support, Con Edison also helps create synergies between community-based groups through partnerships and collaboration. We actively seek opportunities to foster partnerships and collaborations among nonprofits by connecting them with each other through programs or projects we support. Con Edison enhances its support of nonprofit organizations through in-kind, non-cash donations. For example, we donate compact fluorescent light bulbs, services, and loaned labor, whereby an employee with a particular expertise or skill assists a nonprofit on a short-term project or program. Con Edison provides a double match for employee and retiree academic gifts up to $3,000, and a single match for gifts of $3,001 up to a maximum of $7,500 in one calendar year. YEAR IN REVIEW Con Edison supports about 1,200 nonprofit organizations in New York City and Westchester County whose programs illustrate our dedication to healthy and sustainable communities. We commit our time and nearly $8 million in charitable funding to groups that focus on five areas: Education in science, technology, engineering, energy, and mathematics Environmental stewardship Community partnerships Civics Arts and culture Our Power of Giving program is more than cash grants. It also includes a strong and loyal volunteer corps, employee participation on nonprofit governing boards, partnerships and collaborations, in-kind contributions, and company matching of employee donations. ORGANIZATIONS WE SUPPORT Con Edison is a proud supporter of more than 1,000 nonprofit organizations throughout our service territory. Our support is focused on groups that contribute to education, arts and culture, civics, the environment, and community partnerships. A full list of organizations Con Edison supports is available here. Green City Force -since 2010 (City-Wide) Green City Force provides workforce training in the green field for urban young adults. Corps membership is open to 18-24 year-olds who live in NYC public housing, have a GED or high school diploma, but lack the experience, networks, and academics to succeed in securing career-track employment or getting into and staying in college. They do this through a six-month program combining national service, academics, training, and work experience related to the clean energy economy and sustainability. Throughout the program, Corps members are supported through monthly stipends, transportation, and case management. Upon completion, they receive an AmeriCorps educational award and assistance on their college or career paths. Con Edison’s support helps to abate youth unemployment in low-income communities and increases the impact of energy efficiency in such neighborhoods. Green City Force’s focus on energy efficiency exposes Corps members to a field with entry-level opportunities, transferable skills (such as sales and marketing) that can apply to other sectors, as well as potential to advance along a career path. The Forest Park Trust -since 2003 (Queens) Con Edison funds the Landscape Stewardship Program which teaches young adults garden maintenance and forest restoration. The program will give participants a better awareness of the problems that plague their local urban park through projects where they will take personal responsibility in its protection and improvement. The program offers young adults a positive physical bond to their local park, while learning how to restore and maintain landscapes. Brooklyn Navy Yard -since 2003 (Brooklyn) Con Edison supports the Brooklyn Navy Yard’s exhibitions and programs highlighting the sustainability initiatives of the LEED Platinum Building 92, and education and innovation in the economic development of Brooklyn’s new manufacturing class, as well as the rich and unique role of the Navy Yard in the history of the borough. Staten Island Historical Society -since 1990 The mission of the Staten Island Historical Society is to create opportunities for the public to explore the diversity of the American experience, especially that of Staten Island and its neighboring communities, from the colonial period to the present day. To accomplish this, the Society engages in the following activities: operating and interpreting Historic Richmond Town, the largest and most comprehensive historic museum complex in New York City; collecting and preserving the materials of everyday life, including the artifacts, archives, and buildings that tell the story; conducting and promoting research based on the museum's collections; and sharing the collection and knowledge with the public through creative and engaging interpretive activities. In addition to Richmond Town, the Society operates the Decker Farm – one of only two fully-functioning farms in NYC. Con Edison is a corporate member of the Staten Island Historical Society. Neighborhood Housing Services of Staten Island, Inc. -since 2009 Neighborhood Housing Services of Staten Island (NHSSI) is an independent (not part of NHS of NYC), not-for-profit organization whose mission is to create and maintain sustainable and livable communities where families are in homes that are affordable, well-designed, rehabilitated, and maintained in a manner that supports the health and safety of residents. They envision a place where housing is not a financial burden and families are financially secure. Con Edison supports NHS Home Maintenance Sustainability Workshops which educate homeowners on the value, benefits, incentives, and skills for performing home energy improvements. Greenburgh Nature Center -since 1994 (Westchester) The mission of the Greenburgh Nature Center, also known as Nunataks, Ltd., is to offer inspiring, hands-on environmental education experiences, foster an appreciation of nature, and promote sustainable practices. Its vision is to be an educational leader in the region that advances environmental literacy, and to be a model of best sustainable practices while providing enriching hands-on visitor experiences and a venue for community activities. Con Edison supports “Teaching Trails” programming, which builds on the Nature Center's network of green education experiences for inter-generational exploration. This includes the Nature's Discovery Playground, the Sustainable Barnyard, and the Green Roof Educational Exhibit. Con Edison's support helps to promote natural experiences through science and environmental education and opportunities for outdoor exploration. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS EMPLOYEES Employees Con Edison recognizes that one of our most important resources is our people. We work hard to promote inclusion, ensuring that our employees represent the full vitality of the area we serve. Con Edison’s corporate culture is built around a strong commitment to ethical business practices and we made great strides in 2013 in our culture change efforts. Finally, we look to attract and retain our talented workforce through a competitive employee compensation program consisting of fair wages, augmented by a comprehensive benefits program. TRAINING Our current workforce has a median age of 43, and in the last 10 years has become younger, with a more equal distribution of employees over the various age spans. As of 2013, 33 percent of our workforce is 35 years of age or younger. More significantly, 49 percent of our workforce has less than 10 years of service or less. Much of our training and development programs address those employees who are within the first 10 years of service with us. In order to develop our changing workforce the company offers numerous ways for employees to develop their careers, both in the classroom, and on-the-job. The Learning Center is Con Edison’s training, meeting, and conference center in Long Island City, New York. The facility has 35 classrooms, 39 laboratories, a library, auditorium, and cafeteria. The Learning Center offers more than 800 classes, covering technical courses, as well as skills enhancement and leadership development for Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland employees. In 2013, employees spent 565,000 hours doing instructor-led skills-based and leadership training at the Learning Center. Additionally, employees spent 145,000 hours doing eLearning on such topics as Enhancing Customer Relations, Standards of Business Conduct and Safety and Environment training. Many employees participated in multiple training courses. The Learning Center also coordinates periodic Technically Speaking Seminars and Strategic Issues Seminars which are designed to allow employees to learn more about what goes on around the Company and industry related issues. Employees who attend Technically Speaking Seminars are eligible to receive Continuing Education Units (CEUs) through the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). We recognize that training can’t just happen at the Learning Center-some skills must be learned and refreshed on the job. Our Documented On-the-Job Training (DOJT) can be conducted at a workout location, yard, or jobsite. In 2013, our employees logged 212,000 hours of DOJT. The company also offers three levels of mentoring programs – corporate, executive, and women-in-non-traditional-careers. These programs are designed to allow employees to share knowledge, and to foster career development at all levels of the company. In 2013, 112 employees took part in the mentorship program. The company offers employees the benefit of a tuition-aid reimbursement program, allowing them to develop their skills in an academic setting. Employees qualify for up to 100-percent reimbursement of tuition costs after successfully completing a degree in a field related to the work of Con Edison. In 2013, 509 employees took advantage of tuition aid as they worked towards advanced degrees. Finally, the Career Center is an online site that provides employees the resources to achieve personal and professional success through Career Development. The site is designed to help employees learn how best to play to their strengths, how and when to network, and how to set short-and long-term career goals. In 2013, the first ever Talent Management Course Catalogue was released on the Career Center site. Designed to provide employees with key information about courses and programs that are available to help strengthen leadership and management skills, 34 courses, 12 programs, five workshops, five seminars, and four assessments are detailed as learning opportunities. This tool will be critical for employees to help themselves in their career development journey. DIVERSITY We are committed to making every voice heard and fostering an inclusive workplace for our employees to realize their full potential. Diversity at all levels of the company helps us see and understand the needs of our customers, the communities we serve, and the employees we work hard to recruit, develop, and retain. Valuing diversity and inclusion is not only the right thing to do, it is vital to our success in delivering energy products and services to our customers safely, reliably, efficiently, and in an environmentally sound manner. As our customers, the communities we serve, and our employees continue to change, so do we. In 2013, Con Edison employed 14,653 people, of whom 45 percent are minorities and 20 percent are women. Con Edison hired 911 employees in 2013. Of these, 54 percent were minorities and 36 percent were women. Minorities earned 50 percent of promotions, and women earned 18 percent of promotions. Of the total women promoted, 68 percent were minorities. The percentage of minorities in upper-management positions increased from 25 in 2012, to 26 in 2013. The percentage of women in band-4 and above positions is 29 percent. For more information on these and the other activities that support the diversity of our workforce, please visit the company’s 2013 Diversity Annual Report (http://www.coned.com/diversity/diversity.report-2013.pdf). Diversity is a part of our recruitment strategy – the company uses a portfolio of Internet resources, job fairs, partnerships, search firms, and its internship programs to find the right employees to join our company. Once hired, they have access to a number of employee organizations including Women in the Field, LGBT Pride, and Moms ON IT, groups which have been designed to promote inclusion and a safe place to share experiences and advice. For more information on these and the other activities that support the diversity of our workforce, please visit the company’s 2013 Diversity Annual Report (http://www.coned.com/diversity/diversity-report-2013.pdf ). CORPORATE CULTURE A company-wide Voice of the Employee survey for Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland employees allowed the company to identify three areas as cultural imperatives at Con Edison, Inc.: Openness, fairness, and trust Cost consciousness Enhancing stakeholder relationships As the company strives to change our culture, our leadership is making significant efforts to address these three cultural imperatives. Every month, the Corporate Leadership Team meets for a full day to discuss the evolution of our culture change. A significant focus of 2013 was the integration of the business case and change management into “people systems.” For every change to programs or plans that in some way impacts our employees, leadership took special note to communicate the ”why,” or business case, behind those changes. We strive to develop messages that are clear, include facts, and reach hearts. While we continue to work on these areas from the top-down, 2013 saw the development of grassroots efforts at the organizational level as well. One example was the development of a culture team in EH&S. This team, with representatives of all levels from each of its five departments, met bi-weekly to discuss culture and identify activities that could improve overall morale and move the department in a positive direction. Results included the establishment of career development seminars for the EH&S organization, a review of the department’s work-life balance guidelines, and an increase in networking opportunities. The team is looking forward to progressing more in 2014 with the development of an EH&S culture survey and focus groups. Our Central Operations group has also exemplified what it means to evolve our culture. They’ve established “Excellence Teams” which are teams that cut across Central Operations’ organizations to drive performance in particular areas of focus. In 2013, there were nine Central Operations Excellence Teams which included teams looking at safety, improving union/management relations, and enhancing the customer experience. This program continues to evolve and will certainly achieve continued success in 2014. We will continue to strive to be open, fair, trusted, and trusting, in all our relationships, both externally and internally. The company’s efforts focus on identifying observable behaviors, recognizing how perceptions become realities and how culture change can only happen as assumptions, mindsets, and ultimately, behaviors change. Changing culture is also about cascading new behaviors down throughout the company. This change will take time because behaviors are well-rooted but we will be diligent and persistent in working to bring about this change throughout all levels of our business. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Con Edison offers a competitive compensation and benefits program to attract and retain management and union employees. The wages and benefits of union personnel are negotiated with their respective labor unions Local 1-2, Utility Workers Union of America, and Local 3 and 503, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. In 2011, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our compensation and benefits programs for management employees which included: leadership interviews, focus groups, and surveys to find out our management employees preferences for their benefits programs. The ensuing changes, which went into effect in 2013, include everything employees perceive to be of value resulting from the employment relationship including compensation, paid holidays, vacation, sick leave, long-term disability insurance, medical insurance, a prescription drug plan, vision care, dental plan, commuter transportation reimbursement accounts, health-care and dependent-care reimbursement accounts, group term life insurance, a stock purchase and 401(k) savings program with a company match, and retirement benefits. The company also provides wellness programs that include annual flu vaccinations, a smoking cessation program, in-house counseling services for employees and family members with substance abuse problems, outside work-home wellness counseling for employees and their families, eldercare counseling and information services, life-planning seminars, and discounted admission to cultural institutions. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders Con Edison is one of the largest companies in New York State, and plays a major role in the economic development of the New York metropolitan area. We employ more than 14,600 people, purchase goods and services from community-based organizations, and are one of the largest taxpayers in both the city and the state. Our managers identify significant business and operational risks and liabilities to the company, ensuring that they are prudently addressed to minimize their impacts on our performance. In 2013, we were proud that Con Edison was named one of the top 40 energy company by Public Utilities Fortnightly magazine, a national industry publication. Each year the magazine ranks publicly traded electric and gas companies, naming those that provide the greatest value for shareholders. Con Edison was selected from 82 of the country’s utilities with major assets in energy production, transportation, and retail delivery, plus positive shareholder equity value for the past four years. The magazine measures each utility on financial performance — profitability, dividend yield, cash flow, return on equity, and return on assets — together with a sustainable growth-rate calculation, to produce an overall picture of a company’s value and long-term prospects. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS SUPPLY CHAIN Supply Chain At Con Edison, we recognize that our suppliers are an important part of our value chain and their performance can impact our sustainability. While we have an established purchasing program and have made progress in a number of areas related to sustainability, we are excited for what 2014 will bring as we join for the first time the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. We are looking forward to partnering with our utility peers to share and learn best practices to address sustainability issues throughout our supply chain as we look to improve our processes at Con Edison of New York and Orange Rockland and better understand the social and environmental impact of our upstream suppliers. VENDOR APPROVAL AND TRACKING The regulated utilities have a strict vendor qualification process, ensuring that the companies we contract with are able to provide the highest quality goods and services at the most reasonable cost for our customers. Once approved, Con Edison monitors key risk indicators of all suppliers via periodic review of financial stability, sound policies and procedures regarding supplier performance and disclosure information, and monitoring of market trends and economic and financial forecasts. Con Edison’s purchasing department defines select “critical suppliers” as critical component suppliers and non-substitutable suppliers. For these select critical suppliers, Purchasing collaborated with the Corporate ERM team and developed specific risk profiles outlining causes and consequences of loss of these critical suppliers and specific Key Risk Indicators and are continually monitored. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Con Edison’s award-winning supplier diversity program invites entrepreneurs and executives to partner with us in mutually beneficial business relationships. As we continue to serve the energy needs of the world’s most dynamic marketplace, we look forward to expanding our commercial relationships with New York’s vibrant community of women and minority entrepreneurs and business owners. Our unique model is based on the premise that our company can not only have a positive impact through its direct operational and supply chain activities but also that our sustainability efforts can realize a multiplier effect through our interaction with internal and external stakeholders. Our initiative is a collaboration with the Supplier Diversity Program, Public Affairs Program, and Energy Efficiency Program. Most recently we have partnered with the non-profit organization Green City Force to develop a pipeline of employment for residents of the New York City Housing Projects to do energy efficiency related work. We have begun to receive commitments from minority-owned and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) to hire graduates of the Green City Force program and the first group of graduates have been hired. We collaborated with the Con Edison Energy Efficiency Team to host a “Tech Expo,” in which we gave major real estate owners a chance to learn about Con Edison funded incentives that can help them reduce their energy consumption and we introduced them to MWBE contractors and MWBE businesses that have cutting edge technology to dramatically reduce the cost of their buildings and enhance the value of their real estate. We also worked with external groups to support our company’s commitment to sustainability. Working with the New York/ New Jersey chapter of the National Minority Supplier Development Council we co-sponsored a major “Sustainability Summit.” This conference was organized with the purpose of identifying and promoting companies that foster a green supply chain and promote energy efficiency. Participants included representatives from major corporations and also investors interested in supporting the growth of companies in this field. Through our affiliation with the national Utility trade association Edison Electric Institute, we organized a tour of Silicon Valley at their 2013 National Conference held in California, in which we visited MWBE firms with cutting edge technologies in the area of energy efficiency. This tour was part of our efforts to promote sustainable solutions that are developed by MWBE firms throughout the utility industry. A cornerstone of the supplier diversity program is company expenditures. Goods and services purchased from minority-and women-owned business enterprises totaled more than $270 million in 2013. Including fuel and gas, expenditures with minority-and women-owned businesses totaled more than $288 million. GREEN SPEND Along with a commitment to invest in our supplier diversity program, we also recognize that as a Fortune 500 company, the money we spend can also help to develop emerging markets, such as the development and supply of green products. For this reason, we have committed to spend $3 million annually on green products, which we exceeded in 2013. AVOIDING COLLUSION Ethical behavior is a priority at Con Edison, but in recent years we have been victimized by 16 company employees and retirees as a result of three separate kickback schemes. The company immediately initiated an internal investigation after the uncovering of the first scheme and has cooperated with both federal and local authorities in their investigations. The company terminated employment of the arrested employees and its contracts with the vendors. We have made numerous procedural and organizational changes to help prevent these issues from recurring in the future. After the initial scheme was discovered in 2009, the company began to re-evaluate how critical positions in our Purchasing, Construction Management, and Energy Services departments are filled, which resulted in implementing a rotational policy to ensure that employees in these organizations periodically shift work and responsibilities. These changes reflect the company's commitment to maintaining the trust of our ratepayers, shareholders, and community stakeholders. Moving forward, we continue to aggressively investigate all allegations of fraud, misconduct, and unethical behavior of our employees, and will continue to work with law enforcement when necessary. For more information on the company’s commitment to ethical behavior with suppliers, please see our Standards of Business Conduct (http://www.conedison.com/investor/pdfs/standards-of-business-conduct.pdf) and Business Ethics (2d.governance.html#s2d2) section of this report. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DATA SNAPSHOT COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW Con Edison, Inc. (CEI) is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy companies, with over $12 billion in annual revenues and more than $40 billion in assets. The principal business segments of Con Edison, Inc. are Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. with regulated electric, gas, and steam utility activities; Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. with regulated electric and gas utility activities; and Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses. Con Edison, Inc. is headquartered in New York City with virtually all its revenues generated in the United States. Con Edison, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, ticker symbol ED. Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses participate in segments of the electricity industry that include electric generation from renewable sources, trading of electricity and fuel, sales of electricity to wholesale and retail customers, and sales of certain energy-related goods and services. For more information, please visit the CEI website, conEdison.com (http://conedison.com). COMPANY PROFILES CON EDISON OF NEW YORK Con Edison of New York (CECONY) is CEI’s largest subsidiary. It is a regulated utility providing electric service throughout New York City (except for a small area of Queens) and most of Westchester County. Con Edison of New York also provides natural gas service in Manhattan, the Bronx, and parts of Queens and Westchester. Con Edison of New York operates one of the world’s largest steam distribution systems, providing service for 1,700 customers in Manhattan south of 96th Street. Steam is used year-round, for heat and hot water in the winter, and for air-conditioning in the summer. Overall, CECONY serves a population of nearly 10 million and more than 50 million annual visitors to New York City, throughout a service territory covering 660 square miles. Selected information on the scale of Con Edison of New York operations is provided in the following table. For more information visit the CECONY website, conEd.com (http://www.coned.com). ORANGE AND ROCKLAND UTILITIES Orange and Rockland (O&R) is a wholly owned CEI-regulated subsidiary, headquartered in Pearl River, New York, that delivers both electricity and natural gas in southeastern New York and northeastern Pennsylvania, and electricity in northern New Jersey. Within its tri-state service territory, O&R provides service to a population of roughly 740,000 in a service territory of approximately 1,350 square miles. Selected O&R characteristics are presented in the table below. For more information, visit the O&R website, oru.com (http://oru.com). CON EDISON SOLUTIONS Con Edison Solutions (CES) is a leading energy services company that provides competitive power supply, renewable energy, sustainability services, cost-effective energy-efficiency solutions, and performance contracting services for commercial, industrial, residential, and government customers nationwide. The company is based in Valhalla, New York, with offices in Burlington, Massachusetts; Cherry Hill, New Jersey; Chicago, Illinois; Falls Church, Virginia; Houston, Texas; Tampa, Florida; and Overland Park, Kansas. The company offers innovative products, financial stability, and a commitment to customer service. The firm's dedicated team of energy professionals delivers a broad range of energy solutions. Con Edison Solutions offers programs and services designed to help customers achieve their individual energy objectives. It is accredited as an Energy Services Provider (ESP) by the National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO). Con Edison Solutions serves retail electric commodity customers in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Texas, Illinois, Maine, Rhode Island, Ohio, and the District of Columbia, and retail gas commodity customers in New York and New Jersey. For more information, visit the CES website, conedsolutions.com (http://conedsolutions.com). CON EDISON DEVELOPMENT Con Edison Development (CED) is a leading developer, owner, and operator of renewable and energy infrastructure projects with a primary, but not exclusive, focus on grid-connected utility-scale solar facilities located in North America. The company’s investments include: ownership interests in solar energy projects in California, Arizona, Nevada, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts, with an aggregate capacity of 392 MW; a gas storage corporation, and an investment in an affordable-housing partnership. Through its deep resources and trusted relationships with a range of energy-related companies, CED continues to build its pipeline of renewable energy projects and opportunistically grow its portfolio. For more information, visit the CED website, coneddev.com (http://coneddev.com). CON EDISON ENERGY Con Edison Energy (CEE) manages the output and fuel requirements for over 7,300 MW of third-party generating plants in the northeastern United States. The company also provides wholesale hedging and risk management services to CES and CED. In addition, the company contracts for and optimizes energy assets such as transmission, ISO interfaces, natural gas storage and transportation. For more information, visit the CEE website, conedenergy.com 