SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY Employee Health & Safety Con Edison’s 2019 injury and illness rate of 1.26 exceeded our goal of 1.00, but was still one of our three lowest Occupational Safety and Health Administration injury rates after the company achieved its historically lowest rate in 2017. We had 165 recordable employee injuries last year, and experienced five high-hazard injuries. The company remains focused on achieving a zero-accident workplace, and remains committed to making safety not only a top priority, but a core principle embedded in our culture. Con Edison has reduced injuries by more than 64% since 2009. Orange & Rockland achieved its third best injury and illness rate of 1.46 in 2019, had no significant high-hazard injuries, and has seen a 69% reduction in injuries and illnesses since 2009. Key focus areas for sustained improvement include: Promoting a first-class safety culture by supporting everyone using their voice to participate in safety every day, every task and every job Focusing on high-hazard injury prevention by closing gaps prior to injuries through proactively identifying and addressing unseen hazards Using and developing tools by leveraging data and thorough job briefings to drive us to a zero hard workplace Con Edison of New York OSHA Rate Orange & Rockland continues its progress toward a zero-harm workplace thanks to the joint union-management Corporate Safety Committee, Company Safety Team, and 12 organization-specific safety teams. O&R is seeking to achieve an injury and illness incidence rate in the first quartile comparable to our utility peers. To improve our motor vehicle and driver performance, we have begun using in-vehicle monitoring systems with real-time feedback in many of our vehicles. This helps our drivers remain focused on zero-harm. Our communications program incorporates lessons learned from these systems, root cause analysis results (from injury and collision reviews), close-call reporting, and other measures that have also contributed to our overall performance. Orange and Rockland OSHA Rate SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT PUBLIC SAFETY Public Safety We invested more than $3 billion in 2019 to fortify our electric, gas, and steam infrastructure. This investment underscores our commitment to providing energy to millions of customers efficiently and responsibly while protecting the environment and keeping people safe throughout our service area. ELECTRIC Con Edison continues to develop tools, techniques, and management strategies to improve safety, troubleshoot problems, and increase efficiency. Distribution Engineering and Electric Operations teams developed thermal imaging for scanning secondary assets in high-activity areas for incipient faults and introduced latched vented manhole covers. These efforts complement previously existing programs including stray voltage detection, cover venting, and underground inspection. Con Edison’s underground networks are surveyed for contact voltage 12 times a year, using mobile detectors. In 2019, we found and eliminated 7,987 cases of contact voltage. Of those, 2,661 cases (33%) were on non-Con Edison equipment (streetlights, electric signs, and other structures). We performed more than 16,185 inspections of our underground system (manholes, service boxes, and transformer vaults). O&R’s electric system testing is completed at least once every five years. In 2019, O&R found and eliminated eight cases of contact voltage, seven on company-owned and one on non-company owned equipment, and performed 36,490 inspections and 36,711 tests. GAS As part of our ongoing effort to reduce our carbon footprint and sharpen our focus on natural gas safety, we worked with the New York State Public Service Commission, New York City, and the Environmental Defense Fund to develop a program to identify and reduce emissions from small volume, non-hazardous leaks of methane gas. This effort is not mandated by regulations. Historically, these non-hazardous leaks were prioritized and scheduled for repair based on the availability of resources and other factors such as age of the leak and complexity of the repair. In 2017 and 2018, we focused on reducing the number of non.hazardous leaks on the list by successfully prioritizing and eliminating 140 out of the top 150 gas leaks. We continued to experience historically low levels of total leaks through 2019 and reduce the time it takes to repair all leaks to historically low levels. We have significantly increased investments that modernize our gas delivery system, further enhancing public safety and reducing leaks. The investments include accelerating our cast iron and unprotected steel gas main replacement program. In 2019, were placed 97 miles of such mains (the most we’ve ever replaced in one year). We continue to perform monthly gas leak patrols of our entire gas distribution system. Additionally, we have improved our emergency response procedures by working with the Fire Department of New York as well as coordinating with key city agencies. We are also continuing to work closely with the New York City Department of Buildings to establish requirements and protocols related to gas pipe inspections in buildings and the mandated use of residential methane detectors. In 2019 we completed a pilot program to install 9,000 natural gas detectors in buildings. The detectors send a signal to our emergency response center when a leak is detected. We will begin full deployment of these detectors starting in 2020. Con Edison has a comprehensive, multichannel, and multilingual campaign to educate customers and the public at large—an estimated 10 million people across New York City and Westchester County—about gas safety and the urgency of reporting gas leaks. We reach customers primarily through direct mailings, youth outreach efforts, advertising, digital initiatives (such as email campaigns, conEd.com and social media), and community events. We also continued our successful media campaign, Smell Gas, Act Fast, featuring videos and social media posts that inform customers on what to do if they smell gas. The videos are in English, Spanish, Chinese, and Korean. Orange & Rockland We have continued our focus on enhancing public safety by modernizing our gas delivery system. Investments to replace leak-prone pipe, primarily unprotected steel and Aldyl gas mains, have resulted in fewer incoming, outside leaks. In 2019, we replaced more than 24 miles of gas main. We quickly respond to gas odor and carbon monoxide calls, and in 2019 we achieved a historical best response rate— responding to more than 92% of calls in 30 minutes. By providing education to and oversight of those performing excavation work near our gas system, we experienced less damage than ever to our gas system. We continue to perform gas leak patrols of our distribution system, and have kept the number of open leaks low throughout the year. As a result of a change in regulation, we are performing internal corrosion inspections and offered residential methane detectors free of charge to interested customers. Also last year, we launched a pilot program to install natural gas detectors that send a signal through the smart meter communication network to our gas emergency response center when a leak is detected. O&R has a comprehensive campaign to educate customers and the public at large about gas safety and the urgency of reporting gas leaks. We reach customers primarily through direct mailings, advertising, digital initiatives, and community events. STEAM We provide steam service to some 3 million people in Manhattan through an underground network of pipes. By generating steam primarily through co-generation, we provide efficient production and reduce emissions that would otherwise be generated by localized boilers and equipment. We focus on identifying ways to lower costs to customers, maintain high reliability, improve resiliency, and protect the environment. Throughout 2019, a dedicated Con Edison team worked with various third-party investigators and experts to determine the factors which led to the Flatiron steam main rupture that occurred on July 19, 2018. The team analyzed numerous scenarios and was able to identify the root cause of the event. Based on this determination and associated contributing factors, Con Edison has developed its incident action plan, which includes the following items: A full assessment of the steam distribution system accompanied by a risk scoring model and internal inspection program Pilot projects to investigate enhanced sensing equipment to identify anomalies Enhancement of the remote monitoring system and its components The action plan items listed above will each independently improve the reliability, resiliency, and overall safety of the steam system. In 2019, Steam Distribution replaced 17 steel anchors with state-of-the art Inconel-625 anchors. Additionally, using capital funding, we have rebuilt 13 manhole structures, and replaced nine main valves. We installed 473 universal-type trap combinations with thermocouples, which allows for monitoring of uncontrolled steam releases from manholes. A program has been in place to replace all internally pressurized expansion joints in the system. In 2019, we removed and replaced the last two expansion joints that were left on the system for a total of 1,600 since the start of the program. Throughout 2019, we strived for safe and efficient operations while meeting our customers’ needs and maintaining focus on continued bill reductions. We concluded the year with an overall system reliability rate of 100% and met a peak demand of 8.4 million pounds of steam on January 31, 2019. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS GHG Emissions Reductions We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and firmly support efforts by local, state, and federal agencies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have reduced our carbon emissions by 51% since 2005. Sixty percent of Con Edison’s annual steam production comes from co-generation, which lowers emissions by one million tons of carbon dioxide, CO2, per year. We continue to report voluntarily to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on our efforts to lower emissions of sulfur hexafluoride, SF6, from our electrical equipment, and we worked with Electric Power Research Institute to develop a new SF6 leak sealing technique. We are a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program with the aim of reducing methane emissions. We work with experts and seek out new methane leak detection technology to enhance the efforts of our leak survey crews. As part of our ongoing efforts, we continue to accelerate the replacement of leak prone pipe and respond to the vital warning signals provided by our residential methane detectors. We are installing smart meters in our service area, providing the ability to optimize energy usage and improve efficiency which helps lower carbonemissions. Con Edison, Inc. Direct GHG Emissions - Scope 1 (thousand metric tons CO2e) • 33.4 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent total emission avoided since 2005 • We have reduced our carbon footprint by 51 percent since 2005 – the equivalent of taking 500,000 vehicles off the road • Note: Emissions from electric generation at the Con Edison Development electric generating plants, which were sold in 2008, have been removed from the above data set. Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with delivering products to customers (e.g., electrical transmission losses) Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with customers using CEI products (e.g., customers’ use of delivered gas) STEAM ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS We strive to provide customers with FDA-quality steam, of which 60% is co-generated. Because the steam is co-generated, customers can apply for points toward their Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification and increase their score in Energy Star’s portfolio manager. Our co-generated steam reduces carbon emissions by approximately 25% of what would have been otherwise emitted through traditional boilers—that’s equal to removing approximately 200,000 vehicles from the road every year. Our customers also benefit from the advantages of steam being a centralized district heating system which reduces onsite emissions. These centralized investments benefit all customer buildings. The ability of the district system to aggregate a wide variety of customer load profiles also allows for a higher average efficiency than what can be achieved at a single location. All these benefits are reflected in the most recent NYC Local Law 97, where our district steam was identified as the lowest greenhouse gas emitting energy source per unit of energy delivered. In alignment with the city’s and state’s commitments to significantly reduce greenhouse gases by 2050, we are evaluating all opportunities that could help lower our environmental footprint. We acknowledge that business as usual is not and cannot be the way of the future to achieve these goals, which is why we are taking a more forward-thinking approach, conducting research and evaluating opportunities for more efficient generation while leveraging existing and emerging technologies. To continue operations and supporting our customers in a changing environment, Steam Operations has been proactive in several efforts, such as benchmarking with other district systems in cities that are leveraging their district energy networks to achieve their carbon reduction goals. Steam Operations has also established an initial list of carbon-reduction technologies to evaluate and determine the feasibility of implementation with the existing steam system. These technologies include: alternative fuel sources, electrification via electric boilers, expanding and/or converting to hot water systems, wasted heat recovery sources, and other emission reduction technologies. Steam Operations has also been an active member in discussions and studies as regulations and city and state plans evolve. ENERGY EFFICIENCY CUSTOMERS' EMISSIONS Please refer to the Energy Efficiency section under Customer & Community. (/customer-and-community/distributed-energy.resources/) REDUCTION OF SF6 EMISSIONS In accordance with a 1999 memorandum of understanding between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Con Edison, we agreed to reduce our emissions of SF6 gas (sulfur hexafluoride) by 5% annually from our 1996 baseline. In 2019, we released about 97% less SF6 than in 1996, well ahead of our commitment to the EPA. SF6 is a nontoxic, nonflammable greenhouse gas, with a warming potential more than 22,000 times higher than carbon dioxide, that can remain in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. There is no viable alternative to SF6, which is a highly efficient insulating medium and arc extinguisher used throughout the energy industry in different types of equipment, including high-voltage breakers and gas-insulated switchgear. Limiting emissions will contribute to a cleaner environment and help to reduce global warming. Con Edison highly values environmental excellence. While we have greatly reduced our emissions in the past decade, we are striving to continue to reduce our emissions even lower. Our goal for the next five years, starting in 2020, is to reduce our emissions by 500 pounds each year. This is a rate of more than 5% annually from the current levels. To reduce SF6 emissions we use varying programs and a dedicated team to address leaking equipment in a timely matter. We have several targeted programs to replace or retire SF6 equipment, including circuit breakers, automatic ground switches and gas-insulated switchgear. Also, the dedicated team constantly monitors the emissions of all equipment daily using a tracking software program to enable quick and efficient repairs of trouble equipment. The team then uses best management practices, including innovative new leak sealing techniques to make the necessary repairs, as well as handling the gas properly with minimal emissions. (million metric tons CO2e) METHANE CHALLENGE In 2016, Con Edison joined 40 other local distribution companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program. The goal of this program is to reduce methane emissions by replacing a significant number of natural gas mains. Our participation in this program was a natural extension of our participation in the Natural Gas STAR program, which we helped found in 1993. The Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program is an EPA/partner company collaboration that promotes and tracks ambitious, transparent commitments to voluntarily reduce methane emissions beyond regulatory requirements. Our goal is to replace 4% of our cast iron and unprotected steel mains (without cathodic protection) each year. Since entering this partnership, we have exceeded that replacement goal by more than six miles the first year, replacing 86.3 miles of main in 2017, which represented 4.3% of our total mains inventory. We also exceeded our 2018 goal of 85 miles by replacing 92 miles of mains, which represents 4.7% of the new total. And in 2019 we continued to exceed our goal by replacing 97 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel mains. (Specific details on how we would reach our goals were in our implementation plan, submitted to the EPA in 2016.) As a comparison of how we’ve successfully increased main replacement, between 2014 and 2016 we replaced an average of more than 70 miles of main annually. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT AIR QUALITY/NON-GHG EMISSIONS Air Quality/Non-GHG Emissions We predominantly use natural gas for energy production. However, to maintain reliability during periods of gas-system limitations, we retain a backup fuel source. During the past two years, less polluting No. 4 oil has replaced the heavier No. 6 oil as the backup fuel in all of our steam and electric generating stations. In the next few years, our generating facilities will be further transitioning to No. 2 oil, which is lighter and has a lower concentration of criteria pollutants than No. 4 oil, and aligns with New York City’s goal of reducing local air pollution and GHG emissions. DIRECT EMISSIONS (thousand metric tons ) 