OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Ethical Business Practices Our strong business ethics are founded on the company’s values of service, honesty, concern, courtesy, excellence, and teamwork. We are committed to conducting business using the highest ethical standards. How we do business, how we treat our customers and business partners, and how we treat one another all contribute to how we are perceived in the marketplace and, ultimately, to our long-term viability. Our Values in Action Advisor network of 85 employees assists the organization in maintaining a culture of integrity in their departments. We conduct ethics and compliance training for all employees. The Compliance Management team works with organizations throughout the company to build and maintain the infrastructure for our compliance programs. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CLIMATE RESILIENCE Climate Resilience CECONY made a $1-billion investment to fortify our energy-delivery systems against extreme weather. O&R spent $11.4 million on storm hardening last year. CECONY upgrades included more resilient cables, poles that can withstand winds up to 110 mph, and flood-proof equipment. For its efforts in restoring power to numerous households and businesses after Superstorm Sandy, CECONY received an Emergency Response Excellence Award in 2016 from Davies Consulting. The enhancements made to its core systems after Sandy have helped to improve efficiency and overall resiliency during major storms while also reducing the environmental impact. The company has fortified perimeter walls, installed gates and floodwalls, and raised critical equipment out of harm’s way. It has reinforced flood-prone locations to ensure that power keeps flowing during the most severe floods and customer outages are greatly reduced. To address future climate change risks, the company is conducting a study to understand the vulnerability of our energy systems to climate change and identify adaptation options to enhance system resiliency. The study will use the latest available climate science to project future weather scenarios for our service territory out to the year 2080. The weather scenario projections will be used to evaluate potential impacts to the company’s electric, gas and steam systems. Based on these impacts, we will evaluate adaptation options such as revisions to design standards and operating processes. A risk mitigation plan will then be created with a portfolio of solutions to provide the required resiliency. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CORE SYSTEM UPGRADES Core System Upgrades Installation of smart meters as part of the company’s Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) began in June. An AMI Operations Center monitors our AMI infrastructure. Installation of our advanced communication networks on Staten Island and in Rockland and Westchester Counties has been ahead of schedule this year. We started the installation of smart meters on the Brooklyn network three months ahead of schedule and are planning to complete the installation of almost half of the Brooklyn network in 2017. Con Edison’s new website and digital customer experience use smart-meter data to give customers more control over their energy usage. New technology in households, including methane and carbon-monoxide detectors, will continue to improve public safety. Our system provides two-way communication that improves integration of existing sites and control of underground network protector switches. A smarter grid allows us to operate more efficiently and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by making it easier to integrate renewable energy sources into the grid. Improved system operation and outage management will lead to fewer trucks in the field, further reducing greenhouse gas emissions. By adjusting the voltage on the grid through Conservation Voltage Optimization, we anticipate the AMI system will save $40 million a year in fuel costs. By 2022, we’ll have nearly 5 million smart meters in service through an installation plan that ramps up to approximately 5,000 meters a day along with a new wireless communication platform. CECONY also invested $1.5 billion in 2017 to fortify its electric delivery systems during the summer. Upgrades and improvements included installations of 18 network transformers and 140 overhead transformers. That equipment can transmit electricity to power about 5,600 homes or 3.7 million iPhones. TRANSMISSION PIPE ENHANCEMENT We are investing $83 million to accelerate the refurbishment of 7,500 trench feet per year of leak-prone pipes in 2017 and 2018. We refurbished approximately 6,744 trench feet of piping in 2016. We are investing $5 million in spill cleanups to improve the environment. We expect to make significant progress in research and development to reduce the potential for oil spills. We’re also investing in research and development that can replace existing feeders with solid dielectric cable that can be cooled with water or air instead of oil. Our underground transmission system consists of 660 miles of 69, 138, and 345 kilovolt feeders encased in steel pipe surrounded by high-pressure dielectric fluid (a non-toxic mineral oil). Approximately nine million gallons of dielectric fluid circulate through the system to cool and insulate our feeders. The fluid moves through cooling plants at nominal pressures of 200 pounds per square inch. The conductors inside our steel pipes are wrapped in paper insulation. We are investing $97 million by 2019 to accelerate the refurbishment of 7,500 trench feet per year of leak-prone pipes. We refurbished approximately 6,744 trench feet of piping in 2016. We are investing $5 million in spill cleanups to improve the environment. We’re also investing in research and development that can replace existing feeders with solid dielectric cable that can be cooled with water or air instead of oil. Our leak-detection system is one of the most sophisticated in the world: We use online monitoring to check the integrity of our system We infuse our oil with a special tracer gas to help us locate leaks If significant leaks occur, we remove feeders from service to allow them to be placed on reduced pressure to slow the leak rate, and We use full-time patrols to find and repair leaks To repair leaks, we excavate to uncover the feeder pipes and apply a mechanical clamp to stop the flow. Permanent repairs are complete when a concentric steel barrel is wielded over the clamp and the pipe. To reduce leaks from our transmission feeders, we accelerate repairs to the coating on our pipes. RELIABILITY PERFORMANCE The standards for measuring the reliability of distribution service are the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) and the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI). SAIFI is compiled annually, and the figure represents the number of service interruptions divided by the number of customers served. CAIDI is also compiled annually; it represents the average time to restore service to interrupted customers. The CAIDI figure results from the total customer minutes of interruption divided by the total number of customers affected. For both figures, a low number indicates a better performance. 2016 NUMBERS FOR CECONY (electric) SAIFI: 0.126 CAIDI: 149.4 minutes 2016 NUMBERS FOR O&R (electric) SAIFI: 1.056 CAIDI: 101.9 minutes GAS MAIN REPLACEMENT In 2016, CECONY replaced over 79 miles of cast-iron and unprotected steel pipe. This replacement rate is the highest ever recorded by our company in a single year. It also meets the 4 percent replacement rate that we targeted in accordance with the EPA’s Methane Challenge. The miles of replaced pipes exceed our company’s commitment to the New York State Public Service Commission by more than five miles. Replacement of cast iron and unprotected steel pipe with modern plastic mains or protected steel mains prevented a leakage of 12.8 million of cubic feet of natural gas annually. Methane, the primary element in natural gas, is a major greenhouse gas. Preventing this amount of methane leakage is equivalent to the greenhouse gas emissions associated with driving a vehicle approximately 1,700 miles. O&R invested approximately $45 million in its gas infrastructure. It replaced 24 miles of leak-prone pipes, and eliminated all cast-iron pipes in Rockland County. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE SUPPLY CHAIN Supply Chain Supply Chain contributes significantly to our company’s sustainability by enhancing safety, purchasing environmentally friendly products, diverting waste from landfills, and supporting small businesses and minority- and women-owned businesses. In support of our company’s commitment to lower greenhouse emissions, Supply Chain awarded more than $154 million in contracts to help customers convert from oil to cleaner natural gas. In 2016, we initiated a Gold Shovel Program—a safety training and certification program for all our construction vendors involved in digging up streets and doing gas construction work, demonstrating our commitment to safe excavation practices. Among our other accomplishments in 2016: We purchased more than $8 million of environmentally friendly products—hybrid vehicles, low-carbon fuels, recycled paper, toner, and carpet We diverted more than $9.5 million of waste from landfills by focusing on items such as scrap cable, meters, transformers, and paper We reclaimed over 200,000 gallons of oil from the electric system for reuse as a fuel in other industries We recruited a minority-owned business that collaborated with our R&D team and operations group to develop technology that identifies the release of dielectric fluid in manholes throughout our network. This technology lessens the need to open manholes on busy streets, improves response time, and reduces the need for flush trucks We awarded a $150 million contract for newly designed large power transformers that are energy efficient and safer (because they run cooler). They also use cleaner-burning biodegradable ester oil, which reduces our greenhouse gas emissions We continued our collaboration with a major electrical equipment supplier in a process that has yielded more than 750,000 pounds of reclaimed copper We purchased $292 million in goods and services from women- and minority-owned companies. Including purchases from non-diverse small businesses, we surpassed the $500 million mark for the first time—an important milestone because small businesses are a major source for creating jobs within our service area As members of the Electric Utility Sustainable Supply Chain Industry Alliance, we work with the nation’s largest energy companies to establish industry standards and guidance for vendors. We helped to develop smart-packaging guidelines that help our vendors create more efficient ways to package and ship products, resulting in cost savings and less harm to the environment. We regularly review, and enhance as needed, our Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure that it addresses important sustainability issues, which may include but not be limited to human rights, environmental management, responsible procurement and supplier diversity. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE GOVERNANCE 