Water Conservation  and Water Quality Safety & Environment New York City is fortunate to be located in a water-rich environment. The city’s water is supplied from three upstate reservoir systems (Delaware, Catskill, and Croton) that have a combined capacity of 550 billion gallons of water, according to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (NYCDEP). The New York City Panel on Climate Change’s 2019 report predicts that precipitation will increase in the coming years, including a higher rate of extreme precipitation events. Unlike many areas of the United States today, water management in our region is not about scarcity. Regardless, we strive to reduce our water consumption, and water conservation efforts will continue to be factored into our business planning. The vast majority of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.’s (CECONY) water footprint is converted into steam, which is an integral source of clean, efficient energy. Steam is distributed to our customers for a variety of uses, such as heat, hot water, air conditioning, sterilization, and food processing. As one of NYCDEP’s largest water customers, we are committed to our stakeholders and the environment to strive to minimize the amount of water used to produce steam. We aim to reduce our water footprint by improving the efficiency of our steam system and implementing water treatment system enhancements. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - WATER CONSERVATION AND WATER QUALITY Our water usage has decreased by more than 20% over the past decade. This is due in part to a decrease in demand for steam and also due to several major technology upgrades that have reduced our water consumption. At the East River Generating Station, we recently installed ultrafiltration (UF) and reverse-osmosis (RO) filtration systems in two of our generating units. These additional filtration systems add two initial steps to the water filtration process. Before upgrading to include this pre-filtration system, a considerable amount of water was used to clean the original filtration system at least once daily. Now, our UF and RO filtration systems efficiently remove minerals and debris from the water early in the purification process, reducing demineralizer cleanings to two or three a month. This upgrade has enabled us to reduce our overall water consumption and use water more efficiently. We are now in the process of updating the pre-filtration process in two additional units at the station and are already seeing savings of approximately 1 million gallons of water each month. By the end of 2022, we aim to complete these upgrades. Water Quality and Effluent Management At CECONY, we responsibly manage our effluent, which is primarily discharged from our steam plants into the Hudson River or East River. Every CECONY steam plant has a State Pollution Discharge Elimination System (SPDES) permit that allows our facilities to discharge water into the river, assuming our effluent meets the designated criteria for each station. Each steam plant maintains pH and suspended solids monitoring so that effluent remains within the requirements of our permits. Preventing Spills to Waterways Utility operations entail the use of equipment that contains oil. These operations include the storage of petroleum fuels needed to maintain utility service during gas supply contingencies and the use of dielectric fluid (a type of mineral oil) to dissipate heat from operating equipment. CECONY has robust plans to quickly contain accidental oil spills before they reach waterways and impact the aquatic environment. The adequacy of these plans is regularly reviewed and, as needed, operational improvements are implemented to improve spill response capabilities. CECONY is in the midst of a multi-year, $65 million dollar initiative to upgrade spill containment structures that further reduce the risk of spills from oil-filled equipment. CECONY recently completed the installation of containment “moats” around 44 oil-containing large power transformers (LPTs) at its waterfront substations so that all waterfront LPTs are now enclosed by moats. CECONY is now working to complete the construction of moats around LPTs system-wide. Con Edison Steam Operations - DEP Municipal Water Use (billion gallons) Water Used to Produce Electricity Water Used to Produce Steam Steam Purchased by Customers 0.22 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Note: This chart displays steam operations data only. On average, more than 65% of Steam Operations’ water footprint is distributed to customers as steam energy purchased for their needs. ISO Certification Safety & Environment The Con Edison Environmental Management System (EMS) is certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001:2015 standard. The purpose of the ISO 14001:2015 standard is to provide a framework and systematic approach to environmental management. ISO 14001:2015 requires a commitment from all levels of the Con Edison organization, led by the top management, to environmental protection through pollution prevention and continuous improvement. ISO 14001 certification gives Con Edison and their stakeholders a means of verification that the EMS is operating at a world-class standard. Con Edison through implementation of an ISO 14001 certified EMS is committed to: • Improving safety and environmental performance • Strengthening regulatory compliance • Enhancing relationships with our stakeholders • Identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential • Promoting wise and effective use of natural resources We have, over 19 consecutive years, maintained our ISO 14001 certification through a rigorous third-party certification process. In 2017, our certification was upgraded from ISO 14001:2004 to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard by a two-week audit conducted by Intertek Testing Services NA, a third-party auditor. We received our re-certification in 2020. Our chemical laboratory operations are third party certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2017, general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories standard. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - ISO CERTIFICATION Operational Excellence Cyber Security & Data Privacy Ethical Business Practices Climate Resilience Core System Upgrades Fuel Mix & Generating Capacity Supply Chain Governance Enterprise Risk Management Cyber Security  & Data Privacy Operational Excellence New technology brings new challenges, and cybersecurity has been identified as a key enterprise risk for the company. Our information security group has a defense in depth approach, deploying cybersecurity tools to identify and prevent attacks both externally and internally. The cybersecurity program is aligned with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and is embedded in all technology initiatives. The company complies with regulatory cybersecurity requirements and takes a leading posture in the development of new standards, regulations, and industry initiatives. We work with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as our colleagues in the energy business, to identify and employ the latest technological tools to protect our customers and our equipment. We collaborate with these partners to share threat information and best practices, and conduct joint cybersecurity drills. Internally, we provide an annual presentation and monthly updates on cybersecurity risks to the Board, and the Audit Committee reviews more in-depth cybersecurity matters semi-annually. With the increasing threat of cybercrime, we continue to strengthen our cyber security and data-protection efforts. They include continuous monitoring, vulnerability assessments, employee education, regular drills, and phishing tests. The company continues to advance data privacy through monitoring regulated activities related to personal data collection, use, and sharing; and maintaining compliance with applicable data privacy laws and privacy policies. Our well-established privacy team continues to guide IT and key business teams employing Privacy by Design principles to contemplate and mitigate data privacy risks at the time of system or process design and implementation. The privacy team is responsible for the Company’s appropriate handling of customer and employee personal information and regularly trains and educates teams across the organization to maintain awareness and careful attention to protective measures. Additionally, the company recently established the role of Chief Privacy Officer in recognition of the growing importance of privacy to customers, regulators, and stakeholders. The company remains focused on the evolving data privacy regulatory landscape, taking proactive measures and building forward-looking tools and processes in anticipation of more individual-centered business requirements. To hear more about our cybersecurity program and other topics, visit our SoundCloud. Ethical Business Practices Operational Excellence Our strong business ethics are founded on our corporate values and help us achieve our three priorities—safety, operational excellence, and customer experience. We are committed to conducting business with the highest ethical standards. How we do business, how we treat our customers and business partners, and how we treat one another all contribute to how we are perceived by others and, ultimately, to our long-term viability. Our Values in Action Advisor network of 130 employees and our Business Ethics Council with 15 members assist the organization in maintaining a culture of integrity. Our corporate values are at the heart of our Standards of Business Conduct. Our Standards of Business Conduct explain the behaviors expected of the employees of Con Edison and reinforce our corporate values. Our individual commitment to support and uphold them in every aspect of our work is the foundation of our culture of integrity. Based on the laws, regulations, and company policies we need to know and follow, our standards serve as a framework for ethical decision-making and direct us to the appropriate resources when we need help or more information. For more information, please read our Standards of Business Conduct (coned.com) Training Storytelling is a powerful tool that makes training more interesting and memorable. The 2021 Standards of Business Conduct training featured videos of our colleagues telling their personal ethics-related stories and learnings on select topics from the Standards of Business Conduct. In 2021, Business Ethics & Compliance raised awareness of ethics-related resources with an online quiz developed to test employees’ knowledge of ethics and compliance, fraud prevention, and cyber security. Approximately 950 of our colleagues participated. Additionally in 2021, Business Ethics & Compliance distributed several new engagement tools and resources: • Launched our Ethics Zone series of microlearning videos to help mitigate identified risks to the company with our first videos on cyber awareness and avoiding conflicts of interest; • Developed an Ethics App making it easier for colleagues to address questions and concerns; and • Released a video about the Ethics Helpline and Ethics Investigation process. Data Privacy We are committed to securing the personal and private information entrusted to us by employees, customers, and others. To enhance our data privacy and protection efforts, we brought on board our first Chief Privacy Officer (CPO). The CPO is focused on building a strong privacy compliance program and addressing improvement opportunities identified in recent assessments. Conflicts of Interest Avoiding conflicts of interest (or the appearance of conflicts of interest) is essential to acting with integrity. In 2021, all employees of the Con Edison companies completed a Certificate of Disclosure providing information on potential conflicts of interest. Business Ethics & Compliance worked with our colleagues to create plans to reduce the risks from their disclosures. Climate Resilience Operational Excellence In recent years, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (“CECONY” or “the Company”) has adopted an ever more proactive, forward-looking approach to system resiliency to address increasingly severe weather due to climate change. After Superstorm Sandy, we upgraded our infrastructure to be resilient to a 100-year storm plus one foot of sea level rise. In 2019, we completed a multi-year Climate Change Vulnerability Study to understand local climate change projections, identify potential system vulnerabilities that could result from the changing climate, and explore potential adaptation options to protect our infrastructure. In 2021, CECONY made progress toward strengthening our energy systems to address the adverse impacts of climate change and the potential for more extreme weather. We continue to change the way we do business to address climate change risks with the objective of maintaining safe and reliable service for the millions of people who rely on us for power. Our efforts included applying forecasting and design processes that more fully incorporate the expected future impacts of climate change. Our Climate Change Implementation Plan, filed with the New York State Public Service Commission in December 2020, guides the Company in identifying an adaptation strategy for climate resilience. Our key 2021 climate change resilience accomplishments were: 1. Employed our governance structure to manage climate change risks and build resilience: Our executive level Climate Risk and Resilience Executive Committee served as a catalyzes for change management throughout the organization to focus on climate resilience. This effort was supported by key individuals within the Company and our Climate Change Risk and Resilience Group worked directly with decision makers throughout the Company on climate resilience, adaptation, and investment strategies. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - CLIMATE RESILIENCE 2. Reviewed the Climate Change Planning and Design Guideline (“Guideline”): Our Climate Change Planning and Design Guideline reflects the best available climate science and aligns with regional benchmarks. The Guideline will help us consistently evaluate our system and operations. We continue to monitor and consider newly available climate information and climate policy changes as part of our ongoing work. 3. Adjustments to how we plan and design infrastructure for increasing climate change: By reviewing our specifications, procedures, and practices against anticipated changing climate conditions, we better understand how to proactively adapt our planning, operations, and emergency response. We have already made changes to address climate risks that support the resilience of our system and customers. New efforts include, for example, pilot programs to underground certain overhead segments of the electric distribution system to reduce vulnerability to climate impacts and accelerate select equipment replacements to counteract the aging effects of climate change on utility equipment. We recognize that our approach needs to be flexible as more is learned about climate change impacts. Continued collaboration with our stakeholders will be key to our ability to continue to provide safe, reliable, and resilient energy to our customers in a changing climate. For more information, please visit https://www.coned.com/resilience. Core System Upgrades Operational Excellence The Advanced Meter Infrastructure (AMI) project consists of 5.3 million smart meters— comprised of roughly 4.0 million electric smart meters and 1.3 million gas devices—which are being deployed across our service territories and will result in significant environmental, operational, and customer benefits. Smart meters put unprecedented control into the hands of our customers. With the Company’s updated website and digital customer experience, customers can see their energy usage in near real-time and make smarter, more informed decisions about managing their energy usage, controlling costs, and helping the environment. Deployment of the communications network and smart meters began in 2017 and is on target to be substantially complete by the end of 2022. More than 20,000 communications network devices have been installed throughout the Company’s entire service area. In 2017, meter installations began in Staten Island, Westchester, and Rockland County and mass deployment has been completed in these areas as well as Orange and Sullivan Counties. Mass meter deployment continues in Manhattan, the Bronx and Queens. To date, approximately 4.9 million devices have been installed. The AMI Operations Control Center has been staffed 24/7 to monitor the communications network, as well as the meters and gas modules connected to the network. The AMI project team has worked closely with Gas Operations and the AMI vendor to develop a first-of-its-kind, battery-powered natural gas detector that is integrated with the smart meter communications network. The natural gas detectors are safety devices that monitor the atmosphere where Con Edison’s gas pipes enter our customers’ homes and buildings. They provide an alert when natural gas levels in that area indicate a potentially dangerous leak. Through the AMI communications network, the detectors send a wireless alert to Con Edison if a potential gas leak has been detected, allowing Con Edison and the local OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - CORE SYSTEM UPGRADES fire department to respond quickly. A pilot program to install 9,000 detectors began in October 2018 in parts of Westchester County and this pilot was extended into Manhattan in 2019. The pilot program has been completed and the Company began a multi-year program in September 2020 to deploy the natural gas detectors across our service territories. Smart meter data provides CECONY and O&R with insight into outages and restoration, allowing us to see when a customer has power and to avoid sending a crew to a location where power has already been restored. These avoided “truck rolls” reduce costs as well as assist in our overall environmental goals by reducing CO2 emissions. In 2021, over 12,000 unnecessary truck rolls were avoided. The additional insight which smart meters provide regarding outages and restorations allows us to update how we address “nested” or “embedded” outages. These embedded outages are often not readily identified and are only found when we energize our electrical facilities. The AMI system can quickly notify operators of these conditions while enhancing the restoration communications that customers receive. Improvements in this area will continue over the next few years. AMI also lets the Company operate the system at optimal voltages—known as conservation voltage optimization—reducing total energy consumption, as well as associated power-generation emissions. Analysis shows that information from the AMI system can reduce energy usage across our service territory by approximately 1.5% on average, decreasing associated fuel use for committed generation resources. This results in an environmental reduction of 1.9% of total CO2 emissions, due to reduction of power generated annually by fossil fuel plants across our service territory. Engineers and planners will get more granular data, enabling potential design and operational improvements. CECONY began implementing voltage optimization in Staten Island at the end of 2018 and across Westchester and portions of Manhattan in 2019 as well as Bronx and Brooklyn in 2020. As of the end of 2021, voltage optimization has been implemented across 80 of 82 load areas across CECONY’s service territory. CECONY invested $993 million in our transmission and distribution systems in New York City and Westchester County in 2021 to improve the safety, reliability, and resiliency of the electric system. We invested in new customer connections and increased system capacity – including projects that facilitate the clean energy transition, replacement of defective or obsolete equipment, and system enhancements to reduce risk of outages or prolonged outages due to extreme weather events and high summer loads. Examples of resiliency investments include replacement of overhead lines with insulated lines that are more able to withstand impacts of extreme weather. To prepare for the summer 2021, CECONY invested in upgrades and reinforcements of distribution transformers, underground feeder sections, and spans of overhead cable. We will invest roughly $1.8 billion in 2022 on continued improvements in system safety, reliability, and resiliency and continue to invest in the infrastructure upgrades needed to support clean energy goals. In preparation for summer of 2022, CECONY will install cable and equipment to meet summer peak loads. As part of the clean energy transition, CECONY will invest approximately $268 million in 2022 towards new transmission infrastructure. The Reliable Clean City Projects (RCCP) are three multiyear transmission system projects that will create additional pathways for renewable energy and facilitate the retirement of select fossil generation units. All three projects are scheduled to be completed by the summer of 2025. Electric Transmission Pipe Enhancement We are planning to invest $26 million in 2022 to upgrade our underground dielectric fluid-filled electric transmission cables. We plan to address 3,500 trench feet of leak-prone transmission pipe-type feeder cables using the method of installing welded steel sleeves or barrels in corroded areas. In 2021, we refurbished a total of 4,817 trench feet of piping. We expect to continue to make significant progress in research and development to reduce the potential for future dielectric fluid spills. We are also continuing to pursue efforts to replace existing dielectric fluid-filled feeders with solid dielectric cable. The bulk of our underground transmission system consists of 660 miles of 69-, 138-, and 345- kilovolt feeders encased in steel pipe surrounded by high-pressure dielectric fluid (a non-toxic synthetic compound similar to mineral oil). The conductors inside our steel pipes are wrapped in paper insulation, filled, and pressurized with the dielectric fluid at a nominal pressure of 200 pounds per square inch. In some feeders the dielectric fluid is circulated and cooled to provide enhanced current-carrying capability. Approximately nine million gallons of dielectric fluid is contained within the feeder pipes and the associated pressurization and cooling plants. Our leak-detection methods are some of the most sophisticated in the world: • We use real-time monitoring of some of the largest volume feeders to constantly check their integrity. • We infuse our dielectric fluid with a special tracer to help us rapidly locate and uncover leaks. • If significant leaks occur, we selectively remove feeders from service, placing them on reduced pressure to slow the leak rate. To repair leaks, we excavate to uncover the feeder pipes and apply a mechanical clamp to stop the flow. Permanent repairs are complete when a concentric steel barrel is welded over the clamp and the pipe. The pipe is then re-coated before the excavation is restored. Reliability Performance Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) is a recognized leader in electric reliability performance, consistently earning industry awards. Our overall electric system reliability in 2021 was 99.996%. CECONY’s system reliability exceeds national and New York standards. The standards for measuring the reliability of distribution service are the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) and the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI). SAIFI is compiled annually, and the figure represents the number of service interruptions divided by the number of customers served. CAIDI, also compiled annually, represents the average time to restore service to interrupted customers. The CAIDI figure results from the total customer minutes of interruption divided by the total number of customers affected. For both figures, a low number indicates a better performance. 2021 NUMBERS FOR CECONY (electric) SAIFI: 0.139 CAIDI: 141 minutes 2021 NUMBERS FOR O&R (electric) SAIFI: 1.144 CAIDI: 93.9 minutes Customer Interruption Rate 2021 Customer Interrupted per 1,000 Customers Served National 961* New York  1,050*(w/o Con Edison) Con Edison 488(Overhead) Con Edison 139(Overall) Con Edison 17(Network) *National and New York State numbers from 2020. CECONY’s electric system is comprised of an overhead system as well as the largest underground network in the U.S. Gas Main Replacement In 2021, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) increased its distribution main replacement goal from 90 miles to 101 miles to make up for the impacts of the pandemic in 2020 that had required CECONY to reduce the 2020 goal by a corresponding amount. CECONY exceeded this goal by replacing 105 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel gas mains. In the last five years, CECONY has replaced 448 miles of such mains. Besides upgrades to the distribution system, CECONY continues to replace and upgrade the transmission system to maintain system reliability and to incorporate new requirements established by the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration in 2019. In 2021, Orange & Rockland (O&R) replaced 22 miles of leak-prone pipe. This replacement level met O&R’s commitment to the New York State Public Service Commission. O&R also met its goal of replacing at least 66 miles over the past three years. Fuel Mix & Generating Capacity Operational Excellence Con Edison is committed to advancing a clean energy future. We do not own coal-fired power plants and 70% of Company-owned generation capacity was sourced from solar and wind in 2021. Additionally, Con Edison supports New York’s ambitious goals to transition to a low-carbon, clean energy future, which include but are not limited to 100% carbon-free power by 2040 and 70% renewable electricity by 2030. The fuel mix that produces the electricity delivered through our electric systems is not controlled by the Company and is allocated by the New York Independent System Operator. 