CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & COLLABORATION Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration Con Edison works closely with local communities to keep them informed, address their concerns, and convey our company’s operational mission. We inform local community groups – including business improvement districts, chambers of commerce, and local development corporations – about major capital projects, new initiatives such as smart meters, energy efficiency programs, and how to do business with Con Edison. We coordinate with operating departments to respond to inquiries about topics like construction noise, service restoration, and outages. We maintain close working relationships with local stakeholders so Con Edison remains aware of changes and new developments in the communities we serve. These relationships are also critical to our coordination during emergencies and they help us collaborate on new initiatives. POLICY & REGULATORY IMPACT Con Edison and O&R support New York State’s clean energy policies and goals, including plans to reduce GHG emissions 40% from 1990 levels by 2030, provide customers with 70% of their energy from renewable resources by 2030, and increase energy efficiency. We work in partnership with our customers, various third parties, and other energy companies to seek innovative ways to bring a clean energy future. This includes exploring new ways to advance clean energy technologies through adoption of distributed resources including energy storage and solar connected to the distribution system; we are also developing a solar program for low-income customers. We are installing smart meters throughout our service areas, and piloting new rate designs that will help customers manage their energy usage and bills. We’re active in regulatory proceedings, including those which seek to expand energy efficiency, develop offshore wind, and advance transportation electrification. We work with regulators, customers, and other stakeholders to develop solutions that will advance a clean energy future in a cost-effective way for all New Yorkers. SHAREHOLDERS We are the longest-listed company on the New York Stock Exchange and have increased dividends to shareholders for 45 consecutive years. For more information, refer to our Shareholder Services page (https://www.conedison.com/en/investors/shareholder-services). STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS We are proud to support hundreds of nonprofit organizations across New York City and Westchester. Our partnerships strengthen the neighborhoods we serve by offering cash grants, employee volunteers, and more. Materials for the Arts Materials for the Arts (MFTA) gives New York City a unique opportunity to celebrate sustainability through an arts lens. At MFTA, other people’s trash becomes treasure through creative reuse, inspired education, and unlimited imagination. MFTA shifts perspectives on waste through resource recovery. Their goal is to make an impact on those who interact with their facility, materials, and learning experiences, while making a larger impact on the global carbon footprint. Their programs change lives. Student projects change the world. Green City Force Through Green City Force’s service corps, young public housing residents facing major barriers to employment serve as AmeriCorps members who make low-income public housing communities more environmentally sustainable and healthier. The corps provides hands-on experience, trainings toward professional certifications, opportunities to practice communication and leadership, and a full set of wraparound supportive services, including career counseling and regular access to certified social workers. Service is designed to help corps members gain exposure to, and enter, green careers, such as energy efficiency, sustainable construction, solar, urban farming, composting, and public health. Tappan Zee High School’s Robotics Club, SOBOTZ Tappan Zee High School’s Robotics Club, SOBOTZ, gives students the opportunity to collaborate with technical and non-technical community mentors in an exciting learning environment. Working together, they put their science, technology, engineering, and math skills to the test with the goal of placing in the FIRST Robotics Competition. Last year, SOBOTZ’s robot won three awards – the Tesla-Carson Rookie All-Star Award at the FIRST World Championship in Detroit, the Rookie Inspiration Award at the Hudson Valley Regional Competition, and the Rookie All-Star Award at the School-Business Partnership of Long Island, Inc., hosted by Hofstra University. Orange & Rockland is a proud supporter of this award-winning team. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY, RENEWABLES & DISTRIBUTED ENERGY Energy Efficiency, Renewables & Distributed Energy As part of our commitment to alternative forms of energy, Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses has invested approximately $5.8 billion in renewable projects in 17 states. Con Edison Development added 1,230 megawatts of aggregate capacity (MW AC) of renewable projects to our portfolio, for a total of 2,588 MW AC at the end of 2018. Last year, the company purchased solar and wind plants from Sempra Energy worth $2.1 billion, which makes us one of the top three largest owners of solar photovoltaic assets in North America. Renewable sources, such as solar and wind, produce energy when the sun is shining or the wind is blowing. That makes battery storage especially important to store power when it is produced and deliver it when it is needed. Storage can help ensure reliability and can reduce peak demand. Sixteen percent of electricity used by O&R customers was generated from renewable energy resources in 2017. We continue to make our customers aware of energy efficiency improvements that will help them save money on their bills and give them more control over their energy usage. We work regularly with customers and regulators to test new models for the distribution of energy. ENERGY EFFICIENCY & DEMAND RESPONSE Con Edison’s broad array of energy efficiency initiatives is designed to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions, lower customer bills, and give New Yorkers control over their energy choices. Our customers are as diverse as the area we serve. That’s why we have targeted efficiency programs to help us deliver cost-effective and customer-centric energy efficiency offerings that emphasize the clear benefits and impacts of energy efficiency. We focus on four primary customer segments — commercial and industrial, small business, multifamily, and residential — designing our offerings to meet each customer group’s needs. Our goal is to give customers multiple options and opportunities to reduce their energy use. Electric customers who chose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment received $65.8 million in incentives in 2018, a 19% increase from the previous year. Our gas customers received $11.1 million in incentives, a 155% increase from the previous year. Technology is giving households and businesses new ways to reduce energy use, and we’re in the forefront in helping customers get more value for their money while protecting the environment. Upgrades made by customers last year through our energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 395,200 megawatt hours and saved 588,100 dekatherms of gas — that’s equivalent to taking more than 66,000 cars off the road for one year or powering 37,000 homes for one year. The proposals would put New Yorkers on a path toward a cleaner energy future, with reductions in carbon emissions and more renewable energy options that achieve goals in both the short term and potentially through 2050. Total Metric Tons of Avoided CO. Equivalent Energy Services partnered with Energy Efficiency to help streamline the distributed generation process and assist customers like never before through customer engagement, technology enhancements, and business process improvement. These improvements helped us achieve a 20 percent increase in customer satisfaction on large distributed generation projects in 2018. Also in 2018, Con Edison interconnected 53 megawatts (about 6,000 cases) worth of Distributed Energy Resources including solar, CHP, fuel cells, and battery storage. A large contributor to this was about 34 MW of residential solar installations. O&R customers who upgraded to high efficiency energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment received $2.7 million in incentives from us in 2018. As a result of these upgrades, more than 6,000 O&R customers reduced their bills and lowered their carbon footprint. The My ORU Store, our online customer marketplace, provided customers with a one-stop shopping experience and introduced customers to innovative smart home technologies, including smart thermostats, along with a myriad of connected-home products, like Wi-Fi security cameras, smart plugs, wireless dimmable lighting, and electric vehicle chargers. Through My ORU Store, O&R partnered with the local water utility, SUEZ NY, to support their water conservation program by offering instant rebates to mutual customers on water and energy efficient products. The program strives to help customers save water and energy and in turn lower their utility bills. We are on the forefront of using technology to give households and businesses new ways to reduce their energy use, get more value for their money, while protecting the environment. For example, upgrades made by customers through our energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 24,000 MWh and saved 9,332 dekatherms of gas. This brought our carbon reduction to more than 103,000 tons, which is equivalent to taking more than 22,000 cars off the road. Of the total O&R rebates issued in 2018, two large projects stand out. One is the city of Middletown in Orange County. The customer upgraded lighting at all their municipal buildings, along with their LED streetlights recently purchased from O&R. The city’s upgrades amount to an estimated savings of 1,685 MWh, which is equal to approximately $225,000 per year. The other customer is a large retail company in Rockland County, who upgraded entirely to LED lighting and is estimated to save 800 MWh, equal to about $95,000 per year. Learn more about how energy efficiency upgrades can save money and protect the environment at our website www.oru.com/save (http://www.oru.com/save). REFORMING THE ENERGY VISION PROJECTS Con Edison continues to take a leading role in making distributed energy resources (DERs) available to customers. Our Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management project aligns strongly with New York’s Reforming the Energy Vision initiative. Instead of spending $1.2 billion to build a substation to serve Brooklyn and Queens, we issued an RFI that provided alternative forms of energy. We awarded contracts and procured smart thermostats, lighting controls, batteries, and other distributed energy resources to meet the demands of customers during the peak period of 4:00 p.m. to midnight while easing the burden on our substations. Additionally, our Customer Energy Solutions group is running new business model demonstrations in the areas of storage integration; electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure; community distributed generation; energy efficiency/DER marketplaces for residential and commercial customers; and delivering energy services to low- and middle-income (LMI) customers. For example, two front-of-the-meter storage projects, which demonstrate both grid support and energy market revenue-sharing partners, were selected through a rigorous RFI process and are in the construction stage. Three LMI demonstration projects are progressing, with two finalized by the PSC, including a community solar project. Three EV infrastructure projects that facilitate growth and reduce barriers to EV ownership are expected to be completed in 2019, including a project in White Plains where electric school buses will feed battery power back into the grid. The residential marketplace site, marketplace.coned.com (https://marketplace.coned.com/), has 25 product categories that include a “pick my solar” module; we also have a new EV comparison shopping site, cars.coned.com (https://cars.coned.com/). RENEWABLES Con Edison and O&R continue to support New York State’s ambitious clean energy policies, including the state’s goal to source 50% of its energy from renewable resources by 2030. New York State has recently expressed an interest in raising the 2030 renewable energy goal to 70%. For the past decade, Con Edison and O&R along with Sustainable CUNY (at the City University of New York), government agencies, and other parties, have encouraged residents and businesses to consider solar to reduce their energy bills and protect the environment. Our customers are responding, using the power of the sun to have generated by year-end 2018 more than 228 megawatts of clean, renewable power through 23,588 Con Edison installations, and 95 megawatts through just over 7,500 O&R installations – enough to power more than 24,000 homes. Con Edison believes that all customers, regardless of their income level or whether they live in a house or an apartment, should have access to clean energy. In striving for this, we are working to make renewable energy available to low-income customers by installing solar panels on company roof space and grounds, then transferring the solar power to those customers via bill credits. Resources should be online in 2019. The New York Public Service Commission says this innovative solar program “is filling a niche that hasn’t been fully served in the state.” O&R continues to work on technology advances in the interconnection process to assist customers with technical evaluations of large (greater than 50 kilowatts) and small (less than 50 kilowatts) projects. O&R is connecting community DG and battery storage projects. The company is participating in an innovative project developed at the University of Vermont that received a $1.8 million award from the U.S. Department of Energy SunShot Initiative. As part of this project, O&R will help develop the technology and strategy to improve the electric grid’s ability to accommodate power generated from renewable energy sources. The award, one of only 13 given nationally, is part of SunShot’s newest program called Enabling Extreme Real-Time Grid Integration of Solar Energy, or ENERGISE. Cumulative Utility Customer Solar MW Installation ENERGY STORAGE Con Edison and O&R are supporting the state’s ambitious energy storage goals of 1,500 megawatts (MW) by 2025 and 3,000 MW by 2030 across a variety of efforts. We actively engaged with the Department of Public Service and the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) on the Energy Storage Roadmap, which culminated in December with the Public Service Commission issuing an order on storage. As part of the order, we will develop and deploy at least 310 MW of utility-scale storage connected directly to the grid. Through this project and others, we will continue to engage with the PSC, NYSERDA, and storage stakeholders to help advance the state’s energy storage vision. We actively advocate for cost-effective storage deployments that complement our existing efforts, other state clean energy goals, and benefit the grid and all customers. We are already engaged with energy storage across a variety of projects and programs by supporting state policy goals, testing new business models, building utility capabilities, engaging third party providers, and supporting customers. We continue to support individual customer storage projects by improving the interconnection process. By the end of 2018, Con Edison had interconnected a total of 30 behind-the-meter storage systems, totaling 2,800 kW of capacity, and O&R also interconnected 30 BTM energy storage systems, totaling 233 kW of capacity. In 2018, Con Edison commissioned its first utility-owned storage project, a lithium-iron phosphate battery installation designed for 2 MW / 12 MWh in Ozone Park, Queens. The battery was built to support load relief in the Brooklyn Queens Demand Management area. Building on this model, we requested funding for six utility-owned energy storage projects totaling 31.5 MW / 120 MWh in the recent Con Edison rate case filing. These projects will be located at and connected directly to utility substations across the service territory. Proposed sites were chosen to provide diverse geographic and use-case experience, including grid support. In the same filing, Con Edison also proposed at 10 MW / 40 MWh turnkey energy storage docking facility. This project will allow third-party developers to install storage at the facility to directly access the grid and associated market revenues. Additionally, electric vehicle (EV) DC fast chargers will be co-located on the site, allowing us to gain a better understanding of how energy storage can help facilitate the adoption of EV charging on the grid. Con Edison continues to implement energy storage demonstration projects to test new storage business models. Con Edison is advancing its Storage on Demand demonstration, a 1.5MW / 4 MWh mobile storage model that will deploy via three separate 500kW / 1.34 MWh mobile storage trailers to areas of grid need – in locations that may have otherwise been served by utility diesel generators. The 4 MW / 4 MWh customer-sited front-of-the-meter business model demonstration, Beyond BTM, will be deployed across four customer sites to provide grid support by summer 2019. Each project will provide distribution load and voltage relief and reduce network peak demand while testing the ability to garner revenues for participating in New York Independent System Operator markets. Through its Innovative Storage Business Model demonstration project, O&R is working with partners to develop innovative business models for driving down the cost of energy storage investments by enabling storage assets to participate in multiple markets, providing benefits and incentives to multiple stakeholders. Con Edison and O&R also support energy storage through non-wires solutions (sometimes referred to as non-wires alternatives) program procurements. Both companies consider and often include storage as part of the program’s load relief solution portfolios. Con Edison has incentivized 300 kW / 1.2 MWh of storage at the Marcus Garvey apartment complex in Brooklyn as part of its Brooklyn Queens Demand Management Program (BQDM) and is expecting an additional 4MW / 16MWh system at another BQDM location by summer 2019. Con Edison is currently engaged in storage procurement discussions for its Water/Plymouth Streets project, and we’re evaluating additional storage projects as part of our other active solicitations for non-wires solutions. O&R has two open procurements for energy storage systems to meet distribution system needs in place of traditional wires solutions. O&R’s Monsey project will aim to defer the upgrade of an existing substation. Due to extensive load growth in the Monsey area, the current substation does not have adequate capacity to serve the forecasted load. The Monsey non-wires alternative will aim to deploy a portfolio of 15MW / 58MWh batteries at three separate locations in the Monsey area to defer the upgrade of this substation. O&R’s Pomona energy storage system will be utility owned and installed on property jointly owned by Con Edison and O&R. The project will aim to deploy a 3MW / 12MWh battery to defer the construction of a new transmission/distribution substation. O&R is soliciting vendors for two additional non-wires alternatives RFPs (Blooming Grove and West Haverstraw). These two projects may also include battery storage projects in their technology portfolio. Con Edison continues to take the lead in addressing battery safety concerns, working closely with the city’s Department of Buildings, the Fire Department of New York (FDNY), battery technology developers, and NYSERDA. Con Edison and NYSERDA previously partnered on an effort to better characterize battery hazards, along with testing suppression agent performance through burn tests by an independent lab. Con Edison has also conducted tests jointly with FDNY at their training facility. Con Edison continues to work with these stakeholders to advance understanding of battery operations, safety requirements, and emergency response procedures. Energy storage is a transformational technology that can provide numerous benefits to the electric system, and ultimately, to electric customers. Con Edison and O&R envision a future where storage provides support to the distribution system, enables the operation of intermittent renewable resources, and reduces GHG emissions and other local emissions. Declining costs and broader proliferation of storage will help customers and communities adopt these technologies. Storage will allow for customers to manage their usage, participate in energy programs, and respond to more cost-reflective rate designs, such as hourly pricing and demand-based rate structures. Storage supports the integration of new applications, like EV charging. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & RETENTION Talent Attraction, Development & Retention We continually look at who we are, how we work, and how we engage with each other to make sure we are valuing and including the talents, skills, backgrounds, and experiences of our diverse team. We regularly examine and strengthen our policies and procedures, especially those related to our talent-management processes. Our overall compensation philosophy is to provide compensation and benefit opportunities that are aligned with overall company performance and business conditions. Our intent is to align employee performance with the interest of our customers and shareholders by compensating employees fairly based on their contributions to the our success. Among the benefits we offer are retirement and health benefits, as well as tuition assistance, adoption assistance, and wellness programs. The majority of Con Edison’s workforce is employed full time. In an effort to attract, develop, and retain a diverse and inclusive workforce, we accomplished the following in 2018: strategically recruited women in non-traditional careers, veterans, and people with disabilities through our continued partnership with programs such as: Big Brothers Big Sisters’ STEM education mentorships Nassau Community College’s URGENT Women, which trains women seeking careers in energy Power Your Future, a company recruitment event focused on educating female candidates from partner programs about nontraditional career opportunities U.S. Army’s Soldier for Life, which provides veterans the resources to learn necessary skills for natural gas jobs awarded as a Best for Vets company by the Military Times in recognition of our supportive culture for veterans – ranked No. 48 out of 100 top companies honored for our veteran recruitment and retention efforts with the Pro Patria Award from the New York State Committee of the Employee Support for Guard and Reserves. It is the highest award bestowed by the state for companies supporting its employees who are veterans recognized as a Patriotic Employer by the Secretary of Defense Employer Support of The Guard and Reserve for contributing to national security and protecting liberty and freedom by supporting employee participation in America’s National Guard and Reserve Moms ON IT and Dads Matter help parents balance work and family with new benefits and resources, including backup childcare services, eldercare solutions, and awareness of the NY State Paid Family Leave Policies. Working with the Employee Wellness Center’s Well Baby Care Program, we opened three additional lactation rooms across the company continued to support the development of a diverse and inclusive workplace by offering tuition reimbursement, internal and external training to enhance job-related skills, mentoring and coaching, career counseling workshops, and online career management resources continued to offer conflict management resources that include mediation, training, and coaching to empower employees to accept responsibility for their own performance and their relationships with others CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY WORKFORCE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Workforce Diversity & Inclusion Con Edison benefits from a diverse talent pool by virtue of doing business in one of the most dynamic regions in the world, where people come from all over the globe to live and work. It takes a conscious and sustained effort to cultivate a workplace where people in our diverse workforce feel safe, valued, included, and able to contribute to his or her full potential. Inclusion is neither simple, nor does it happen based on a one-time change. Rather, creating and maintaining an inclusive culture is an ongoing process that requires continuous self-reflection and improvement, and this is what we are doing. We continue to look for new ways to ensure that everyone is included. Every person’s unique voice, talent, background, capability, and culture must be acknowledged, valued, and nurtured for the good of our customers and our company. Diversity and inclusion empower us all to see more clearly, think more broadly and engage more fully as we evolve, innovate, and imagine the future ahead. Hispanic Network magazine named us one of its Best of the Best of the nation’s top companies. Latina Style selected us as one of the 50 best companies for Latinas. We earned a place on Black Enterprise magazine’s list of the top 50 companies for diversity. To learn more, read our 2018 Diversity & Inclusion Report (https://www.coned.com/-/media/files/coned/documents/about.us/diversity/diversity-report-2018.pdf). Diversity Diversity 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total workforce 14,637 14,805 14,941 15,255 14,955 Management 5,866 5,983 6,151 6,430 6,424 Union 8,771 8,822 8,790 8,825 8,531 Minorities in the workforce 6,733 6,890 7,025 7,317 7,220 Minority share 46% 47% 47% 48% 48% Women in the workforce 2,946 3,009 3,063 3,210 3,179 Women share 20% 20% 21% 21% 21% General Managers, Directors and Above 240 255 253 266 270 Minorities in GMs, Directors and Above 68 77 75 78 78 Minority Share 28% 30% 30% 29% 28% Women in GMs, Directors and Above 69 78 77 82 84 Women Share 29% 31% 30% 31% 31% CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY TRAINING & PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Training & Professional Development As the company faces many new and emerging challenges, it is more critical than ever to ensure that our workforce is up-to-date with the skills, knowledge, and capabilities to work safely, with operational excellence, and in a manner than ensures customer satisfaction. To achieve this goal, we provide continuous state-of-the-art training and development to our employees in a wide variety of areas. Through the Learning Center (TLC), the company offers robust training programs in gas, electric, and steam operations. The training ensures employees’ skills, knowledge, and performance are maintained at the highest levels. We are focused on preparing our employees to work effectively, efficiently, safely, and in a way that is compliant with vast numbers of policies, procedures, and regulatory expectations. To that end, TLC fosters a work culture of safety and operational excellence, by making improvements to our learning experiences. For example, our new initiative, which we call Purposeful Field Visits, uses real-life events as focal points for field visits to assess potential gaps or requirements in related training. When out in the field conducting field visits, TLC staff is also able to talk with workers about ideas on safety improvements. In addition, we partnered with Gas Operations and others to establish a computer testing lab that is compliant with the Northeast Gas Association and regulatory requirements. Our training is helping to support the company’s three priorities. For example, we integrated Operational Excellence guiding principles on wallet cards and into our training curriculum, along with video segments on electronic screens. This initiative highlights the need to respect the complexity, power, and unforgiving nature of our energy systems, and encourages all to manage them safely. This effort includes a focus on Human Performance Improvement (HPI) tools and safety precursors. Also to support the company’s safety priority, we launched a defensive driving skills initiative to help reduce motor vehicle accidents. The program includes sharing driving safety messages on the monthly organizational safety call, a recently-introduced driving simulator, which reinforces defensive driving techniques, and a voluntary safe-driving pledge. The use of technology in the learning process is becoming more and more significant in our training offerings. We created a digital learning strategy to transform curriculum, improve employee access to training, and enhance the employee experience. This multi-year capital project, integrating digital technologies into our training platforms, will allow us to train and develop highly competent employees who are prepared for the future needs of our customers. We are developing digital content, including e-books, technical training videos, micro learning, and virtual- and augmented-reality modules. More than 25 new digital learning tools will be added in 2019. At all leadership levels, we continue to pay significant attention to the development of employees who demonstrate high potential and high performance in the execution of their work duties. Guided by competencies that are tailored to the level of the leader, emerging leaders are provided with a broad array of training options that prepare them to meet current responsibilities and future challenges. Development efforts include more than 450 course offerings in leadership and professional development, career planning, performance management, and mini-workshops – all designed to improve the ability of managers to lead employees effectively, handle problems creatively, and lead teams to elevated performance. More than 10,000 employees attended these programs and more than 4,700 unique visitors used the Career Management Resource Center site. Employees also benefit from an array of tools, assessments and resources that assist with career counseling and development planning. We also restructured our executive mentoring program to introduce mentoring circles led by company executives who drive robust and meaningful discussions about many leadership challenges facing the company. The company’s training and development strategy fosters a highly engaged workforce that produces strong performance. It also supports a high retention environment where we get to keep our best employees. Similarly, it enhances the company’s reputation and profile, and therefore makes the company more attractive to potential new recruits. Training Training 2016 2017 2018 Hours of instructor-led, skill-based and leadership training 604,173 703,385 544,557 Hours of eLearning 173,182 157,197 132,490 Employees taking part in a mentoring program 97 114 77 Employees taking advantage of tuition aid 607 589 572 CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERISM Volunteerism Enhancing the fabric of our communities is not only what we do, it’s who we are. We provide financial support, in-kind contributions, and board service to hundreds of nonprofits dedicated to the arts, environmental stewardship, community, civics, and education. Employees at Con Edison and O&R donate their own time and resources through our volunteer program to give back to the communities we serve. During 2018, 820 Con Edison and O&R employees volunteered 7,800 hours of their own time at over 240 company-sponsored events. Whether it’s helping at a soup kitchen, cleaning up parks, planting and pruning trees, mentoring students, serving disadvantaged people, rehabilitating homes for veterans, career coaching, or any number of other activities, volunteering gives our employees renewed energy, fulfillment and the happiness of knowing they made a difference in their community A dedicated employee engagement platform makes it easy for employees, as well as retirees and their families, to choose how to give back. 