SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Management Hazardous wastes are captured and shipped by Con Edison and O&R each year to licensed commercial waste-handling facilities. Periodic surveys of sampling results of wastes that come from cleaning our underground electric facilities, including manholes and transformer vaults, indicate that a very small and declining percentage of wastes from these structures contain actionable levels of lead. We conservatively presume much of this waste to contain lead due to infiltration from surface water from city streets and the time lag in obtaining testing results that would confirm the presence or absence of lead. The costs of cleaning these facilities and the amount of hazardous waste generated have been reduced substantially since 1998—the year we launched a waste program managed by our employees that renders lead virtually inert and therefore no longer hazardous. In 2019, Con Edison removed approximately 7,500 tons of hazardous waste in connection with the removal of four retired fuel oil tanks. O&R’s recycling program continues a long-established partnership with Rockland ARC, a local organization that provides support for the mentally disabled. Since 1991, O&R recycling has saved more than 1 million cubic feet in landfill space. Con Edison and O&R recycle or auction for sale tons of nonhazardous waste, including retired fleet vehicles, forklifts, tool carts, old cables, streetlights, reflectors, meters, and paper products. Con Edison of New York Waste (tons) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous waste 17,547 11,371 12,070 10,600 10,360 17,381 generated Remediation 545 31 18 7,195 11,939 111 waste SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT HABITAT & BIODIVERSITY Habitat & Biodiversity We continue to work closely with our stakeholders to promote biodiversity, protect environmentally sensitive areas, and to comply with local, state, and federal environmental regulations. To identify and mitigate environmental impacts, Con Edison’s Environment, Health, & Safety department collaborates across our engineering and planning groups to conduct a comprehensive environmental review for projects. Whether it is a large-scale construction project or a small-scale service installation, environmental impacts are reviewed during project planning so that proper controls are incorporated into the project design. We continue to solicit input from the impacted community and government stakeholders early in the design process to further mitigate any concerns. Our main goal is to minimize our work footprint and restore any disturbed areas to preconstruction conditions, regardless of project size. Each year, we build upon our collaborative and communicative efforts with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, and we continue to refine our practices for work in and around city-owned trees and public parks. We understand how vital these resources are to the health and well-being of all New Yorkers and the important role they play in contributing to clean air and water, reductions in energy costs, increases in property values, and beautification of four streets and parks. Con Edison has continued to build upon our relationship with the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission by codifying best management practices and permitting guidelines for projects within designated historic districts and individual landmarks, in addition to archaeologically significant locations. We added a construction guidance document to protect NYC Department of Environmental Protection’s newly installed “green infrastructure assets,” such as bioswales, rain gardens, and porous pavement that are being constructed along the Department of Transportation rights-of.way in the outer boroughs. Outside of New York City, Con Edison continues to maintain compliance with our New York State Public Service Commission-approved Overhead Transmission Vegetation Management Program, which encompasses more than 2,000 acres. Our cumulative efforts have encouraged biological diversity by protecting native plants, selectively pruning or cutting undesirable species, and increasing public awareness for threatened and endangered species through community partnerships. As a founding member of Electric Power Research Institute’s Power-in-Pollinator Initiative, our vegetation management program currently supports the protection of the monarch butterfly, which are at risk of becoming listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. Additionally, our Clean Energy Businesses collaborate with our stakeholders to incorporate responsible environmental stewardship that promotes biodiversity, protects environmentally sensitive areas, and compliance with local, state, and federal environmental regulations. In the solar sector we have multiple projects, such as Panoche Valley Solar, Wistaria, Lost Hills, and Copper Mountain, where we are monitoring listed and protected species and have implemented extensive mitigation and conservation measures for the various species and habitats. We also support third-party research on and around sites in order to better understand habitat behaviors. In the wind sector, we have teamed up with regional wind energy producers and the American Wind Energy Association to mitigate potential impacts to the California condor by supporting extensive species recovery efforts with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and third-party organizations such as the San Diego Zoo and Peregrine Foundation. Additionally, we monitor whooping crane migration zones and seasonal flights that allow our operations to adjust turbines as needed to prevent mortalities. Ongoing operations and maintenance procedures utilize best land management practices to monitor and repair potential areas of storm-related erosion into nearby waterways. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT ELECTRIC VEHICLES Electric Vehicles Recognizing that the transportation sector is a large source of carbon emissions, we are helping reduce the customer cost of operating electric vehicles and increasing public-charging options to support the growth of electric vehicles. In 2019, the company accelerated our efforts to aid the growth of electric vehicle adoption by adding additional incentives and programs to our electric vehicle portfolio. Key additions include a DC fast charge incentive that helps station operators offset the demand charge costs and improve station economics. In our recent rate filing, we received approval for an expansion of the SmartCharge New York program, which rewards customers for charging their vehicles in the off-peak period, that represents a greater than 100% increase in funding. The company estimates the program delivered more than 1 megawatt in peak load reduction. We also developed a proposal to offset developer costs, which can be relatively high in an underground network environment. The programs are available for both publicly accessible fast charging and fleet fast charging infrastructure costs. We expect our electric vehicle infrastructure investments to continue to increase. As of the end of 2019, Con Edison’s fleet contained 107 plug-in vehicles comprised of 24 battery electric vehicles, 62 plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, and 23 ePTO/eAPU bucket trucks/step vans. To accommodate these plug-in fleet vehicles, we’ve installed 119 networked electric vehicle charging stations across 12 company locations (108 level 2 and 11 DC fast chargers). The fleet also contains more than 128 conventional hybrids, 243 vehicles operating on compressed natural gas, and more than 1,700 vehicles running on biodiesel blends. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS Oil-to-Gas Conversions In 2019 Con Edison converted 99 buildings from heavy heating oil to gas. Since the start of our conversion program in 2011, we have converted more than 4,500 large buildings burning heavy heating oil; we also converted more than 3,500 customers from No. 2 grade oil. The company’s program has kept more than 570 tons of fine particulate matter from the air, which is a significant impact on air quality within the New York City portion of our service territory. New York City has the cleanest air in five decades, largely as a result of these building conversions. While adhering to best practices to achieve operational excellence, the Gas Marketing and New Business teams at O&R added 1,003 new customers in 2019. These additions included 106 conversions from oil/propane to cleaner natural gas. The conversions were spurred by a robust gas conversion rebate program, targeted marketing efforts, and the introduction of the Contractor Connect program that helps connect customers to qualified HVAC contractors to assist with completing their gas conversion projects. In addition to these efforts, southeastern Orange County is experiencing significant community growth which is expected to continue; this will contribute to the substantial use of natural gas in this market over the next five years. Con Edison, Inc. Utility Customer Conversions to Gas SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT WATER Water We recognize the importance of preserving natural resources. As one of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s largest water customers, we are obligated to our customers and the environment to minimize the amount of water we use to produce steam for our system. The company’s overall water footprint is largely converted into steam, which is an integral source of clean, efficient energy distributed to our customers for a variety of uses such as heat, hot water, air conditioning, sterilization, and food processing. We are continually focused on efficiency improvement initiatives to minimize our water footprint throughout the steam system. Con Edison Steam Operations - DEP Municipal Water Use (billion gallons) On average, more than 65% of Steam Operations’ water footprint is distributed to customers as steam energy purchased for their needs. This chart displays steam operations data only. Con Edison facility adds approximately 0.11 billion gallons in 2019, or 3% of water use. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT ISO CERTIFICATION ISO Certification The Con Edison Environmental Management System (EMS) is certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001:2015 standard. The purpose of the ISO 14001:2015 standard is to provide a framework and systematic approach to environmental management. ISO 14001:2015 requires a commitment from all levels of the Con Edison organization, led by the top management, to environmental protection through pollution prevention and continuous improvement. ISO 14001 certification gives Con Edison and our stakeholders a means of verification that the EMS is operating at a world-class standard. Con Edison though implementation of an ISO 14001 certified EMS is committed to: Improving safety and environmental performance Strengthening regulatory compliance Enhancing relationships with our stakeholders Identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential Promoting wise and effective use of natural resources We have, over 17 consecutive years, maintained our ISO 14001 certification through a rigorous third-party certification process. In 2017, our certification was upgraded from ISO 14001:2004 to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard by a two-week audit conducted by Intertek Testing Services NA, a third-party auditor. Our chemical laboratory operations are third party certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2005, general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories standard. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE PHYSICAL/CYBER SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY Physical/Cyber Security & Data Privacy New technology brings new challenges, and cybersecurity has been identified as a key enterprise risk for the company. Our information security group works with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as our peers in the energy business, to identify and employ the latest technological tools to protect our customers and our equipment. We collaborate with these partners to share threat information and best practices, and conduct large-scale joint cybersecurity drills to help protect the electric industry against cyber attacks. Internally, as disclosed in our Proxy Statement, Con Edison has cybersecurity key performance indicators that are tied to executive compensation. An annual presentation on cybersecurity risks continues to be provided to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of the Board has commenced reviewing more in-depth cybersecurity matters on a semi- annual basis. In addition, the Board of Directors receives regular updates as to cybersecurity risks from management. With the threat of cybercrime constantly becoming more acute, we continue to strengthen our data-protection efforts. They include 24/7 monitoring, vulnerability assessments, employee education, regular drills, and phishing tests. We consistently earn passing grades on audits that assess our cybersecurity and data-protection standards, and we are in compliance with reporting requirements from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and North American Electric Reliability Corporation. As for grid resiliency, there have been no material violations or fines due to non-compliance with physical and/or cybersecurity standards or regulations. To hear more about our cybersecurity program and other topics, visit https://soundcloud.com/con-edison (https://soundcloud.com/con-edison) OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Ethical Business Practices Our strong business ethics are founded on our corporate values and help us achieve our three priorities—safety, operational excellence, and customer service. We are committed to conducting business using the highest ethical standards. How we do business, how we treat our customers and business partners, and how we treat one another all contribute to how we are perceived in the marketplace and, ultimately, to our long-term viability. Our Values in Action Advisor network of 110 employees and our Business Ethics Council with 15 members assist the organization in maintaining a culture of integrity in their departments. In 2019, Business Ethics & Compliance raised awareness of ethics-related resources by engaging with employees at ethics awareness and fraud prevention events hosted with other departments at numerous facilities across the New York area. Employees participated in the events to test their knowledge answering ethics-related questions and speaking with representatives for guidance relating to ethics, fraud, cyber security, and the importance of records management, including protecting personally identifiable information. Standards of Business Conduct training for 2019 featured an interactive game format, and employees visited virtual office locations around the country to identify ethics-related issues. Avoiding conflicts of interest, or the appearance of one, is essential to acting with integrity. In 2019, we surveyed all employees about potential conflicts of interest. After reviewing the disclosures. Business Ethics & Compliance worked with employees to create plans to reduce the risks from self-disclosed potential conflicts. As part of our effort to continually improve the tools and resources we provide to support an ethical culture, we rolled out a next-generation digital version of our Standards of Business Conduct. Interactive content featured animated graphics, entertaining videos starring company employees, and an easy-to-search format with links to important resources on the employee intranet, Conor. The compliance management team engaged with company departments to confirm the data integrity of applicable laws, rules, and regulations within the technology platform that houses the data. The technology platform is designed to capture compliance obligations and company controls to address the populated legal requirements. Also, the compliance management team created a framework for us to identify areas for improvement in our operations by using structured process review. The team collected data on the results of the reviews and analyzed them for trends and commonalities sharing them with the organization to support business decisions. The reviews led to process improvements in various organizations that improved safety and employee wellness, realizing cost savings and other benefits. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CLIMATE RESILIENCE Climate Resilience Con Edison completed our Climate Change Vulnerability Study on schedule in December 2019. We leveraged the latest available climate science data to identify vulnerabilities from climate change impacts on our present-day infrastructure, design specifications, and procedures. As a result, we better understand our options to address potential future impacts on our energy delivery systems. The company’s electric, gas and steam systems are all potentially subject to increased flooding from coastal storms, while the electric system may also be challenged during increasing periods of sustained heat and wind. The 36-month study, authorized by the New York State Public Service Commission as part of a collaborative created after Superstorm Sandy, describes historical and projected climate changes across Con Edison’s service area in New York City and Westchester County. While climate change’s exact pace, effects and impacts are uncertain, the study provides a strong foundation upon which to plan, design, and invest in our energy delivery systems. To account for climate uncertainty, the study considered a range of potential climate futures reflecting unabated carbon emissions (where global warming exceeds 4 degrees Celsius by the year 2100), reduced greenhouse gas concentrations (warming slightly exceeds 2 degrees Celsius) and extreme “stress test” scenarios. The analysis identified the following most significant climate-driven risks to Con Edison’s systems: Sea level rise Coastal storm surge Inland flooding from intense rainfall Hurricane-strength winds Extreme heat While Con Edison already uses a range of measures to build resilience to weather events, the vulnerabilities the study identifies will guide the company’s future strategy to strengthen its reliability and resilience against increasingly severe weather. Con Edison typically invests approximately $3 billion every year on our energy infrastructure and since Superstorm Sandy the company has invested an additional $1.1 billion in resiliency and climate change protections. The report estimates the company may need to invest between $1.8 billion and $5.2 billion by 2050 on targeted programs to protect our electric systems against rising temperatures, humidity and sea level. Con Edison will further evaluate future adaptation strategies and associated costs through the development of 5-, 10- and 20-year plans. As a next step from the study, Con Edison will develop a detailed Climate Change Implementation Plan by the end of 2020. The implementation plan will consider updates in climate science; finalize an initial climate design pathway; integrate that pathway into company specifications and processes based on input from subject matter experts; consider climate change influenced actions for near and long term reliability and resiliency measures; develop signposts to monitor climate science and the rate of climate change; and enable a viable governance model. Similar to this study, the company will continue to engage stakeholders in the development of the plan. For more information please visit conEd.com/resilience (https://www.coned.com/resilience) (https://www.coned.com/resilience). OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CORE SYSTEM UPGRADES Core System Upgrades The Advanced Meter Infrastructure project is the largest project in company history. Some 5.25 million smart meters—comprised of roughly 3.9 million smart electric meters and 1.35 million gas devices—are being deployed across our service territory and will result in significant environmental, operational, and customer benefits. Smart meters put unprecedented control into the hands of our customers. With the company’s updated website and digital customer experience, customers can see their energy usage in near real-time and make smarter, more informed decisions about managing their energy usage, controlling costs, and helping the environment. Deployment of the communications network and smart meters began in 2017 and ends in 2022. More than 10,000 communications network devices have been installed throughout the company’s entire service area. In 2017, meter installations began in Staten Island, Westchester, and Rockland County and mass deployment has been completed in these areas. Mass meter deployment continues in Brooklyn, Manhattan, the Bronx, Queens, and Orange and Sullivan counties. To date, more than 3 million devices have been installed. The AMI Operations Control Center has been staffed 24/7 to monitor the communications network, as well as the meters and gas modules connected to the network. The AMI project team has worked closely with Gas Operations and the AMI vendor to develop a first-of-its-kind, battery-powered natural gas detector that is integrated with the smart meter communications network. The natural gas detectors are safety devices that monitor the atmosphere where Con Edison’s gas pipes enter our customers’ homes and buildings. They provide an alert when natural gas levels in that area indicate a potential dangerous leak. Through the communications network, the detectors send a wireless alert to Con Edison if a potential gas leak has been detected, allowing Con Edison and the fire department to respond quickly. A pilot program to install 9,000 detectors began in October 2018 in parts of Westchester and this pilot extended into Manhattan in 2019. The pilot program has been completed and the company plans to begin a multi-year program to deploy the natural gas detectors across our service territory starting in the third quarter of 2020. Smart meter data provides Con Edison with insight into outages and restoration, allowing us to see when a customer has power and to avoid sending a crew to a location where power has been restored. These avoided “truck rolls” reduce costs as well as assist in our overall environmental goals by reducing CO2 emissions. In 2019, nearly 5,400 unnecessary truck rolls were avoided. AMI will let the company operate the system at optimal voltages—known as conservation voltage optimization—reducing total energy consumption, as well as associated power-generation emissions. Analysis shows that information from the AMI system can be leveraged to reduce energy usage across our service territory by approximately 1.5% on average, decreasing associated fuel use for committed generation resources. This results in an environmental impact of 1.9% less total CO2 emissions, due to reduction of power generated annually by fossil fuel plants across our service territory, and 1% total carbon reductions in New York state. Engineers and planners will get more granular data, enabling potential design and operational improvements. Con Edison began implementing voltage optimization in Staten Island at the end of 2018 and across Westchester and portions of Manhattan in 2019. Voltage optimization will continue to be implemented across our service territory through 2022. Con Edison invested $1.312 billion in our transmission and distribution systems in New York City and Westchester County to prepare for the summer 2020. The investment includes upgrades and reinforcements of 37 network transformers and 121 overhead transformers. We also plan to upgrade 67 underground feeder sections and 225 spans of overhead cable. Con Edison projects that peak demand for electricity in the summer of 2020 will reach 13,220 megawatts. The record is 13,322 megawatts, which occurred at 5 p.m. on July 19, 2013. We are integrating new technology to make service more reliable. Con Edison has installed 4,800 devices in manholes to detect stray voltage, heat and carbon monoxide in underground structures, and communicate this information back to our engineers. Another 3,000 are planned for 2020. These devices have already detected instances of energized objects in those structures. By remotely monitoring these conditions, we were able to eliminate a condition that could have led to an event or a shock. Con Edison is also using tools that take infrared images of hot spots not visible to the human eye in cables and connections. The technology helps identify problems that would otherwise go undetected and leads to prompt repairs. ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION PIPE ENHANCEMENT We are investing $25 million in 2020 to upgrade our underground transmission system. Using the new refurbishment method of carbon fiber wrap application, we plan to totally encapsulate 2,492 linear feet (623 trench feet) of leak-prone transmission feeder pipe. This is in addition to addressing another 2,500 trench feet using the method of installing welded steel sleeves or barrels in corroded areas. In 2019, we refurbished a total of 4,576 trench feet of piping and invested more than $17 million in spill response and remediation to improve the environment. We expect to make significant progress in research and development to reduce the potential for future oil spills. We’re also investing in research and development that can replace existing oil-filled feeders with solid dielectric cable. The bulk of our underground transmission system consists of 660 miles of 69-, 138-, and 345-kilovolt feeders encased in steel pipe surrounded by high-pressure dielectric fluid (a nontoxic synthetic compound similar to mineral oil). The conductors inside our steel pipes are wrapped in paper insulation, filled with and pressurized by the dielectric fluid at a nominal pressure of 200 pounds per square inch. In some feeders the dielectric fluid is circulated and cooled to provide enhanced current-carrying capability. Approximately nine million gallons of dielectric fluid is contained within the feeders and the associated pressurization and cooling plants. Our leak-detection methods are some of the most sophisticated in the world: We use real-time monitoring of some of the largest volume feeders to constantly check their integrity. We infuse our oil with a special tracer gas to help us rapidly locate and uncover leaks. If significant leaks occur, we often remove feeders from service, placing them on reduced pressure to slow the leak rate. To repair leaks, we excavate to uncover the feeder pipes and apply a mechanical clamp to stop the flow. Permanent repairs are complete when a concentric steel barrel is welded over the clamp and the pipe. The pipe is then re-coated before the excavation is restored. RELIABILITY PERFORMANCE Con Edison is a recognized leader in reliability performance, consistently earning industry awards. Our overall system reliability in 2019 was 99.995%. Con Edison’s system reliability exceeds national and New York standards Customer Interruption Rate 2019 Customer Interrupted per 1,000 Customer Served National 1,000 New York (w/o Con Edison) 1,030 Con Edison (Overhead) 526 Con Edison (Overall) 152 Con Edison (Network) 22 National and New York State numbers from 2018 CECONY’s electric system is comprised on an overhead system as well as the largest underground network in the U.S The standards for measuring the reliability of distribution service are the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) and the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI). SAIFI is compiled annually, and the figure represents the number of service interruptions divided by the number of customers served. CAIDI, also compiled annually, represents the average time to restore service to interrupted customers. The CAIDI figure results from the total customer minutes of interruption divided by the total number of customers affected. For both figures, a low number indicates a better performance. 2019 NUMBERS FOR CECONY (electric) SAIFI: 0.152 CAIDI: 189.6 minutes 2019 NUMBERS FOR O&R (electric) SAIFI: 1.094 CAIDI: 104.2 minutes GAS MAIN REPLACEMENT In 2019, Con Edison replaced 97 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel pipe. This replacement level exceeded our company’s commitment to the New York State Public Service Commission by more than six miles and was the company’s highest ever in a single year. It also met the 4% replacement rate that we targeted in accordance with the EPA’s methane challenge. Methane is the primary element in natural gas and a major greenhouse gas. Replacement of cast iron and unprotected steel pipe with polyethylene plastic pipe or protected steel pipe prevented an estimated12.0 million cubic feet of annual natural gas leakage. In 2019, O&R replaced 24 miles of leak-prone pipe. This replacement level exceeded our company’s commitment to the New York State Public Service Commission by four miles. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FUEL MIX AND GENERATING CAPACITY Fuel Mix and Generating Capacity Con Edison is committed to advancing a clean energy future. We do not own coal fired power plants and 76% of Company-owned generation capacity was sourced from solar and wind in 2019. Additionally, Con Edison supports New York’s ambitious goals to transition to a low-carbon, clean energy future, which include but are not limited to, 100% carbon-free power by 2040 and 70% renewable electricity by 2030. The fuel mix delivered through our energy systems is not controlled by the Company and is allocated by the New York Independent System Operator. CECONY Fuel Mix Allocated by NYISO Con Edison Owned Generating Capacity Total 3,463 MW 