Customer & Community Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration Energy Efficiency, Renewables & Distributed Energy Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Workforce Diversity & Inclusion Training & Professional Development Volunteerism Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration Customer & Community Con Edison works closely with local communities to keep them informed, address their concerns, and convey our company’s mission. We inform local community groups— including business improvement districts, chambers of commerce, and local development corporations—about major capital projects, new initiatives such as smart meters, energy efficiency programs, and how to do business with Con Edison. We coordinate among our operating departments to respond to inquiries about topics such as construction noise, outages and service restoration. We maintain close working relationships with local stakeholders so Con Edison remains aware of changes and new developments in the communities we serve. These relationships are also critical to our coordination during emergencies and they help us collaborate on new initiatives. Policy & Regulatory Impact Con Edison and O&R support New York State’s clean energy policies and goals, including plans to reduce GHG emissions 85% from 1990 levels by 2050, provide customers with 70% of their energy from renewable resources by 2030, and increase energy efficiency. New York State’s Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA) also requires a zero emissions “electric demand system” by 2040. We work in partnership with our customers, policymakers, various third parties, and other energy companies to seek innovative ways to hasten and realize the clean energy future. This includes exploring new ways to advance clean energy technologies through adoption of distributed energy resources, such as energy C&C - STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & COLLABORATION storage and solar connected to the distribution system. Con Edison and O&R have programs to reduce fossil fuel usage and provide incentives for customers to install electric-powered heat pumps and electric vehicle chargers, while phasing out incentives for converting customer heating systems to natural gas. We are also developing a solar program for low-income customers and are advocating at the state level for the ability to own large-scale renewable generation. All of this is in addition to installing smart meters throughout our service areas and piloting new rate designs that will help customers manage their energy usage and bills. We are active in regulatory proceedings, including those which seek to expand energy efficiency, develop offshore wind, establish transmission policy to advance clean energy objectives, provide customers with high efficiency electric heating options, amend regulatory structures to achieve CLCPA targets, and grow the electric vehicles sector. We work with regulators, customers, and other stakeholders to develop solutions that will promote a clean energy future in a cost-effective way for all New Yorkers. We also regularly engage with stakeholders on various regulatory and clean energy topics to keep an open dialogue. We also serve these goals by being an active participant in the legislative process at all levels of government. Con Edison has joined other companies in the utility industry in litigation to defend strong state auto emission standards and flexible greenhouse gas emissions strategies. Shareholders We are the longest, continuously listed company on the New York Stock Exchange and have increased dividends to shareholders for 47 consecutive years. For more information, refer to our Shareholder Services page. Con Edison, Inc. Dividend Growth for Shareholders (per share) $4 5-year CAGR (2017-2021) 3.0% 5-year CAGR (2012-2016) 2.2% $3 $2 $1 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Footnote: In January 2021, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of 77.5 cents a share on its common stock — an annualized increase of 4 cents over the previous annualized dividend of $3.06 a share Stakeholder Engagement Overview Recognizing that regular communication with our stockholders enables the Company to better understand their viewpoints and to obtain feedback regarding issues that are of interest to them, the Company continued to proactively engage virtually with stockholders due to COVID-19. The Company values stockholder input and is committed to taking such input into consideration in making executive compensation and governance decisions. The chart on the right represents certain actions that the Company takes before, during and after the annual meeting. Stockholder Engagement Overview 3. Off-season Engagement and 4. Engagement Prior to1. Annual Meeting 2. Post-Annual Meeting Evaluation of Best Practices Annual Meeting Stockholders may engage with  Review voting results in light of  Engage with stockholders to better  Seek feedback on potential  Board members and senior  existing practices, as well as feedback  understand their viewpoints and inform  matters for stockholder  management  received from stockholders during  Board and committee discussions  consideration at the annual  proxy engagement season and annual  meeting  meeting  Stockholders may ask questions  Review corporate governance trends,  Explore corporate ESG best practices  Discuss stockholder  and voice opinions about the  regulatory developments and the  proposals with proponents,  Company, its practices, policies  Company’s corporate governance  when appropriate  and operations  documents, policies and procedures  Voting results for management  Determine topics for discussion during  Report results of stockholder engagement  Publish annual report and  and stockholder proposals are  off-season stockholder engagement  team activities to Corporate Governance  proxy statement  determined  and Nominating Committee and the Board  Evaluate and discuss potential changes to Company executive compensation and governance practices and disclosures 2020 Stockholder Engagement Highlights During 2020, the Company held its inaugural ESG webinar, participated in 22 stockholder conferences and 12 virtual roadshows targeting the U.S., Europe, Asia, and Canada, engaging with a broad range of stockholders, including index funds, union and public pension funds, actively managed funds, and stockholder advisory firms. During 2020, the Company engaged with stockholders holding in aggregate 43% of shares outstanding and 30% of the Company’s debentures. Key topics of shareholder engagement included CECONY’s Climate Change Vulnerability Study, the Company’s corporate strategy, diversity and inclusion, disclosure practices, corporate governance, executive compensation, political spending and lobbying practices, operational and financial issues, and ESG standardized reporting. In response to stockholder feedback received during 2020, the Company: (i) Enhanced disclosures concerning political contributions and lobbying, resulting in an increase in the Company’s CPA-Zicklin Index for Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability score to 94.3 from 90; (ii) Added new standardized ESG reporting formats: Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”), and the Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”); (iii) Added a new operating objective performance measure — Diversity and Inclusion Work Plan — to its long-term incentive plan for 2021; and (iv) Further refined the disclosures in its proxy to, among other things, provide clearer and more accessible information on Board diversity, tenure, skills, and experience. In addition, the Company’s Lead Director, Stockholder Engagement Teams the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Presidents of each of the Company’s Members of Core Stockholder Others Included in Stockholder subsidiaries, and other senior Company officers Engagement Team Engagement Efforts participate in meetings with stockholders during Chief Financial Officer Officer of the Comptrollerthe year. Throughout the year, the Company  Treasurer  Office of the Corporate Secretary  communicates stockholder feedback to the  Board and its committees, and the Board  Investor Relations  Environment, Health & Safety Department  considers this feedback in making its decisions. Corporate Affairs Strategic Planning Strategic Partnerships We are proud to support hundreds of nonprofit organizations in New York City and Westchester, Orange and Rockland Counties as part of our commitment to building strong communities and a clean energy future. The global pandemic has made our work as important as ever. Our partnerships strengthen the areas we serve through company initiatives, employee volunteer efforts and financial contributions. Here, we highlight four of the many organizations we support: Westchester Parks Foundation For more than 40 years, Westchester Parks Foundation (WPF) has encouraged the public to advocate for the use, preservation and conservation of the 18,000 acres of parks, trails and open spaces in Westchester County’s parks system. Con Edison has supported WPF educational and recreational programs for almost 20 years. The programs include trail awareness, mobile trail map app development and environmental stewardship. Despite the pandemic, WPF parks and open spaces welcomed newcomers by the thousands in 2020. The 47th annual Bicycle Sundays Program, which closes a portion of the Bronx River Parkway for cyclists, had been scheduled for twelve Sundays in 2020. But the program proved so successful during the pandemic that additional Sundays were added. More than 100,000 participants, craving an opportunity to enjoy the outdoors, experienced traffic-free access to the Bronx River Parkway and recognized the intrinsic value of preserving and promoting access to our natural resources. The Campaign Against Hunger The Campaign Against Hunger (TCAH) is a nonprofit that works vigorously to fight hunger and improve the health of New York City residents. TCAH operates the city’s largest emergency food pantry—clients have access to food and support services five days a week. But unlike a typical pantry, TCAH offers a supermarket-like experience: Those in need can select the foods they desire. Con Edison has supported TCAH’s youth programs for almost a decade. The Green Teen Workforce Program provides paid development and training in agriculture and entrepreneurship for at-risk youths, ages 14–24. Young people are able to work in TCAH’s pantry and the thriving Saratoga Farm on the cusp of the Brownsville and Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhoods in Brooklyn. TCAH, like food banks across America, experienced a precipitous rise in demand for services as an increasing number of New Yorkers required emergency food and services to meet the basic needs of their families. Since early 2020, TCAH has served almost 1 million meals to as many as 7,000 families a week. It is expected that more than 10,000 families will be served each week in 2021. Brotherhood/Sister Sol The Brotherhood/Sister Sol was established in 1994 to assist Black and Latino youth in economically distressed communities. Based in Harlem, Brotherhood/Sister Sol provides comprehensive support services to more than 1,600 young people each year in New York City. Con Edison supports Brotherhood/Sister Sol’s environmental programs, which emphasize food empowerment, sustainable design and horticulture science. During the pandemic, the organization has continued to educate the next generation of environmentalists, providing in-person and virtual urban environmental education models for schools and other community-based organizations, while highlighting the need for food justice and environmental reform. In response to COVID-19, Brotherhood/Sister Sol has further served the community by providing more than 100,000 meals, distributing more than 150 laptops, establishing mobile hotspots, providing tens of thousands of dollars in financial assistance to families and increasing access to mental healthcare. The Mamakating Education and Environmental Center Located in Sullivan County, the Mamakating Education and Environmental Center offers a unique, intergenerational learning experience for those dedicated to environmental education and stewardship. Visitors can enjoy art projects, puppets, sensory tables, experiments and a one-of-a kind 3D tree that children can climb into and explore. A new children’s room will include murals of wetlands, live exhibits and interactive activities. Energy Efficiency, Renewables &  Distributed Energy Customer & Community As part of our firm commitment to renewable energy, Con Edison’s Clean Energy Businesses continued growing by investing approximately $600 million in renewable projects in 2020, expanding its footprint to 20 states and operating a total of 2,868 megawatts of aggregate solar and wind capacity by the end of 2020. Our Clean Energy Businesses are the second-largest producer of solar energy in the U.S. and seventh largest in the world. Renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind, produce energy when the sun is shining or the wind is blowing. That makes battery storage especially important for storing power when it is produced and delivering it when it is needed. Battery storage can help ensure reliability and can reduce peak demand. Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses has a dedicated battery storage team and is actively integrating battery storage into new renewable development and operating assets when economical, and is offering battery storage for projects they are developing on behalf of their renewable energy and energy efficiency customers. We continue to make our customers aware of energy efficiency improvements that will help them save money on their bills and give them more control over their energy usage. We work regularly with customers and regulators to test new models for the distribution of energy. CLEAN ENERGY BUSINESSES SOLAR AND WIND LOCATIONS Copper Mountain Solar Big Timber Wind Project C&C - ENERGY EFFICIENCY, RENEWABLES & DISTRIBUTED ENERGY Energy Efficiency & Demand Response Con Edison and O&R offer a broad array of energy efficiency initiatives designed to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions, lower customer bills, and give New Yorkers control over their energy choices. Our customers are as diverse as the area we serve. That’s why we have targeted efficiency programs to help us deliver cost-effective and customer-centric energy efficiency offerings that emphasize the clear benefits and impacts of energy efficiency. We focus on four primary customer segments—commercial and industrial, small business, multifamily, and residential—designing our offerings to meet each customer group’s needs. Our goal is to give customers multiple options and opportunities to reduce their energy use. In 2020, Con Edison Company of New York (CECONY) provided electric and gas customers over $125 million in incentives to choose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment. Customer upgrades last year made through CECONY energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 575,217 megawatt hours and saved 524,920 dekatherms of gas—that is the equivalent to taking more than 66,269 cars off the road or powering 35,396 homes for one year. Technology is giving households and businesses new ways to reduce energy use, and Con Edison is at the forefront in helping customers get more value for their money while protecting the environment. Con Edison Inc. is a leader in sustainability and has ramped up energy efficiency efforts that are facilitating New York’s ambitious clean energy goals. We are working with partners across the service territory to better serve low-and moderate-income customers, as well as providing choices to our customers to reduce reliance on fossil fuels through adoption of beneficial electrification technologies such as heat pumps and electric transportation. Additionally, Con Edison is increasing its focus on achieving deeper and longer-lived energy efficiency savings by targeting more impactful technology upgrades. O&R customers who upgraded to high efficiency energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment received $3.8 million in incentives from us in 2020. O&R is providing customers with instant in-store rebates to make it easy for customers to make energy efficient choices. The My ORU Store, our online customer marketplace, provides a one-stop shopping experience for customers by introducing them to innovative smart home technologies, including smart thermostats, security cameras, smart plugs, wireless dimmable LED lighting, and electric vehicle chargers. Through instant rebates at checkout, incentives are given to customers to help lower costs and increase adoption of energy efficient technologies. Through the My ORU Store, O&R partnered with the local water utility, SUEZ NY, to support its water conservation program by offering instant rebates to mutual customers on water and energy efficient products. This collaboration program strives to help customers save water and energy and in turn lower their utility bills. O&R also developed new “virtual” advisors, accessed through the My ORU Store, to help customers find appropriate products and services. The site provides educational information on solar and energy storage, including benefits and available options. It allows shoppers to customize their project and compare offers from pre-approved community or rooftop solar providers and energy storage companies. Using the online tool, customers are assigned a personal energy advisor who will guide them through the process and discuss the best solar and storage solutions to meet their needs. Of the total O&R rebates issued in 2020, two projects stand out. A large warehouse upgraded their inefficient fluorescent lighting with LEDs and received a rebate of $223,140, saving over 2,200 MWh, and achieving a payback on their investment within just over two years. A local school received a $65,000 rebate to address a whole-building solution including HVAC, variable frequency drives, refrigeration compressor controls, demand control ventilation, plug load controls, and building energy management systems, saving over 313 MWh of energy. Learn more about how energy efficiency upgrades can save money and protect the environment at our website. Annual Incremental CO2 Reductions Through Energy Efficiency Programs (metric tons) 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 Reforming the Energy Vision Projects Con Edison continues to take a leading role in facilitating the adoption of distributed energy resources by our customers through non-wires solutions. The Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management program eliminated the need for a $1.2 billion substation to serve customers in Brooklyn and Queens by implementing smart thermostats, LED lighting upgrades, lighting controls, energy storage, combined heat and power, and other distributed energy resources to meet the demands of customers during peak periods. We are currently implementing additional non-wires programs in the Water Street, Plymouth Street, Newtown, and Glendale substation networks. In these communities we are focusing on energy efficiency measures, and energy storage to meet grid needs. Additionally, our customer energy solutions group is running new business model demonstrations in the areas of storage integration, electric vehicle infrastructure, community distributed generation, energy efficiency, and delivering energy services to low-and middle-income customers. For example, two front-of-the-meter storage projects, which demonstrate both grid support and energy market revenue-sharing partners, were selected through a rigorous RFI process and are in the construction stage. A community solar demonstration project for low- and moderate-income customers will also test the benefits of smart inverters on the distribution grid. Renewables Con Edison and O&R continue to support New York’s ambitious clean energy policies, including the state’s goal to source 70% of its energy from renewable resources by 2030, and 100% carbon-free electricity by 2040. For the past decade, Con Edison and O&R, along with Sustainable CUNY at City University of New York, government agencies, and other parties, have encouraged residents and businesses to consider solar to reduce their energy bills and protect the environment. Our customers are responding. Using the power of the sun, we generated more than 327 megawatts of clean, renewable power by year-end 2020. A total of 35,713 Con Edison installations and 9,509 O&R installations are generating enough renewable energy to power almost 80,000 homes. Con Edison Cumulative Installed Distributed Energy Resources Capacity (MW) *through December 2020 Con Edison believes that all customers should have access to clean energy, regardless of income level, whether they own or rent or whether they live in a house or an apartment. Con Edison continues to explore opportunities to be more innovative in renewable and energy storage installations. In 2021, the Company is relaunching a piloted device, ConnectDER, enabling residential customers to witness additional savings that allowed a cost-effective alternative to the traditional solar installation, while providing Con Edison’s engineering teams with solar production data to better forecast and plan system needs. Con Edison also enhanced microprocessor relays to allow additional solar capacity to export power into our network systems, enabling the construction of additional community solar projects at higher capacities across the territory. Lastly, innovation in battery installations will provide power when and where customers need it the most, via the mobile emergency battery generator pilot. The effort replaces diesel emergency generators during outages with a clean, quiet source of energy. In 2020, Con Edison Company of New York (CECONY) provided electric and gas customers over $125 million to choose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment. Customer upgrades last year made through Con Edison energy efficiency programs reduced electrical usage by 575,217 megawatt hours and saved 524,920 dekatherms of gas—that is the equivalent of taking more than 66,269 cars off the road or powering 35,396 homes for one year. Technology is giving households and businesses new ways to reduce energy use, and Con Edison is at the forefront in helping customers get more value for their money while protecting the environment. O&R has automated interconnection studies and other aspects of the interconnection process to assist customers with technical evaluations of projects for distributed energy resources. In September 2020, O&R connected the largest community DER (solar + battery storage) project in New York State, and is interconnecting DER at an increasing rate. O&R is participating in a NYSERDA PON 3770 Smart Inverter Settings Guidance for High Performing Smart Grid Applications project that will inform utilities on best practices for enabling smart inverter technology. O&R began the NYSERDA PON 4074 Distribution System of the Future project that became the model of future distribution systems. O&R is participating in the IEEE Interconnection Commissioning Program to identify, train and certify individuals for the commissioning of any installed distributed energy resource (DER) interconnection to enhance compliance with IEEE 1547 – IEEE Standard for Interconnection and Interoperability of Distributed Energy Resources with Associated Electric Power Systems, which informs critical utility engineering and business practices for DERs in markets worldwide. A streamlined, standards-based process for interconnecting renewables and other DERs could reduce the cost and complexity among utilities, developers, and owners. Through these initiatives, Con Edison and O&R are helping realize a greener energy future. Technology: Photovoltaic Solar Total MW, except project number CECONY O&R 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Energy Storage Con Edison and O&R also support energy storage through Non-Wires Solutions (“NWS” sometimes referred to as Non-Wires Alternatives). Both companies consider and often include storage as part of our load relief portfolios. Con Edison is supporting and incentivizing third-party owned and operated energy storage for local load relief as part of the portfolio of solutions in three areas across eight networks: Brooklyn-Queens Demand Management (Crown Heights, Ridgewood, and Richmond Hill), Water Street/Plymouth (Williamsburg and Prospect Park) and Newtown (Borden, Sunnyside and Maspeth) Programs. Con Edison NWS projects have installed 4.8 MW of energy storage to date, with an additional 11.9MW contracted from 2021 through 2023 summer delivery (June to September) across the programs. As part of O&Rs Pomona NWS project, the Company energized a 3MW/12MWh energy storage system in December 2020. The Company will leverage this energy storage system to provide support to the distribution system and also utilize this asset to participate in the wholesale market to earn revenues, when the asset will not be needed for distribution support. O&R has two open procurements for energy storage systems to meet distribution system needs in place of traditional utility solutions. O&R’s Monsey project will aim to defer the upgrade of an existing substation. Due to extensive load growth in the Monsey area, the current substation does not have adequate capacity to serve the forecasted load. The Monsey non-wires alternative plans to deploy a portfolio of 15MW / 58MWh batteries at three separate locations in the Monsey area to defer the upgrade of this substation. O&R is also developing a NWS project called West Warwick, that will leverage energy storage systems to address distribution system constraints. The project will use a 12MW / 57MWh battery to defer the construction of a new transmission/ distribution substation. Both the West Warwick and Monsey projects are currently in the contract negotiation process with their respective winning vendors. O&R expects the batteries to be deployed and fully operational for summer 2022. The Company has also done several outreach discussions with the local town and the first responders to address any concerns they may have. In 2021, O&R will plan to release at least two (2) brand new NWS projects. Con Edison and O&R built on the success of their existing demand response programs by releasing a Dynamic Load Management RFP in December of 2020. This solicitation is expected to give energy storage systems participating in demand response revenue certainty, which is expected to decrease barriers to installing energy storage in the service territories. Winners of the RFP will have 3-5 year contracts to provide load relief when called upon. These longer-term contracts are expected to provide revenue certainty for distribution services. This should provide energy storage developers more opportunity to participate compared with the Company’s existing demand response programs, especially the Auto-DLM Program which places a premium on rapid response. Past programs run by Con Edison to further the proliferation of energy storage included the Demand Management Program that incentivized 1.5 MW of lithium ion and valve regulated lead acid chemistries between 2017.2019. Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Customer & Community Learning and Inclusion continued its focus on helping build and develop a diverse and inclusive workforce. Our veteran strategy was an important part of this work as we continued to recruit former active-duty personnel and current members of the National Guard and Reserves. As a result of the pandemic, we quickly shifted our focus to virtual recruiting events to continue this important recruiting work, although hiring across the company slowed significantly across the year. Con Edison is an active member of Veterans in Energy in Washington, DC, which provides the company with a national presence in the Veterans sector. In 2020, we partnered with “Abilities,” The Wounded Warrior Project, Disabled American Veterans, and the Veterans Administration to cast a wider net to market career opportunities to disabled veterans. Plus, the following veteran strategic partnerships continue to help build and support our veteran pipeline: • Soldier For Life • NYS Department of Military Affairs • Fleet and Family Services • Services for the Underserved • The Jericho Project • The Veterans Administration • American Legion and VFW • The Wounded Warrior Project C&C - TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & RETENTION In 2020, Con Edison was recognized for its veteran hiring efforts via the following awards: • Military Times “Best for Vets” Designation, third year in a row and our highest ranking yet: 2018 (#48), 2019 (#33), and 2020 (#8) • Military Times Magazine Best of the Best, second year in a row • Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) awarded Con Edison two Patriot Awards • Con Edison was featured for its commitment to veterans by Jim Cramer on CNBC’s “ Mad Money” By leveraging the Veterans of Con Edison Employee Resource Group and our 200 strategic partnerships, and in continued cooperation with all business enterprises across the company, we hired 36 veterans in 2020. Recruitment worked with partners to provide more career fairs and career counseling to over 300 employment seekers through eight partners: Chinatown Manpower Project (CMP), Nontraditional Employment for Women (NEW), Henry Street Development, Staten Island Chamber of Commerce, Big Brothers & Big Sisters (internships), Ladders for Leaders, and NYC Rescare – where many of these events had a focus on employment for those who lost their job due to the pandemic. We also partnered with NEW and Nassau County Community College’s Utility Readiness for Gaining Employment for Non-Traditionals (URGENT) to assist women in obtaining more jobs in the male-dominated utilities industry. In response to the COVID crisis the company offered mental health counseling, bereavement counseling, parenting and home school resources, emergency child care for essential workers, and training for managers on how to manage with empathy and compassion. As part of our overall employee development strategy, we supported the development of a diverse workforce through internal and external training to enhance job knowledge and technical skills, and offered a competitive tuition reimbursement program, various mentoring programs, career development workshops, and online career management resources including conflict mediation, training, and coaching to empower employees to take ownership of their performance, professional relationships and careers. 93 CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & RETENTION Con Edison, Inc. People of Color (POC) and Women in the Workplace Share of Promotions People of Color Women 60% 48% 48% 49% 49%47% 47%2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Workforce Diversity & Inclusion Customer & Community The heart of our company is our people. Cultivating diversity isn’t about checking a box. We strive to have a diverse workforce because it makes Con Edison stronger and helps us lead the industry on every level, from maintaining our best-in-class reliability to achieving a clean energy future, while creating a sustainable future for our company. Our more than 14,000 employees come from many backgrounds, ethnicities, ages, and races, and bring different skills, viewpoints, and personalities. We aim to make sure every person here feels respected, included, and safe to speak up. If our workplace isn’t open, inclusive, and diverse, we risk missing out on great ideas and varied perspectives. Making sure our workplace is inclusive and respectful means our people can bring their best and do their best—and helps us attract and retain the best talent. By regularly examining and improving our hiring process and retention policies, we are making Con Edison a better place to build careers, and we are building an even better Con Edison. We will never stop working towards a more diverse workforce where everyone feels included. In a decade in which change will come faster than ever, having a truly diverse pool of talents, backgrounds, abilities, and points of view is essential to achieving our clean energy goals. To learn more, read our 2020 Diversity & Inclusion Report. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - WORKFORCE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Diversity 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total workforce 14,637 14,805 14,941 15,255 14,955 14,596 14,063 Management 5,866 5,983 6,151 6,430 6,424 6,394 6,317 Union 8,771 8,822 8,790 8,825 8,531 8,202 7,746 People of Color in the workforce 6,733 6,890 7,025 7,317 7,220 7,080 6,892 People of Color share 46% 47% 47% 48% 48% 49% 49% Women in the workforce 2,946 3,009 3,063 3,210 3,179 3,123 3,083 Women share 20% 20% 21% 21% 21% 21% 22% General Managers, Directors, & Above 240 255 253 266 270 282 255 People of Color in GMs, Directors, & 68 77 75 78 78 80 73Above People of Color Share 28% 30% 30% 29% 28% 28% 29% Women in GMs, Directors, & Above 69 78 77 82 84 89 79 Women Share 29% 31% 30% 31% 31% 32% 31% Training & Professional Development Customer & Community As the industry continues to evolve, our critical focus is to ensure that our workforce has the right skills, knowledge, and capabilities to work in a safe manner while meeting the needs of our customers. To achieve this goal, we provide continuous state-of-the-art training and development to our employees in a wide variety of areas. The company offers robust training programs in gas, electric, driver and customer field operations and central operations. These programs ensure employee skills, knowledge, and operational performance are maintained at the highest levels. We are focused on preparing our employees to work safely, effectively, efficiently, and in a way that is compliant with our policies, procedures, and regulatory expectations, and embodies continuous improvement. Our Learning Center fosters a work culture centered on safety, operational excellence, and enhancing the customer experience by continually making improvements to our learning experiences. With safety as our key business priority, we partner with our operating organizations to strengthen our focus on a zero-harm culture, which includes several digital learning modules. Our Operational Excellence guiding principles are integrated into our training curriculum and highlight the need to respect the complexity, power, and unforgiving nature of our energy systems and encourage all to manage them safely. This effort includes a focus on Human Performance Improvement (HPI) tools, safety precursors, and programs such as, “Are You Doing Enough for Safety?” CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - TRAINING & PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Our purposeful field visit program continues to support our efforts to enhance the learning experience, using insight from live events to assess potential gaps and training requirements and providing opportunities for real-time constructive feedback. The training effectiveness committee serves as the liaison between our operating areas and training teams to achieve, improve, and maintain quality and consistency in training. Ongoing meetings with subject matter experts from various areas allow a collective review of training activities, including curriculum, new policies and procedures, annual goals, career path and tests to ensure consistency, relevancy, and effectiveness in training offerings. Our digital learning vision and strategy is to transform learning through innovation. We continue our multi-year program, leveraging the digital space to improve curriculum content and provide employee access to training outside of the classroom. Our enhanced digital portfolio includes e-books, technical training videos, micro-learning, and virtual/augmented-reality modules. In 2020 Learning and Inclusion transitioned much of our curriculum to the virtual learning space, creating over 140 virtual instructor-led classes in technical and leadership development skills. Key to our business success is our focus on safety. With that in mind, we also converted critical safety, compliance, and certification courses to a virtual format, including the Emergency Response refresher, First Aid, Scaffold Awareness. In addition, we developed COVID-specific training tools, such as the Field Sensitivity during COVID video and the Workplace Re-entry Micro Learning to support our employees. Overall, 179 digital tools (includes the virtual classes) were created in 2020. Work continued on thirteen recommendations for improvement (charters) developed as a result of a formal assessment conducted on the state of training. Formalizing training processes, developing curriculum maps, and creating a governance structure are just a few of the recommendations we will be working on to achieve our goal of transforming learning through innovation. Work will continue on these as we move forward into 2021. We expect these efforts to continue into the future. With the transition to a remote working environment, we proactively addressed the needs of our leaders by creating a series of short, focused virtual courses on Navigating the New Norm. This series provided tips, tools, and techniques for leaders of remote and hybrid teams to foster communication, productivity, and synergy. To support our workforce, we also introduced Change Management training in 2020 to assist employees at all levels in managing change, using tips and techniques to ensure awareness, continuous communication, and inclusion during change. We continue to offer a robust curriculum for our future leaders geared toward leadership effectiveness, with a broad array of training options that prepare them to meet current responsibilities and future challenges. Development efforts continue as we design new offerings in leadership and professional development, career planning, conflict management, performance management— all designed to improve the ability of managers to lead employees effectively, handle problems creatively, and lead teams to elevated performance. More than 10,000 employees attended these programs and continue to benefit from an array of tools, assessments and resources that assist with the professional development. These efforts support our culture of continuous learning and development and encourage meaningful discussions about our company, our culture, and our future. Training The company’s training and development strategy fosters a highly engaged workforce that produces strong performance. It also supports a high retention environment where we get to keep our best employees and enhance the company’s reputation and profile, making the company more attractive to potential new recruits. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Hours of instructor-led, skill-based  604,173 703,385 544,557 543,706 497,602and leadership training Hours of eLearning 173,182 157,197 132,490 121,861 159,318 Employees taking part in a  97 114 77 298 216mentoring program Employees taking advantage of  607 589 572 575 538tuition aid Volunteerism Customer & Community Despite the upheaval created by COVID-19, employees at Con Edison and O&R answered the call to donate their own time and resources in the communities we serve. Keeping the health and safety of our workers and the general public top of mind, we engaged in many virtual volunteer activities throughout the year. We also maintained social distancing while working on various outdoor projects in our service area. To further enhance the quality of life in our communities, we continued to provide financial support, in-kind contributions and service on boards of hundreds of nonprofit organizations dedicated to the arts, environmental stewardship, civics and education. In 2020, 163 Company employees volunteered a total of 1,256 hours at community events and programs in our service territory. Virtual events included mentoring and tutoring, mock interviewing and judging at constitutional debate programs. When health experts deemed it safe to gather outdoors, we cleaned up parks, planted tulips and enhanced public spaces that are essential to our neighborhoods. We are particularly proud of our efforts to provide help and inspire hope through volunteerism during a time that has challenged us as never before. CUSTOMER & COMMUNITY - VOLUNTEERISM 