R&D/Innovation Report Introduction An innovative spirit and hard work are two of our company’s greatest assets. Our research and development teams work diligently to find solutions that make the workplace safer and improve our operations and our customers’ quality of life. Some of our numerous ongoing projects are described below. Safety • Championed a project with the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) exploring a new smart alarm logic for potential chemistry excursions in facilities. The Chemistry Smart Alarm will allow for improved response time by reducing troubleshooting time. • Presented a second generation breaker racking robot prototype at EPRI’s Switching Safety and Reliability Task Force meeting. The robot was developed in collaboration with ULC Robotics and has the potential to create a zero-harm environment by fully automating the racking process. • Participated in the Building Electrification Panel at the 2021 ARPA-E Energy Innovation Summit. Panelists lent their subject matter expertise in a discussion of how to overcome the technical challenges with rapid electrification of the buildings. • Assumed the role of Chair of the International Electrochemical Commission Technical Committee 129: Robotics for electricity generation, transmission and distribution systems. The Committee’s scope is to standardize robotics applied in power systems, to assist or even replace human workers in completing or carrying out potentially dangerous or strenuous tasks. • Completed preliminary field evaluation and optimization of the electric safety job briefing app, designed to help mitigate high hazard injuries and allow for completion of comprehensive job briefings. The job briefing administrative portal allows for enhanced reviewing capability and approval tracking. REPORT INTRODUCTION - R&D/INNOVATION Operational Excellence The results and efficiency of the drone Customer Experience • Finalized the EPRI project, “Insider Threat Program Management Guidebook for Electric Utilities” R&D and Corporate Security partnered to produce this guidebook, which establishes an operational foundation and maturity strategy for utility companies on insider threat. • Received commendations from EPRI for leadership of, and participation in, cyber forensics programs and ongoing capabilities development to identify the root causes of cyber incidence and incorporate strategies for incident response. • Completed a project with the University of Tennessee to select and size a supercapacitor system intended for rail regenerative braking in the NYC Transit system. The project simulated the operation of dozens of ultracapacitors and lithium-ion capacitors using train dynamics models, sizing the system to meet power, energy, and thermal requirements, with a goal of identifying the optimal system. • Completed the first autonomous drone inspection for investigation and confirmation of transmission tower configuration and replacement planning. survey demonstrate its improvement over the traditional manual inspection protocol. • Launched an evaluation of the long-term thermal-mechanical performance of TS Conductor’s carbon fiber core conductor. In collaboration with EPRI, this project will also perform accelerated aging tests which may help predict the life expectancy of the conductor while operating at the maximum allowable conductor temperature. • Demonstrated the potential of a Transmission Network Visualization System (TNVS) to maintain continuity of services in the event of a dark sky event when there is complete loss of the energy management system and corporate connectivity. TNVS is a near real time visual tool providing bulk power feeder information and the status of associated equipment. • Demonstrated the efficacy of a thermal imaging tool for through-cover inspections to reduce jobsite set-up, reduce necessary personal protective equipment, and allow for more frequent inspections. This tool allows the tracking of low-level hotspot conditions and mitigation of them before developing into a higher risk condition. • Participated in the American Public Gas Association sponsored roundtable to educate members in understanding how natural gas detectors (NGD) enhance the safety of gas distribution for their members. • Field tested the ZEVAC Mini to augment the use of zero emissions vacuum (ZEVAC) technology by field crews. Designed to be used on smaller pipe sizes, the ZEVAC Mini avoids natural gas emissions from gas mains by pumping the gas out of a gas main that is being taken out of service and into the portion of the gas main still in service. Clean Energy • Hosted an interactive panel discussion among hydrogen industry experts as part of the two-day Hydrogen Workshop sponsored by CEATI International Demand Side Management Program and Strategic Options for Integration Emerging Technologies and Distributed Energy Interest Group. • Attended, as an industry participant in the Carbon to Value Initiative, a demonstration of the “first building-level carbon capture project in the City of New York”. The new system takes flue gas produced during boiler combustion, cools it, separates out the oxygen and nitrogen and then liquefies and stores the carbon dioxide for use in future applications. • Continued development of the country’s first ever all-electric bucket truck. The prototype is currently being designed and built; and upon delivery, a three-year field evaluation will commence to gather feedback on its performance and will help improve any gaps or deficiencies in the initial prototype design. • Co-led a two-day strategic summit with Brookhaven National Laboratory, to explore the bold vision set out by the New York Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA) to address a Statewide energy paradigm that will result in a more sustainable society for today’s citizens and those yet to come by 2050. • Completed the first round of field testing of Electro-Hydraulic Fracturing (EHF) technology, which uses plasma energy to break rocks exposed during construction activities. • Participated, as an anchor sponsor of the Low-Carbon Resources Initiative, in the kick-off of the demonstration of the use of natural gas blends of up to 35 percent hydrogen for gas turbine combustion at the New York Power Authority’s Brentwood, Long Island facility. • Demonstrated the effectiveness and efficiency of a self-contained heat pump system that extracts thermal energy from a building’s wastewater, with cooling capabilities for simultaneous domestic hot water production and air conditioning while reducing harmful emissions and decreasing energy resource needs. • Joined the Guidehouse-led consortium, Building the Clean Hydrogen Economy, to identify and develop innovative pilot projects and their business cases to use clean hydrogen to decarbonize the energy sector and increase renewables integration. Awards and Patents • Awarded a three-way patent, with Palo Alto Research Center and General Electric, for optical monitoring to detect corrosion of power grid components. The system consists of objects designed to corrode before those portions being monitored, and sensors paired to those objects for advance warning. • Awarded a new patent for a steam trap sensor and its method of operation. The system is comprised of a steam trap body and a disk operably coupled to the steam trap body. • Awarded a new patent for a system to monitor and operate an underground valve. The system provides for the security of the underground valve by remote monitoring for any unapproved valve access and operation. The system also has an actuator operable to open and close the valve. • Awarded a new patent for a system and method of monitoring a utility structure. The system includes sensing devices and processors to receive measured parameters and compare parameters to allowable thresholds. • Awarded a new patent for a system and method of performing maintenance on a wing cock valve of a pressurized gas line. • Awarded a new patent for a partition cover for a switchgear enclosure for electric distribution equipment enclosure inspections. The cover is designed for safer inspection of enclosures in a live environment. Awards & Recognition Report Introduction Sustainability is the umbrella that covers everything we do as a company. As we continue to serve our customers, promote safety, and help preserve the environment, we receive recognition and many prestigious awards for our projects and operational excellence. Here is a sample of our recent honors: Safety & Environment • Con Edison received the Energy Star Partner of the Year award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for fighting climate change and protecting public health by helping customers use less energy. • O&R also received the Energy Star Partner of the Year award for helping its customers save more than 55,000 megawatt hours of energy. • Con Edison CEO Tim Cawley placed third and O&R CEO Robert Sanchez placed 23rd on City & State’s Energy Power 100 list. The list identifies public officials, energy executives, environmentalists, activists, academics, and others who are shaping New York’s transition to sustainability. • Con Edison won the President’s Award from the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies (AEIC) for developing the Safety Leadership System application. The AEIC, founded in 1885, is the nation’s oldest organization of utility operations experts. • For the 20th straight year, O&R has been recognized by the Arbor Day Foundation as a Tree Line USA energy company. REPORT INTRODUCTION - AWARDS & RECOGNITION Operational Excellence • The Smart Electric Power Alliance honored Con Edison for its commitment to carbon reduction and leadership in clean energy. • Con Edison was awarded the Smart Energy Innovation Award in Best Practices for our demand response management systems portal. • Chartwell Gold Award for Best Practices in Billing and Payments for our bill redesign Customer Experience • Con Edison’s smart meters earned the Best Practices award from the Smart Energy Consumer Collaborative, a consumer research group. • O&R received three Awards of Distinction at the 27th annual Communicator Awards for its customer-service videos, and a Telly Award for its food insecurity video that appears in this Sustainability Report. • The Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation honored Con Edison for providing safe and reliable service during the pandemic. • ReliabilityOne honored Con Edison Governance for reliable service to customers in the • Con Edison received a perfect score ofNortheast. 100 for the first time and was named a • Esource Gold Award for Customer Trendsetter among S&P 500 companies in Experience for Virtual Assistant “Watt”. the 2021 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. Con• Escalent-Cogent Studies named us a Most Edison is one of only 14 companies in theTrusted Business Partner for our service to S&P 500 to score 100. commercial customers. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion • Con Edison ranked in the Top 5 among utilities on Forbes America’s list of Best Employers for Diversity. • Latina Style magazine listed Con Edison as one of the Top 50 companies for Latinas to work in the U.S. • Con Edison was recognized as a Top Veteran-friendly company by S. Veterans Magazine. Safety & Environment Employee Health & Safety Public Safety Air Quality and Emissions Waste Management Habitat & Biodiversity Remediation and Reuse of Former Utility Property Electric Vehicles Oil-to-Gas Conversions Water Conservation and Water Quality ISO Certification Employee Health & Safety Safety & Environment At Con Edison, our top priority is the safety of our employees and the public. Safety is engrained into the way we work, and we remain committed to embedding safety as a core principle of our culture. Consistent progress is essential to achieving our goal of a zero-harm workplace. At Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY), we have reduced injuries by more than 68% since 2009. In 2021, CECONY’s injury and illness rate of 1.22 was higher than our target of 1.00. We experienced one significant high-hazard injury last year. Orange & Rockland improved upon its best injury and illness rate 0.80 in 2021. O&R had no significant high-hazard injuries last year and has seen an 85% reduction in injuries and illnesses since 2009. Key focus areas for sustained improvement include: • Promoting a first-class safety culture by making safety personal and the focus of every task, every job, every day. • Programmatic focus on areas of concern within the company and industry, such as hazard recognition and mitigation, soft tissue injuries , and slips, trips and falls. • Closing gaps to prevent injuries by identifying and addressing unseen hazards. • Preventing injuries by re-invigorating our Close Call program and developing a mobile application for submissions. • Encouraging safety leadership through training, mentoring and technology with the accelerated adoption of the Safety Leadership System. • Using and developing tools by leveraging data from job briefings. • Training employees on driving and slips, trips, and falls conditions through simulations. • Working towards 100% procedural compliance to support a zero-harm workplace. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY At Con Edison, critical safety programs are maintained as corporate procedures to codify our proactive approach to safety. An essential safety practice is delivering Job Briefings. As outlined in corporate instruction GEHSI S24.07 – Job Briefings, job briefings must be conducted for each job and are required to be complete and robust reviews of the scope of work, including a discussion of any hazards associated with a job. Our Job Site Safety Exchange, Job Safety Analysis, Close Call, and Time Out programs are other examples that help us identify and mitigate safety risks. Auditing plays a critical role in providing a field presence and supporting the company’s goal of a zero-harm workplace. Internal Auditing has a dedicated Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) department. The group conducts two types of unannounced audits: EH&S compliance audits at facilities (such as Administrative Buildings, Service and Operation Centers, Generating Stations, Substations) and EH&S compliance inspections of employee and contractor crews working in the field. Internal Auditing also performs process reviews of various EH&S programs such as the Hearing Conservation Program, Respiratory Protection Program, Close Call Program, Spill Prevention, Control & Countermeasures, vehicle idling, spill reporting, remediation, waste management, and more. The annual audit plan includes a balance of each of these audit types. It is company policy that our contractors comply with all applicable laws and Con Edison procedures or requirements. Our policies require that we procure, manage, and evaluate suppliers based on their environment, health, and safety performance. Contractor training is reviewed during the qualification process. We offer additional training for contractors at our Learning Center, if necessary. Contractors seeking to be qualified to perform field work must provide an Environmental, Health and Safety Plan (EHASP) detailing how they will comply with all environmental, health, and safety standards that apply to the work that they perform. EHASPs that simply restate the regulatory standards are not acceptable. Company field inspectors oversee all contractor work and are responsible for confirming that contractors are working in accordance with all applicable standards. If the supplier’s work fails to comply with the contract requirements, field inspectors must take immediate corrective action. A Contractor Field Observation Report (CFOR), infraction report, or Action Line must also be filed in our Contractor Oversight System. In addition, contractor safety performance is tied to some of our Key Performance Indicators. In addition to the multitude of corporate procedures and instructions we maintain to support our health and safety program, we have safety-specific targets that we assess regularly. We track and report on our OSHA Injury and Illness rate on a monthly basis on both a corporate and departmental level. We also track our motor vehicle collision rates by collision type, helping us improve the efficacy of our driver safety programs. Over the past few years, we have developed the Safety Leadership System (SLS), which takes a data-driven approach to safety. The SLS enables us to view our safety performance from the corporate level all the way down to the smallest working group or individual. After implementing the system, we’ve seen a dramatic reduction in operating errors. We’re proud to say that the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies (AEIC) presented Con Edison with the 2021 Top 10 Achievement Award for the development of the SLS. Con Edison of New York OSHA Incident Rate 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 Orange and Rockland OSHA Incident Rate O&R continues its progress toward a zero-harm workplace thanks to the joint union-management Corporate Safety Committee, Company Safety Team, and 12 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Public Safety Safety & Environment We invested $3.39 billion in 2021 to fortify our electric, gas, and steam infrastructure. This investment underscores our commitment to providing energy to millions of customers efficiently and responsibly while protecting the environment and keeping people safe throughout our service area. Electric Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) continues to develop tools, techniques, and management strategies to improve safety, troubleshoot problems, and increase efficiency. In 2021, Electric Operations’ Distribution Engineering team used the company’s enterprise data analytics platform and three-phase Advanced Meter Infrastructure (AMI) meter data to develop machine learning algorithms that remotely identify defective equipment. By detecting and repairing these conditions we can help avoid an electrical shock and/or disturbances in customer’s electrical service. In addition, the team worked to advance our thermal imaging capabilities by developing an industry-first thermal and visual borescope camera to help our crews inspect underground electric distribution manholes quickly and safely for high temperature anomalies that may indicate equipment repairs are required. This tool is the latest addition to the technology that CECONY is deploying to identify defective equipment, and risks to members of the public quickly and efficiently. CECONY continues to work to reduce manhole events with multiple programs including its industry recognized latched manhole technology and its vented manhole cover that reduce the severity of manhole events. CECONY’s underground networks are surveyed for contact voltage 12 times a year, using mobile detectors. In 2021, we found and eliminated 5,803 cases of contact voltage. Of those, 5,264 cases (91%) were on non-Con Edison equipment (streetlights, electric signs, and other structures). SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT - PUBLIC SAFETY We performed more than 39,000 inspections of our underground structures (manholes, service boxes, and transformer vaults). Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc’s (O&R) electric system testing is completed at least once every five years. In 2021, O&R performed 36,725 inspections and 39,127 tests. Gas Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY’s) strategy for public safety risk mitigation includes the elements of prevention, enhanced detection, and best in class response. Many of its initiatives are industry leading and on the cutting edge of technology. Prevention The Company continues to significantly invest in its main replacement program to remove cast iron and unprotected steel gas mains from its inventory. The Company has replaced 448 miles of such mains in the last five years. Along with other enhanced quality measures, the Company requires 100% independent inspections of all plastic joints installed to confirm quality and compliance. Furthermore, the Company has a robust and proactive damage prevention program that promotes awareness in the contractor community and applies predictive analytics for additional contractor oversight before street work is performed near our critical facilities. Detection CECONY performs monthly gas leak surveys of its 4,300 mile gas distribution system, far in excess of the traditional annual survey preformed in the industry. The frequency of these surveys allows it to detect leaks in its system as they occur, so that repair can be scheduled in a timely manner. Additionally, the Company has developed first of its kind natural gas detectors integrated with our advanced metering infrastructure. These detectors automatically notify the Gas Emergency Response Center of potential public safety emergencies that require immediate attention. We piloted these detectors in 2018 and have installed over 85,000 detectors thus far. The Company will install detectors in every remaining gas customer’s building over the next four years. Furthermore, CECONY has a comprehensive, multichannel, and multilingual campaign to educate customers and the public at large—an estimated 10 million people across New York City and Westchester County—about gas safety and the urgency of reporting gas leaks. We reach customers primarily through direct mailings, youth outreach efforts, advertising, digital initiatives (such as email campaigns, conEd.com and social media), and community events. We are also continuing our successful media campaign, Smell Gas, Act Fast, featuring videos and social media posts that inform customers on what to do if they smell gas. The videos are in English, Spanish, Chinese, and Korean. Response CECONY emergency response performance is best-in-class. In 2021, the Company responded to gas leaks across the system within 30 minutes, 96% of the time. Furthermore, our close relationship with the Fire Department of New York and Westchester County Emergency Services has ensured that every event is responded to with the utmost urgency and is mitigated quickly. In 2019, CECONY worked with Westchester County Department of Emergency Services to build a new hands-on gas leak emergency training facility for local fire departments to aid in their ability to respond to natural gas leaks effectively and safely. Orange & Rockland We have continued our focus on enhancing public safety by modernizing our gas delivery system. Investments to replace leak-prone pipe, primarily unprotected steel and gas mains, have resulted in fewer incoming outside leaks. In 2021, we replaced more than 22 miles of gas mains. We quickly respond to gas odor and carbon monoxide calls, and in 2021 we responded to more than 91% of calls in 30 minutes. By providing education to and direct oversight of those performing excavation work near our gas system, we continued to see good performance relative to third-party damages to our gas system. We continue to perform gas leak patrols of our distribution system and have kept the number of open leaks low throughout the year. We continued to perform internal corrosion inspections and strategically deployed AMI-enabled, natural gas detectors in the territory. O&R has a comprehensive campaign to educate customers and the public at large about gas safety and the urgency of reporting gas leaks. We reach customers primarily through direct mailings, advertising, digital initiatives, and community events. Steam Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) continues to apply its prevent, detect, and respond risk mitigation strategy to have a deliberate focus on public safety. Many of these initiatives are industry leading and on the cutting edge of technology. For the “prevent” element of the strategy, CECONY continues significant investments in its steam system assessment and main inspection programs that use advanced data analytics to identify areas where specific infrastructure investment is needed. Starting in 2019, CECONY began the first generation of its assessment model and has inspected approximately 7,000 feet of steam main to date. CECONY also recently commissioned into service a full-scale computational fluid dynamic flow model known as, the Kongsberg model. This model simulates the flow of steam and condensate through the piping system using actual field conditions reported from various devices. This model is the first of its kind in the industry and can alert our Engineering/Operations teams to potential conditions that might increase the risk of a water hammer. The model will continue to be validated with field measurement devices over the next five years as it is gradually put into meaningful operations and planning use. Besides these preventive efforts, CECONY also has a robust monthly customer seminar program which educates our customers on how to use our steam service properly and safely in their buildings. CECONY’s “detect” risk mitigation strategy includes performing weekly or bi-weekly (depending on the season) visual surveys of the 105-mile steam distribution system. CECONY also developed and is enhancing our remote monitoring system. The sensors associated with this system have the capability to detect defective steam traps, excessive water levels within our steam manholes, as well as the performance of drainage pumps. This system automatically notifies our Steam Troubleshoot Dispatch Center of potential public safety emergencies that require immediate attention. Additional improvements to the system are currently in the research and development stages with planned pilots scheduled for 2022. CECONY’s “respond” risk mitigation strategy includes rapid response, repair, and partnership with external agencies. In 2021, CECONY responded to vapor conditions across the system within 45 minutes, 92.9% of the time. Steam Operations has consistently met this critical response time goal. These performances are also attributed to the close relationship between CECONY and many of the first responders, including Fire Department of New York City and the Department of Environmental Protection. Overall, CECONY conducted eleven (11) training sessions for public and emergency officials on how to properly respond to steam incidents. CECONY also met with various agencies throughout the year to familiarize them with the steam system, hazard recognition methods, and the Company’s internal emergency response procedures. CECONY also conducts drills to test its emergency response process/procedure for steam safety incidents as well as potential oil spill events. 