LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY UTILITY OF THE FUTURE Utility of the Future In December 2013, the New York State Public Service Commission announced that it would transform its regulation of the distribution system. This effort would drive change through five core policy objectives. They are: Empowering Customers Leveraging Customer Contributions System–wide Efficiency Fuel and Resource Diversity System Reliability and Resiliency Significant investment is needed to meet these new policy objectives, to provide customers with the level of service they desire, and to compensate them for the service they may provide to the system. This includes investments in generation, transmission, distribution, demand-side resources, information technology, and communication infrastructure. Some of these provisions will enable and integrate customer-and third-party investment in distributed energy resources. These objectives actively promote the use of energy efficiency and renewable generation to further reduce customer greenhouse gas emissions. Energy produced by customer-sited renewables, such as solar panels, offsets non-renewable energy consumption, resulting in overall energy savings. Although distribution costs and the total bill may increase over time, the objective is to minimize these increases to the extent possible while providing value-added services. Con Edison established a Utility of the Future team to manage these efforts. This team will analyze the way customers use new technology and its impact on the electric distribution system. Many customers seek to control their energy costs by installing technologies that can temporarily or permanently reduce their energy use. These technologies include customer-sited supply (including solar and conventional generation), energy efficiency, and advanced demand response systems. The team will develop a strategy to accommodate new and shifting uses of the electric system, and will work collaboratively with regulators to find cost-effective solutions that appeal to customers. The team will also provide input regarding regulatory structures for the industry. For utilities to thrive in the future, we must recover costs through regulated rates, and have the appropriate incentive mechanisms to encourage desired outcomes. The new industry model will need to encourage collaboration and innovation by utilities and third parties in developing new products and services. It is the nature of innovation to have successes and failures. Ultimately, we look to encourage a framework where innovation and partnerships can flourish and experimentation can occur without penalty. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY FIVE BUSINESS OVERVIEW Five Business Overview From our early history lighting gas lamps to today’s cutting edge electric vehicle and smart-grid technologies, Con Edison has powered New York for 200 years. A population of nearly ten million across New York City and nearby counties depend on us to provide safe, reliable, and affordable energy to light and warm their homes, run their businesses, and help the region grow. The theme of this year’s sustainability report – 5 Businesses, 1 Goal: Evolving for the Future – is reflective of our changing industry, customer needs, and regulator priorities. A breakdown of 2013 revenue for Con Edison, Inc. is provided below by business for Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY), Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R), and the competitive energy businesses (CEBs), which are comprised of Con Edison Solutions, Con Edison Development, and Con Edison Energy. CONSOLIDATED EDISON, INC. Con Edison, Inc. (CEI) is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy companies, with over $12 billion in annual revenues and more than $40 billion in assets. The principal business segments of Con Edison, Inc. are Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. with regulated electric, gas, and steam utility activities; Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. with regulated electric and gas utility activities; and Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses. Con Edison, Inc. is headquartered in New York City with virtually all its revenues generated in the United States. Con Edison, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, ticker symbol ED. Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses participate in segments of the electricity industry that include electric generation from renewable sources, trading of electricity and fuel, sales of electricity to wholesale and retail customers, and sales of certain energy-related goods and services. For more information, please visit the CEI website, conEdison.com (http://conedison.com). CONSOLIDATED EDISON COMPANY OF NEW YORK, INC. Con Edison of New York (CECONY) is CEI’s largest subsidiary. It is a regulated utility providing electric service throughout New York City (except for a small area of Queens) and most of Westchester County. Con Edison of New York also provides natural gas service in Manhattan, the Bronx, and parts of Queens and Westchester. Con Edison of New York operates one of the world’s largest steam distribution systems, providing service for more than 1,700 customers in Manhattan south of 96th Street. Steam is used year-round, for heat and hot water in the winter, and for air-conditioning in the summer. Overall, CECONY serves a population of nearly 10 million and more than 50 million annual visitors to New York City, throughout a service territory covering 660 square miles. Selected information on the scale of Con Edison of New York operations is provided in the following table. For more information visit the CECONY website, conEd.com (http://www.coned.com). ORANGE AND ROCKLAND UTILITIES, INC. Orange and Rockland (O&R) is a wholly owned CEI-regulated subsidiary, headquartered in Pearl River, New York, that delivers both electricity and natural gas in southeastern New York and northeastern Pennsylvania, and electricity in northern New Jersey. Within its tri-state service territory, O&R provides service to a population of roughly 740,000 in a service territory of approximately 1,350 square miles. For more information, visit the O&R website, oru.com (http://oru.com). CON EDISON SOLUTIONS Con Edison Solutions (CES) is a leading energy services company that provides competitive power supply, renewable energy, sustainability services, cost-effective energy-efficiency solutions, and performance contracting services for commercial, industrial, residential, and government customers nationwide. The company is based in Valhalla, New York, with offices in Burlington, Massachusetts; Cherry Hill, New Jersey; Chicago, Illinois; Falls Church, Virginia; Houston, Texas; Tampa, Florida; and Overland Park, Kansas. The company offers innovative products, financial stability, and a commitment to customer service. The firm's dedicated team of energy professionals delivers a broad range of energy solutions. Con Edison Solutions offers programs and services designed to help customers achieve their individual energy objectives. It is accredited as an Energy Services Provider (ESP) by the National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO). Con Edison Solutions serves retail electric commodity customers in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Texas, Illinois, Maine, Rhode Island, Ohio, and the District of Columbia, and retail gas commodity customers in New York and New Jersey. For more information, visit the CES website, conedsolutions.com (http://conedsolutions.com). CON EDISON DEVELOPMENT Con Edison Development (CED) is a leading developer, owner, and operator of renewable and energy infrastructure projects with a primary, but not exclusive, focus on grid-connected utility-scale solar facilities located in North America. The company’s investments include: ownership interests in solar energy projects in California, Arizona, Nevada, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts, with an aggregate capacity of 392 MW; a gas storage corporation; and an investment in an affordable-housing partnership. Through its deep resources and trusted relationships with a range of energy-related companies, CED continues to build its pipeline of renewable energy projects and opportunistically grow its portfolio. For more information, visit the CED website, coneddev.com (http://coneddev.com). CON EDISON ENERGY Con Edison Energy (CEE) manages the output and fuel requirements for over 7,300 MW of third-party generating plants in the northeastern United States. The company also provides wholesale hedging and risk management services to CES and CED. In addition, the company contracts for and optimizes energy assets such as transmission, ISO interfaces, natural gas storage and transportation. For more information, visit the CEE website, conedenergy.com (http://conedenergy.com). CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY STRATEGY Strategy Con Edison’s strategy is to deliver reliable energy services and provide a stable foundation for supporting New York’s economy. At Con Edison, we have two strategic documents – our Integrated Long Range Plan and our Sustainability Strategy. These companion documents work together to identify ways that we can add value for all of our stakeholders through the services we provide, our different business models, and our commitment to excellence in all that we do. INTEGRATED LONG RANGE PLAN In an effort to better plan for the next 20 years, Con Edison has developed an Integrated Long Range Plan (ILRP), the first iteration of which was published in 2012. While flexible to the evolution of our industry and technologies, the ILRP outlines how the utilities will use an integrated approach across our electric, gas, and steam businesses to meet the needs of our stakeholders as we work to provide safe, reliable, clean, innovative, and cost-effective energy services for a sustainable future. There are three key objectives of the ILRP: 1. Help our customers use less energy and lower their energy costs: Our energy efficiency and demand response programs reduce our system peak and help us defer large capital investments. Focusing on oil-to-gas conversion opportunities will provide a path for growth in our gas business, and savings on heating costs for our customers. 2. Improve our use of existing assets: Improved project management and work management processes will help us make more strategic infrastructure-planning decisions, manage costs, and lower maintenance expenses. Along with the implementation of smart grid technology, these efforts will help us to remain one of the world’s most reliable utilities for the ten million people who depend on us each day. 3. Minimize the impact bills have on our customers: We will do this through an array of approaches, including promoting our energy efficiency programs to save customers money and energy. We will also advocate on behalf of customers to minimize the supply charges, taxes, and fees that we do not control. As we strive to meet these goals, we will continue to focus on the importance of improving customer service, meeting governmental and our own internal environmental standards, and maintaining reliability and safety. In 2014, the company will update its long-range plans to reflect changes in our operating environment and the needs of our customers, as well as growing adoption of distributed energy resources. To learn more about Con Edison’s long-term goals and our plan to reach them, please view the full text of the Integrated Long Range Plan 