Operational Excellence Installation of a novel on-line oil dehydration system capable of continuously removing moisture from transformer oil could maximize the lifecycle of power transformers, lower maintenance by eliminating the need for replacing exhausted cartridges, and preserve dissolved fault gases in the oil to allow for conventional dissolved gas analysis. A prototype has been developed and successfully tested, with the ultimate goal to develop a portable unit that could be easily transported between substations on an as-needed basis. Development of unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) with cyber forensic capabilities will protect our assets and personnel through identification and the use of digital forensic procedures to support cyber-investigations of embedded systems. The Corporate Cyber Forensic team is now fully equipped to perform manual extraction of data off the UAV and is in process of acquiring the software tool for data analysis. A thermal imaging tool for through-cover inspections will reduce jobsite set-up, reduce necessary personal protective equipment, and allow for more frequent inspections. In the final phase of development, this tool will allow us to track low level hotspot conditions and mitigate them before developing into a higher risk condition. The newly patented electrofusion repair sleeve is sized to encapsulate an electrofusion coupling for leaking and non-leaking polyethylene pipe, and will negate the need to perform main cut-outs of unacceptable fittings. Customer Experience Demonstration of the thermal compression heat pump will determine the potential for significant customer energy and cost savings. Thermal compression of helium to produce a temperature difference between the hot and cold sides of the pump will allow for space or water heating (or cooling) applications. Global Positioning System (GPS) real-time tracking of mutual aid crews and equipment deployed for storm restoration or other functions will assist in reducing costs and improving restoration time for customers. The R&D phase of this project is complete and successful, and the deployment plan is currently being developed. A patent-pending technology will provide constant power to natural gas detectors capable of communicating over the smart meter network. In addition, by incorporating micro tuning forks to measure a change in frequency, the sensor can alert us to the presence of natural gas. Continued development of a prototype tool using electro-hydraulic energy to fracture rock will facilitate the installation of new infrastructure without the traditional noise and vibration of jack-hammering. This R&D project seeks to make the technology adjustable for varied applications and to create a portable solution. REPORT INTRODUCTION AWARDS & RECOGNITION Awards & Recognition Sustainability is an umbrella that covers everything we do as a company. As we continue to serve our customers, promote safety, and help preserve the environment, we receive many recognitions and prestigious awards for our projects and operational excellence. Here is a sample from our list of recent honors: Safety & Environment Con Edison was the Cleanie Awards Gold recipient for Mid-size Company of the Year. The Cleanie Award is the first comprehensive awards program exclusive to the cleantech industry, recognizing excellence in innovation, business leadership and superior outreach campaigns. Con Edison won an honorable mention in Edison Electric Institute’s 2019 Advocacy Excellence Awards for our work with building support for electric vehicle adoption. Con Edison won the Itron Innovator Award for the deployment of smart meter gas detectors. O&R’s Employee Wellness team won the Northeast Gas Association’s 2019 Excellence in Safety Award for its comprehensive workforce wellness program. O&R was awarded the Tree Line USA award from the Arbor Day Foundation for the 18th year in a row. Operational Excellence 18 Con Edison employees won the Technology Transfer Award from the Electric Power Research Institute, a national energy research organization. United Way of Rockland County named O&R its Top Corporate Donor of 2019 for raising over $128,000 to support United Way programs. Diversity & Inclusion Our work with diversity and inclusion has been honored by several professional publications, including: Black EOE Journal named us one of its Best of the Best in 2019 in Top Utilities, Gas & Oil; Latina Style named us among the top 50 companies in the country for Latina professionals; Professional Woman’s Magazine named us among the “Best of the Best” of Utilities, Energy, Gas & Oil Companies in 2019; Diversity Inc. ranked Con Edison No. 2 on its Top Utilities Specialty List. Con Edison was ranked No. 37 in New York State on Forbes’ America’s Best In-State Employers 2019. This list is based on an independent survey of U.S. companies employing at least 500 people in their operation. Con Edison was included on US Veterans Magazine’s Best of the Best – Top Veteran Friendly Company list . Supply Chain The New York/New Jersey chapter of the Minority Supplier Development Council named Con Edison its Corporation of the Year in recognition of our supplier diversity program. Customer Experience Our company won two PA Consulting Group ReliabilityOne awards—the 2019 Outstanding Customer Reliability Experience Award, as well as the organization’s award for Outstanding Reliability in the Northeast Region. Con Edison was honored again in 2019 as an Energy Star Partner of the Year by the Environmental Protection Agency for our “outstanding support of Energy Star-certified products as it leverages the Energy Star certification platform to guide its customers to better energy usage decisions.” Con Edison ranked among the top 33 of 140 largest gas and electric utilities in the country. According to the 2019 Cogent Reports Utility Trusted Brand & Customer Engagement: Residential Study Con Edison scored 747 of 1000. 