SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Management Tons of hazardous waste are captured and shipped by Con Edison and O&R each year to licensed commercial waste-handling facilities. Much of this waste is presumed lead-contaminated and comes from cleaning our underground electric facilities, including manholes and transformer vaults. The costs of cleaning these facilities and the amount of hazardous waste generated have been reduced substantially since 1998 — the year we launched a waste program managed by our employees that rendered lead virtually inert and therefore no longer hazardous. O&R’s recycling program continues a long-established partnership with Rockland ARC, a local organization that provides support for the mentally disabled. Since 1991, O&R recycling has saved more than one million cubic feet in landfill space. Con Edison and O&R recycle or auction for sale tons of non-hazardous waste, including retired fleet vehicles, forklifts, tool carts, old cables, streetlights, reflectors, meters, and paper products. Con Edison of New York Waste (tons) 2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  Hazardous waste generated  17,547  11,371  12,070  10,600  10,360  Remediation waste  545  31  18  7,195  11,939  SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT HABITAT & BIODIVERSITY Habitat & Biodiversity We continue to work closely with our stakeholders to promote biodiversity and protect environmentally sensitive areas throughout the company’s service territory. Our project engineering process includes a comprehensive environmental review to identify potential impacts to wetlands, waterways, threatened and endangered species, and areas of public interest such as public parks and trees. For large-scale projects with the potential to cause adverse impacts, whether temporary or permanent, Con Edison solicits input from the impacted community and government stakeholders early in the design process to help mitigate any concerns. For our routine work activities, Con Edison uses proven practices, such as proper erosion and sediment controls, to protect environmentally sensitive wetlands and waterways. Our main goal is to minimize our work footprint and restore any disturbed areas to pre-construction conditions. Con Edison, working with the New York City’s Department of Parks and Recreation, has developed a thorough set of rules and policies for work in and around city-owned trees and public parks. We understand how vital trees are to NYC’s infrastructure and identity, contributing to clean air and water, reducing energy costs, increasing property values, and beautifying streets and parks. Additionally, Con Edison has fostered a strong relationship with the NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission to develop and protect historic districts and individual landmarks that contribute to the city’s and nation’s identity and heritage. After several years, at our East River Generating Station, we successfully completed the installation and testing of a new fish protection system for a water intake tunnel. The installation of this new system has reduced Con Edison impact on the aquatic life found within the East River. Outside of NYC, Con Edison maintains an extensive Overhead Transmission Vegetation Management program that encompasses more than 2,000 acres. Our efforts seek to encourage biological diversity by protecting native plants, selectively pruning or cutting undesirable species, and increasing public awareness for threatened and endangered species. Con Edison is a founding member of EPRI’s Power-in-Pollinator Initiative, which fosters collaboration among various utility companies throughout the country to increase the effectiveness of pollinator conservation. Con Edison’s robust natural resources program continues to provide regulatory support and guidance for our engineering and operating groups while looking for new ways the company can innovate, foster relationships, and promote sustainable construction practices. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT ELECTRIC VEHICLES Electric Vehicles The company expanded SmartCharge New York in 2018, an electric vehicle (EV) off-peak charging incentive program. Con Edison provides EV owners who charge their vehicles in our service territory a free connected device that plugs into their vehicles’ onboard diagnostic ports. This device reads charging information – when, where, and how much energy is consumed. Participants earned 10 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for any off-peak charging in our service territory, in addition to other monthly smart-charging rewards. An EV owner who drives 10,000 miles annually can earn up to $500 per year plus an enrollment bonus of $150. In 2018 the program acquired 0.64 megawatts (MW) in peak load reduction. As of December 2018, almost 1,800 EVs were actively enrolled in the program. Last year, the program was expanded to include medium and heavy-duty vehicles. At the end of last year, Con Edison’s fleet contained 100 plug-in vehicles comprised of 24 BEVs, 53 PHEVs, and 23 ePTO/eAPU bucket trucks/step vans. The fleet also contains more than 150 conventional hybrids, 275 vehicles operating on compressed natural gas (CNG), and nearly 1,700 vehicles running on biodiesel blends. The EV Charging Infrastructure Project (2016-2018) is now complete at all workout locations included in the scope, with approximately 80% of the fleet supported. E 16th St., W 28th St., E 110th St., 3rd Ave., Victory Blvd., Astoria, College Point, TLC, Van Nest, Eastview, Rye (178 Theo Fremd) Each site includes four level-2 chargers (208/240V) and one DC Fast Charger (480V) installed, as well as service for five additional level-2 chargers for future needs Workout locations outside of Manhattan are also equipped with five level-1 chargers (110V outlets) In addition, the level-2 chargers at 4 Irving Place and Astoria, were expanded and/or upgraded. Con Edison has a total of 54 level-2 chargers and 11 DC Fast Chargers currently in service to support the expanding plug-in fleet. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS Oil-to-Gas Conversions In 2018 Con Edison converted 189 buildings from heavy heating oil to gas. Since the start of our conversion program in 2011, we have converted more than 4,400 large buildings burning heavy heating oil; we also converted more than 3,200 customers from No. 2 grade oil. The company’s program has kept more than 560 tons of fine particulate matter from the air, which is a significant impact on air quality within the New York City portion of our service territory. New York City has the cleanest air in five decades, largely as a result of these building conversions. While adhering to best practices to achieve operational excellence, the Gas Marketing and New Business teams at O&R added 1,476 new customers in 2018. These additions included 131 conversions from oil/propane to cleaner natural gas. Among the factors spurring our growth were a gas conversion rebate program, entitlement changes, and a 15-year economic feasibility analysis, up from 10 years previously. In addition to gas expansion efforts, significant community growth is expected in southeastern Orange County that will contribute to substantial use of natural gas within the next five years. Con Edison, Inc. Utility Customer Conversions to Gas SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT WATER Water We recognize the importance of preserving natural resources. As one of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s largest water customers, it is our obligation to produce steam through the most efficient processes available to us to maximize our steam energy output from our water input. The company’s overall water footprint is largely converted into steam, which is an integral source of clean, efficient energy distributed to our customers for a variety of purposes such as heat, hot water, air conditioning, sterilization, and food processing. We have ongoing efficiency improvement initiatives to minimize our water footprint that include reducing the rate of water consumption at two of our steam generating stations. Con Edison Steam Operations - DEP Municipal Water Use On average, more than 65% of Steam Operations’ water footprint is distributed to customers as steam energy purchased for their needs. This chart displays steam operations data only. CECONY facility adds approximately 0.11 billion gallons in 2018, or 3% of water use. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT ISO CERTIFICATION ISO Certification The Con Edison Environmental Management System (EMS) is certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001:2015 standard. The purpose of the ISO 14001:2015 standard is to provide a framework and systematic approach to environmental management. ISO 14001:2015 requires a commitment from all levels of the Con Edison organization, led by the top management, to environmental protection through pollution prevention and continuous improvement. ISO 14001 certification gives Con Edison and their stakeholders a means of verification that the EMS is operating at a world-class standard. Con Edison though implementation of an ISO 14001 certified EMS is committed to: Improving safety and environmental performance Strengthening regulatory compliance Enhancing relationships with our stakeholders Identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential Promoting wise and effective use of natural resources We have, over 17 consecutive years, maintained its ISO 14001 certification through a rigorous third-party certification process. In 2017, our certification was upgraded from ISO 14001:2004 to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard by a two-week audit conducted by Intertek Testing Services NA, a third-party auditor. Our chemical laboratory operations are third party certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2005, general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories standard. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE PHYSICAL/CYBER SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY Physical/Cyber Security & Data Privacy New technology brings new challenges. We continue to work with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as our colleagues in the energy business, to identify and employ the latest technological tools to protect our customers and our equipment. The threat of cybercrime has become more acute. Our data-protection efforts include 24/7 monitoring, vulnerability assessments, employee education, regular drills and phishing tests, and close cooperation with government and industry partners. We consistently earn passing grades on audits that assess our cybersecurity and data-protection standards. Con Edison’s Sidney Alvarez spoke with Vice President and Chief Information Officer Manny Cancel about how our company works with local, state, and federal agencies to protect our customers’ data and our own data and equipment: OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Ethical Business Practices Our strong business ethics are founded on our corporate values and help us achieve our three priorities – safety, operational excellence, and customer service. We are committed to conducting business using the highest ethical standards. How we do business, how we treat our customers and business partners, and how we treat one another all contribute to how we are perceived in the marketplace and, ultimately, to our long-term viability. Our Values in Action Advisor network of 110 employees and our Business Ethics Council with 15 members assist the organization in maintaining a culture of integrity in their departments. We conduct ethics and compliance training for all employees. The Compliance Management team works with organizations throughout the company to build and maintain the infrastructure for our compliance programs. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CLIMATE RESILIENCE Climate Resilience Con Edison takes seriously the challenges posed by climate change, and that’s why we’re taking a multi-pronged approach to strengthen the reliability and resilience of our systems in the face of extreme weather. In March of last year, back-to-back Nor’easters caused more outages in Westchester than Hurricane Irene in 2011. In response, the company has committed to invest $100 million in Westchester to make the overhead system more storm-resilient and to address hazardous trees on private property to encourage removal and minimize outages. These efforts will improve our reliability in the same way that our $1 billion infrastructure investments after Superstorm Sandy has prevented hundreds of thousands of outages. When storms happen, customers expect that we bounce back quickly. To keep our electric, gas, and steam delivery systems prepared, we plan to spend more than $3 billion a year on utility infrastructure. Substation and transmission upgrades, such as replacements of switchgear, will result in a more resilient system that emits fewer greenhouse gases. Additionally, upgrades to our core system with smart technology is making it easier for customers to connect their own private energy sources, like solar panels and battery storage. We’re on track to install more than 5 million smart meters across our territory by 2022. Smart meters are even giving customers more detailed information about their energy usage, helping alert us to gas leaks on our system, and allowing us to conserve power by optimizing voltage levels. Renewable sources of energy also play a role in our plan to be resilient in the event of extreme weather. Take for example our new mobile-storage units that will be used by the end of the year. Just like back-up generators, when storms hit, we’ll be able to move these battery units to where they are needed the most. The resiliency of our systems is only as good as our planning. That’s why we have completed an analysis of the impact of ambient temperature, humidity, precipitation, and sea level rise on our assets and processes. The analysis uses the latest available climate science to project future weather scenarios for our service territory to the year 2080. The weather scenario projections will be used to evaluate potential impacts to the company’s electric, gas, and steam systems. Based on these impacts, we will review adaptation options, such as revisions to design standards and operating processes. In 2019, we also plan to complete an analysis of major events and sequential events. A consolidated report will include a risk mitigation plan and will be filed with the Public Service Commission at the end of 2019. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CORE SYSTEM UPGRADES Core System Upgrades The Advanced Meter Infrastructure (AMI) project is the largest project in company history. Some 5.25 million smart meters – comprised of roughly 3.9 million AMI electric meters and 1.35 million gas devices – are being deployed across our service territory and will result in significant environmental, operational, and customer benefits. Smart meters put unprecedented control into the hands of our customers. With the company’s updated website and digital customer experience, customers can see their energy usage in near real-time and make smarter, more informed decisions about managing their energy usage, controlling costs, and helping the environment. Deployment of the communications network and smart meters began in 2017 and ends in 2022. More than 5,000 communications network devices have been installed throughout the company’s entire service area. In 2017, meter installations began in Staten Island, Westchester, and Rockland County. Last year, we began installing meters in Brooklyn, Manhattan, and Orange and Sullivan Counties, while completing deployment on Staten Island. Westchester is targeted to be completed in 2019. Meter deployment in the Bronx began in January 2019, while Queens is slated to begin in July. To date, more than 1.2 million devices have been installed. The AMI Operations Control Center is currently staffed 24/7 to monitor the communications network, as well as the meters and gas modules connected to the network. Con Edison began working with the MTA in 2017 with its emergent MTA signal meter circuits initiative. We completed the installation of AMI meters and communications network devices on MTA signal meter circuits in Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, and the Bronx by the end of March 2018. We also created a monitoring dashboard that provides insight into MTA signal power events. Since November 2017, more than 100 events have been identified. The AMI project team has worked closely with Gas Operations and the AMI vendor to develop a first-of-its-kind, battery-powered natural gas detector that is integrated with the AMI network. The natural gas detectors are safety devices that monitor the atmosphere where Con Edison’s gas pipes enter our customers’ homes and buildings. They provide an alert when natural gas levels in that area indicate a potential leak that could be dangerous. Through the communications network, the detectors send a wireless alert to Con Edison if a potential gas leak has been detected, allowing Con Edison and the fire department to respond quickly. A pilot program to install 9,000 detectors began in October 2018 in parts of Westchester and will begin in a part of Manhattan in 2019. AMI will let the company operate the system at optimal voltages – known as conservation voltage optimization (CVO) – reducing total energy consumption, as well as associated power-generation emissions. Analysis shows that information from the AMI system can be leveraged to reduce energy usage across our service territory by approximately 1.5% on average, decreasing associated fuel use for committed generation resources. This results in an environmental impact of 1.9% less total CO2 emissions, due to reduction of power generated annually by fossil fuel plants across our service territory, and 1% total carbon reductions in NY state. AMI will be providing engineers and planners with more granular data, enabling potential design and operational improvements. Con Edison began implementing CVO in Staten Island at the end of 2018 and plansto begin implementation of CVO in Westchester in 2019. CVO will continue to be implemented across our service territory through 2022. Con Edison invested $1.386 billion in its transmission and distribution systems in New York City and Westchester County to prepare for the summer 2019. The investment included upgrades and reinforcements of 27 network transformers and 58 overhead transformers. We also plan to upgrade 61 underground feeder sections and 262 spans of overhead cable. Con Edison projects that peak demand for electricity in the summer of 2019 will reach 13,270 megawatts – the actual previous peak summer demand was 12,766 megawatts, seen on Sept 6, 2018. (The record is 13,322 megawatts, which occurred at 5 p.m. on July 19, 2013.) We are integrating new technology to make service more reliable. Con Edison has installed 2,500 devices in manholes to detect stray voltage, heat and carbon monoxide in underground structures, and communicate this information back to the control room. Another 3,000 are planned for 2019. These devices have already detected seven instances of energized objects in those structures. By remotely monitoring these conditions, we were able to eliminate a condition that could have led to an event or a shock. Con Edison is also using tools that take infrared images of hot spots not visible to the human eye in cables and connections. The technology helps identify problems that would otherwise go undetected and leads to prompt repairs. ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION PIPE ENHANCEMENT We are investing $40 million in 2019 to totally encapsulate 6,292 linear feet (1,573 trench feet) of leak-prone transmission feeder pipe using the new refurbishment method of carbon fiber wrap application. We’re addressing another 1,500 trench feet using the method of installing welded steel sleeves or barrels in corroded areas. In 2018, we refurbished a total of 8,743 trench feet of piping and invested $14 million in spill response and remediation efforts to improve the environment. We expect to make significant progress in research and development to reduce the potential for future oil spills. We’re also investing in research and development that can replace existing oil-filled feeders with solid dielectric cable. Our underground transmission system consists of 660 miles of 69-, 138-, and 345.kilovolt feeders encased in steel pipe surrounded by high-pressure dielectric fluid (a non.toxic synthetic compound similar to mineral oil). The conductors inside our steel pipes are wrapped in paper insulation, filled with and pressurized by the dielectric fluid at a nominal pressure of 200 pounds per square inch. In some feeders the dielectric fluid is circulated and cooled to provide enhanced current-carrying capability. Approximately nine million gallons of dielectric fluid is contained within the feeders, the pressurization plants, and the cooling plants. Our leak-detection methods are some of the most sophisticated in the world: We use real-time monitoring of some of the largest volume feeders to constantly check their integrity. We infuse our oil with a special tracer gas to help us rapidly locate and uncover leaks. If significant leaks occur, we often remove feeders from service to allow them to be placed on reduced pressure to slow the leak rate. We use proactive tracer patrols to find and repair incipient leaks before they worsen to minimize environmental impact. To repair leaks, we excavate to uncover the feeder pipes and apply a mechanical clamp to stop the flow. Permanent repairs are complete when a concentric steel barrel is wielded over the clamp and the pipe. The pipe is then re-coated before the excavation is restored. RELIABILITY PERFORMANCE The standards for measuring the reliability of distribution service are the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) and the Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI). SAIFI is compiled annually, and the figure represents the number of service interruptions divided by the number of customers served. CAIDI, also compiled annually, represents the average time to restore service to interrupted customers. The CAIDI figure results from the total customer minutes of interruption divided by the total number of customers affected. For both figures, a low number indicates a better performance. 2018 NUMBERS FOR CECONY (electric) SAIFI: 0.120 CAIDI: 164.9 minutes 2018 NUMBERS FOR O&R (electric) SAIFI: 1.125 CAIDI: 107 minutes GAS MAIN REPLACEMENT In 2018, Con Edison replaced more than 90 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel pipe. This replacement level exceeded our company’s commitment to the New York State Public Service Commission by more than six miles and was the company’s highest ever in a single year. It also met the 4% replacement rate that we targeted in accordance with the EPA’s Methane Challenge. Methane is the primary element in natural gas and a major greenhouse gas. Replacement of cast iron and unprotected steel pipe with polyethylene plastic pipe or protected steel pipe prevented an estimated12.0 million cubic feet of annual natural gas leakage. In 2018, O&R replaced 27 miles of leak-prone pipes, after eliminating all cast iron pipes in Rockland County in 2017. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE SUPPLY CHAIN Supply Chain Our supply chain activities involve more than just the procurement of goods and services — they are also a means to support our commitments to safety, environmental stewardship, social responsibility, cost savings, and operational excellence. We partner with our utility industry colleagues, our customers, and vendor base to develop and promote the implementation of sustainable supply chain best practices. These benchmarks enable us to save money and achieve reductions in our carbon footprint and our use of water and energy, while also reducing the amount of waste generated. In 2018, we diverted more than 13 thousand pounds of waste from landfills. We also sold items such as scrap cable, meters, transformers, and paper to recyclers to recover more than $10 million. Last year, we purchased more than $5 million of environmentally-friendly products (such as hybrid vehicles, low-carbon fuels, recycled paper, toner, and carpet) and awarded more than $1 million in contracts to support infrastructure for electric vehicle charging stations. In support of our energy efficiency goals, we issued 12 contracts worth more than $18 million for demand management and battery storage projects. We consider our vendors to be essential partners in our operations and we work to ensure that they meet our standards for safety and social responsibility. Construction vendors involved in excavation work are required to enroll in the Gold Shovel Safety Certification Program. All vendors who do business with Con Edison are required to abide by our Vendor Code of Business Conduct, which outlines our standards for ethics, human rights, labor laws, environmental management, and supplier diversity. We also engage with our vendors through our active participation in the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. The utilities within this organization represent supply chain departments with aggregate annual spending of more than $50 billion. Con Edison recently took on a leadership role within this organization. By collaborating with supply chain leaders and suppliers, Con Edison is able to spark innovation and increase the adoption of sustainable supply chain best practices throughout our industry. Con Edison recognizes the impact small businesses have on job creation in our service territory. That’s why we are committed to supporting them through our Supplier Diversity program. In 2018, we purchased $345 million in goods and services from women- and minority-owned companies. Including expenditures from non-diverse small businesses, our outreach efforts yielded more than $620 million in annual spend. In recognition of the positive contributions made by our Supplier Diversity & Sustainability program within the communities we serve, our company won awards from the New York/New Jersey Chapter of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, the Long Island Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities Supplier Diversity Development Council. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE GOVERNANCE Governance Experience has taught us that the combination of a solid financial foundation, operational excellence, the highest ethical standards, and the utmost regard for our employees and the people and communities we serve are the bedrock qualities of a successful company. A standing committee of the company’s Board of Directors, referred to as the Planning and Environmental Committee, existed as early as 1973. In 1995, this committee became the company’s Environment, Health and Safety Committee (“EH&S Committee”), whose primary responsibility was to oversee the company’s efforts relating to the protection of the environment, sustainability, and the health and safety of company employees and the public. At the end of 2018, the EH&S Committee was dissolved and as of January 1, 2019, the company established a newly constituted Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee (“SEOS Committee”). The primary responsibility of the SEOS Committee is to oversee our efforts relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability, ensuring we operate in a safe, environmentally sensitive and socially responsible manner, guard the health and safety of employees and the public, support the development and success of employees, deliver value to customers and fostering growth to meet the expectations of investors, among other responsibilities. The EH&S Committee consistently met at least four times a year. Similarly, the SEOS Committee will meet at least four times a year. At the management level, the company’s EH&S vice president, together with senior management, is responsible for developing strategic goals and programs to ensure compliance and support the company’s commitment and continued work to achieve EH&S and operational excellence. As detailed in our Sustainability Strategy (/report-introduction/sustainability-strategy/), the company’s Environment, Social, and Governance Committee works to strengthen sustainability across all aspects of the company. Part of senior management’s commitment to safety, the environment, operational excellence and sustainability includes independent oversight. The Office of the Corporate Ombudsman, reporting directly to the chairman, provides employees with an independent office to which they may confidentially report suspected violations of our Standards of Business Conduct, including ethical, legal, sustainability or EH&S concerns. Our Environment, Health & Safety Review Board (“EH&S Review Board”) consists of outside consultants who are independent attorneys. The EH&S Review Board reports directly to the chairman. The role of the EH&S Review Board is to review the company’s management of both regulatory and internal requirements and assess whether its implementation is consistent with the company’s commitment to strive for excellence. Public policy decisions can have significant implications for our customers, the energy systems we manage, and the future direction of our company. That’s why we participate in the political process, adhering to all the national, state, and local laws and regulations. Our engagement in the political process is grounded in and guided by our commitment to our Standards of Business Conduct. For further details: https://www.conedison.com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/political-engagement (https://www.conedison.com/en/about-us/corporate-governance/political-engagement) 