Supply Chain Operational Excellence Our Supply Chain organization is committed to the Company’s transition to a clean energy future and reflects our values of environmental stewardship, integrity, diversity, equity and inclusion. In 2021, our procurement activities continued to support the clean energy transition while simultaneously upholding our company values and our strategic priorities of safety, operational excellence, the customer experience, and cost savings. Our Investments in a Clean Energy Future In 2021, Supply Chain’s sustainability related investments in clean energy and grid modernization included the execution of $89 million in battery storage contracts, $128 million in energy efficiency and demand management contracts, $41 million in smart meter AMI contracts, and $30 million in electric vehicles and EV charging infrastructure contracts. Supporting Sustainability Through Our Vendors We aim to continuously improve business practices by reducing our waste streams, reusing materials, and seeking new recycling opportunities. We have partnered with our largest suppliers of materials to improve business processes to control and reduce the environmental impacts associated with their energy usage, waste, and impacts on natural resources and transportation. Last year, we recruited 40 of our vendors to complete sustainability assessments and develop measurable plans to improve their environmental performance in water and energy use, waste production and greenhouse gas emissions. We also implemented a new process to negotiate sustainability-related commitments into new contracts and monitor these commitments throughout our relationship with a vendor. Partnering with Our Industry Peers Con Edison is an active member of the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance (Alliance). The Alliance is an electric utility industry organization comprised of major utilities from across the United States that are OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE - SUPPLY CHAIN committed to leveraging supply chain best practices to improve sustainability. Con Edison is taking an active role in collaborating with our industry peers to map utility supply chains to identify sustainability-related risks and develop guidance for mitigation. Working with our colleagues in the Alliance we conducted a “hot spot assessment” last year to identify how supply chain activities impact carbon emissions. This assessment is providing insights on emission sources in key purchase categories so that we can effectively target our supply chain mitigation efforts. In 2022, we will work with our industry peers to develop guidance for sustainable supply chain best practices and their implementation. We will also be developing tools that will equip our vendors with the capacity to track and report their efforts to reduce carbon emissions and support our Company’s commitment to clean energy. Creating an Ecosystem for Innovation and Opportunity In support of our Company’s commitment to the New York Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA) and the goal of a carbon-free grid by 2040, Supply Chain is partnering with our R&D team, to lead a collaboration with Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL) to develop solutions to challenges such as grid modernization, weather modeling, battery storage, and renewable energy. This collaboration is unique. We are developing an ecosystem of stakeholders comprised of utilities, national labs, government agencies, academic institutions, environmental justice advocates, minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) and academic institutions. As part of this initiative, our Supplier Diversity team is partnering with stakeholder groups such as the National Minority Supplier Development Council and Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The program also recruits minority professionals into the energy industry and MWBEs to participate in the development and commercialization of solutions to challenges faced within the energy industry. Supporting our Community Con Edison’s clean energy vision includes an equitable clean energy future – a future in which all our residents not only benefit as recipients of our energy efficiency programs, but also have the opportunity to participate in the implementation of these programs as vendors and employees. Our Supply Chain organization supports this commitment through its Green Energy Opportunities Program and Clean Energy Academy, which is a partnership between our Energy Efficiency Program, Willdan Energy, the State of New York, and non-profit organizations like the Fortune Society, Green City Force, and Non-traditional Employment for Women. Through these collaborations we are using energy efficiency projects subsidized by Con Edison to create contract opportunities for MWBE subcontractors and jobs for low-income New York City housing residents. So far, this program has yielded over $15 million in contract opportunities for MWBE subcontractors. It has also provided training to over 250 low-income New Yorkers in electrical mechanical building systems, including lighting, HVAC, and refrigeration. We will continue to expand this program and have secured $2.1 million to train over 900 students in 2022. Projects completed through this program also help Con Edison achieve its goals to reduce energy use and associated costs for customers. Our Supply Chain sustainability initiatives help to support our commitment to create jobs within the communities we serve. In 2021, we purchased $362 million from women-owned and minority-owned businesses and our expenditures with small businesses were $582 million. Supplier Diversity Expenditures MWBE / Small Business Spend ($millions) MWBE Spend Small Business Spend $700 $600 $500 $400 $300 $200 $100 2019 2020 2021 Business Ethics in Our Supply Chain Ethical business practices are an important priority of our sustainability program. Our Company operates with the highest ethical standards and requires all vendors to conduct themselves with integrity and in full compliance with the laws and regulations that govern our business activities. To that end, Supply Chain sends out clear communications to all of our vendors regarding the requirements articulated in our Vendor Standards of Business Conduct (VSBC). This document outlines our expectations for vendors on matters such as human rights, child labor, freedom of association, responsible sourcing of minerals, responsible procurement, environmental management, and supplier diversity. The Vendor Standards of Business Conduct also defines the consequences of breaking these rules. Under the terms of the VSBC, all vendors are subject to review by our internal or external auditors, and any vendors determined by Con Edison to be in violation of our Vendor Standards of Business Conduct provisions are subject to contract termination or suspension. In 2022, we will collaborate with our industry colleagues in the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance to develop an auditable process that will ensure compliance with ethical business practices. Governance Operational Excellence Experience has taught us that the combination of a solid financial foundation, operational excellence, the highest ethical standards, and the utmost regard for our employees and the people and communities we serve are the bedrock qualities of a successful company. With that in mind, the Company’s Board of Directors establishes committees to oversee various aspects of the Company’s operations. Currently, the Board of Directors has six standing committees: (i) the Audit Committee, (ii) the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, (iii) the Executive Committee, (iv) the Finance Committee, (v) the Management, Development and Compensation Committee, and (vi) the Safety, Environment, Operations and Sustainability Committee (SEOS Committee), further information about each of which can be found here. A standing committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, referred to as the Planning and Environmental Committee, existed as early as 1973. In 1995, this committee became the company’s Environment, Health and Safety Committee (EH&S Committee), whose primary responsibility was to oversee the Company’s efforts relating to the protection of the environment, sustainability, and the health and safety of Company employees and the public. At the end of 2018, the EH&S Committee was dissolved and as of January 1, 2019, the Company established a newly constituted SEOS Committee. The primary responsibility of the SEOS Committee is to oversee our efforts relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability, which includes, but is not limited to, operating in a safe, environmentally sensitive manner, guarding the health and safety of Company employees and the public, delivering value to customers, and fostering growth to meet the expectations of investors. The SEOS Committee, which meets at least four times a year, reviews at each of its meetings certain key performance indicators relating to climate risk, including energy efficiency, dielectric fluid management, SF6 gas emissions, environmentally beneficial electrification, and solar connections. In 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors also received presentations that covered climate-related issues such as the Company’s Climate Change Adaptation Vulnerability Study and Implementation Plan, the Company’s clean energy goals and clean energy commitment, the Company’s climate resilience framework, the Company’s strategy for achieving a clean energy future, and the Company’s renewables strategy. At the management level, the Company’s EH&S vice president, together with senior management, is responsible for developing strategic goals and programs to comply and support the Company’s commitment and continued work to achieve EH&S goals and operational excellence. As detailed in our Sustainability Strategy, the Company’s SEOS, Management Development and Compensation, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees work to strengthen sustainability across all aspects of the Company. Part of senior management’s commitment to safety, the environment, operational excellence, and sustainability includes independent oversight. The corporate ombudsman’s office, reporting directly to the Company’s Chairman, provides employees with an independent office to which they may confidentially report suspected violations of our Standards of Business Conduct, including ethical, legal, sustainability or EH&S concerns. Our environment, health, and safety review board (EH&S review board) includes an outside consultant who is an independent attorney. The EH&S review board reports directly to the Company’s Chairman. The role of the EH&S review board is to review the Company’s management of both regulatory and internal requirements and assess whether its implementation is consistent with the Company’s commitment to excellence. Public policy decisions can have significant implications for our customers, the energy systems we manage, and the future direction of our Company. That’s why we participate in the political process, adhering to all the national, state, and local laws and regulations. Our engagement in the political process is grounded in and guided by our commitment to our Standards of Business Conduct. For further details click here. Enterprise Risk Management Operational Excellence The enterprise risk management program (ERM) was established to help protect the Company’s long-term value for its shareowners, customers, and the communities it serves. The risk management team works closely with senior management and employees across all four subsidiaries (CECONY, Orange & Rockland, Con Edison Transmission, and the Clean Energy Businesses) to identify emerging issues and trends, align risk exposure to organizational priorities, support risk-informed business decisions and resource allocation, and monitor and assess known risks using quantitative metrics, known as key risk indicators. The cornerstone of Con Edison’s enterprise risk management program is its governance practices, which are designed to manage relevant and material risks to its strategy and operations, and to recognize emerging issues and trends that may shape future risk exposure. The team is led by the Director of Enterprise Risk Management. The Director reports to the Chief Financial Officer and works broadly with hundreds of employees across operating, shared services, and corporate functions to manage the risk profile. The team creates and facilitates a risk management process framework, that includes risk identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring, and reporting. The Audit Committee of the Board oversees the risk management framework and meets with the Director of Risk Management at least annually to discuss program initiatives and to provide strategic direction for the program. The Board of Directors and its Committees provide oversight of the Company’s most material risks. These risks are managed by senior management. Public and employee safety, along with system reliability, the state of regulation within our service territories, and the viability of our business model, are some of the most important risks facing Con Edison. Some of these material risks are discussed here in Con Edison’s 2021 Annual Report. To improve our ability to navigate an increasingly dynamic business landscape, the Company’s enterprise risk management framework includes a process to identify and monitor relevant emerging issues and trends. Review of emerging issues and trends extends our focus, identifying threats and opportunities that may develop in the next two to ten years. The following are a few of the issues and trends that are being monitored as they develop and evolve: the emergence and application of artificial intelligence, long-term implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change’s impact on the Company’s operations, a trend towards decarbonization of heating systems, the electrification of the transportation sector, and integration of distributed energy resources and renewable generation to the traditional electric grid. Customer & Community Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration Energy Efficiency, Renewables & Distributed Energy Renewable Energy and Our Facilities Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Workforce Diversity & Inclusion Volunteerism Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration Customer & Community Con Edison works closely with local communities to keep them informed, address their concerns, and convey our Company’s mission. We inform local community groups—including business improvement districts, chambers of commerce, and local development corporations—about major capital projects, new initiatives such as smart meters, energy efficiency programs, and how to do business with Con Edison. We coordinate with operating departments to respond to enquiries about topics like construction noise, service restoration, and outages. We also maintain close working relationships with key stakeholder organizations (including but not limited to environmental advocate and environmental justice organizations, consumer advocates, large customer groups) so Con Edison can listen to their priorities and identify support for proposed programs and investments, and any anticipated concerns. These relationships are also critical to our coordination during emergencies, and they help us collaborate on new initiatives. Policy & Regulatory Impact Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R) support New York State’s clean energy policies and goals, including plans outlined under the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA) to reduce statewide GHG emissions 85% from 1990 levels by 2050 and provide customers with 100% of their energy from emission free resources by 2040. Our stakeholder engagement and collaboration are a key part of our policy and regulatory work. We work in partnership with our customers, policy-makers, various third parties, and other energy companies to seek innovative C&C - STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & COLLABORATION ways to realize the clean energy future. This includes exploring new ways to advance clean energy technologies through adoption of distributed resources, including energy storage and solar connected to the distribution system. CECONY and O&R have programs to reduce fossil fuel usage, providing incentives for customers to install electric-powered heat pumps and electric vehicle chargers, and have added incentives for converting customer heating systems to natural gas. We are also advocating at the State-level for the ability to own large-scale renewable generation. All of this is in addition to installing smart meters throughout our service areas and piloting new rate designs that will help customers manage their energy usage and bills. We are active in regulatory proceedings, including those which seek to expand energy efficiency, develop offshore wind, establish transmission policy to advance clean energy objectives, provide customers with high efficiency electric heating options, amend regulatory structures to achieve CLCPA targets, enhance system resiliency in light of climate change, and grow the electric vehicles sector. We work with regulators, customers, and other stakeholders to develop solutions that will promote a clean energy future in a cost-effective way for all New Yorkers. We also regularly engage with key stakeholders on various regulatory and clean energy topics to keep an open dialogue. We serve these goals by being an active participant in the legislative process at all levels of government. Strategic Partnerships In 2021, we were proud to have provided over $12.6 million to support over 600 nonprofit organizations in New York City and Westchester, Orange, and Rockland Counties as part of our commitment to building strong communities and a clean energy future. Our programs strengthen the areas we serve through company initiatives, employee volunteer efforts, and financial contributions. Over $3 million of our portfolio is dedicated to environmental stewardship and the clean energy transition. We support local biodiversity through habitat remediation and conservation programs on land and in the water, and addressing the threat that climate change poses to all life on earth. Here, we highlight five of the many organizations we support: Teatown Lake Reservation Located in the heart of Westchester County, Teatown Lake Reservation is a 1,000-acre nature preserve with a mission to increase environmental literacy, encourage lifelong environmental stewardship, and promote sustainable living in the lower Hudson Valley. Con Edison-owned electric transmission lines traverse through the reservation and create a unique habitat of shrubby open space which is uncommon in our company’s highly developed service territory. This environment is utilized by species such as box turtles, coyotes, and birds, and the partners have worked together to create educational signage for passing visitors and to implement educational opportunities for Con Edison employees to maintain the lines in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. For nearly 60 years, Teatown has served as an environmental education center and a community resource, hosting a variety of classes and events for all ages. Con Edison has supported Teatown’s cross-generational educational programming and annual events since 1998. Utilizing in-person and virtual channels, Teatown’s environmental programs reach over 20,000 adults and students annually. These opportunities expose local students to STEM educational pathways and careers while highlighting a variety of topics surrounding sustainability and biodiversity to its adult audience. Solar One Climate change poses a threat to our society and our natural environment. To mitigate climate change, promote clean air in our city, and preserve living conditions for species across the globe, Con Edison partners with organizations helping our communities transition to a clean energy future. Solar One is an organization that provides an array of programs promoting urban sustainability and education that serves all five of New York City’s boroughs. To help ensure that no one is left behind in this transition, Con Edison has been a critical partner and program sponsor of Solar One’s Community Power program, which provides renewable energy access by installing solar panels on NYC-subsidized apartment complexes and workforce training in NYC’s diverse communities. The projects across Brooklyn and Manhattan generate about 1 million watts of electricity, benefitting at least 400 low- and moderate-income Con Edison customers. We further partner with Solar One on their Green Workforce Training Program, which has trained over 4,000 adults in green building operations and maintenance, green construction, solar PV installation, and various relevant certification programs. This allows community members to play an active role in the transition while providing economic sustainability in the communities we serve. To help ensure the next generation is prepared and engaged in this future, Con Edison has provided support and assistance in developing Solar One’s Green Design Lab (GDL) since its inception. A K-12 education program, GDL serves both teachers and students in environmental stewardship, increasing awareness of climate change, and preparing NYC youth with career focused intensive training. The organization also works directly with career and technical education schools, and they have reached over 1,000 NYC public schools through in-person and virtual instruction. The Bee Conservancy Pollinators provide essential ecosystem services by supporting the very foundation of our food chain – plants. Yet, habitat destruction and pollution threaten their existence. The Bee Conservancy (TBC) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to protecting bees, safeguarding the environment, and securing food justice through education, research, habitat creation, and advocacy. For the past 5 years, Con Edison has been a supporter of the organization’s Sponsor-a-Hive program. Con Edison funding has contributed to over 300 native beehives have been distributed throughout the life of the project, many of them reaching schools, community gardens, and nature centers throughout the 5 boroughs. Con Edison is also a proud supporter of the Conservancy’s Bee Sanctuary, nested in the Urban Farm on Governors Island, NYC. The Sanctuary serves as an outdoor education, event, and conservation space where visitors learn about and engage with native pollinators and ecology. Through this important partnership, TBC was able to revamp the pollinator gardens and native hives at the Bee Sanctuary during the pandemic. Today, the Conservancy provides both virtual and self-guided community science programs to educate children of the importance of protecting the native bee species and native plants. Gowanus Canal Conservancy Waterways are essential for sustainability, providing habitats for species, food, recreation, and economic opportunities in our communities. Since 2006, Gowanus Canal Conservancy (GCC) has been dedicated to facilitating the development of a resilient, vibrant, open space network centered on the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, NY. GCC works with both the public and schools in the watershed, advocating to build and maintain innovative green infrastructure around the Canal. Since 2010, Con Edison has partnered with GCC to support programs that benefit both the community and the waterway. Their Blue Schools program educates middle schoolers about watershed ecology, while their Community Science program provides water quality testing in the canal and throughout the city, to protect both public and ecosystem health. Our support of Gowanus Canal Conservancy will also enable high school students to help scientists design, fabricate, and install modular mussel habitat and conduct monitoring and analysis. Students will learn how Atlantic Ribbed Mussels can help improve the Gowanus Canal’s polluted waters, why mussel habitat is at risk, and solutions that community scientists are researching. By engaging the community in the preservation of this important ecosystem, we aim to enable the development of sustainable solutions for the future. Rockland Farm Alliance Sustainability requires that we reexamine the way we interact with the environment to produce food and feed our communities. The Rockland Farm Alliance (RFA), located in the heart of New City, NY, has a mission to conserve farmland in Rockland County and beyond by bringing our communities together through local, sustainable farming projects and agricultural education programs which reconnect us all to real organic food from the soil up. Orange & Rockland Utilities is a proud supporter of their Outdoor Experimental Education program, which provides students the opportunity to develop hands-on gardening and farm work skills. In addition, their Project Green will help families experiencing food insecurities and food inequity. RFA distributes fresh healthy greens to thousands of families in need. Shareholders We are the longest, continuously-listed company on the New York Stock Exchange and have increased dividends to shareholders for 48 consecutive years. For more information, refer to our Shareholder Services page. Con Edison, Inc. Dividend Growth for Shareholders (per share) $4 10-year CAGR (2013-2022) 2.7% $3 $2 $1 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022* Footnote: *In January 2022, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of 79 cents a share on its common stock — an annualized increase of 6 cents over the previous annualized dividend of $3.10 a share] 