SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT PUBLIC SAFETY Public Safety We have invested more than $2.9 billion in 2016 to fortify our electric, gas, and steam infrastructure. This investment underscores our commitment to providing energy to millions of customers efficiently and responsibly while protecting the environment and keeping people safe throughout our service area. ELECTRIC CECONY continues to develop tools, techniques, and management strategies to improve safety, troubleshooting, and program efficiency. Distribution Engineering and Electric Operations teams developed thermal imaging of secondary assets and mobile contact-voltage (also known as stray voltage) scanning in high-activity areas, and introduced latched vented covers. These efforts complement previously existing programs including contact-voltage detection, cover venting, and underground inspection. CECONY’s underground networks are surveyed for contact voltage 12 times a year, using mobile detectors. In 2016, we found and eliminated 8,961 cases of contact voltage. Of those, 6,529 cases (73 percent) were on non-CECONY equipment (streetlights, electric signs, and other structures). We performed more than 55,000 inspections of our underground system (manholes, service boxes, and transformer vaults). O&R’s testing of its electric system is completed at least once every five years. In 2016, O&R found and eliminated 16 cases of contact voltage, all on company-owned equipment, and performed 44,510 tests and inspections. In an emergency, our crews serve the public wherever we are needed. In October, we traveled to Virginia to help restore power and assist residents after Hurricane Matthew: GAS As part of our ongoing effort to reduce our carbon footprint and sharpen our focus on natural gas safety, we are working with the New York State Public Service Commission (PSC) to develop a program to identify and reduce emissions from small volume, non-hazardous leaks of methane gas. Currently, non-hazardous leaks are scheduled for repair based on the availability of resources and the leak’s proximity to other types of street-opening work. In 2016, we focused on reducing the backlog of non.hazardous leaks. We’ve maintained historically low levels of such leaks into 2017 and have typically repaired these type 3 leaks on average in less than 40 days. The PSC reached a $153 million settlement with Con Edison related to the investigation of a 2014 East Harlem gas explosion. Since that incident, we have greatly increased investments in our gas systems to further enhance public safety. We accelerated our cast iron and unprotected-steel, gas-main replacement plan and established monthly system-wide gas leak patrols. We improved emergency response procedures with the Fire Department of New York and coordination with key city agencies. We also closely worked with the city on legislation regarding building gas pipe inspections. We launched a successful media campaign, “Smell Gas, Act Fast,” featuring videos and social-media posts that informed customers on what to do if they smelled gas. The videos were done in English, Spanish, Chinese, and Korean. Here’s the English-language version: STEAM http://coned2016.dev.limusdesign.com/print/ We provide steam service for approximately 2.5 million people in Manhattan through an underground network of pipes. By generating steam primarily through co-generation, we provide efficient production and reduce emissions that would otherwise be generated by localized boilers and equipment. We focus on identifying ways to lower costs to customers, maintain high reliability, improve resiliency, and protect the environment. In 2016, we continued to achieve safe and efficient operations while meeting our customers’ needs and maintaining focus on continued bill reductions. We maintained an overall reliability rate of 100 percent and met a peak demand of eight million pounds of steam on January 5, 2016. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS GHG Emissions Reductions As evidence of the commitment to reduce our carbon footprint, 60 percent of CECONY annual steam production comes from cogeneration, which lowers emissions by one million tons of CO2 per year. O&R reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 40 percent from 1990 levels. We continue to firmly support efforts by local, state, and federal agencies to reduce GHG emissions. For example, we work voluntarily with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to lower emissions of sulfur hexafluoride, or SF6, from our electrical equipment. We have joined 40 other companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Program. Our residential methane detectors provide customers with a vital warning signal for potential gas leaks. After collaborating with the Environmental Defense Fund, we developed improvements to our leak-detection and repair programs. Download our report ESG: Committed to Reducing Methane Emissions (http://coned2016.dev.limusdesign.com/files/ESG%20-%20Committed%20to%20Reducing%20Methane%20Emissions%20.%20December%202017%20FINAL.pdf) for more information on our targets and strategies. In addition to ongoing energy efficiency initiatives that save money for our business and residential customers, we’ll begin installing smart meters this summer in our service area. Smart meters will give customers more information about their energy usage and enable them to manage their bills more efficiently. Con Edison, Inc. Direct GHG Emissions - Scope 1 STEAM ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS We strive to provide customers with FDA quality steam, of which 60 percent is co-generated. Because the steam is co-generated, customers can apply for points toward their Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification and increase their score in Energy Star’s Portfolio Manager. Our co-generated steam reduces CO2 emissions by approximately 25 percent of what would have otherwise been emitted through traditional boilers—that’s equal to removing 190,000 vehicles from the road every year. Here is how our customers benefit from an absence of onsite emissions: They see improvements in the Manhattan skyline from our steam-system enhancements, including our decision to modify two steam-generating stations in 2013 to burn natural gas as a primary fuel rather than No. 6 fuel oil. In 2016, this change alone was responsible for a 7-percent reduction in CO2 emissions compared to the 2008–09 average. That’s equivalent to taking 44,000 vehicles off the road annually. Also, the steam system achieved its lowest historical fuel oil usage levels in 2016, using only 2 percent fuel oil and 98 percent natural gas—a direct result of warmer-than-normal temperatures and an infrequent need to switch fuel. ENERGY EFFICIENCY CUSTOMERS' EMISSIONS Con Edison and O&R continued to excel in energy efficiency, resulting in lower bills for customers, cleaner air, and a solidifying of our No. 1 position for reliable service. We gave customers who chose energy-saving HVAC, lighting, building management systems, and other equipment more than $40 million in incentives. As of April 2017, customers got a discount of up to 50 percent on energy-saving LED light bulbs bought directly from Con Edison Marketplace. For a household that uses 10 LED bulbs for an average of six hours a day, there’s a potential annual energy savings of $121.65 compared to using incandescent bulbs. We’re offering households and businesses better ways to reduce their energy usage through advice on how to take advantage of programmable thermostats, sophisticated building management systems, the latest in lighting, and other technologies. Upgrades made by CECONY customers through our energy efficiency programs in 2016 reduced electrical usage by 160,200 megawatt hours and saved 266,500 dekatherms of gas. That’s equal to taking more than 23,000 cars off the road. Since 2009, CECONY has paid customers more than $280 million to make upgrades. Energy Efficiency – Avoided Emissions (thousand metric tons) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 191.6 107 118 99 104 94 33 0.4 Con Edison also launched the Connected Homes platform to augment its residential energy efficiency programs. The platform educates customers on their energy usage and provides them with offers for solar panels, home services and products, and connects them with suppliers and retailers through an online marketplace, allows them to compare energy scores, customer reviews, available rebates and pricing of appliances and electronics. Since its launch a year ago, the platform has enabled customers to save over 20,000 megawatt hours of energy. In 2016, CECONY paid out to $4.9 million to commercial and industrial customers, $19.9 million to small businesses, $10.9 million to owners of multifamily buildings, and $5.1 million to residential customers. O&R energy efficiency programs lowered electrical usage by 29,422 megawatt hours and saved 10,261 dekatherms of gas— equal to taking 1,181 cars off the road. O&R offered rebates for the construction of a large data center in Orangeburg. Design of the project’s cooling, air, and power supply systems will save the center about $2.8 million a year. O&R rebates for a holistic energy efficiency project at Rockland Community College—which includes LED lighting, energy management and load management systems, and two combined heat and power generators—is expected to save the college $900,000 annually. O&R also expanded My ORU Store, its online customer marketplace for energy efficiency products and services, by adding home products, LED lighting products, advanced power strips, water-saving products, and home services provided by local contractors. We provide educational and technical assistance to local schools, including a Smart Kids Energy Efficiency program for students on Staten Island: Learn more about how energy-efficiency upgrades can save money and protect the environment at our Manage Energy (http://manage-energy.coned.com/#front) microsite. Learn more about the Connected Homes platform: REDUCTION OF SF6 EMISSIONS In the past decade, we have greatly reduced emissions of SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride), a greenhouse gas with a warming potential more than 22,000 times higher than carbon dioxide. SF6 is a non-toxic, non-flammable gas that can remain in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. There is no viable alternative to SF6, which is a highly efficient insulating medium and arc extinguisher used throughout the energy industry in different types of equipment, including high-voltage breakers and gas-insulated switchgear. But limiting SF6 emissions is imperative for a cleaner environment. In accordance with a 1999 Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Con Edison, we agreed to reduce SF6 emissions by five percent annually from a 1996 baseline. In 2016, we released about 96 percent less SF6 than in 1999. Our reductions in SF6 emissions have resulted from maintenance programs that address SF6 gas leaks and targeted replacement of our equipment. To further limit SF6 emissions, our Fix-It-Now team makes rapid repairs a priority and emphasizes best management practices for gas handling. Con Edison, Inc. GreenHouse Gas Emissions (Pie Chart) LEAKS In 2015 and 2016, we teamed with the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) to better measure non-hazardous leak emission rates of methane gas. We are currently field-testing this new technology developed by Colorado State University (CSU) under an EDF-sponsored program. In 2016, CSU used its technology to rank non-hazardous gas leaks based on their emission rate. Leaks were identified as small, medium, and large emitters. As part of our overall leak-repair program, we repaired 100 percent of all leaks identified as medium or large. We expect to continue to work with the EDF and others to further develop this technology and incorporate it into our leak-repair program. METHANE CHALLENGE On March 30, 2016, Con Edison joined 40 other local distribution companies as a founding partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program. As a founding participant in the Natural Gas STAR program since 1993, we welcomed the opportunity to participate in this new partnership as well. The Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge program is a flexible, voluntary partnership that allows the EPA to collaborate with partners to promote and track ambitious, transparent commitments to voluntarily reduce methane emissions beyond regulatory requirements and to recognize partners for their progress. Our company continues to increase the pace of replacing its cast iron and unprotected steel mains. We exceeded our goal of replacing an average of 65 miles of main annually from 2014 – 2016. With the Methane Challenge Partnership Agreement, we’re committed to increase main replacement activity over the next two years. Our goal is to replace four percent of our cast iron and steel mains (without cathodic protection) each year by the end of 2018. Specific details on how we will reach this goal were in our implementation plan, submitted to the EPA in 2016. We distribute natural gas to 1.1 million customers in Manhattan, the Bronx, Queens, and Westchester County, making us one of the largest gas distribution companies in the U.S. with 4,375 miles of gas mains and 370,924 service lines. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016–2017 SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT AIR QUALITY/NON-GHG EMISSIONS Air Quality/Non-GHG Emissions In keeping with New York City’s goal of reducing GHG emissions, we are converting the generating equipment at our steam and electric generating stations. Currently, those stations burn No. 6 oil as backup fuel to natural gas. But we’re converting to No. 4 oil as backup fuel because it’s lighter and contains a lower concentration of criteria pollutants. All Con Edison units will be converted to have the capability to burn No. 4 oil by the winter of 2019–20 as required by Local Law 38. DIRECT EMISSIONS (Thousand Metric Tons ) NO. SO. 2016 1.24 0.13 2015 1.49 0.32 2014 1.65 0.33 2013 1.9 0.54 2012 1.79 0.56 2011 2.17 0.93 2010 2.47 1.28 2009 2.49 1.53 2008 2.31 1.41 2007 2.79 1.92 2006 2.27 1.73 2005 3.33 2.63 SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Management Tons of hazardous waste are captured and shipped by CECONY and O&R each year to licensed commercial waste-handling facilities. Most of this waste is lead-contaminated and comes from cleaning our underground electric facilities, including manholes and transformer vaults. The costs of cleaning these facilities and the amount of hazardous waste generated have been reduced substantially since 1998—the year we launched a program for waste managed by our employees that rendered lead virtually inert and therefore no longer hazardous. CECONY and O&R recycle or auction for sale tons of non-hazardous waste, including retired fleet vehicles, forklifts, tool carts, old cables, streetlights, reflectors, meters, and paper products. CECONY recycles 93 percent of its non-hazardous waste. O&R’s recycling program continues a long-established partnership with Rockland ARC, a local organization that provides support for the mentally disabled. Since 1991, O&R recycling has saved more than one million cubic feet in landfill space. Con Edison of New York Waste (tons) 2014  2015  2016  Non-hazardous waste generated  58,973  73,462  69,565  Non-hazardous waste recycled  54,190  67,847  64,481  Hazardous waste generated  17,547  11,371  12,070  Remediation waste  545  31  18  Con Edison Of New York Non-Hazardous Waste Generation Con Edison Of New York Generation by Material Type SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT HABITAT & BIODIVERSITY Habitat & Biodiversity We work closely with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, an important stakeholder, to protect city trees and enhance parklands. In 2016, we did restoration plantings at two Manhattan parks. We understand that trees are a vital part of New York City’s infrastructure. Trees contribute to clean air and water, reduce energy costs, increase property values, and make streets and parks more beautiful. We employ best management practices whenever we work near trees. If a tree is removed because of infrastructure repairs and upgrades, then restitution fees are used to plant a replacement tree. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT ELECTRIC VEHICLES Electric Vehicles Last July, the White House recognized Con Edison in a press release on public- and private-sector efforts to accelerate the use of electric vehicles. We have been part of the Fleet Electrification Initiative, a national commitment toward electric vehicles, since 2014. As part of the commitment, 5 percent of our total annual vehicle expenditure is spent on plug-in electric vehicles, charging stations, battery-electric vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and electric power units. In 2016, we purchased four Chevrolet Volts, two Ford C-Max Energis, seven bucket trucks with a plug-in hybrid system, and compressor vans with a dual battery system. Our fleet contains 237 hybrid vehicles, 28 plug-in cars and bucket trucks, 1,404 vehicles running on biodiesel blends, and 309 vehicles operating on compressed natural gas. In 2017, we plan to purchase another 28 electric vehicles. We’re also committed to expanding the use of alternative fuels to power our fleet, and we continue to support new alternative fuel vehicle technology. We announced a program in April 2017 in which owners of electric vehicles can earn gift cards and get important information on energy efficiency if they charge during off-peak hours. SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT OIL-TO-GAS CONVERSIONS Oil-to-Gas Conversions CECONY’s Gas Operations ranked Number 1 in the JD Power survey of gas business customers. With 586 heavy heating oil conversions, we exceeded our yearly target by 120. We’ve handled more than 4,000 such conversions since 2011. We also worked injury- and accident-free in 2016. We assumed responsibility for all home-heating conversions (oil, propane, electric, and wood) in Westchester County, improving the customer experience and encouraging air-quality improvements. A tariff change in a rate case helped to spur our growth in Westchester County. While adhering to best practices to achieve operational excellence, the Gas Marketing and New Business teams at O&R added 1,339 new customers in 2016. That exceeded our goal of 940 additions. These additions included 223 conversions from oil/propane to cleaner natural gas. Among the factors spurring our growth were a gas conversion rebate program, entitlement changes, and a 15-year economic feasibility analysis, up from 10 years previously. Con Edison, Inc. Utility Customer Conversions to Gas SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT WATER Water We recognize the importance of preserving natural resources. As one of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s largest water customers, we have ongoing initiatives to minimize our water footprint. Two of our steam generating stations are reducing their water consumption through the implementation of efficiency improvement projects. We have already achieved a savings of 38 million gallons in 2016. We expect similar results in 2017, followed by a savings of more than 295 million gallons per year beginning in 2018. Con Edison of New York DEP Municipal Water Use SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT ISO CERTIFICATION ISO Certification The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was created to provide consistent standards for products, manufacturing processes, and management systems. ISO certification gives stakeholders a means to validate that our company is operating an effective environmental management system. ISO also provides a framework for continual improvement throughout the company. In 2016, CECONY achieved its 14th consecutive year of companywide third-party certification of the Environmental Management System (EMS) to ISO 14001. It is our policy to be a leader in protecting the environment and ensuring the health and safety of our employees and the public. We’re committed to: improving safety and environmental performance strengthening Environment, Health, and Safety (EH&S) compliance enhancing relationships with our stakeholders identifying and reducing significant EH&S risk potential promoting wise and effective use of natural resources CECONY’s EMS is third-party certified to the ISO 14001:2004 EMS Standard by Intertek Testing Services NA, Inc. CECONY’s chemical laboratory operations are third-party certified to the ISO/IEC 17025:2005, general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories standard. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE PHYSICAL/CYBER SECURITY & DATA PRIVACY Physical/Cyber Security & Data Privacy New technology brings new challenges. We continue to work with local, state, and federal agencies, as well as our colleagues in the energy business, to identify and employ the latest technological tools to protect our customers and our equipment. The threat of cybercrime has become more acute. Our data-protection efforts include 24/7 monitoring, vulnerability assessments, employee education, regular drills and phishing tests, and close cooperation with government and industry partners. We consistently earn passing grades on audits that assess our cybersecurity and data-protection standards. Con Edison’s Sidney Alvarez spoke with Vice President and Chief Information Officer Manny Cancel about how our company works with local, state, and federal agencies to protect our customers’ data and our own data and equipment: 