LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY FIVE BUSINESS OVERVIEW Five Business Overview From our early history lighting gas lamps to today’powered New York for nearly 200 years. light and warm their homes, run their businesses, and help the region grow. Our five businesses’ encompasses changing industry, customer needs, and regulatory priorities. The theme of this year’– Measuring for Success – is reflective of how we gauge and report on that evolution. A breakdown of 2014 revenue for Con Edison, Inc. is provided below by business for Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (CECONY), Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. (O&R), and the competitive energy businesses (CEBs), which are comprised of Con Edison Solutions, Con Edison Development, and Con Edison Energy LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY FIVE BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED EDISON, INC. Con Edison, Inc. (CEI) is one of the nation’s largest investor-owned energy companies, with over $12 billion in annual revenues and more than $44 billion in assets. The principal business segments of Con Edison, Inc. are Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. with regulated electric, gas, and steam utility activities; Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. with regulated electric and gas utility activities; and Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses. Con Edison, Inc. is headquartered in New York City with virtually all its revenues generated in the United States. Con Edison, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, ticker symbol ED. Con Edison’s competitive-energy businesses participate in segments of the electricity industry that include electric generation from renewable sources, trading of electricity and fuel, sales of electricity to wholesale and retail customers, and sales of certain energy-related goods and services. For more information, please visit the CEI website, conEdison.com (http://conedison.com). CONSOLIDATED EDISON COMPANY OF NEW YORK, INC. Con Edison of New York (CECONY) is CEI’s largest subsidiary. It is a regulated utility providing electric service to approximately 3.4 million customers throughout New York City (except for a small area of Queens) and most of Westchester County. Con Edison of New York also provides natural gas service to approximately 1.1 million customers in Manhattan, the Bronx, and parts of Queens and Westchester. Con Edison of New York operates one of the world’s largest steam distribution systems, providing service for approximately 1,700 customers in Manhattan south of 96th Street. Steam is used year-round, for heat and hot water in the winter, and for air-conditioning in the summer. Overall, Con Edison of New York serves a population of nearly 10 million and more than 50 million annual visitors to New York City, throughout a service territory covering 660 square miles. Selected information on the scale of Con Edison of New York operations is provided in the following table. For more information visit the Con Edison of New York website, conEd.com (http://www.coned.com). LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY FIVE BUSINESS OVERVIEW ORANGE AND ROCKLAND UTILITIES, INC. Orange and Rockland (O&R) is a wholly owned CEI-regulated subsidiary, headquartered in Pearl River, New York, that delivers both electricity and natural gas in southeastern New York and northeastern Pennsylvania, and electricity in northern New Jersey. O&R provides electric service to approximately 0.3 million customers and gas service to over 0.1 million customers in its service territory of 1,350 square miles and population of roughly 740,000. For more information, visit the O&R website, oru.com (http://oru.com). CON EDISON SOLUTIONS, INC. Con Edison Solutions (CES) is a leading energy services company that provides competitive power supply, renewable energy, sustainability services, cost-effective energy-efficiency solutions, and performance contracting services for commercial, industrial, residential, and government customers nationwide. The company is based in Valhalla, New York, with offices in Burlington, Massachusetts; Cherry Hill, New Jersey; Falls Church, Virginia; Houston, Texas; Tampa, Florida; Overland Park, Kansas; Nashville, Tennessee, and Bloomington, Minnesota. The company offers innovative products, financial stability, and a commitment to customer service. The firm’s dedicated team of energy professionals delivers a broad range of energy solutions. Con Edison Solutions offers programs and services designed to help customers achieve their individual energy objectives. It is accredited as an Energy Services Provider (ESP) by the National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO). Con Edison Solutions serves retail electric commodity customers in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Texas, Illinois, Maine, Rhode Island, Ohio, and the District of Columbia, and retail gas commodity customers in New York and New Jersey. For more information, visit the CES website, conedsolutions.com (http://conedsolutions.com). LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY FIVE BUSINESS OVERVIEW CON EDISON DEVELOPMENT, INC. Con Edison Development (CED) develops, owns, and operates renewable and energy infrastructure projects. The company focuses its efforts on projects that provide stable earnings and leverage the core strengths of Consolidated Edison, Inc. CED functions as a growth vehicle for the Competitive Energy Businesses and focuses on renewable energy and gas assets as part of an overall corporate goal of responsible environmental stewardship. Through its deep resources and trusted relationships with a range of energy-related companies, Con Edison Development has built a robust pipeline of renewable energy projects, and has opportunistically grown its portfolio to more than 550 MW as of year-end 2014. For more information, visit the CED website, coneddev.com (http://coneddev.com). CON EDISON ENERGY, INC. Con Edison Energy (CEE) manages the output and fuel requirements for 5,100 MW of third-party generating plants in the Northeast. The company also provides wholesale hedging and risk management services to CES and CED. In addition, the company contracts for and optimizes energy assets such as transmission, ISO interfaces, natural gas storage and transportation. For more information, visit the CEE website, conedenergy.com (http://conedenergy.com). LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY STRATEGY Strategy Con Edison’s strategy is to deliver reliable energy services and provide a stable foundation for supporting New York’s economy. At Con Edison, we have two strategic documents – our Integrated Long Range Plan and our Sustainability Strategy. These companion documents work together to identify ways that we can add value for all of our stakeholders through the services we provide, our different business models, and our commitment to excellence in all that we do. LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY STRATEGY INTEGRATED LONG RANGE PLAN In an effort to better plan for the next 20 years, Con Edison has developed an Integrated Long Range Plan (ILRP), the first iteration of which was published in 2012. While flexible to the evolution of our industry and technologies, the ILRP outlines how the utilities will use an integrated approach across our electric, gas, and steam businesses to meet the needs of our stakeholders as we work to provide safe, reliable, clean, innovative, and cost-effective energy services for a sustainable future. There are three key objectives of the ILRP: 1. Help our customers use less energy and lower their energy costs: Our energy efficiency and demand response programs reduce our system peak and help us defer large capital investments. Focusing on oil-to-gas conversion opportunities will provide a path for growth in our gas business, and savings on heating costs for our customers. 2. Improve our use of existing assets: Improved project management and work management processes will help us make more strategic infrastructure-planning decisions, manage costs, and lower maintenance expenses. Along with the implementation of smart grid technology, these efforts will help us to remain one of the world’s most reliable utilities for the 10 million people who depend on us each day. 3. Minimize the impact bills have on our customers: We will do this through an array of approaches, including promoting our energy efficiency programs to save customers money and energy. We will also advocate on behalf of customers to minimize the supply charges, taxes, and fees that we do not control. As we strive to meet these goals, we will continue to focus on the importance of improving customer service, meeting governmental and our own internal environmental standards, and maintaining reliability and safety. The company continues to update its long-range plans to reflect changes in our operating environment and the needs of our customers, as well as growing adoption of distributed energy resources. To learn more about Con Edison’s long-term goals and our plan to reach them, please read the full text of the Integrated Long Range Plan (http://www.coned.com/publicissues/PDF/Integrated%20Long-range%20Plan.pdf). LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY Our 2014 sustainability effort focused on ensuring a zero-harm environment to the public, our employees, and the environment. The six principles below guide our efforts on safety and sustainability. Business Value 1. Provide our customers and the public with safe, reliable, cost-effective, efficient, and clean energy 2. Adapt our business model to industry changes and manage risk to meet our shareholders’ expectation of financial stability and a growing dividend Environment 1. Reduce our environmental footprint, making wise and effective use of natural resources 2. Address the challenges of climate change and its impact on our business Community 1. Develop a work environment that fosters a diverse, high-quality and engaged work force valuing safety, sustainability, and business ethics 2. Support the vitality of our communities and engage our stakeholders regarding strategy and performance The stories, information, and data presented throughout this report will highlight the progress that we’ve made in these areas, as well as outline our focus for continued improvement in the coming years. LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY STRATEGY KEY SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS AND MATERIALITY As a key step of our strategy redesign, we worked to identify what aspects we deem material to the sustainability discussion for Con Edison. Our work began using the EPRI 2013 Technical Report Material Sustainability Issues for the North American Electric Power Industry (http://www.epri.com/abstracts/Pages/ProductAbstract.aspx?ProductId=000000003002000920). This report outlines 15 material sustainability issues for the industry as a whole. These issues were determined through a literature review, nearly four dozen interviews with utilities and stakeholder organizations, and a survey of nearly 300 people from utilities or stakeholder organizations. Using the material issues identified in this report as the basis for our work, we then overlaid our own Con Edison and service territory-specific policies, procedures, plans, and goals. As a result of that process, we developed the following list of 15 Key Sustainability Aspects for CEI: BUSINESS VALUE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Employee and Public Health Air Quality and Safety Water Corporate Culture Habitat and Biodiversity Customer Relationship Community Support and Resource Conservation Development Stakeholder Engagement Climate Change and Collaboration It should be noted that these issues were identified using the definition of materiality from the EPRI report: “…a ‘material’ sustainability issue is an environmental, social, and/or economic issue that has the potential to impact the long-term viability of electric utilities and/or their stakeholders. Importantly, this is different from but related to financial materiality, which is a threshold for influencing the economic decisions of investors. Material sustainability issues reflect a wider range of stakeholders and are not limited to topics that have a significant financial impact on the organization.” The icons above will be used to identify corresponding KSAs throughout each section of this report. For information on those issues the company has deemed financially material, please see the section on Enterprise Risks. Our goal for 2014 is to evaluate our approach to these issues and how we might be able to better engage our stakeholders in the discussion of materiality. We are also now looking toward better defining metrics in each of these areas to provide a more transparent and consistent way of gauging our progress. 