SUSTAINABILITY Con Edison’s Corporate Leadership Team developed the company’s first sustainability strategy in 2008. The strategy, which covered both the regulated utilities and competitive businesses, consisted of six principles, 14 strategic goals, and 35 initiatives throughout the company. In 2013, significant effort was made to update the strategy to broaden its environmental focus. The new strategy balances the values of business, environment, and community – commonly referred to as the triple bottom line. We have identified six principles to guide our efforts: Business Value 1. Provide our customers and the public with safe, reliable, cost-effective, efficient, and clean energy 2. Adapt our business model to industry changes and manage risk to meet our shareholders’ expectation of financial stability and a growing dividend Environment 1. Reduce our environmental footprint, making wise and effective use of natural resources 2. Address the challenges of climate change and its impact on our business Community 1. Develop a work environment that fosters a diverse, high-quality and engaged work force valuing safety, sustainability, and business ethics 2. Support the vitality of our communities and engage our stakeholders regarding strategy and performance The stories, information, and data presented throughout this report will highlight the progress that we’ve made in these areas, as well as outline our focus for continued improvement in the coming years. KEY SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS AND MATERIALITY As a key step of our strategy redesign, we worked to identify what aspects we deem material to the sustainability discussion for Con Edison. Our work began using the EPRI 2013 Technical Report Material Sustainability Issues for the North American Electric Power Industry (http://www.epri.com/abstracts/Pages/ProductAbstract.aspx?ProductId=000000003002000920). This report outlines 15 material sustainability issues for the industry as a whole. These issues were determined through a literature review, nearly four dozen interviews with utilities and stakeholder organizations, and a survey of nearly 300 people from utilities or stakeholder organizations. Using the material issues identified in this report as the basis for our work, we then overlaid our own Con Edison and service territory-specific policies, procedures, plans, and goals. As a result of that process, we developed the following list of 15 Key Sustainability Aspects for CEI: It should be noted that these issues were identified using the definition of materiality from the EPRI report: “…a ‘material’ sustainability issue is an environmental, social, and/or economic issue that has the potential to impact the long-term viability of electric utilities and/or their stakeholders. Importantly, this is different from but related to financial materiality, which is a threshold for influencing the economic decisions of investors. Material sustainability issues reflect a wider range of stakeholders and are not limited to topics that have a significant financial impact on the organization.” The icons above will be used to identify corresponding KSAs throughout each section of this report. For information on those issues the company has deemed financially material, please see the section on Enterprise Risks. Our goal for 2014 is to evaluate our approach to these issues and how we might be able to better engage our stakeholders in the discussion of materiality. We are also now looking toward better defining metrics in each of these areas to provide a more transparent and consistent way of gauging our progress. CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND STRATEGY ENTERPRISE RISK Enterprise Risk The five companies and respective businesses that comprise Con Edison are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, and that involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The companies have established an enterprise risk management program to identify, assess, manage and monitor its major business risks based on established criteria for the severity of an event, the likelihood of its occurrence, and the programs in place to control the event or reduce the impact. The companies also have financial and commodity market risks. A robust discussion of each enterprise risk below is located here (http://phx.corporate.ir.net/External.File? item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NTM3NzM3fENoaWxkSUQ9MjI4MjI1fFR5cGU9MQ==&t=1 ) on pages 27-32 of Con Edison’s 2013 Annual Report. The failure to operate energy facilities safely and reliably could adversely affect the companies The failure to properly complete construction projects could adversely affect the companies The failure of processes and systems and the performance of employees and contractors could adversely affect the companies The companies are extensively regulated and are subject to penalties The utilities’ rate plans may not provide a reasonable return The companies may be adversely affected by changes to the utilities’ rate plans The companies are exposed to risks from the environmental consequences of their operations A disruption in the wholesale energy markets or failure by an energy supplier could adversely affect the companies The companies have substantial unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities Con Edison’s ability to pay dividends or interest depends on dividends from its subsidiaries The companies require access to capital markets to satisfy funding requirements A cyber attack could adversely affect the companies The companies also face other risks that are beyond their control CON EDISON 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Environmental Performance The company’s sustainability strategy is focused on two concepts regarding our environmental stewardship: mitigation and adaptation. From a mitigation standpoint, we strive to reduce our environmental footprint, making wise and effective use of natural resources. We also recognize that our climate is changing and that we must adapt our company to address the challenges of climate change and its impact on our business. We have identified five Key Sustainability Aspects related to our environmental performance and defined success in those areas as follows: Air Quality: Reduce direct and indirect emissions to improve air quality Water: Enhance the efficiency of our water use and seek opportunities to improve water quality Habitat and Biodiversity: Manage our environmental legacy and minimize our impact to natural ecosystems Resource Conservation: Focus on reducing, reusing, and recycling to minimize consumption Climate Change: Design our work in consideration of climate forecasts The following sections outline our progress in these areas as well as the goals we look to achieve in the future as we strive to be a good environmental steward and corporate citizen. AIR Since the 1990s, Con Edison has made significant strides in efforts to reduce our air emissions and impact on air quality. As outlined in the 2013 IPCC Working Group One report, we recognize that greenhouse gas emissions impact climate change. For that reason, we have made substantial efforts to reduce our direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gasses. DIRECT EMISSIONS We are committed to curbing our company’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and have reduced our emissions by 43 percent since 2005 – surpassing our goal to reduce 40 percent of 2005 levels by 2020. While emissions have decreased overall, we did have an increase of approximately 3 percent from 2012 emissions. Additionally, a change in EPA global warming potentials updated in November of 2013 has altered our reductions achieved. The following is an overview of our GHG emissions: Carbon Dioxide: The driver of Con Edison’s CO2 emissions is the company’s steam business. In 2013, steam deliveries were 21,923 MMlbs, up from 19,741 MMlbs in 2012. Con Edison of New York produces the bulk of its steam deliveries at the company’s one steam-electric generating station and five steam-only generating stations. With increased demand and production, we also saw an increase in emissions related to our steam business. However, despite the increase in demand and fuel use, we did see a decrease in CO2lbs/MMBTU from 121.75 in 2012 to 121.32 in 2013, showing that we have made improvements in the efficiency of our processes. In an effort to reduce costs to our customers and meet regulatory requirements pertaining to air quality, the company completed gas addition projects at its 59th Street and 74th Street stations in June and November 2013 respectively. As a result of these projects, we forecast to reduce CO2 emissions by 148,000 tons annually. Along with efforts to reduce our emissions at the steam plants, Con Edison of New York participates in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) for the emissions from its East River cogeneration plant. Information on RGGI and Con Edison’s involvement can be found in our Regulatory Impact and Policy Management (2c-policy.html) section. Finally, Con Edison’s vehicle fleet contributes approximately one percent of the company’s total CO2 emissions. We continue to reduce emissions by using biodiesel fuel, as well as expanding the number of hybrid and alternative fuel vehicles in our fleet. Currently, roughly half of our vehicle fleet is running on some form of alternative fuel or high-efficiency engine. Methane: CH4 is a greenhouse gas with 21 times the heat-trapping potential of CO2. Fugitive methane emissions originate from Con Edison of New York and Orange and Rockland’s natural-gas distribution systems. In 2013, CECONY replaced approximately 52 miles of leak-prone pipe against an annual target of 40 miles. This helped CECONY achieve the per-year average main replacement performance measure (of 50 miles per year) required under its 2011-2013 rate agreement. Under the terms of its new gas rate agreement, CECONY will be replacing 60 miles in 2014, 65 miles in 2015, and 70 miles in 2016. In 2013, O&R replaced 93,000 feet of gas main, exceeding the goal to replace no less than 90,000 feet, and reduced active gas leaks to an all-time low. SF6: In 1999, Con Edison entered into a memorandum of understanding with the EPA, voluntarily agreeing to reduce its emissions of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), a colorless, odorless gas used in high-voltage circuit breakers and switches found chiefly in utility substations. SF6 emissions from substations were estimated at 15,800 lbs. in 2013, well below the 2013 goal of 18,000 lbs. This value represents an approximate 9-percent decrease from 2012, and a 92-percent reduction since 2005. The company has already surpassed its goal to reduce its emissions below 25,000 lbs. of SF6 by 2020, and is on target to meet its new goal set in 2012 to reduce SF6 emissions an additional 25 percent by 2017. INDIRECT EMISSIONS While Con Edison is committed to reducing emissions related to our operations, we recognize that our customers’ emissions also impact the quality of the air throughout our service territory. At the regulated utilities, we are committed to helping our customers find ways that they can reduce their own carbon footprint: The cleanest megawatt is the megawatt that is never produced. Find out more about the energy efficiency offerings in our Customer Energy Efficiency section. Converting customers from oil to natural gas has made significant contributions to cleaner air throughout the city. Find out more about our conversion program in the Customer Oil-to-Gas Conversion section. Renewable generation installations, such as PV solar, are another way customers can reduce their emissions. Visit the Customer Distributed Generation page to find out more about how the utilities are assisting our customers to install and integrate more solar on the grid. Additionally, the structure of the New York Regulatory system means that other agencies may use money collected from our customers to implement clean technology programs. These include the following: New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) and New York utilities are responsible for implementing the Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS) that supports energy efficiency, targeted demand-side management, and demand-response programs. NYSERDA is responsible for implementing the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), entering into long-term agreements with developers and paying renewable premiums based on facilities’ energy output. The PSC uses the Systems Benefit Charge to support research and development efforts that serve as a feeder of new technologies to be incorporated into the state’s energy-efficiency and renewable energy programs. This program is also administered by NYSERDA. RENEWABLE GENERATION We recognize that in order to meet our stakeholders’ desire for cleaner energy, renewable generation must also be a part of the mix. Along with distributed generation initiatives at the regulated utilities, a focus on renewable generation in the competitive businesses is helping us to meet these expectations. Con Edison Solutions Con Edison promotes renewable energy development by offering a renewable energy product through its Con Edison Solutions (CES) subsidiary. This product, called Green Power, consists of 100 percent renewable energy. Residential customers in the state of New York may purchase a mix of 75 percent low-impact hydropower and 25 percent wind energy, or purchase 100 percent wind energy for their full electricity requirements. For commercial customers, CES can supply between five and 100 percent of their electricity requirements with 100 percent wind energy. Con Edison Solutions also offers similar options to residential and business customers in Connecticut and to business customers in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Hampshire, and Texas. Con Edison Solutions Green Power is Green-e certified. Green-e is a leading national labeling program that sets consumer protection and environmental standards for environmentally superior electricity products. In 2013, CES enrolled over 2,500 new customers for a total of over 10,000 customers and sales of more than 234,000 MWh. In addition to its retail electric Green Power and its energy efficiency services, CES also owns renewable energy projects predominantly in Massachusetts and California, with an aggregate capacity of 18 MW (AC) and estimated annual production of 37.5 GWh of energy. Included in these numbers is the company’s first wind installation. Two wind turbines at a Honda Motors transmission plant in Ohio now produce approximately 10 percent of the plant’s electricity needs. This is the first major automotive manufacturing facility in the United States to obtain some of its electricity directly from wind turbines located on its property. To learn more, click here (http://www.conedsolutions.com/News/newsview/14-01.09/Wind_Turbines_Begin_Providing_Renewable_Energy_at_Honda_Transmission_Plant_in_Ohio.aspx). Con Edison Solutions is accredited as an Energy Services Provider (ESP) by the National Association of Energy Service Companies (NAESCO). Con Edison Development Con Edison Development (CED) completed eight solar projects in 2013, totaling 245 MW – bringing the total capacity of solar projects to 393 MW. These assets are located in New Jersey, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, and California. Con Edison Development has long-term power purchase agreements in place for the West Coast assets and has 3-10 year solar renewable energy certificates hedges in place for our Northeast assets. Con Edison Development embarked on one of its largest projects to date in 2013, when it partnered with Sempra U.S. Gas & Power on the 150-MW Copper Mountain Solar 2 plant near Las Vegas, and the 150-MW Mesquite Solar 1 plant near Phoenix. Under the sales agreement, each company owns a 50-percent interest in the two solar facilities, which are among the largest photovoltaic plants in the nation. Sempra U.S. Gas & Power will continue to provide operations and maintenance services to both plants. To learn more, click here (http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/sempra.us-gas-power-consolidated-edison-development-announce-solar-partnership-nyse-ed.1793107.htm). Con Edison Development also completed several projects in New England, specifically in Northbridge and Merrimac, Massachusetts, and West Greenwich, Rhode Island. These three projects deliver a combined 5 MW, or enough electricity to power approximately 650 homes. The Merrimac project was completed in the fall of 2013 and has 6,446 solar panels. The project’s electricity is delivered to the Town of Merrimac Municipal Lighting Department under a 20-year agreement providing approximately eight percent of the town’s electric load. Con Edison Development continues to identify opportunities for renewable generation, and to build its renewable energy pipeline. During early development, CED works with local communities, and state and federal agencies. By addressing issues identified early in the process, CED can work with regulatory agencies and other stakeholders to resolve problems before construction begins. REPORTING EMISSIONS In 2008, Con Edison became a founding reporter of The Climate Registry. The Registry helps organizations calculate and report greenhouse gas emissions, and has developed standardized reporting and third-party verification protocols for creating an inventory of emissions. Con Edison has voluntarily submitted to third-party verification of its greenhouse gas emissions under the registry’s reporting protocols for five consecutive years. The most recent verification of emissions occurring in 2012, was again verified under the registry’s Electric Power Sector Protocol, which requires disclosure of all direct and indirect sources at company locations. All emissions reports are available on the registry’s website, theclimateregistry.org (http://theclimateregistry.org). The company is also required to report direct emissions through the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting system. In 2013, the company reported emissions from steam and cogeneration stations where fuel is combusted to produce steam and/or electric energy. The company also reported the emissions resulting from the combustion of natural gas delivered to its customers. The company’s reported emissions are accessible through the EPA’s greenhouse gas data publication tool. Voluntary reporting was also completed through disclosure to CDP. WATER As one of the 15 Key Sustainability Aspects, we strive to enhance the efficiency of our water use and seek opportunities to improve water quality. Con Edison is one of the largest consumers of municipal water in New York, driven by Con Edison of New York’s steam business. In 2013, we consumed over 3.8 billion gallons of municipal water, approximately 110 million of which was used for basic water and sewage services at our facilities, with the rest used to generate steam for heating and cooling customers throughout the city. In 2013, organizations throughout the company made strides in reducing our consumption of municipal water. Members of a team in Steam Operations conducted in-depth research to develop a water-conservation initiative for the 74th Street Steam Station that reduces water consumption and lowers operating costs. In particular, this team eliminated excess cooling water use during times when the boilers are offline, which would save up to $48,000 and 10 million gallons of water per month if the boilers were not in use. In Substation Operations, a new process was piloted in 2013 for cleaning oil/water separators. The new process conserves fresh water and eliminates the need for contractors to cart away wastewater in tanker trucks. This process will save nearly 340,000 gallons of water, reduce costs by $90,000 to $100,000, and avoid 4,500 miles of truck travel per year. This project and the project at the 74th Street Steam station both won a 2013 Excellence Award – Con Edison’s highest honor for Environment, Health and Safety initiatives. Con Edison also uses water withdrawn from the Hudson and East Rivers for cooling at its steam generation plants. This water is returned directly to the river at quality levels specified in State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (SPDES) permits with limited to no impact to water quality or quantity as a result of this process. Our withdrawals of river water are reported to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation on an annual basis as required. Finally, we recognize that we face risks related to water. While parts of the country deal with droughts and concerns about water availability, flooding is a primary concern in the Northeast. Con Edison has made significant investments to mitigate the risk of infrastructure flooding, in preparation for increasingly severe and frequent storms like Superstorm Sandy, which brought historic tidal surges. To learn more, visit the Resiliency (3b-resiliency.html) section of this report. RESOURCE CONSERVATION The wise and effective use of natural resources is one of Con Edison’s five key EH&S objectives. We continue to focus on reducing, reusing, and recycling to minimize consumption. This applies to our use of materials as well as our use of energy and water. WASTE Con Edison’s goal is to manage materials at the beginning of their life cycle, therefore reducing waste down the line. In 2013, we worked to quantify how much material we were reusing throughout the company, with a focus on the repair and refurbishment of equipment from the transformer shop, the electric and gas meter shops, and our Van Nest fabrication shop. By reconditioning and reusing equipment, we are contributing less to our waste stream, as well as avoiding costs from new purchases. In 2013, approximately 13,950 pieces of equipment were refurbished to operating conditions as follows: When a material has reached its useful life and we must dispose of it, we first look to recycle it. Con Edison of New York minimizes waste and reinforces waste material separation and recycling efforts across the company. A recycling manual, posters located throughout company facilities, training modules, and an internal resource conservation website, all include the various classes of waste found throughout company operations, and procedures for proper handling, collection, segregation, and disposal for each material type. Company facilities contain recycling stations for a variety of waste streams, with clear signage to sort refuse for recycling. Orange and Rockland is committed to protecting the environment and conserving our natural resources. The company participates in and promotes programs that focus on resource conservation and waste minimization, and continues to explore alternative sustainable practices. Orange and Rockland’s recycling program continues a long-standing partnership that employs workers from Rockland ARC, a local organization providing support and services to those with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Supervised ARC workers help to break down retired Orange and Rockland equipment into component parts for re-sale. The ARC workers assigned to Orange and Rockland separate waste paper, bale used cardboard, and dismantle old cable, streetlights, reflectors, and meters. Orange and Rockland then sells those parts to recyclers. The program also provides a useful work experience for ARC’s workforce. Since the program’s inception in 1991, Orange and Rockland and its ARC partners have recycled more than three million pounds of paper, nearly a million pounds of cardboard, over a million pounds of steel and aluminum wire, and a half million pounds of assorted metals. Orange and Rockland estimates that this program has saved over a million cubic feet of land fill space. ENERGY We are always looking for ways to improve efficiencies, and we continue to see improvements in the consumption of both electric and natural gas. In 2013, Con Edison of New York used 307.6 billion BTUs of electricity and 161.9 billion BTUs of gas for the purposes of powering, lighting, heating, and cooling company facilities. This represents a 7.5-percent decrease in electrical consumption, and a 5 percent increase in gas consumption over 2012 totals of 332.4 and 154.2 billion BTUs, respectively. WATER At Con Edison, we are committed to finding ways to use water more efficiently in our operating organizations and processes. To learn more about our water consumption and water-saving activities in 2013, click here. 