Environment We collectively require a fundamental shift toward a more circular and low-carbon model. Companies with adequate sustainability management systems will thrive in a resource constrained future and will be well placed to help customers do the same. We are in the business of enabling access to intelligent, clean energy solutions for our customers in order to help reduce the world’s carbon footprint. Sustainability is at the core of what we do. “Through various energy reduction initiatives, we are reducing our energy footprint through tailored programs that also benefit our employees.” E1. Energy administration Enphase adheres to the strongest environmental regulations and standards. Of our ten offices worldwide, seven are certified to ISO 14001 standards. Through various energy reduction initiatives, we are reducing our energy footprint through tailored programs that also benefit our employees. We are in the process of transitioning almost entirely to the cloud and relying on SAS applications for logistics, payroll, and most internal processes. This means we have a very small footprint when it comes to data center energy use. As a company focused on enabling clean energy at scale, we support and encourage our employees to transition to solar energy at home and use more sustainable transportation alternatives. We provide our people the infrastructure to make these changes by offering electric charging stations at our offices and discounts on Enphase solar powered systems installed in their homes. We also offer rideshare and carpooling subsidies for U.S. offices to reduce transportation emissions. United States case study In partnership with 603 Solar, we deployed a 16.8 kW solar array in the town hall building of Shelburne, New Hampshire. This project is expected to offset 100% of the building’s energy needs and provides a wonderful gathering point for the community. According to estimates by 603 Solar, the system is expected to offset approximately 12.8 metric tons of CO2e per year. Australia case study In partnership with Solar Concept, we deployed a 39.6 kW solar array on the roof of APEI (Association of Parents of Maladjusted Children) in Noumea, New Caledonia, which works to support the education and social integration of people with intellectual disabilities. The system has eliminated all power cut disruptions and reduced the association’s electricity bills by approximately 80%. In addition, the association expects that the system will also offset approximately 36 metric tons of CO2e per year based upon their calculations. Europe case study In partnership with SCJ Renewables and Electrical, we deployed a 78kW solar array on the roof of Fergyspace, a self-storage facility on the Northumberland Business Park West in Cranlington, Northumberland. Fergyspace boasts 50,000 square feet of rentable space and is one of the biggest facilities of its kind in the northeast region of England. Based upon estimates made by SCJ Renewables and Electrical, the system is anticipated to offset more than 660.9 metric tons of CO2e over 20 years. “The goal of our internal universal waste policy and training is to promote the site’s commitment to recycling and removal of products and materials from landfills, to assure compliance with federal, state, and local regulations, and to provide an internal system within the company for collection, pickup, and recycling.” E2. Waste and hazardous materials management We realize there are opportunities for reducing our environmental footprint. Due to the critical nature and prevalence of batteries in our industry, we focus significant efforts on proper disposal and recycling of both household and residential storage battery systems. We have collection boxes in every U.S. office, and we work with a third-party provider to recycle batteries used in testing centers. We recycle approximately 90% of our total electronic waste every year. In our U.S. offices, we generate approximately 5,000 yd. of waste every year and about 50% of it is recycled. We focus on the use of supplies with a low environmental impact, including reusable and compostable materials where possible. In the U.S. and New Zealand, we have eliminated paper cups and provide our employees with re-usable dishware, utensils, and drinkware in our employee cafeterias. All site employees who handle hazardous materials in California take additional training to ensure compliance with universal waste management in California Code of Regulations, Title 22. The goal of our internal universal waste policy and training is to promote the sites’ commitment to recycling and removal of products and materials from landfills, to assure compliance with federal, state, and local regulations, and to provide an internal system within the company for collection, pickup, and recycling. Employees outside of the U.S. working in labs also undergo annual training, including how to properly dispose of any toxic or hazardous materials. E3. Product design and lifecycle management Designing for the environment has been a priority since our co-founders first thought about which technology would yield the most impact. Not only are we using less materials and increasing efficiency, but we are also taking a systems approach for seamless integration into broader energy systems. We know that we are at the cusp of major technology and energy and market transformations. Our strategy is to transform into a home energy management systems company, providing our customers with clean, reliable energy solutions. From the beginning, we have understood that installers must have ease of installation while system owners demand safety and ease of use long after the installation experts have left their homes. Of course, both require a system that provides years of reliability and high performance with a simple expansion and upgrade path. Central to realizing this vision has been a laser-like focus on delivering a superior customer experience. We consider our customers to be both the installers and the final system owners because both depend on us delivering products of high quality and exceptional reliability. Solar as well as storage systems often represent the most significant investment for new construction or renovations. Energy system upgrades based on our technology are therefore designed to deliver innovative features that are: Reliable and resilient --No moving parts and a fail-safe design supported by a single company Safe --Free of high-voltage batteries and powered by fire-resistant battery chemistry Powerful --Automatic backup, single-app monitoring and upgradeable Our microinverters have evolved significantly from the first product released to the market in 2008. Our cloud-based Enphase Enlighten™ monitoring system allows for remote problem-solving and saves time on installations. The distributed architecture requires less maintenance, creating systems without a single point of failure. We are also designing microinverters to last longer. This is especially important to divert waste from landfills. When units are sent back to Enphase, they are recycled and disposed of according to local law. In our testing center in Fuyong, China, products are taken apart and scraps and materials are collected for reuse. 