Environment Enphase’s best-in-class energy management solutions, spanning solar energy generation, battery storage, EV charging, and cloud-based monitoring and control, provide the smart energy needed to drive global sustainable development. Our products and services directly address the urgent challenges presented by climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy. “Our products and services directly address the urgent challenges presented by climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy.” E1. Environmental stewardship Enphase’s best-in-class energy management solutions, spanning solar energy generation, battery storage, EV charging, and cloud-based monitoring and control, provide the smart energy needed to drive global sustainable development. Our products and services directly address the urgent challenges presented by climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy, and we also acknowledge responsibility for helping to reduce adverse environmental impacts across the value chain. Climate change strategy At Enphase, we create the clean energy technologies the world needs to help slow the pace of global warming, protect the environment, and accelerate the transition to a clean, accessible, and resilient energy system. Our climate change strategy disclosures align with the recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and may be found in the Appendix. Environmental management system (EMS) Enphase demands of itself superior environmental performance, and 100% of our facilities are ISO 14001:2015 certified. Our EMS is continually improved to align with business strategy, promote positive environmental impacts, and minimize adverse impacts. Through the EMS, we proactively assess environmental risks and opportunities, define key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets, and evaluate progress toward environmental goals. Supplier expectations Enphase works with suppliers who share our commitment to environmental stewardship, and all suppliers and vendors are expected to uphold the same standards of environmental stewardship as we do. Suppliers are screened on specific criteria including the presence of an environmental policy; EMS or Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certification; Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) compliance; conflict minerals reporting; as well as the establishment of human rights and labor policies. Auditing Our environmental audit program includes periodic and complete evaluations of our product development and R&D centers. Audits include air and water quality, waste management practices, spill prevention and control, hazardous materials management, and employee awareness. “We support pollution prevention programs and use materials and energy efficiently to conserve natural resources.” Reporting and stakeholder consultation We report our annual environmental performance in line with prevailing sustainability reporting frameworks. Stakeholders such as our shareholders, local communities, customers, suppliers and contractors, government agencies, and other organizations focused on protecting the environment are allies and collaborators, and their priorities and feedback regarding our environmental performance are considered when assessing our environmental performance. Product lifecycle stewardship Our products are designed to be safe for the environment and their intended use. All hazardous waste generated across our operations is disposed of properly or recycled, and we comply where we operate with all applicable laws and directives regarding hazardous waste, including Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), RoHs, REACH, and the European Union (EU) batteries directive. We support pollution prevention programs and use materials and energy efficiently to conserve natural resources, including measuring emissions and implementing an emissions reduction strategy. Legal compliance Enphase complies in the areas where we operate with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws, as well as all pertinent industry codes and standards. We also expect our suppliers, partners, and customers to comply with all appliable environmental laws and regulations. Empowering employees We harness the intellect and energy of our employees to achieve positive and lasting environmental impacts resulting from our business. Employees at all levels actively participate in environmental goal-setting processes, allowing for important insights and innovation to be realized across the company. We incentivize performance toward environmental-related goals, with all employees eligible to tie their bonuses to associated objectives. E2. Clean energy production During 2022 21 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) generated by Enphase microinverters3 14 million MTCO.e prevented from entering the atmosphere2 Since 2006 64 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) generated by Enphase microinverters3 45 million MTCO.e prevented from entering the atmosphere2 2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records; CO2e calculations based on U.S. EPA GHG calculator 3 Annual running total estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 “2022 is our second year of completing a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory.” E3. Emissions and energy We completed our second year of a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory. The calculations follow the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, covering direct (Scope 1), electricity-indirect (Scope 2), and certain Scope 3 emissions categories. Please refer to the Appendix for a detailed explanation of the methodology used in our GHG emissions inventory. Scope 1 We consider Scope 1 emissions to be negligible given our “OpEx Lite” operating model, where we do not own or operate any large factories. Emissions from our field service and training vehicle fleet do not represent more than 5% of our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions and are excluded from our GHG inventory. Scope 2 Energy consumption among our leased facilities globally comprises our Scope 2 emissions. We are actively reducing our Scope 2 emissions by increasing the number of PV systems on our leased buildings and completing energy efficiency projects on a continuing basis. Our energy management program is informed by the ISO 50001 standard. Note that we intentionally forgo market solutions to drive down Scope 2 emissions. This allows us to confidently claim that our operations run on renewable energy, while cultivating a net positive outcome. By leaving installed PV on the leased buildings after we vacate, we leave the facilities in a better condition than originally found. Scope 3 We collaborate with upstream and downstream partners to reduce our Scope 3 emissions. In 2023, we plan to install a 900 kW Enphase microinverter system at Salcomp, India, our contract manufacturing facility that has produced more than five million Enphase microinverters. Several other of our key suppliers and customers have set ambitious GHG reduction targets through the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), helping to further reduce Scope 3 emissions. We will continue to measure our Scope 3 emissions and explore opportunities for further reductions moving forward. “We have set a target to reduce our economic emissions intensity by 30% by 2030.” Reducing GHG emissions We are actively reducing our operational emissions and have set a target to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 economic emissions intensity by 30% by 2030 through the following means: • Installing on-site PV generation capacity among leased facilities • Implementing energy efficiency projects • Strategically siting our facilities to ensure access to renewable energy • Installing bi-directional EV chargers when available among facilities • Incentivizing energy conservation efforts • Continuing transition to cloud storage to reduce data center energy consumption 2022 actions taken • Increased facilities’ on-site generation capacity by 73% • Reached total on-site generation capacity of 260 kW, with expansion plan developed to increase to 1,747 kW by the end of 2023 • Began tracking renewable energy mix across purchased grid electricity • Planned LED motion-sensing light fixture upgrades representing annual savings of 152,675 kWh Table 2: GHG emissions* and emissions intensity Emissions type  Units  Direct emissions (Scope 1) (MTCOe)2 0  Electricity-indirect emissions (Scope 2) (MTCOe)2 10,603  Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) (MTCOe)2 53,542  Total emissions (MTCOe)2 64,145  Scope 1 + 2 emissions intensity (MTCOe/$M revenue) 2 4.55  *All emissions figures represent location- and market-based calculation. Chart 1: On-site PV generation capacity (kW) Scopes 1, 2 Scopes 1, 2, 3 Table 3: Energy consumption and intensity Energy type  Units  Electricity (kWh)  15,649,167  Heating (kWh)  1,953,424  Total energy consumption (kWh)  17,602,591  Energy intensity (kWh / $M revenue)  7,554  74% renewable energy mix  Chart 2: Emissions and energy intensity* Emissions intensity  Energy intensity  3.00 2021 Emissions Intensity (MTCOe/ $M)2*Scopes 1 and 2 only Chart 3: Renewable energy mix  2022  7,000 Energy Intensity (MTCOe / $M)2 26% Renewable (%) 74% Non-renewable (%) “Every clean kilowatt-hour generated by an Enphase system helps to reduce air pollution and promote environmental justice.” Hazardous air pollutants Enphase installed products reduce the amount of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) that enter the atmosphere, helping to alleviate human health issues related to the release of particulate matter (PM 2.5), nitrous oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other ozone-depleting substances (ODS). These are typically released from fuel combustion among both mobile and stationary sources such as cars, trucks, and factories. Many people are disproportionately impacted by air pollution, including those who live in communities of color or low-income communities.  Every clean kilowatt-hour generated by an Enphase system helps to reduce air pollution and promote environmental justice. We do not consider the release of HAPs across Enphase’s operations to be significant, given we do not own or operate a company vehicle fleet or any large factories. However, we do hold upstream suppliers and contract manufacturers accountable for environmental performance as outlined in our Enphase Supplier Code of Conduct and proactively work to reduce Scope 3 emissions, including HAPs, as described earlier in this report. Enphase EV chargers have a charging current range between 32 amperes and 64 amperes ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 “We continually seek opportunities to reduce the inputs needed to build reliable, high-quality products, integrate recycled materials where possible, and design equipment that can be repurposed or recycled at the end of its designed lifespan.” E4. Product lifecycle and waste Activities across the entire value chain from raw material extraction to product end-of-life methods comprise our environmental footprint, and we are committed to reducing adverse environmental impacts as much as possible. We continually seek opportunities to reduce the inputs needed to build reliable, high-quality products, integrate recycled materials where possible, and design equipment that can be repurposed or recycled at the end of its lifespan. By following “Design for Environment” (DfE) principles, we spur innovation and position ourselves to compete in the growing circular economy. Currently, we are primarily concerned with managing our electronic waste (e-waste), hazardous waste, and universal waste responsibly across global operations. These wastes are generated through R&D, prototyping, and creating experimental apparatus for new product development and improvement across our product portfolio. Our dedication to building innovative, best-in-class products regarding safety, quality, and reliability requires extensive testing and failure analysis. Test equipment is disassembled or deconstructed, with the constituent parts recycled and reclaimed for future use, where possible. We make every effort to divert these wastes from landfills by sending e-waste, hazardous waste, and universal waste to certified vendors who provide certificates of destruction, outlining the percent composition, mass, and recycling method employed for each constituent material. 100%  100%  waste generated in North America  RoHS, REACH, WEEE, and EU  is diverted from landfill*  Battery Directive compliant  We focus significant efforts on residential, commercial, and industrial battery disposal and recycling. We evaluate third-party recycling vendors for certifications and compliance performance prior to engaging with them. Our battery recycler is certified to the R2 standard, which prohibits incineration as a disposal solution. All battery waste is processed thermally or chemically to recover valuable metals such as nickel, lithium, cobalt, and copper, with the remaining plastic and byproducts separated for recycling. This allows for valuable components to be reused as material inputs for new products. We design our batteries for long-term duration to decrease waste, using lithium iron phosphate (LFP) chemistry as the storage material. Beyond batteries, we are reviewing the methods of other third-party vendors to validate that material is diverted from landfill, and we are developing a vendor audit program to verify the destination of generated waste. We promote our company’s commitment to recycling and preventing products and materials from ending up in landfills through our internal training and compliance with applicable federal, state, and local regulations. Employees working in our R&D labs undergo additional annual training to ensure they understand how to properly dispose of any hazardous materials that are not eligible for our recycling programs. *Hazardous waste, e-waste, and universal waste Sustainable facilities We also make a conscientious effort to ensure responsible resource consumption across our facilities. Water conservation is encouraged, and we have installed auto stop taps to reduce consumption. Facilities are equipped with reusable and compostable materials, single-use items are eliminated, and employees are provided with reusable dishware, utensils, and mugs. Additionally, ink cartridges, organics, plastic, glass, cardboard, fluorescent bulbs, and metal scraps are recycled as standard practice among facilities. Table 4: Waste* Waste Type  Amount Generated (MT)  Amount Diverted from Landfill (MT)  Percent Recycled (%)  Percent Directed to Landfill (%)  Hazardous Waste  0.45  0.45  100  0.0  E-Waste  89.26  89.26  100  0.0  Universal Waste  27.14  27.14  100  0.0  *U.S. R&D locations only Our high-speed digital ASIC forms the brain of our microinverters ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 Erie Fire Station Organization Solar Revolution LLC Enphase product installer Erie, Pennsylvania Location E5. Case studies United States Solar Revolution LLC, an installer of Enphase products, completed an 87.8 kW rooftop solar energy project on the Erie Fire Station in Erie, Pennsylvania. The installation will power critical emergency services and is expected to help save taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars over the life of the system. 87.8 kW solar energy system size 98.3 MWh estimated annual production Puerto Rico Environmental Defense Fund Organization Genesis Solar Enphase product installer Culebra Island Location Enphase Energy partnered with Genesis Solar and non-profit organizations to help with lowering utility bills and back-up power for communities in Culebra, a small east coast island in Puerto Rico, by installing 45 Enphase Energy Systems. 3 kW 10 kWh solar energy battery size system size 6 MWh estimated annual production per system, plus backup storage A summer camp facility in France Organization Smart To Enphase product installer Haute-Savoie, France Location Europe Smart To, an installer of Enphase products, completed a rooftop solar energy project for a summer camp in Haute-Savoie, France. The system was designed to provide clean energy support for the camp and help reduce electricity bills. The installation consisted of 44 solar panels with IQ7+™ microinverters. 17.8 kW solar energy system size 30% of annual energy consumption estimated as annual production Australia Sydney Football Stadium (Allianz Stadium) Organization Genelec Power Solutions Enphase product installer Moore Park, Sydeny, Australia Location Genelec Power Solutions (GPS), an installer of Enphase products, completed a 180 kW rooftop solar energy project on the new Sydney Football Stadium, commercially known as Allianz Stadium. The system design targeted annual power generation of 158 MWh, which, after multiple modeling simulations of various other inverter technologies, could best be achieved by leveraging the flexibility and performance of the Enphase IQ7A™ microinverters. 180 kW solar energy system size 158 MWh estimated annual production Brazil Alphaville Tambore 3 Organization Plug Solar Energia Enphase product installer Santana de Parnaiba/ Sao Paulo Location An installer of Enphase systems, Plug Solar Energia, installed a solar energy system at a condominium building in São Paulo, Brazil. The roof has multiple orientations, and designing with Enphase microinverters was the best solution to ensure maximum efficiency and savings. The customer also chose Enphase microinverters so that it could add Enphase batteries at a later time. 41.3 kW solar energy system size 57.6 MWh estimated annual production India BL Agro Industries Ltd Organization Ornate Solar Enphase product installer Bareilly, Uttar Prasesh, India Location Ornate Solar, an installer of Enphase products, built a massive 1,638 panel solar energy system across 45,000 square feet, on the rooftop space of B.L. Argo facility in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. The proprietary InRoof system is a unique structural solution that can integrate panels of any shape and size to replace conventional metal roofs. The solar panels themselves became the roof. This system is touted by Ornate Solar as one of India’s largest integrated roof solar energy systems. 