Corporate governance We regularly evaluate a myriad of risks associated with climate change, governance, human rights, integrity, employee satisfaction, finance, information technology, and other business processes to ensure a strong internal governance with clear communication. We participate in the development of policies and regulations around the world as part of our core governance principles. “We appreciate the importance of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board and its committees are responsible for directing our overall ESG strategy.” G1. ESG governance and leadership Board oversight of ESG The Board is presided over by a Lead Independent Director. We believe that having a Lead Independent Director creates an environment that is more conducive to objective evaluation and oversight of management’s performance, increasing management accountability and improving the ability of the Board to monitor whether management’s actions are in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. Our governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance, which serves as the foundation for additional voluntary sustainability and ESG efforts at Enphase. We appreciate the importance of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board and its committees are responsible for directing our overall ESG strategy. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees ESG matters including strategy, initiatives, and policies, communication with employees, investors, and other interested stakeholders. Our cross-functional ESG executive leadership team updates the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee on at least an annual basis on emerging ESG trends, reporting and regulations, and assessment of strategic objectives over the short-, medium-, and long-term on climate and emissions, diversity, human rights, and other material ESG topics. The Audit Committee annually identifies and assesses all key company risks and monitors our risk mitigation efforts. The annual ERM program incorporates material ESG risk factors and is reviewed formally by our management and executives with oversight from the Audit Committee of the Board. This process includes reviewing potential financial impacts of transition and physical climate risks outlined in the TCFD. The Compensation Committee oversees matters related to human capital management, including inclusion and diversity initiatives, leadership development and talent assessments. The Committee is also responsible for executive compensation and pay metrics. Additional information about the role of the Board and its various committees is available in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. ESG management structure Our cross-functional ESG executive team led by our General Counsel and the supporting working groups manage and operationalize the ESG program across the company. The ESG team is comprised of executive management representatives and meets at least quarterly to review ESG risks and opportunities, develop ESG goals and targets, and allocate the necessary resources to achieve company-wide ESG objectives. The supporting ESG working groups include senior leaders and key internal stakeholders representing legal, investor relations, global policy and government affairs, facilities, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, human resources, compliance, and risk management. Progress toward ESG goals and targets is incentivized through our quarterly bonus system accessible to all employees and executives. “We believe that our Board should represent diversity of thought, background, skill, experience, and expertise.” Board diversity and independence We take seriously our longstanding and continuing commitment to effectiveness in the boardroom. We believe that our Board should represent diversity of thought, background, skill, experience, and expertise. We recognize that enhancing demographic diversity on the Board, through the representation of women and underrepresented groups, encourages a thoughtful decision-making process that is important to effective corporate governance. Consistent with our philosophy, we have codified a version of the Rooney Rule in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which states that, "the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will ensure each pool of qualified candidates for additional or vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes candidates who bring racial and/or gender diversity." In 2020, we implemented this provision in our director search and as a result appointed our first female member, Jamie Haenggi, to our Board. The composition of our seven-person board reflects a variety of backgrounds, experiences, and tenures, and we continue to seek opportunities to enhance the diversity and effectiveness of our Board. Gender diversity Demographic background Age diversity ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 G2. Business ethics and compliance Enphase Energy code of conduct At Enphase, we believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect. The Code of Conduct applies to all officers, directors and employees, contractors, and consultants. It provides general guidelines to ensure proper and ethical behavior, compliance with laws, and compliance with our standards, policies, and procedures. We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere we operate. Clawback policy Our clawback policy applies to all employees and allows us to recover any incentive-based compensation that was paid based on erroneous financial information reported under securities laws. Specifically, we may recoup any incentive compensation from any employee if: (i) he or she engages in intentional misconduct pertaining to any financial reporting policy; (ii) there is a material negative revision of a financial or operating measure on the basis of which incentive compensation was awarded or paid to the employee; or (iii) he or she engages in any fraud, theft, misappropriation, embezzlement or dishonesty. Any recoupment will be made irrespective of whether the employee’s conduct contributed to the need for the restatement and/or revision. For additional information, please refer to our 2022 Proxy Statement. Supplier conduct We choose business partners who share our mission and intend to only work with those who agree that our shared success is based on acting ethically and lawfully. We expect our business partners to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes (a) conducting business with high ethical standards; (b) complying with applicable laws; (c) supporting the human rights of workers and treat their employees with dignity; (d) adhering to anti-slavery and human trafficking principles; and (e) maintaining safe and healthy working conditions. Whistleblower policy We take matters of ethics and integrity seriously at all levels of our organization and provide an anonymous platform to report violations of the Code of Conduct. Concerns may be reported anonymously through a third-party, independent whistleblower service, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and are investigated promptly with the highest degree of confidentiality. Retribution or retaliation against whistleblowers is strictly prohibited, and employees are also empowered to report any suspicious or unethical activity directly to their manager, human resources, legal, or our Compliance Officer. For additional information, please refer to our Code of Conduct. “We collaborate with national labs, government agencies, and university research groups to develop innovative solutions that enable more efficient and sustainable products.” G3. Risk management We regularly evaluate a myriad of risks associated with climate change, governance, human rights, integrity, employee satisfaction, finance, information technology, and other business processes through our ERM program. Our ERM Committee annually identifies and assesses all key company risks and monitors risk mitigation efforts. To determine risks year-over-year, the employee population is stratified. Select employees representing various functions at all levels across all geographies and cost centers - executive, operations, finance, sales, engineering, IT, etc. - respond to an extensive risk questionnaire encompassing regulation, health and safety, human resources, integrity, and other factors. The ERM program is designed to deliver knowledge sharing from our employees on specific risk topics and to accumulate information on opportunities and actions to be taken by leadership. Risk events are assessed by cross functional employees each year. Participants are given absolute assurance that their responses are anonymous and individual survey responses are held in confidence. A robust methodology then combines risk responses and evaluates risk likelihood, impact, and velocity to rank risks for priority treatment by functional leaders. Top risks are identified for every business unit and presented to our Board. We then work collectively to mitigate and address all top risks affecting our company’s ability to meet its stated objectives. We also track market and regulatory requirements that impact our business and play an active role in the development of new standards for the solar industry. We collaborate with national labs, government agencies, and university research groups to develop innovative solutions that enable more efficient and sustainable products. “We believe that cybersecurity and privacy is a basic right that should apply globally, regardless of where someone resides and what laws may apply, and regardless of whether they are an employee, customer, or general consumer.” G4. Cybersecurity and data privacy We believe that cybersecurity and privacy is a basic right that should apply globally, regardless of where someone resides and what laws may apply, and whether they are an employee, customer, or general consumer. This approach is part of our daily practices and in nearly everything we do, including new product features, management of data subject access requests, how we treat our employees, and in our relationships with partners. In implementing this unified approach, we look to the world’s strictest laws, regulations, and rules, including the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and California’s Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), while also staying abreast of many other federal, state, and local laws and proposed laws. We adhere to these stringent regulations in all processing of personal information, including collection, use, storage, retention, security, disclosure, and transfer. The details disclosed in our privacy policy demonstrate our commitment and serve as a frequent source of truth for ongoing business operations. We continue to review and update our privacy policy as our business evolves and expands. We recognize that enterprise and product security is a backbone of sound privacy practices. We have implemented a combination of organizational, technical, and physical safeguards designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and accuracy of information, including personal information. Our security programs include: • Enterprise-wide security initiatives designed to constantly adapt to the evolving threat landscape • Cybersecurity Training and Awareness Program that includes new employee training, annual risk-relevant refresher trainings for all employees, quarterly penetration exercises, just-in-time training assignments, and secure coding training for software developers, and • Next-generation product architectures are designed specifically with security in mind