People We are building a community where everyone feels valued and treated equally at Enphase. We encourage employee wellbeing by offering facilities and incentives. We have laid the foundation for a robust talent management program covering recruitment, career progression pathways, and global leadership development - empowering employees, both new and existing, to reach their full potential and find satisfaction in their work. P1. Company demographics Geographic headcount (%) as of December 31, 2021 “In 2021, we continued our adherence to working remotely, social distancing, mask-wearing, and temperature screening at all our offices in compliance with the local rules, ordinances, and regulations.” P2. Health and wellness COVID-19 In 2021, we continued to assist our employees through the challeging times of the COVID-19 pandemic. We adapted to this new “normal” with protocols and decisions made by a dedicated task force that had regular communications with all employees. We offered support and guidance to our employees with suspected COVID-19 cases. We continued our adherence to working remotely as required or desired, social distancing, mask-wearing, and temperature screening at all our offices in compliance with the local rules, ordinances, and regulations. Newly expanded workspaces and fitness center We encourage our employees to focus on their health and to take breaks. In 2021, we added a 1,500 square foot break room at our headquarters in Fremont, California, which offers: 1) healthy choice snacks and branded reusable water bottles containing purified pH-balanced water through a clean water partnership; 2) multiple seating areas for employee engagement; 3) the use of assorted entertainment, including a ping pong table and related accessories. Standing desks were added in the corporate office space to promote physical movement and ergonomics. We also built a fully-functioning 1,000 square foot employee gym, and employees may use private showers after a workout. Our Fremont office is also near outdoor walking trails. “We are committed to filling our talent pipeline with a range of candidates representing a broad spectrum of cultural backgrounds, work experience, and technical expertise.” BurnAlong corporate wellness platform To further our employees’ overall health, especially during a pandemic, we began a partnership with BurnAlong, a health and fitness company. This health and wellbeing program provides each employee with a complimentary membership plus four family and friend memberships. The course offerings range from beginner to advanced levels and include a wide variety of activities such as yoga, meditation, cardiovascular fitness, dance, and weightlifting. There are also fun challenges for employees and their families, allowing for healthy competition in areas unrelated to work. P3. Diversity, equity, and inclusion We are building a community where everyone feels valued and treated equally at Enphase. As an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE), we are committed to diversity and inclusion in the workplace, and do not tolerate discrimination and harassment of any kind based on race, color, sex, gender, gender expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, or any other protected characteristic as outlined by federal, state, or local laws. This policy applies to all employment practices within our organization, including hiring, recruiting, promotion, termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence, compensation, benefits, training, and apprenticeship. We have set a company goal to increase the number of females that are recruited and interviewed, including at the manager level or higher. In addition, we set a goal to increase the number of female candidates in the U.S. who are new college graduates. We are committed to filling our talent pipeline with a range of candidates representing a broad spectrum of cultural backgrounds, work experience, and technical expertise. Enphase leverages diverse employee referral programs, seeks talent from specialized conferences, such as the Grace Hopper Conference, and requires recruiting agencies to supply a diverse slate of candidates for each job placement search. In addition, our talent acquisition department sponsors events and partners with diverse student organizations on university campuses, makes certain all published job descriptions contain inclusive language, and ensures that interview teams are broadly represented. Gender diversity (globally) Workforce  Women  Total  Percentage (rounded)  Executives  5  34  15%  Managers  41  296  14%  Employees  300  1,930  16%  Total  346  2,260  15%  Ethnic diversity* (U.S.) Ethnicity  Employees  Percentage  Asian  118  21%  Black or African American  18  3.2%  Caucasian  334  59.5%  Hispanic or Latino  47  8.4%  Native American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian Native  6  1.1%  Two or More Races  19  3.4%  Declined to disclose  19  3.4%  Total  561  100%  Age diversity (globally) Age Group  Employees  Percentage  Less than 30 Years of Age  1,120  49.6%  30-50 Years of Age  920  40.7%  More than 50 Years of Age  217  9.6%  Not Specified / Not Disclosed  3  0.1%  Total  2,260  100%  Enphase works with outside organizations to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace. Women in Cleantech & Sustainability In 2021, we launched a partnership with Women in Cleantech & Sustainability (WCTS), an organization that fosters an influential network of professionals to further the roles of women in growing the green economy and making a positive impact on the environment. By joining WCTS, we are helping to shine a light on the need for more women in cleantech and fostering support for clean energy with participation in events and mentorship opportunities. ParityPledge In 2021, Enphase joined a significant number of established corporations by signing the corporate “ParityPledge” in support of women and people of color in the workplace. The pledge goal requires a commitment to interview and consider at least one qualified woman and person of color for every open role, vice president and higher, including c-suite and the Board. CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion In 2021, our CEO joined more than 2,000 other CEOs by signing the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge to act on supporting more inclusive workplaces. We pledged to promote diversity in our leadership team and began to implement changes focused on attracting more qualified and diverse talent into the company. We also pledged to make positive changes in our hiring process, including rewriting job postings to appeal to women, requiring that qualified diverse candidates must be interviewed for all new executive-level and Board positions, and ensuring a diverse representation of interviewers are always included in the process. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 P4. Talent “We are committed to attracting and developing a strong, diverse group of employees.” We are committed to attracting and developing a strong, diverse group of employees. Our robust talent management includes global recruitment, career progression goals, and leadership development - empowering employees to reach their full potential and find satisfaction in their work. 70-20-10 learning model Our learning model is designed to enable 70 percent of knowledge from job-related experiences, 20 percent from interactions with others, and 10 percent from formal learning events. This model reinforces our belief that learning is not just a result of functional responsibility as it goes beyond goes beyond formal training. Learning and development are therefore embedded into daily work, interactions, informal mentoring, and stretch assignments at Enphase. Blended model of new employee onboarding We have built a world-class, scalable, and blended model for new employee onboarding.  New employees can learn about Enphase, its products, and business units at a self-paced mode, anytime, anywhere. Additionally, new employees have “connect” sessions with local human resources and regional leaders to ensure face time with other team members and company leadership, even during situations that make in-person interactions prohibitive. Enphase Learning Academy In 2021, we built our learning wing, named Enphase Learning Academy. The Academy utilizes EdCast’s Learning Experience Platform (LXP) and has a long-term goal of creating a centralized learning hub for our employees. The LXP brings together internal, external, formal, and informal sources of learning and knowledge in a simple, easy-to-use interface. The platform uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to personalize the content, driving an intuitive user experience for our employees. Apart from self-paced learning, we offer tech talks on niche technical topics, webinars on wellness and work-life balance, short management development modules, solar industry orientation, and functional product and technical training programs. Upskilling and reskilling for existing employees The Enphase Learning Academy also offers a range of training programs for existing employees focused on topics from leadership development and technology to risk and compliance and business processes. We encourage our employees to evaluate their abilities and identify development opportunities as part of their career goals. “We encourage our employees to evaluate their abilities and identify development opportunities as part of their career goals.” Benefits We believe our employees are our most valuable asset. Providing a competitive benefit package to them and their families is critical to ensuring their continued success with the company. The physical, mental, and financial well-being of our employees is very important to us, and we make a concerted effort to continue to provide a holistic benefit offering. Employee engagement We conduct an annual Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) and employee engagement survey, with a goal of achieving at least a 30% eNPS score. This survey drives our employee engagement plans and activities for the upcoming year. Each function and business unit also prepares its own action plans for the year based on the survey results. In 2019, we launched our “Culture Revitalization” plan, which includes facilitated “Unfreezing Workshops” conducted worldwide for all employees. These workshops are intended to produce healthy, high-performance leaders, teams, and organizational cultures. Due to the global health crisis in 2020 and 2021, our trained facilitators had to pivot to “Virtual Unfreezing Workshops,” which we continue to offer quarterly so that new employees can engage with the content. We also introduced our Culture Playbook in 2019 that reflects our purpose and values, and we continue to refine it annually each September. The current version, updated in 2021, can be found on the Enphase website. “We acknowledge and take seriously our responsibility to protect, preserve, and promote human rights around the world.” P5. Human rights and responsible supply chain Our commitment to human rights We acknowledge and take seriously our responsibility to protect, preserve, and promote human rights around the world. As we expand our global reach and impact, the need for vigilance and due diligence regarding human rights issues throughout our operations will grow, and we are committed to ensuring that the people and communities impacted by our business are able to live a life of liberty, dignity, and respect. Our internal codes and policies on human rights are rooted in established frameworks and conventions including: • United Nations Declaration on Human Rights • The Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) • The United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Beyond the fundamental rights defined in these instruments, we also consider access to clean, reliable, and affordable energy as a basic human right and prerequisite for achieving the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Access to energy helps to reduce poverty, improve health, reduce inequality, and raise standards of living. Business relationships We seek to do business with those who share our values and commitment to human rights and expect all business partners to abide by our codes of conduct. We promote awareness and respect for human rights across the value chain, including the adoption of legal contractual clauses and supplier screening measures. Grievance mechanisms are available, including the use of an anonymous third-party whistleblower hotline available, when instances of non-compliance with the Enphase Energy Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct) or our Supplier Code of Conduct are observed or reported. Corrective actions are taken involving managers, executive sponsors, and the Audit Committee of the Board when appropriate. At minimum, we expect our business partners to uphold basic human rights pertaining to minimum wage, maximum working hours, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, corporal punishment and disciplinary practices, acceptable living conditions, non-discrimination, and compliance with health and safety laws as defined in domestic and international conventions and frameworks. “We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory compliance requirements in all the countries in which we operate and sell.” Eradicating forced labor and human trafficking in supply chains We take the issues of slavery and human trafficking very seriously and will continue doing our part by responsibly managing our supply chain to eradicate human trafficking and slavery. As stated in Section 15 of our Supplier Code of Conduct our suppliers must not support, promote, or engage in the practice of forced labor, child labor, slavery, or human trafficking. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers, its next tier suppliers, and subcontractors to comply with all international standards and applicable laws regarding slavery and human trafficking and to conduct due diligence of their operations to verify compliance that the materials used in our products comply with laws regarding human trafficking and slavery. Also see our California Transparency in Supply Chains Disclosure. Materials sourcing and conflict minerals We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory compliance requirements in all the countries in which we operate and sell. We do not use cobalt in our batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of being sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other conflict-affected areas associated with unfair labor practices. We expect our suppliers to source materials and operate in a responsible manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our SEC conflict minerals disclosure on responsible sourcing is updated annually on our website. For additional information, please refer to our most recent conflict minerals report and conflict minerals policy. We expect our suppliers to acknowledge and agree to the following terms with respect to conflict minerals: • Acknowledge that Enphase is required to meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act • Agree to provide Enphase with conflict mineral content and country of origin information on products supplied to Enphase • Agree to cooperate in Enphase or independent third-party auditing of supply chain and procurement process, conflict mineral audits, and due diligence on its suppliers, and • Agree to collaborate with Enphase in developing a chain of custody for conflict minerals in the supply chain and identifying and sourcing conflict-free sources for minerals used in Enphase products. “Potential suppliers are rigorously screened for quality, including performance on environmental and social factors.” Supplier selection and auditing The success of our products would not be possible without positive and long-lasting relationships with suppliers and partners that share our values of quality, design, and sustainability. We work closely with all our contract manufacturers, from onboarding to customer delivery, to ensure that our products are made while adhering to the highest ethical, environmental, and socially responsible standards. We provide a Supplier Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our expectations of new and existing partners. We are committed to producing high quality, reliable, and cost effective products that are shipped on time, provide customer value, and conform to national and international requirements. We, along with our customers demand and expect defect-free products and services. Potential suppliers are rigorously screened for quality, including performance on environmental and social factors. We began incorporating environmental and social factors in our supplier quality assessment surveys in 2020, and during 2021 we screened 42% of new suppliers for quality, including environmental and social criteria, and are preparing to increase coverage to 100% of new suppliers over time. Our screening criteria includes: • Presence of certified ISO 9001 or ISO/TS 16949 Quality Management System (QMS) • Presence of certified ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) • Presence of environmental policy, and • Published REACH and RoHs compliance. Due diligence and risk impact assessments Enphase is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices, and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery across our operations and supply chain. We are strengthening our processes for assessing supply chain risk exposure, with director-level oversight of developing a risk impact assessment to monitor and report the impact to human rights which will be reported annually to the Board. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 “We take a proactive approach to health and safety management and are designing our systems on the guidance provided in global standards such as ISO 14001 and ISO 45001.” P6. Global occupational health and safety Our Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) approach and Injury and Illness Prevention Program (IIPP) are overseen by our Global Head of Environmental Health and Safety. They are designed to anticipate and prevent occupational illness and promote an injury-free workplace, while preparing a quick response to potential emergencies. We take a proactive approach to health and safety management and are designing our systems on the guidance provided in global standards such as ISO 14001 and ISO 45001. Our global senior leadership is ultimately responsible for the safety and health commitments outlined below. 2021 Health and safety figures* Year  2021  Lost time incident rate (LTIR)  0  Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)  0  Near-miss frequency rate (NMFR)**  0  Fatality rate  0  * North America and New Zealand facilities only ** New Zealand facility only We operate in a manner that protects the health and safety of our employees, visitors, and communities. This is rooted in maintaining compliance with regulations and laws in the areas that we operate. Beyond compliance, we will implement more stringent internal requirements to protect our employees when existing regulations and laws may not address specific internal risks that we have identified. Health and safety are critical considerations during the design of our products and processes. Through the development of a management system approach, we will evaluate existing and potential hazards and risks and strive to eliminate them to prevent occupational injuries and illnesses. We openly communicate the opportunity for employees to participate in the development of health and safety programs and processes, including encouraging suggestions and requesting insight regarding hazards, risks and concerns. We are proud of our health and safety record, with zero recordable incidents over the last year in our North America and New Zealand locations and are committed to tracking and reporting safety figures across all our global facilities. 