Society We take seriously our responsibility to help expand access to clean energy. We support a more clean, reliable, and better-performing grid, and we collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support of clean energy across the world. S1. Enphase corporate social responsibility initiatives GRID Alternatives We have been partnering with GRID Alternatives (GRID), a national non-profit leader, for over a decade. GRID’s mission is to build community-powered solutions to advance economic and environmental justice through renewable energy. GRID works towards this mission by handling solar installations and providing job training in low-income communities. GRID has installed nearly 9,000 systems in low-income communities across the United States using Enphase technology, which is the equivalent of more than 33 megawatts (MW) of solar power. These homes in the aggregate can enjoy an estimated lifetime savings of more than $235 million and help prevent nearly 531,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions. Through our association, we have donated our industry-leading microinverter products and our employees have volunteered more than 3,000 labor hours for the installation of solar on dozens of low-income homes and community buildings over the past decade. GRID’s work has helped provide job trainees and volunteers with more than 500,000 hours of solar education and training. Children’s Haven + Solar Austin In 2021, we collaborated with Solar Austin in a project to provide an Enphase® Energy System, powered by IQ® Microinverters and IQ™ Batteries, at The Children’s Haven Association, a nonprofit organization that provides increased opportunities to underprivileged children and families in the Austin community of Travis County, Texas. Through the collaboration, our technology will provide Solar Austin with reliable and affordable power, enabling them to deliver more services and act as a resilient hub for their community. Let’s MOD We partnered with Let’s MOD, formerly PolyUp, in 2021 to support its online program that encourages kids to use innovation and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) skills for problem solving. We helped Let’s MOD create a digital library of energy management tools to encourage students to learn more about the sector. In addition, we supported a scholarship program for financially challenged students interested in participating with this educational platform in India. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 YMCA Camp Cory We partnered with Everybody Solar and Paradise Energy Solutions to help bring a solar energy system to Camp Cory, a YMCA division camp in the state of New York that serves youth, adults, families, and seniors. We donated our IQ® Microinverters to support the project, which ultimately decreases the operating costs of the camp and allows it to serve more children and families at the camp. The Living Room Project In 2021, we partnered with Taylor Energy to develop a large solar energy system for The Living Room Project, a shelter that services over 1,200 women and children each year in the Sonoma County region of California. The shelter provides housing, food, and outreach to those in need. The solar energy system, powered by Enphase IQ Microinverters, is projected to save The Living Room Project more than $150,000. Semper Cares We partnered with leading California solar installer, Semper Solaris, to support the company’s Semper Cares Initiative. The initiative provides help to veterans and their families in need of energy independence and security. Enphase donated solar energy system equipment to help complete the project and give back to the U.S. Military veteran community with more affordable and reliable power. The Footprint Project After the disaster of Hurricane Ida in 2021, we donated to The Footprint Project, supporting the construction of solar-powered microgrids in areas of New Orleans, Louisiana without power. The Footprint Project’s mission is to provide clean energy for communities in crisis. The organization was able to play a role in providing power to those in need by using microgrids at community centers, hospitals, and other sites. Solar in the regions We partnered with RACV Solar, one of Australia’s oldest and most trusted member-based organizations, for its Solar in the Regions investment program. The initiative is designed to improve safety for regional towns in Victoria by adapting community buildings and installing solar power and battery storage to give them a reliable power supply when the grid goes down, such as during extreme weather events and bushfires. The first of three Enphase systems to be donated was installed at Yea Showgrounds and Recreation Reserve. BuildHer Collective BuildHer Collective is an organization committed to supporting women to build and renovate their own homes, focusing on promoting diversity and sustainability. We partnered with RACV Solar, the solar installation arm of the RACV, to install solar with donated equipment on a key project called BuildHer8, which includes two new, architecturally designed, all-electric homes in Fairfield, Victoria, Australia. Stokes Bay Community Hall We donated microinverters for the $1.3 million rebuilding of the Stokes Bay Community Hall, destroyed by catastrophic Australian bushfires in 2020. Located on the northern coast of Kangaroo Island, Stokes Bay has a population of more than 200 people, for whom the 60-year-old hall is the heart of the community. The donation was made through the Enphase Giveawatt social impact program and in partnership with Adelaide-based Enphase Platinum installer partner, Energy SA. The S-Series Microinverter repurposing program In partnership with Solar Lifeline in Southeast Queensland, Australia, we donated more than 300 S-Series microinverters to support the installation of solar systems for Cleveland City Council’s low-income households and government housing programs in Australia. Stokes Bay Community Hall ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 “A stable grid, powered by sustainable energy, and extra money for homeowners — a win-win-win situation.” S2. Enphase grid services Adding value to customers and society with home batteries In 2021, for the first time, we offered customers with IQ™ Batteries the chance to participate and earn money in a grid services program. These programs, also known as “virtual power plants” (VPPs), create a network of home batteries that are managed by utilities and grid operators. The programs pay homeowners for the stored energy in their home batteries when the grid needs it the most. As a result, utilities do not need to turn to the kinds of expensive, polluting power plants that traditionally address peak power demand. A stable grid, powered by sustainable energy, and extra money for homeowners — a win-win-win situation. In many grid services programs, customers can sign up, monitor, and control participation using our Enphase App right from the palm of their hand. The incentives reduce the cost of the home energy system and make home batteries more accessible and affordable to more people. As these programs scale, we will have cleaner, more affordable, and more reliable energy for everyone. We are now participating in four different grid services programs across the United States, with plans to expand in the coming years. The following describes three of the utility programs launched in 2021. Arizona Public Service We teamed up with Arizona Public Service (APS) for the utility’s residential battery pilot grid services program. The program offers homeowners with Enphase IQ Batteries in APS’s service territory two ways to participate and earn money through one-time, upfront incentives. Customers who sign up for the program and simply share their data with APS, including basic information about them and their Enphase® Energy System, will earn $500 per installed kilowatt of battery capacity with a cap of $2,500 per home. Alternatively, homeowners can enroll in the program, share their data with APS, and allow the utility to use the stored energy from their batteries on demand. These customers may be eligible to earn the same $500 per installed kilowatt of battery capacity (up to $2,500 per home), plus an additional one-time payment of up to $1,250, for a total maximum incentive of $3,750 per home. ConnectedSolutions Enphase customers with IQ Batteries in select utilities across Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island can participate and earn money through the ConnectedSolutions program, a utility-run incentive program to reduce electrical demand during high-use periods. Once an Enphase battery is commissioned, homeowners may be eligible to enroll their battery in the program. The utility will send a signal to the battery telling it to discharge during “peak demand events.” These events occur when the grid is stressed from high demand and can be expected up to 60 times every year. Discharging energy during these times helps stabilize the grid all while using clean, sustainable energy. Participating in these peak demand events is 100% optional for homeowners. But the more they participate, and the more energy they make available, the more money they can earn. Hawaiian Electric Hawaiian Electric’s Battery Bonus grid services program offers incentives to homeowners who install a new IQ Battery on the island of Oahu. The first customers accepted by the utility into the Battery Bonus program will be eligible to receive $850 per kW that they commit to make available to HECO during a fixed two-hour period each day — for example, qualified new IQ Battery 10 owners may be eligible to earn up to $3,264. Adding more battery capacity onto the grid will help manage the retirement of a coal plant and support Hawaii’s goal of 100 percent clean energy by 2045. S3. Enphase backup report Grid outage events backed up by Enphase® Energy Systems in 2021 53,942 in total 4,495 per month 147 per day Giving families peace of mind with home batteries In 2021, we witnessed more large-scale power outages that left communities without power for days and even weeks at a time. Our aging and overly constrained grid is struggling to deal with the increasingly devastating impacts of extreme weather caused by climate change. With more than 300 MWh of home batteries deployed by the end of 2021, we are a leader in giving homeowners peace of mind and energy security as they navigate uncertain times. Enphase IQ™ Batteries and IQ® microinverters can be paired together to back up just the essentials or an entire home. We have even made it possible for homeowners to integrate existing home generators and power through even longer, more severe power outages. S4. Enphase innovation Supporting a more clean, reliable, and better performing grid Enphase Energy and the U.S. Department of Energy In 2021, the Biden Administration released a plan to produce almost half of the nation’s electricity from solar energy by 2050 as part of its effort to decarbonize and modernize the grid. The Solar Futures Study by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) included a significant focus on the study of storage and advanced inverter technology as a catalyst for supporting a more reliable, better-performing grid with significant renewable energy deployment. We are proud to be supporting two DOE projects that received a total of $31 million in funding to support this research. Universal Interoperability for Grid-Forming Inverters (UNIFI) Consortium We are part of the UNIFI consortium, which was formed by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the University of Washington, and the Electric Power Research Institute. UNIFI brings together leading researchers, industry stakeholders, utilities, and system operators to advance grid-forming inverter technology and has been awarded $25 million from the DOE’s Solar Energy Technologies Office. UNIFI is focused on integrating these inverters into electric grids at any scale to enable high penetration of inverter-based resources like solar and battery storage. We have a leadership role in the Consortium and will be leveraging its expertise and industry-leading microinverter technology for research and development to support the project. Ultimately, our systems will be part of a 20 MW demonstration project with select utilities that will showcase the group’s efforts to create a more modern, smart, clean energy grid for everyone. GridBright and the University of Pittsburgh We also support GridBright and the University of Pittsburgh on a research project to advance the integration of local solar into the existing electrical grid by providing data and in-kind technical support. The project was awarded $6 million by the DOE. Building the 21st Century Electricity System “We worked with industry experts in 2021 to outline and advocate for this transformed future.” The electricity system in the United States today stands at the threshold of a bottom-up transformation, in which customers of all types become network participants, local energy resources power electrification of buildings and transportation, and all communities enjoy the resilience, economic, and health benefits of local clean energy. New technologies are offering these possibilities just when we urgently need to change our energy practices to meet the challenges of climate disruption. We worked with industry experts in 2021 to outline and advocate for this transformed future. In partnership with well-known electric power system reform and market design expert, Lorenzo Kristov, we endorsed a white paper titled “Building the 21st Century Electricity System.” The white paper sets forth the strategies and policies for moving to a decarbonized, resilient, equitable, and customer-focused electric power system. You can read the paper here: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 “We collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support of clean energy across the world.” S5. Promoting clean energy policy We collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support of clean energy across the world. Working with policymakers, public advocacy groups, and industry partners, we help drive meaningful progress toward the fair valuation of local solar and battery technology, while expanding access to more people. In the U.S., we strengthened our leadership role by joining the Solar Energy Industry Association’s Board of Directors, as well as taking on leadership positions in various committees and subcommittees. We also joined the Board of Directors for the California Solar and Storage Association, which represents the largest state-affiliated solar and battery industry association in the US. We are a leading advocate for both the production tax credit for solar inverter manufacturing, as well as the investment tax credit for solar and batteries. Our Chief Operating Officer, Jeff McNeil, has presented alongside the United States Secretary of Energy, Jennifer Granholm, advocating for domestic manufacturing and clean energy jobs. Investments in advanced energy can bolster U.S. manufacturing, create good jobs, and expand business opportunities for companies in our industry. In Australia, we actively participate in various working groups and elected committees representing the distributed energy industry. These groups include Standards Australia, Smart Energy Council, Clean Energy Council, Master Electricians Association, and more. Through our local team, we are also participating in working groups and offering formal submissions with key market bodies such as the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO), the Australian Energy Market Commission (AEMC), the Australian Energy Regulator (AER), and the Electricity Networks Association (ENA). These advocacy efforts aim to demonstrate what is possible with advanced energy management and remove functionality to appropriately define the future energy network in Australia. Advancing local solutions Illinois We worked with industry stakeholders to help shape policy at the Illinois Commerce Commission aimed at assigning more value to behind-the-meter solar and batteries. Through working sessions and official comment submissions, we helped advance conversations to bring grid services programs to Illinois. Grid services will provide additional value to homeowners that install solar and batteries, while reducing the need for expensive and polluting fossil fuels across the state. Washington Working with the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission and Puget Sound Energy, we helped create additional value streams for local solar and batteries. This industry-backed policy effort drove policymakers to allow behind-the-meter batteries to export energy, creating clean energy VPPs that will help the state meet its renewable energy goals. Arizona We are one of only three companies participating in the State’s “Bring Your Own Device” battery program. We have led discussions with the Arizona Corporation Commission and Arizona Public Service Company to advocate for the utility to implement new demand response programs and a new distributed demand-side resource (DDSR) tariff that will ultimately compensate homeowners for a multitude of services their behind-the-meter solar and battery assets can bring to the grid in a simple and predictable way. California Starting in 2021, we collaborated with industry stakeholders to begin working with policymakers across California to develop advanced energy policy that will shape the state’s new grid services program aimed at preventing utility blackouts caused by weather-related surges in energy demand. The Emergency Load Reduction Program was created, which is a new “demand response” approach to help avoid rotating outages during peak summer electricity usage periods. We continue to advocate for state officials to modernize the way they measure home battery discharge, ensuring maximum value for homeowners that provide critical support to the overall grid. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 