A Letter from our President and CEO I am pleased to share our 2021 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) report, where we discuss ongoing efforts to realize EnphaseÕs purpose of advancing a sustainable future for all. Since the publication of our inaugural ESG report in 2020, we have made strides in measuring our carbon footprint, cultivating a diverse and inclusive workplace, and raising awareness of ESG issues across the business. We are committed to building on this foundation to establish long-term goals aligned with the needs of global sustainable development, and I remain optimistic for what the future holds as we continue our ESG journey. Since Enphase was founded in 2006, we have developed five key elements to our value proposition: deliver products that are smart, simple, reliable, productive, and safe. We understand the threat with climate change and have been creating clean energy technologies needed to directly combat it, protect our environment, and enable sustainable development. The future relies on universal access to clean, reliable, and affordable energy. Our best-in-class energy management solutions include solar generation, battery storage, electric vehicle (EV) charging, smart load control, and cloud-based monitoring and control. Over the course of the past couple of years, we took steps to manage our business through the challenges arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Supporting our employees, customers, partners, and communities was the topmost priority for us. I am proud of our employees around the world as they continue to work tirelessly to develop innovative products and services for our customers. Our culture playbook provides both current and future employees with a blueprint of our purpose, our core values, and examples of how we work together to achieve results within Enphase. The lessons we learned over the past few years and our ability to see the bigger picture helped us to enact transformative, sustainable growth. We remain the worldÕs leading supplier of microinverter-based solar and battery systems. We have cumulatively shipped more than 42 million microinverters, and more than 307 megawatt hours (MWh) of our Enphase¨ Energy Systems,1 powered by Enphase IQ¨ Microinverters and IQª Batteries.  Approximately 12 gigawatts (GW) DC of Enphase microinverters have been installed in solar systems since inception, reducing 31 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO.e) - the equivalent of providing energy to 3.9 million homes for one year.1 Sustainability is evident in every aspect of our operations . financial performance; products and services; manufacturing; supplier, customer, and partner relationships; employee relations; corporate social responsibility (CSR); and corporate governance. As you read this report, you will see several examples of our operational excellence; our ability to incorporate environmental safeguards into our practices; the care we take in 1All data as of December 31, 2021; estimate based on Enphase managed systems data grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator ÒOur company embraces the opportunity to create a future of sustainable prosperity for all our stakeholders, while reducing our environmental footprint.Ó hiring, training, and managing our global workforce; our commitment to expanding access to clean energy through our CSR initiatives; and the accountability of our governance and leadership. Our strategy is simple. We focus on making best-in-class home energy systems that enable homeowners to make, use, save, and sell their own power. We are deeply committed to making these systems innovative, high-quality, and easy-to-use, helping millions of people gain access to cleaner, affordable, and more reliable energy while creating jobs and contributing towards a carbon-free future. There have been many large-scale power outages that left communities in the U.S. without power for several days. The aging and overly-constrained grid has been struggling to manage the devastating impact of extreme weather caused by grid outages. Our IQª Batteries, powered by solar energy, provide resilience in the face of natural disasters and grid outages, ensuring that a home can be powered and delivering energy independence and peace of mind. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power lives and ultimately help replace non-renewable energy altogether. We started shipping our IQ8ª Microinverters to customers in North America in 2021. IQ8 fundamentally changes the paradigm for solar technology, which otherwise requires a grid connection to operate. IQ8 Microinverters can form a microgrid during a power outage, using only sunlight, providing backup power even without a battery. For homeowners who want battery backup, there are no sizing restrictions on pairing an Enphase IQ Battery with IQ8 Microinverters. In addition, with the Sunlight Jump Startª feature, IQ8 Microinverters can restart a home energy system using sunlight only after prolonged grid outages that may result in a fully depleted battery. The innovation in IQ8 microinverters enables us to utilize the power of the sun better and provides increased resilience to homeowners. Enphase was founded on three commitments that still guide us today: innovation, quality, and social responsibility. Our company embraces the opportunity to create a future of sustainable prosperity for all our stakeholders, while reducing our environmental footprint. We are making it possible for people to become producers and participants in a clean energy futureÑwhen people and the planet need it most. We appreciate your continued interest in our ESG efforts and thank our employees, customers, partners, and shareholders for their dedication as we continue to embrace our core values. Sincerely, Badri Kothandaraman President and CEO About us Enphase in numbers 2006 the year Enphase was founded 1.9 million systems deployed in more than 130 countries1 2,260 employees and key contributors across our global offices1  5,315 installers worldwide1  43.4 TWh of cumulative shipments of microinverters2  42+ million microinverters shipped1  300+MWh of storage1  31 million metric tons of CO2e prevented from entering the atmosphere, enough to power 3.9 million homes with energy for one year2 3.5 billion gallons of gasoline not consumed2 12 GW DC cumulative shipments of microinverters1 76 billion miles not driven by an average gas-powered passenger vehicle2 1 As of December 31, 2021 2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2021 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO.e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 ÒThe Enphase¨ Energy System enables people to make, use, save, sell, and own their power.Ó Our purpose Enphase Energy has transformed the solar industry with our revolutionary microinverter technology which enables sunlight to be a safe, reliable, resilient, and scalable source of energy to power our lives. Today, our intelligent microinverters work with virtually every solar panel made, and when paired with our award-winning smart battery technology, we engineer one of the industryÕs best-performing clean energy systems. The Enphase¨ Energy System enables people to make, use, save, sell, and own their power. This includes our industry-leading app, which provides unprecedented data and control in the palm of their hand. For the first time in the evolution of the centuries-old electricity grid, people can get paid for the clean energy they produce and share with their communities - helping to build a new energy future that harnesses the sun. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power our lives and ultimately help replace non-renewable energy altogether. Our purpose is advancing a sustainable future for all. If you see a home in the U.S. with solar panels on it, there is a good chance it is an Enphase home. WeÕre making it possible for people to become producers and participants in a clean energy future Ñ when people and the planet need it most. System owners can view and control their Enphase¨ Energy System through their mobile phone app Our core values Our company values are reflected in the way we work together, our performance, and how we are rewarded. ÒWe collaborate globally to achieve more together than we can on our own.Ó Customer first We exist for our customers. We listen to our customers and measure our success based on their feedback. We take action to deliver the best customer experience. Innovation We value innovation and recognize that it is the cornerstone of our existence. We encourage appropriate risk-taking and challenge the status quo to find solutions. We actively promote innovation through curiosity and continuous learning. Quality We place safety and quality above everything else. We measure everything that matters and drive continuous improvement. We make the highest quality products. Integrity We tell the truth at all times, without making excuses. We do whatÕs best for the company. We take ownership of our behaviors and results. Teamwork We appreciate and respect different behavioral styles and perspectives. We collaborate globally to achieve more together than we can on our own. We actively work to break down silos. Our technology Enphase was founded on the deep-rooted belief that an AC-coupled distributed architecture will always win in the long run on both cost and reliability. To build products based on this architecture, we have developed core competencies in semiconductor-based power conversion, software-defined Internet of Things (IoT) systems, and an energy management platform. Our homegrown high-speed digital ASIC, which is responsible for power control and power line communication, forms the brain of our microinverters. The microinverter, along with our battery, system controller, and cloud software form a true IoT system. Our Ensembleª technology energy management system manages energy flows between the various distributed energy resources (DERs), the utility grid, and home loads, all with the aim of delivering the most reliable solution at the lowest available energy cost. ENPHASE CLOUD The AC-coupled Enphase¨ Energy System with all the distributed energy resources Start-up to industry leader First microinverter-based solar system introduced Listed on NASDAQ under symbol ENPH 10 million microinverters shipped since inception AC Modules Introduced One millionth microinverter-based solar system deployed Started shipping IQ8TM Microinverters to customers in North America and more than 42 million microinverters shipped since inception 2008 2012 2015 2017 2019 2021 2006 2011 2014 2016 2018 2020 Founded by Raghu Belur and Martin Fornage in California One million microinverters shipped since inception Fourth-generation technology introduced Sixth-generation IQª technology Seventh-generation IQ technology introduced Started shipping IQTM Batteries to customers in North America Enphase culture playbook We abide by the Enphase culture playbook to define and socialize our purpose, core values, and relevant examples of how we collaborate to get results. We promote and reinforce Six pillars of our culture Pillars that are aligned to our purpose and values. Our core values High performance Recruiting and retaining the best Openness and transparency Accountability and execution Learning organization ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 Financial sustainability 78% increased revenue in 2021 $1.4 billion revenue in 2021 10.4 million microinverters shipped in 2021 40.7% non-GAAP gross margin in 2021 Our solid financial performance enables us to advance our long-term commitment to sustainability. In 2021, our revenue increased 78% to $1.4 billion, from $774.4 million in 2020. We shipped 10.4 million microinverters in 2021, compared to 6.8 million microinverters in 2020. Our non-GAAP gross margin in 2021 was 40.7%1 compared to 40.1%1 in 2020, primarily due to disciplined pricing and cost management, despite inflation. We have a very strong balance sheet that we believe will allow us to capitalize on future opportunities. We exited 2021 with $1.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. In March 2021, we successfully completed the issuance of approximately $1.2 billion in green convertible notes (the Green Bond Notes). As part of the Green Bond Notes offering, we established a Green Financing Framework that reinforces our commitment to our planet and our communities. In 2021, we allocated a portion of the proceeds of the Green Bond Notes to finance a variety of environmentally impactful projects as summarized in the table below, which included research and development (R&D) for new products, capital expenditures to increase our manufacturing capabilities to support our global product portfolio, the cost of goods sold, and increased headcount. We intend to allocate the remaining funds during 2022. The terms of this capital raise were some of the most favorable to an issuer in history, and we were bestowed with an ESG Award and a Structured Equity Award from IFR in February 2022. Green Bond Notes allocations 1 See GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation in the Appendix for a reconciliation of our most comparable U.S. GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures ÒOur focus on operational excellence has been important for our solid financial foundation.Ó Our financial performance Our focus on operational excellence has been important for our solid financial foundation. We had a record year in 2021 for profitability. We also generated a record $352.0 million in cash flow from operations in 2021, compared to $216.3 million in 2020. We introduced our 35-15-20 baseline financial model at our Investor Day in 2019. 35-15.20 stands for 35% gross margin, 15% operating expenses, and 20% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP basis. In 2021 our actual results were approximately 41-16-25, beating the baseline financial model in terms of gross margin and operating income. Our 2021 GAAP net income was $145.4 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $1.02. Non-GAAP net income was $340.3 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $2.41.1 Quarterly revenue by year is in millions; Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income are as a percentage of revenue. All numbers reflected other than revenue are on a non-GAAP basis. Refer to Appendix for reconciliation of our most comparable U.S. GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures 1 See GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation in the Appendix for a reconciliation of our most comparable U.S. GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 