Society We aim to support a cleaner, more reliable, and better-performing grid, and to collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support of clean energy across the world. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 5,120 kW solar installed 1,432 families served $31.94 million lifetime savings 96,248 tons of GHG emissions avoided S1. Enphase Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives United States GRID Alternatives We have been partnering with GRID Alternatives, a national non-profit leader, for over a decade. GRID’s mission is to build community-powered solutions to advance economic and environmental justice through renewable energy. GRID works towards this mission by handling solar installations and providing job training in low-income communities. Through the partnership, we have historically donated our industry-leading microinverter products. Now, as part of an expanded partnership, Enphase will provide IQ™ Batteries and EV chargers for select GRID projects. These products will help further the nonprofit’s important work, bringing energy resilience and clean transportation to disadvantaged communities with the goal of achieving an equitable energy transition. Over the lifetime of our partnership, GRID has installed more than 9,300 solar energy systems in low-income communities across the United States using Enphase’s products, which equates to more than 37 megawatts of solar power. These homes will see an estimated lifetime savings of more than $268 million and help prevent more than 620,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions from entering the atmosphere. Enphase’s employees have volunteered more than 3,000 hours over the past decade, which led to the installation of solar on dozens of low-income homes and community buildings. This work has also provided job trainees and volunteers with more than 550,000 hours of solar education and training. For the most current information on Enphase’s and GRID’s impact, please visit the website. The Footprint Project We provided a cash donation to The Footprint Project in support of its efforts to send solar powered generators and trailers to aid Ukraine war refugees. The Footprint Project has a mission to provide clean energy for communities in crisis. The organization was able to coordinate shipments including 600 solar reading lamps for shelters, 25 solar generators for medical facilities vulnerable to grid outages, and a solar trailer to provide scene lighting and clean power access for Ukrainian refugees in Palanca, Moldova. Semper Cares We continued our collaboration with Semper Solaris, a leading California solar installer, to support the company’s Semper Cares Initiative. The initiative provides help to veterans and their families in need of energy independence and security. We donated solar energy system equipment to help complete a project and give back to the U.S. military’s veteran community by providing more affordable and reliable power. Sulzbacher Village We partnered with Everybody Solar and Sulzbacher to help bring a 50 kW solar energy system to support a homeless shelter community in northeast Florida. Sulzbacher is one of the largest providers for people experiencing or at risk of homelessness in Florida. Enphase donated hundreds of IQ Microinverters to support the project, which will ultimately decrease the operating costs of the facility and service more people in the community. Taylor Energy Enphase and Taylor Energy partnered to develop a large solar energy system for Greenacre Homes, a local non-profit agency providing trauma-informed care for boys and young men. The 25 kW solar project was built on Greenacre’s main campus and offices, which will help lower their energy costs and enable more resources to go toward supporting the community. The Enphase Energy System, powered by Enphase IQ Microinverters, will save Greenacre Homes an estimated $500,000 over the life of the system. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 Second Life Solar We partnered with the Blue Tribe Company on a first-of-its-kind second life solar pilot project for Dubbo Regional Council, funded by the New South Wales Circular Solar Grants Program. We donated 38 IQ Microinverters to the project, which demonstrated the viability of reusing fully functional solar panels destined for landfills in behind-the-meter community solar gardens to deliver renewable energy and circular economy outcomes for commercial customers. Our microinverter technology was instrumental in allowing more recycled systems to be developed because different panels could be used with our microinverters within the same system. Leading industry groups have recognized Second Life Solar as a winner of the World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Impact Challenge, a finalist in The Circle Awards AUS & NZ 2022, and a finalist in the 2022 NSW Banksia Awards. Miracema City Solar Project We collaborated with “Domingão com Huck,” a Brazilian TV show with a dedicated segment about providing support for low-income people. As part of the collaboration, we and the show supported a charitable project in Miracema City, a remote area in the countryside of Rio de Janeiro. We donated a 2 kW system to help a local advocate lower his energy bills while the TV show renovated his entire home. UNESCO Sost We partnered with Brazilian solar installer, Solstar, to donate a 6 kW system to UNESCO Sost Transcriativa Home, based in a quilombola community in Bahia. The home will foster the creativity of Brazilian leaders and entrepreneurs, and will also feature a creative sustainability showcase in Brazil and an ideation laboratory for sustainable projects. Indian Institute of Technology We provided funding to the Indian Institute of Technology (Dharwad) on a project called “Power Electronics and Controls for Renewable Energy Applications.” The funding helped with fees for students and interns from underprivileged backgrounds who were working on the project. India Sudar We helped support multiple government schools across rural Karnataka by distributing notebooks and stationery supplies, funding infrastructure development at two government aided schools, providing funding for computer centers in four schools, and distributing science kits and purchasing library books for students at eight schools. Rotary Club of Bangalore We have been actively supporting Rotary Club of Bangalore with its various charitable initiatives, including funding towards the expenses and fees for students and participants from Lingarajapuram Pre-Primary School in Bangalore, Rotary School in Channapatana, and RCB’s vocational training programs in Bangalore. Selco Foundation We partnered with the Selco Foundation to provide energy efficient medical equipment to government-run primary healthcare centers in Karnataka (Chamrajnagar district, Karnataka). Smt. Rajeshwari Radhakrishnan Charitable Trust We partnered with Smt. Rajeshwari Radhakrishnan Charitable Trust to help provide access to clean drinking water for the students at an all-girls high school in Thiruvannamail. We also funded the building and supplied a library for students at the school, school fees for students from underprivileged backgrounds, and the education of five students pursuing science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) degrees. Society of St. Vincent De Paul We worked with Society of St. Vincent De Paul in Mandya to provide funding for students at the Sharon School on the outskirts of Bangalore. The funding assisted with the fees for 60 students at the school - whose parents are mostly migrant laborers or otherwise from underprivileged backgrounds - and helped revamp and renovate the facilities available to students. Trinity Care Foundation We partnered with Trinity Care Foundation to install a rooftop solar system at a government aided school in Ramanagara Dst., Karnataka. We donated eight IQ7A Microinverters. We also helped fund a computer lab equipped with ten computers and accessories, as well as one year’s salary for the staff to support the lab. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 S2. Enphase grid services Adding value to customers and society with Enphase solar and battery systems. We expanded our grid services programs, enabling more homeowners with IQ Batteries the chance to participate in utility programs and earn money. These programs, also known as virtual power plants (VPPs), create a network of home batteries that are managed by utilities and grid operators. The programs pay homeowners to send the stored energy in their home batteries to the grid when it is needed most. As a result, utilities can rely less on the expensive, polluting power plants that traditionally address peak power demand. In many grid services programs, customers can sign-up, monitor, and control participation in the program using the Enphase App™. The incentives reduce the cost of the home energy system and make home batteries more accessible and affordable to more people. As these programs scale, we will have cleaner, more affordable, and more reliable energy for everyone. In 2021, we announced our participation in the ConnectedSolutions program, Hawaiian Electric’s Battery Bonus grid services program, and the Arizona Public Service, or APS, residential battery grid services program. ConnectedSolutions is an incentive program implemented by utilities in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island to reduce electrical demand during high-use periods. The Hawaiian Electric’s Battery Bonus grid services program offers incentive for homeowners on the island of Oahu who install a new home battery. The APS residential battery grid services program offers homeowners who install Enphase IQ Batteries in APS’s service territory the chance to participate and earn money through one-time, upfront incentives. We believe this valuable new program from APS will help further accelerate the adoption of Enphase systems in Arizona. In 2022, we launched two more grid services programs in the United States, with plans to expand globally in the coming years: Green Mountain Power Enphase and Vermont-based utility Green Mountain Power (GMP) announced an alliance to offer Enphase Energy Systems suite to customers in a cutting-edge battery lease grid services pilot program. Homeowners can also enroll in GMP’s “Bring Your Own Device” (BYOD) grid services program, which enables customers with their own Enphase Energy Systems to participate and earn an up-front incentive. As part of the GMP partnership, Enphase also launched Grid Services Manager, a distributed energy resource management system (DERMS) that GMP will use to manage virtual power plants with Enphase Energy Systems. Enphase is now licensing this software product for utility grid managers, installers, and distributed energy resource aggregators to manage VPPs using Enphase IQ Batteries. Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) Power Saver Rewards Program PG&E and Enphase launched a home battery energy storage program, with the use of Enphase IQ Batteries, to support vulnerable, low-income customers during power outages. Through the initiative, PG&E is providing battery systems at no cost to approximately 100 residential customers who have been frequently impacted by outages because of PG&E’s Enhanced Powerline Safety Settings (EPSS). An overview of our grid services programs can be found on our website. “In May 2022 we announced that we were the first in the world to be certified by UL, a global safety science leader.” S3. Enphase innovation and industry leadership Supporting a more clean, reliable, and better-performing grid. Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) In May 2022 we announced that we were the first in the world to be certified by UL, a global safety science leader, to UL 1741, 3rd edition including the Supplement SB. This certification meets the new North American safety and grid interconnection standards for connecting solar inverters, energy storage systems, and DERs to the grid in compliance with IEEE 1547.2018 and IEEE 1547-1 2020. Enphase works closely with UL and IEEE, including acting as a co-convener for these specific standards and actively participating in the standards process for a variety of safety and compliance issues including: • UL Standards Technical Panels participation: UL 1741, UL 3741, UL2703, UL 6703, UL 9540, UL 9540A, and UL 1699B. We hold a group leadership role for Power Control Systems within the UL 1741 panel. • Acting Vice Chair of IEEE 1547.10: we are helping to define the recommended specifications for a DER gateway platform in grid applications across various domains including recommended procedures for cybersecurity, centralized manageability, monitoring, grid edge intelligence and control, multiple entities management, error detection and mitigation, events tracking and notification, communication protocol translation, and communication network performance monitoring. Interstate Renewable Energy Council (IREC) and Sustainable Energy Action Committee (SEAC) Enphase is a founding member and active participant in SEAC’s work to advance clean energy permitting and inspection initiatives. Led by IREC, the SEAC provides a forum for stakeholders to address code enforcement and permitting for sustainable energy systems. The SEAC clarifies interpretation of confusing codes, which can slow down the deployment of solar and battery systems and create more work for local officials and project developers. “We have led the development of rapid shutdown equipment and standard setting in the solar industry, allowing energized equipment to be powered down quickly and safely in an emergency.”  International Code Council We are working alongside other clean energy stakeholders, in collaboration with the International Code Council, to develop changes to the International Fire Code and the International Residential Code to develop practical solutions. The group actively participates in the code-making process to recommend solutions for future versions of the Code. International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) The IEC is a global, not-for-profit membership organization, whose work underpins quality infrastructure and international trade in electrical and electronic goods. We work with the IEC to support the writing of international codes and standards. Specifically, our team is actively engaged as members of the IEC Technical Committee 82, which is scoped to look at solar photovoltaic energy systems. Within this committee, we are actively involved with Working Groups 3 (balance of system components) and 6 (inverter safety). We have also participated in working groups to develop the following IEC standards: • IEC 63027 (DC arc fault) • IEC 62109-1 (Inverter safety) • IEC 62109-3 (AC module safety) • IEC 62548 (PV array design requirements) Supporting emergency response and first responder safety In line with our commitment to safety, we have helped train thousands of firefighters across the United States and Brazil on the critical strategies and tactics needed to mitigate structure fires involving PV and energy storage systems (ESS). We have led the development of rapid shutdown (RSD) equipment and standard setting in the solar industry, allowing energized equipment to be powered down quickly and safely in an emergency. We are committed to setting the gold standard with respect to PV and ESS safety. For more information, please see our Energy Story: Safety and Solar. “We collaborated with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support of clean energy across the globe.” S4. Promoting clean energy policy We collaborated with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support of clean energy across the globe. Working with policymakers, public advocacy groups, and industry partners, we worked on fair valuation for clean energy exports, expanding access to solar and battery technology, defining codes and standards, and much more. In the United States, we continued our leadership role with the Solar Energy Industry Association as members of the Board of Directors, as well as taking on leadership positions in various committees and subcommittees. We also continued our role as members of the Board of Directors for the California Solar and Storage Association, which represents the largest state-affiliated solar and battery industry association in the United States. We were leading members globally in dozens of industry association groups, including several across Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Asia, and Latin America. Some of the highlights include: United States U.S. Federal Inflation Reduction Act The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) was passed and signed into law during the second half of 2022. It extends significant tax benefits for solar, storage, energy efficiency retrofits, and vehicle electrification. The IRA also provides tax credits for manufacturers of advanced technologies in the renewable energy industry to incentivize the establishment of a U.S. manufacturing base. As a leading producer in the renewable energy industry, we worked directly with political stakeholders and closely with national trade associations to develop the tax credits and incentives in the IRA that support the development of a manufacturing presence in the U.S., as well as to incentivize customer demand for our suite of products. California In California, the largest solar and storage market in the U.S., the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) finalized its new tariff for distributed generation customers. The new tariffs change the rules for net energy metering (NEM) across the state. Recognizing the outsized impact these new regulations called NEM 3.0 could have, not only on California customers, but throughout the nation as other public utility commissions follow suit, we played a critical voice in stakeholder discussions. We advocated on how to improve the tariff to better transition the market from solar-only to solar-plus- storage, without harming customers in the process. Specifically, Enphase submitted multiple rounds of written comments and delivered an oral argument that helped shape the final, and much improved, decision. “Our team led a working group with other renewable energy stakeholders to develop the protocol and testing plan for the new program to ensure that it would be implementable and achieve its goals.” Hawaii In Hawaii, one of the most advanced renewable energy states in the United States, the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) embarked on creating its new statewide “Bring Your Own Device” grid services program to provide additional resilience features for Hawaii’s grid. Our team led a working group with other renewable energy stakeholders to develop the protocol and testing plan for the new program to ensure that it would be implementable and achieve its goals. The protocol was accepted by Hawaii Electric and will help ensure that Hawaii’s distributed generation customers have a reliable and effective program to compensate them for the benefit their systems can provide to the grid. Illinois The Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) embarked on developing a new storage program to follow up on its landmark “Climate and Equitable Jobs Act,” signed into law in 2021. Based on our programmatic experience in multiple jurisdictions, we met with the ICC, presented at and led a workshop on energy storage best practices, and submitted written comments that helped the ICC develop its report to the Governor and General Assembly, formally recommending a variety of programs to bolster energy storage in the state. We are now working through SEIA to pursue legislation to codify one of these programmatic recommendations. These programs will help strengthen storage adoption throughout the state and enable those customers to dispatch their assets to benefit the grid.  Australia Enphase Australia’s internal policy working group meets bi-monthly to assess our engagements across the multitude of forums that impact our business. This group includes experts from our U.S. policy team, along with the local engineering and business development staff who sit on working groups with the Clean Energy Council, the Smart Energy Council and Standards Australia. Policy work In 2022, we provided submissions to inquiries by the South Australian government, Queensland government, and national regulatory bodies Australian Energy Regulator (AER), Australian Energy Market Commission (AEMC), and Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO). We are also actively engaged in policy discussions with the Western Australian government (via Western Power) and the Victorian government (via SolarVictoria). We also continued policy activities as a founding member of SaferSolar, an advocacy group of installers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who are advocating for the adoption of a rapid shutdown equivalent standard in the Australian solar market. At the federal level, we are working with several key independent Parliament members, for whom climate action is a key policy priority, to ensure they support advanced power electronics in the solar industry, focusing on safety. Technical standards Though our own direct participation and via electrical industry associations Master Electricians Australia (MEA) and National Electrical and Communications Association (NECA), we sit on multiple Standards Australia committees. These committees work on technical standards that govern solar installations (AS5033), inverters (AS4777.1, AS4777.2), and batteries (AS5139), along with more general behind-the-meter  technology. In 2022, we contributed directly to discussions, where all four standards were in an active revision process. Codes and safety policy The Enphase team in Brazil meets regularly with firefighter associations in the city of Brasilia to help advance various solar energy safety measures. These policy advancements will help to make solar energy in Brazil safer for homeowners and businesses, benefitting the industry overall. In 2022, we worked to draft safety codes and rapid shutdown standards requirements and developed a variety of educational activities designed to help firefighters across the country. “The Enphase team in Brazil meets regularly with firefighter associations in the city of Brasilia to help advance various solar energy safety measures.” 