Human capital People and communities build the fabric of our company. As a growing enterprise, we are dedicated to ensuring the health, safety, wellbeing, and professional growth of our employees in order to best serve our external stakeholders. At Enphase, we put our people first and foster an environment of innovation, integrity, teamwork, quality, and exceptional customer service. We promote and reinforce five core values every day we come to work: Customer First, Integrity, Innovation, Teamwork, and Quality. These core values are demonstrated in how we work together, how we perform, and how we all get rewarded. Our workforce is global, bringing diverse ideas and perspectives to our growing teams. As of September 30, 2020, we had 789 employees, 41% of which was in North America, including Canada and Mexico; while 40% was in India; 12% was in Australia and New Zealand; 5% was in Europe; and 2% was in China. Headcount* India Europe North America China Australia and New Zealand *Percentage of worldwide headcount as of 9/30/20 HC1. Employee development programs and policies Successful execution of our strategy is dependent on attracting, developing, and retaining key employees and members of our management team. The skills, experience, and industry knowledge of our employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. We continuously evaluate, modify, and enhance our internal processes and technologies to increase employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency. Onboarding New employees undergo a 30-day onboarding with company-wide trainings, meetings with company leaders, presentations by industry experts, and tailored material developed by their manager and team. Standard training includes a robust introduction to the company’s policies, products, procedures, and expectations. Employees establish development plans with their managers and set short-term and long-term goals. Managers are expected to provide feedback on a quarterly basis as they review employee achievements against individual goals. Training opportunities As we grow, we also find opportunities for mentorship, cross-training, and continued education. By fostering professional development opportunities for our employees, we gain new insights, process improvements, and greater retention. With close to 80 new graduates onboarded during 2020 in our India office, we brought in experts from the solar energy industry to provide employees with a broad perspective of solar technology. We also offer an employee tuition reimbursement program where employees can get sponsored to take coursework outside of Enphase. Within Enphase, we leverage specialized learning platforms that allow employees all over the world to access webinars, trainings, and classes in a variety of subjects. Topics include Code of Conduct, Environment, Workplace Safety, Human Resources, Customer Service, Pandemic Response, IT, Harassment Prevention, Intellectual Property Protection, Professional Development, and more. Engagement To measure employee engagement and satisfaction, we conduct an annual team member survey to assess and track team members’ retention and satisfaction. The 2019 survey indicated positive responses particularly around aligning to Enphase’s core values and ethics. Responders believed that decisions were being made for the betterment of the overall organization and that Enphase has a large focus on customer value. Employees also noted high performing teams and satisfaction with rewards as a result. These survey responses inform our initiatives, and we track success over time. In 2019, we expanded participation in the employee stock purchase plan to include employees outside the U.S. as a result of those employees voicing their desire to participate. “We know that our diversity fuels innovation and helps us better represent our client base.” We developed a culture playbook in 2019 to provide our current and future employees with an easy-to-read document stating our purpose, core values, and examples of how we work together to achieve results. We traveled to all key Enphase sites around the world and worked with small groups to capture our collective thinking. We will continue to evaluate the playbook annually so that it accurately reflects the cultural transformation journey we are all on together. We are committed to promoting and cultivating an inclusive and diverse workforce that welcomes and celebrates everyone without bias. During 2020, we executed on our culture action plan to promote a healthy work environment, employee appreciation, and to incorporate regular coaching and feedback. We conduct quarterly all-hands meetings to celebrate our success during the past quarter. Along with a global business review, we showcase all new employees and those who are celebrating their 5-year and 10-year work anniversaries with Enphase. We also encourage managers to have periodic gatherings with their teams (in person prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and virtually during the pandemic) for both team and community building outside the workplace. In-region activities to recognize local staff are also popular, as are quarterly contests designed to illustrate our global culture.  HC2. Diversity, equity, and inclusion We strive to build a community where everyone feels valued and treated equally, regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, or age. We know that diversity fuels innovation and helps us better represent our client base. With most of our workforce outside of the U.S., we find valuable insight and innovation from having international perspectives and multi-stakeholder teams that traverse borders. We promote equality and human rights for all people across our value chain, guided by internal policies as well as external standards such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Enphase is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE) that is committed to diversity and inclusion in the workplace. We prohibit discrimination and harassment of any kind based on race, color, sex, gender, gender expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, or any other protected characteristic as outlined by federal, state, or local laws. This policy applies to all employment practices within our organization, including hiring, recruiting, promotion, termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence, compensation, benefits, training, and apprenticeship. Diversity within Enphase Gender diversity* Workforce  Women  Total  % Rounded  Executives  4  25  16%  Managers  15  130  12%  Employees  115  634  18%  Total  134  789  17%  Ethnic diversity* Ethnicity  Employees  % Rounded  Caucasian Asian African American Latino/Hispanic Two or More Races  Native American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian Native Not Specified / Not Disclosed Total  202 289 3 28 12 2 253 789  26% 36% 0% 4% 2% 0% 32% 100%  Age diversity* Age group  Employees  % Rounded  Less than 30 years of age  197  25%  30-50 years of age  416  53%  More than 50 years of age  161  20%  Not Specified / Not Disclosed  15  2%  Total  789  100%  *As of 9/30/20 “We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of all our employees. This year has presented unprecedented challenges with employees, suppliers, customers, and partners affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate related disasters.” HC3. Employee health and safety We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of all our employees. This year has presented unprecedented challenges with employees, suppliers, customers, and partners affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate related disasters. COVID-19 has pushed us to work creatively and support each other like never before. Early in 2020, we drew upon our ability to communicate openly and rapidly to employees about crisis management related to the pandemic as it was evolving. We developed a task force that met every other day, and currently meets as necessary and at least every two weeks, to receive updates from each site and to share information regarding the various work-from.home orders, supply of appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and other efforts to protect the safety of our employees, phased office returns, and employee assistance. We have supported employees as needed with work equipment and flexible hours to accommodate work routines at home. We have taken, and will continue to take, proactive and preventative measures to help minimize the risk of COVID-19 in our organization and communities. To help our team members stay apprised of the latest information, we share communication resources where they can connect and ask questions about our response to the current situation through corporate email addresses and a dedicated internal webpage. Enphase employees undergo health and safety and emergency preparedness training on an annual basis. We are pleased to have had zero reportable work-related injuries or incidents from 2011 to the time of this report. Each site undergoes a quarterly safety inspection. Lab researchers are expected to comply with internal protocols and policies such as our Hazard Communications/SDS Management Program and Managing Hazardous Materials guide. We also encourage worker wellbeing by offering facilities and incentives, including discounted gym memberships for health and fitness. In addition, we are currently building out a fitness space at our headquarters in Fremont, California. 