Social At Enphase, we recognize and take seriously our responsibility to help protect, preserve, and promote human rights around the world. For us, this means creating accessible, clean technology for underserved communities, ensuring privacy and security for our partners and users, and perpetuating ethical practices along our value chain. As Tim Sears, co-founder of GRID said, “Partnerships like this help to make the environmental and economic benefits of the clean energy economy accessible to families and workers across the country.” S1. Access and affordability As a company, we believe strongly in the ability to bring safe and clean power to families. Our vision has always been to make solar simple and energy smart and to develop advanced energy systems with solar and storage accessible to all. In December 2019, we achieved a large milestone of installing our one millionth microinverter system, and we did it alongside one of our long-standing partners, GRID Alternatives (GRID), the nation’s largest nonprofit solar installer. We work with GRID to help power the United States’ low-income communities at no cost. With Enphase’s technology, GRID helps individual homeowners who qualify as low-income by installing residential solar systems on their single-family homes, as well as working with affordable housing developers to install residential solar systems on qualified multi-family developments. The engagement extends beyond installation to provide hands-on job training for people in low-income communities. Through a combination of donated Enphase products, sponsored builds and volunteer hours by Enphase employees, we are able to bring added value to thousands of homes each year, and Enphase employees can be engaged and active in their communities. This partnership has yielded some incredible results. Through the donation of Enphase microinverters, GRID has installed more than 29 MW of solar power for low-income communities in the U.S., benefitting more than 8,200 families, and has provided job trainees and volunteers with approximately 524,000 hours of solar education and training. As Tim Sears, co-founder of GRID said, “Partnerships like this help to make the environmental and economic benefits of the clean energy economy accessible to families and workers across the country.” “We have made significant efforts designed to maintain the security, integrity, and availability of our energy systems and technology.” S2. Data security and customer privacy Data privacy and security have become significant issues in the U.S., Europe, and in many other jurisdictions in which we offer our products and services. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, and local laws, regulations and rules relating to the collection, use, storage, retention, security, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal information. The regulatory frameworks for privacy and security issues are constantly evolving and may be subject to differing interpretations. For example, we are subject to both the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020, and the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which went into effect on May 25, 2018. We maintain a significant number of organizational, technical, and physical safeguards designed to protect the security, integrity, and privacy of the personal information we process and to achieve compliance with applicable regulatory frameworks, privacy policies, and contractual obligations. More information on the personal information we collect and how we use and protect it is outlined in our Privacy Policy. We have made significant efforts designed to maintain the security, integrity, and availability of our energy systems and technology. We have implemented substantial security measures designed to protect our information systems from traditional “hackers”, malicious code (such as malware, viruses, worms, and ransomware), password spraying, phishing attacks, employee theft or misuse, and denial-of-service attacks. We continuously evaluate our information security measures and identify potential areas of improvement. We devote substantial resources designed to prevent information security incidents. These methods include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) conducting training about social-engineering attacks; (ii) cybersecurity training for new employees; and (iii) presenting to executive management regarding product security, escalations, and information technology development. S3. Supply chain management The success of our product would not be possible without suppliers and partners that share our values of quality, design, and sustainability. We work closely with all our contract manufacturers, from onboarding to client delivery, to ensure that our products are made to the highest standards. Suppliers are involved in the development of our products right from the onset. Vendor assessment When selecting a supplier, we conduct an in-depth risk assessment and require an extensive questionnaire where suppliers are evaluated on location, management system, technology, quality, and risk. If selected as a supplier, these factors carry into ongoing conversations with management on both sides to ensure proper alignment and continuous improvement. We see our suppliers as partners. We conduct quarterly reviews and audit our high-risk suppliers who receive quality scores that factor in their performance discussions. We expect that suppliers have management systems and oversight of their own suppliers and are open and transparent with us about issues regarding environmental management and ethics. If there is an issue, the supplier develops a corrective action plan alongside our supplier managers and executive sponsors until the issue is corrected. Social supply chain responsibility Enphase is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices, and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery across our operations and supply chain. Our Code of Conduct sets forth and highlights important legal, ethical, behavioral, and other requirements for parties that wish to be Enphase suppliers. Specifically, Section 15 of the Code states that suppliers must not support, promote or engage in the practice of slavery or human trafficking, and it requires suppliers to comply with all international standards and applicable laws regarding slavery and human trafficking. Enphase suppliers are further expected to take reasonable and necessary steps to help ensure their sub-contractors and sub-suppliers also comply with all international standards and applicable laws regarding slavery and human trafficking. Enphase provides its suppliers with a Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our Supply Chain Expectations and requires suppliers and subcontractors to comply with all international standards and applicable laws and regulations regarding slavery and human trafficking. It is our expectation that they do not support, promote or engage in slavery and human trafficking and that slavery and human trafficking do not exist in their respective organizations and supply chains. For more information, please read our California Transparency in Supply Chains Act disclosure. Supply chain environmental management Enphase’s contract manufacturing suppliers are located in different regions to best serve our different markets. In 2019, we optimized our logistics management to achieve approximately a 63% reduction in the use of air shipping in the fourth quarter, as compared to the fourth quarter of 2018. Our primary suppliers are located in China and Mexico. We focus heavily on quality and innovation as they are highly specialized and play a large role in both the design and execution of our microinverters and other products. In order to create further flexibility as we continue to grow our business and serve our customers, we began microinverter production in Chennai, India in 2020. Venlo, Netherlands Long Beach, CA, USA Manufacturing Site Distribution Center Futian, Shenzhen, China Fuyong, Shenzhen, ChinaGuadalajara, Mexico Chennai, India Sydney, Australia One of our primary contract manufacturers has made large strides to reduce their environmental footprint. We encourage continuous improvement along the supply chain and transparency around social and environmental risks that impact production in our industry. In late 2019, a major supplier site in China upgraded their plumbing system with smart leak control and changed the underground piping to above ground for early detection and quick repairing of any minor leakage. This upgrade led to a 26% reduction in water consumption, highlighting the positive impact of incremental changes and innovation. “Enphase is committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory compliance requirements in all the countries in which it operates and sells.” S4. Material sourcing and efficiency As we bring our eighth-generation family of microinverters with Enphase Ensemble™ technology to market, Enphase will once again demonstrate how we leverage semiconductor integration and scalability, a culture of continuous learning, and dedication to high quality in order to build the world’s most advanced software-defined microinverter. Enphase is committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory compliance requirements in all the countries in which it operates and sells. We are compliant with RoHS, REACH, and 7 of our 10 offices are ISO 14001 compliant. A copy of our RoHS certification is updated annually on our website. One important design target of our batteries that benefits the environment is to make them for long-term duration, which can help to decrease battery waste. The long-term duration can be achieved by using Lithium Iron Phosphate (LFP) as the energy storage material for our batteries. We do not use cobalt in our batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of being sourced from areas that have unfair labor practices. We are cognizant that materials such as cobalt present an increased risk of being sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other Conflict-Affected Areas associated with unfair labor practices. Enphase expects its vendors to source materials and operate in a responsible manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our SEC disclosure on responsible sourcing is updated annually on our website. 