1 As of December 31, 2022 2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records; CO.e calculations based on U.S. EPA GHG calculator 3 Annual running total estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 Our purpose Advancing a sustainable future for all. Founded in 2006, Enphase has transformed the solar industry with our revolutionary microinverter technology which turns sunlight into a safe, reliable, resilient, and scalable source of energy to power our lives. Today, our intelligent microinverters work with virtually every solar panel made, and when paired with our award-winning smart battery technology, we engineer one of the industry s best-performing clean energy systems. The Enphase Energy System, powered by IQ8 Microinverters and IQ Batteries, enables people to make, use, save, sell, and own their power. This includes our industry-leading Enphase App, which provides unprecedented data and control in the palm of your hand. For the first time in the evolution of our centuries-old grid, people can get paid for the clean energy they produce and share with their communities, helping to build a new energy future that harnesses the sun. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power our lives and ultimately help replace fossil fuels altogether. Today, if you see a home with solar panels on it, there is a good chance it is an Enphase home. As of the end of 2022, more than 58 million microinverters have been installed on more than three million homes in over 145 countries,1 helping millions of people gain access to clean, affordable, and reliable energy while creating jobs and a more carbon-free future. Enphase is putting people and their power at the center of our shared energy future. Enphase. Power by people. 1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of 12/31/22 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records since inception Our core values Our company values are reflected in the way we work together, our performance, and how we are rewarded. Customer first We exist for our customers. We listen to our customers and measure our success based on their feedback. We take action to deliver the best customer experience. Innovation We value innovation and recognize that it is the cornerstone of our existence. We encourage appropriate risk-taking and challenge the status quo to find solutions. We actively promote innovation through curiosity and continuous learning. Quality We place safety and quality above everything else. We measure everything that matters and drive continuous improvement. We make the highest quality products. Integrity We tell the truth at all times, without making excuses. We do what is best for the company. We take ownership of our behaviors and results. Teamwork We appreciate and respect different behavioral styles and perspectives. We collaborate globally to achieve more together than we can on our own. We actively work to break down silos. Enphase culture playbook The pillars of the Enphase Culture Playbook help align and guide daily interactions with our purpose and values. High performance ¥ We set the standard. ¥ We stretch ourselves to achieve exceptional results. ¥ We are relentless in the pursuit of excellence. Recruiting and retaining the best ¥ We hire only the best. ¥ We reward and retain the best. ¥ We promote our people who get results. Openness and transparency ¥ We are curious and encourage new ideas. ¥ We recognize that people have different styles and encourage diverse perspectives. ¥ We openly discuss issues and want to learn rapidly from our mistakes. Accountability and execution ¥ We acknowledge reality and get things done without making excuses. ¥ We measure what matters and manage our performance through metrics. ¥ Our metrics have clear targets that donÕt change on a whim, and we publish progress against these each quarter. Learning organization ¥ We encourage innovation. ¥ We develop employees through two-way coaching and feedback. ¥ We learn from our mistakes using a structured problem-solving approach known as 8-D. ¥ We document and share knowledge freely. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 ÒThe Enphase¨ Energy Systemª suite brings a high technology, networked approach to solar generation plus energy storage by leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, and cloud-based software technologies.Ó Our technology Enphase was founded on the deep-rooted belief that an AC-coupled distributed architecture will always win in the long run on both cost and reliability. To build products based on this architecture, we have developed core competencies in semiconductor-based power conversion, software-defined Internet of Things (IoT) systems, and an energy management platform. Our homegrown high-speed digital ASIC, which is responsible for power control and power line communication, forms the brain of our microinverters. The microinverter, along with our battery, system controller, and cloud software form a true IoT system. Our Ensembleª technology energy management system manages energy flows between the various distributed energy resources (DERs), the utility grid, and home loads, all with the aim of delivering the most reliable solution at the lowest available energy cost. The Enphase¨ Energy Systemª suite brings a high technology, networked approach to solar generation plus energy storage by leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, and cloud-based software technologies. Our integrated approach to energy solutions maximizes a homeÕs energy potential while providing advanced monitoring and remote maintenance capabilities. The Enphase Energy System suite uses a single technology platform for seamless management of the whole solution, enabling rapid commissioning with the Enphase Installer Appª; consumption monitoring with the Enphase IQª Gateway with IQª Combiner+ and the Enphase¨ App, a cloud-based energy management platform; and our IQª Battery. The solar industry is transitioning from solar only systems to complete energy management solutions, comprised of solar, batteries, load control, EV charging, compatibility with third-party generators, and grid services. This transition has contributed to the rising global interest in the full electrification of homes and businesses through renewable sources of energy. The increasing penetration of EVs has implications for home energy management, as households not only consume significantly more power with an EV, but also have a large battery that can be used for both backup and grid service. Our EV chargers are compatible with most EVs sold in North America. In January 2023, we demonstrated our bidirectional EV charger technology enabling vehicle-to-home and vehicle-to-grid functionality. This new bidirectional EV charger, along with EnphaseÕs solar and battery storage, will provide connectivity and control, enabling use cases like green charging and allowing homeowners visibility into the operation of their Enphase solar-plus-storage-plus-EV charger system, through the Enphase App -empowering homeowners to make, use, save, and sell their own power. Enphase Home Energy Management System ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 Start-up to industry leader First microinverter-based solar system introduced Listed on NASDAQ under symbol ENPH 10 million microinverters shipped since inception AC Modules Introduced One millionth microinverter-based solar system deployed Started shipping IQ8 Microinverters in North America 2008 2012 2015 2017 2019 2021 2006 2011 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 Founded by Raghu Belur and Martin Fornage in California One million microinverters shipped since inception Fourth-generation technology introduced Sixth-generation IQª technology introduced Seventh-generation IQ technology introduced Started shipping IQ Batteries in North America Started shipping IQ8 Microinverters in France and the Netherlands; approximately 58 million microinverters shipped since inception Customer first Customer experience We exist to serve our customers and communicate consistently with them to review their experiences and levels of satisfaction with our products. We incorporate customer feedback into future product design and functionality, with the end goal of maintaining a high degree of satisfaction among distributors, installers, and homeowners. The ability to successfully grow and evolve our business requires open and continuous dialogue to ensure a smooth experience, and we take this aspect of our business very seriously. 69% 24/7 Net Promoter Score (NPS) call center support with among homeowners and average wait time under installers worldwide two minutes 700 100 customer field service support staff technicians Enphase Installer Network Our commitment to safe, powerful, and reliable home solar and storage systems does not stop with our products Ñ it also extends to the installers who are certified under the Enphase Installer Network (EIN). The EIN is carefully designed to identify installers who can deliver the highest standards of customer service and system quality using Enphase products. We offer more than 25 different certification and qualification courses for installers pertaining to the commissioning of specific Enphase products, which are available in nine native languages across the United States, Latin America, Europe, Australia, and Brazil. Enphase University The Enphase University platform is on-demand and supported by a team of 24 employees worldwide, available twenty four hours a day, seven days a week. This platform has been in service for several years and supports our remote training team dedicated to teaching our installers how to successfully install and commission Enphase systems. Additionally, Enphase conducts in-person training events to support many solar installers across the globe, and we use two solar vans equipped with Enphase system products to bring training about storage commissioning best practices to installers in remote locations across the United States and Puerto Rico. Training is also available on demand via our Enphase Energy Training YouTube channel where we currently have over 1,000 subscribers. 10,000+ 17,860 installers certified in installers certified in Enphase Enphase Energy Systems photovoltaic (PV) systems 2,300  342,000+  solar installation companies  courses completed by installers  represented worldwide  in Enphase University  Our mobile vans provide hands on training support for learning commissioning best practices 69% increased revenue in 2022 $2.3 billion revenue in 2022 15.4 million microinverters shipped in 2022 42.6% non-GAAP gross margin in 2022 Financial sustainability We have built a solid financial foundation driven by operational excellence. In 2022, revenue increased 69% year-over-year to $2.3 billion, compared to $1.4 billion in 2021. We shipped 15.4 million microinverters in 2022, compared to 10.4 million in 2021. Our non-GAAP gross margin in 2022 was 42.6%,1 compared to 40.7%  in 2021. Our balance sheet remained very strong in 2022. We exited 2022 with $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We generated record free cash flow of $698.4 million, more than double from $315.5 million in 2021. In March 2021, we successfully completed the issuance of approximately $1.2 billion in green convertible notes (the Green Bond Notes). As part of the Green Bond Notes offering, we established a Green Financing Framework that reinforces our commitment to our planet and our communities. During 2021 and 2022, we allocated all the proceeds of the Green Bond Notes to finance a variety of environmentally impactful projects as summarized in the table below, which included research and development (R&D) for new products, capital expenditures to increase our manufacturing capabilities to support our global product portfolio, the cost of goods sold, and increased headcount. The terms of this capital raise were some of the most favorable to an issuer in history, and we were bestowed with an ESG award and a structured equity award from International Financing Review (IFR) in February 2022. 