Environment Our best-in-class energy management solutions include solar generation, battery storage, electric vehicle (EV) charging, smart load control, and cloud-based monitoring and control. While our products and services directly address the urgent challenges presented by climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy, we appreciate that our ability to continue to do so rests in attending to, and taking accountability for, environmental impacts across the entire value chain. “Enphase strives to achieve exceptional environmental performance, and 100% of our facilities are ISO 14001:2015 certified.” E1. Global environmental policy Environmental management system (EMS) Enphase strives to achieve exceptional environmental performance, and 100% of our facilities are ISO 14001:2015 certified. Our EMS is continually improved to align with business strategy, promote positive environmental impacts, and minimize adverse ones. Through the EMS we proactively assess environmental risks and opportunities, define key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets, and evaluate progress toward environmental goals. Auditing program Our environmental audit program includes periodic and complete evaluations of our product development and R&D centers. Audits include air and water quality, waste management practices, spill prevention and control, hazardous materials management, and employee awareness. Supplier expectations Enphase works with suppliers who share our commitment to environmental stewardship. Suppliers are screened on specific criteria including the presence of an environmental policy, EMS or EMAS certification, RoHs and REACH compliance, conflict minerals reporting, as well as human rights and labor policies. Legal compliance Enphase complies in the areas where we operate with all applicable environmental, health, and safety laws, as well as all pertinent industry codes and standards, and we expect our suppliers, partners, and customers to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations as well. Empowering employees Employees at all levels actively participate in environmental goal-setting processes, allowing for important insights and innovation to be realized across the company. Employee bonuses are also tied to progress toward environmental-related goals, helping to ensure objectives are met. Reporting and stakeholder consultation We transparently report our environmental performance in line with prevailing sustainability reporting frameworks on an annual basis. Stakeholders such as local communities, suppliers and contractors, government agencies, and other organizations focused on protecting the environment are allies and collaborators, and their priorities and feedback regarding our environmental performance are considered when assessing our environmental performance. Product lifecycle stewardship Our products are designed to be safe for the environment and their intended use. All hazardous waste generated across our operations is disposed of properly or recycled, and we comply with all applicable laws and directives regarding hazardous waste where we operate, including WEEE, RoHs, REACH, and the EU batteries directive. We support pollution prevention programs and use materials and energy efficiently to conserve natural resources, including measuring emissions and developing an emissions reduction regime. “Our strategy is advancing solutions to meet any number of climate risk mitigation opportunities – solar energy equipment, battery storage, EV charging, smart load management, and integration with grid modernization efforts.” E2. Climate change strategy At Enphase, we have understood the climate change threat from the beginning and have been creating clean energy technologies needed to directly combat it, protect our environment, and enable sustainable development. We recognize our ability to do so rests on our capacity to understand, anticipate, and successfully navigate various types of climate risk. We align our risk assessment and climate strategy with the recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and emerging climate-risk disclosure recommendations from the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation. Governance Our Board of Directors (Board) oversees climate risks and opportunities. Our products and services mitigate climate change, so the Board’s actions in guiding strategy and assessing risks address a myriad of climate risks. The Nominating and Corporate Governance and Audit Committees of the Board oversee the overall ESG program, which includes an annual update from the executive ESG team on climate risks, efforts, goals, and performance against targets. Strategy Our strategy is advancing solutions to meet any number of climate risk mitigation opportunities – solar energy equipment, battery storage, EV charging, smart load management, and integration with grid modernization efforts. We plan to broaden our climate strategy to include a defined approach and roadmap for reducing our carbon footprint and reliance on non-renewable energy as a hedge against uncertainty in carbon markets, to enhance operational efficiency, and to support renewable energy deployments. Risk management We are currently developing scenario-based climate risk assessments over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons and integrating results into existing enterprise risk management (ERM) practices. This will allow us to anticipate potential climate risk to our business, understand strategic implications, and estimate financial impacts. We intend to incorporate climate risk assessments into the annual ERM process, which is reviewed by our senior management with oversight from the Audit Committee of the Board. “Efficient and reliable microinverters and batteries deployed in the field can produce more clean energy over a longer time horizon, directly preventing harmful greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.” Metrics and targets We measure the success of our climate strategy by how well we grow our business. Examples include the number of microinverters and batteries sold, new markets entered, market share captured, and kWh produced by the deployed microinverter fleet. Our product development targets such as production cost, materials used, efficiency, reliability, and power output directly support our climate strategy. Efficient and reliable microinverters and batteries can produce more clean energy over a longer time horizon, directly preventing harmful greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We are measuring and disclosing our emissions for the first time in this report and will be using this process to inform a low-carbon transition approach for the business going forward. E3. Clean energy production During 2021 11.3 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) were generated by Enphase microinverters1 8 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e) were prevented from entering the atmosphere. Since 2006 43.4 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) were generated by Enphase microinverters2 31 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e) were prevented from entering the atmosphere2 1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data for calendar year 2021 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator 2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2021 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 E4. Emissions and energy We completed our first GHG emissions inventory in 2021. The calculations drew on the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, covering direct (scope one), electricity indirect (scope two), and business travel (scope three) categories. Given that our products were produced by third-party contract manufacturers, and we did not operate a company vehicle fleet, our scope one emissions for 2021 were considered negligible. Our scope two emissions attributed to the energy usage among our facilities were calculated by using a location-based method for electricity and heating across leased facilities. We are continuing our characterization of scope two purchased electricity and heating to identify opportunities to reduce our footprint by increasing the proportion of renewable energy in our energy mix. We are also actively engaged with upstream and downstream entities to map scope three impacts and discover opportunities for energy conservation as we move forward. A summary of our GHG inventory details can be found in the Appendix. GHG emissions and intensity (2021) Emissions type  Units  Direct + electricity indirect emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) (MT COe)2 9,240  Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) (MT COe)2 281  Total emissions (MT COe)2 9,521  Scope 1 + 2 emissions intensity (MT COe/$M revenue)2 6.99  Energy use and intensity (2021) Energy type  Units  Purchased electricity (kWh)*  12,560,067  Heating (kWh)**  1,801,127  Total energy consumption (kWh)  14,361,194  Energy Intensity (kWh / $M revenue)  10,391  *Does not account for renewable energy generated at the Petaluma, Calif. office **North America operations only ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 “We are working to quantify the impacts of energy efficiency efforts so we can make informed decisions on energy reduction strategies and targets, drawing on guidance provided in the ISO 50001 standard.” E5. Energy efficiency Given our structure, opportunities for efficiency improvements and reductions in emissions and energy intensity exist across scopes two and three. We are working to quantify the impacts of energy efficiency efforts so we can make informed decisions on energy reduction strategies and reduction targets, drawing on guidance provided in the ISO 50001 standard. We have taken a number of measures to date to reduce our energy intensity. Shifting to renewables Shifting the energy mix to renewables across our leased facilities, including installing photovoltaic (PV) systems on all North America offices. Installing a 119KW PV system for our Petaluma office LED light fixtures Installing motion-sensing LED light fixtures across all leased facilities Cost savings Achieving cost savings through strategic siting of contract manufacturing and distribution facilities, which translates to scope three emissions reductions EV Charger Installing electric vehicle (EV) chargers at our North American offices Education Launching employee campaigns to turn off inactive equipment in our offices Reduce data consumption Transitioning to the cloud and SAAS applications for logistics, payroll, and most internal processes to reduce our data center energy consumption “We understand our carbon footprint is embedded across the entire value chain from raw material extraction to product end-of-life and are committed to reducing the adverse environmental impacts to the fullest extent possible.” E6. Product lifecycle and waste management We understand our carbon footprint is embedded across the entire value chain from raw material extraction to product end-of-life and are committed to reducing the adverse environmental impacts to the fullest extent possible. We continually seek opportunities to reduce the inputs needed to build reliable, high-quality products; integrate recycled materials where possible; and design equipment that can be repurposed or recycled at the end of its designed lifespan. Designing products in this manner spurs innovation and positions us to compete in the nascent circular economy. We are committed to reducing and properly disposing of hazardous waste across all our operations. We focus significant efforts on residential, commercial, and industrial battery disposal and recycling. Our recycling program covers e-waste and batteries of all types which are recycled through licensed vendors to the point of complete destruction, allowing for valuable components to be reused as material inputs for new products. In addition, products evaluated in our testing centers are disassembled and parts are collected for reuse. We design our batteries for long-term duration to decrease battery waste, using lithium iron phosphate (LFP) chemistry as the storage material. We promote our company’s commitment to recycling and preventing products and materials ending up in landfills through our internal training and compliance with applicable federal, state, and local regulations. Employees working in our R&D labs undergo additional training annually to ensure they understand how to properly dispose of any hazardous materials that are not eligible for our recycling programs. Our efforts to educate our workforce have yielded positive results. We conscientiously select supplies for our facilities that have a low environmental impact, including those with reusable and compostable materials where possible. Across our North America and New Zealand facilities, we have eliminated single-use cups and have provided employees with their own personal set of reusable dishware, utensils, and mugs to use in cafeterias. We plan to implement similar strategies at our other global sites. 100%  100%  of e-waste generated across  of our facilities are  operations in North America, India,  ISO 14001 certified  and New Zealand are recycled  Compliance with RoHs, REACH, and the EU Battery Directive 