A letter from our President and CEO Sustainability is at the core of what we do at Enphase and our purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. We deliver technology solutions that make clean energy more affordable, reliable, and accessible. Today, Enphase is the world’s leading supplier of microinverter-based solar-plus-storage systems. Since inception, we have shipped 30 million solar microinverters and approximately 1.3 million Enphase-based systems have been deployed in more than 130 countries.1 8.6 gigawatts DC of Enphase microinverters have been installed in solar systems, offsetting 20.8 million metric tons of CO2e - the equivalent of providing electricity to 3.5 million homes for one year.1 Enphase was founded in 2006 with five key elements to our value proposition: deliver products that are productive, reliable, smart, simple, and safe. Our value proposition rings as true today as when the company was established. As I write my letter to you for our inaugural Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report, I am reminded of when I joined Enphase in 2017. I was excited about the opportunity to work with such a talented and diverse global workforce committed to developing technology and products that further enable energy independence. The same commitment exists at Enphase today, and I am proud of our team for their ongoing dedication to serve our communities and better the environment. We know that diversity and an inclusive work culture fuels innovation and helps better represent our customers and partners.  As we work towards our vision for a solar-powered planet, we never forget the three commitments that have guided us from the beginning: innovation, quality, and social responsibility. Innovation is the cornerstone of our existence, and we have worked hard to develop the world’s best home energy management systems, with energy independence as the goal for our customers. Quality is the bedrock of the Enphase product design, and we have consistently set the bar high for quality and reliability. We are driven by a sense of responsibility towards our planet and our communities as we strive to bring solar energy mainstream. We believe it is because of this focus on innovation, quality, and social responsibility we have built a solid financial foundation driven by operational excellence and the desire for long-term sustainability. Our commitment to long-term sustainability starts at the top and extends throughout the organization. Our ESG efforts are overseen by a senior management committee, along with board-level oversight led by our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. We are publishing this inaugural report with the world still impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our topmost priority has been to ensure the health and safety of our employees, customers, and partners. It is through the collective discipline, efforts, and support of our employees, customers, and partners that we have been able to successfully manage through this global pandemic. 1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of 9/30/20 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator. “At Enphase, we developed a culture playbook to provide our current and future employees with a blueprint showing our purpose, core values, how we work together, and achieve results within the company.” During 2020, we introduced to customers in North America our Enphase storage system, featuring our Ensemble™ management technology, which powers the world’s first grid-independent microinverter-based storage system. The Enphase storage system provides resiliency in the face of natural disasters and grid outages, ensuring that a home is powered even during extended periods of inclement weather, delivering energy independence and peace of mind. We will continue to focus on technology and products that help to improve quality of life while keeping true to our core purpose of sustainability. At Enphase, we developed a culture playbook to provide our current and future employees with a blueprint showing our purpose, core values, how we work together and achieve results within the company. We promote and reinforce five core values every day we come to work: Customer First, Integrity, Innovation, Teamwork, and Quality. We listen to our customers and take action to deliver a superior customer experience; we tell the truth at all times, without making excuses; we actively promote innovation through curiosity and continuous learning; we appreciate and respect different behavioral styles and perspectives; and we place safety and quality above everything else. These core values unify us and enable us to achieve our purpose. I would like to thank our employees for their continued hard work and dedication, and our customers, partners, and shareholders for their strong support. Enphase embraces the opportunity to create a future of sustainable prosperity for all our stakeholders, while reducing our environmental footprint. I appreciate your interest and engagement in our ESG efforts. Sincerely, Badri Kothandaraman President and CEO About us The leading microinverter company in the world 2006 is the year Enphase was founded 20.8 million metric tons of CO2e offset equivalent to providing 3.5 million homes with electricity for one year2 2.3 billion gallons of gas equivalent to cumulative CO2e avoidance2 789 employees and personnel across all our global offices1 29.5 TWh of cumulative shipments of microinverters2 51.7 billion car miles driven equivalent to cumulative CO2e avoidance2 3,900 installers worldwide1 1.3 million systems deployed in more than 130 countries2 30 million microinverters shipped worldwide1 8.6 GW DC of cumulative shipments of microinverters1 1. As of 9/30/20 2. Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of 9/30/20 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator “We believe we can have the biggest impact on the planet by pursuing our mission to bring solar energy mainstream.” Our purpose Enphase is a global energy technology company. We deliver smart, easy-to-use solutions that manage solar generation, storage, and communication on one single platform. We have revolutionized the solar industry with our microinverter technology and produce a fully integrated solar-plus-storage solution. We take a systems approach to solar technology and provide advanced energy monitoring and control through our semiconductor-based microinverter, proprietary network, and software technologies. At Enphase, we think big. Our purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. We’re on a mission to bring solar energy to the next level, one where it is ready to meet the world’s energy demands. As we work toward our vision for a solar-powered planet, we never lose sight of the three commitments that have guided us from the beginning: innovation, quality, and responsibility. Innovation We have always pushed the boundaries of solar technology, ever since our founders took one look at a string inverter and knew they could do better. In 2006, Enphase co-founders Raghu Belur and Martin Fornage knew that entering the solar industry presented both technological challenges and opportunities for widespread impact. With a strong focus on innovation, we are continuously developing new technologies that make energy more intelligent, more connected, and more cost effective than ever before. Quality Quality is at the heart of what we do. It is the bedrock of the Enphase product design, and we consistently set the bar high for quality and reliability, with the end goal of providing the most reliable and resilient energy solutions. We’re passionate about building products that people can count on for years to come and in all climates. That’s why we put quality at the forefront in every step of our design and production process, and why we’ve established some of the industry’s most rigorous quality standards. Responsibility Behind it all, we are driven by a sense of responsibility towards our planet and our communities. We believe we can have the biggest impact on the planet by pursuing our mission to bring solar energy mainstream. On a smaller scale, we are also committed to doing all we can to serve our communities and better the environment. Our footprint is widespread, and we recognize that growth comes with great responsibility. Our company’s purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. By advancing solar technology and investing in our people and communities, we believe we can create sustainable solutions that may benefit generations to come. Start-up to industry leader First microinverter-based solar system introduced Listed on NASDAQ under symbol ENPH 10 million microinverters shipped since inception AC Modules Introduced One millionth microinverter-based solar system deployed 2008 2012 2015 2017 2019 2006 2011 2014 2016 2018 2020 Founded by Raghu Belur and Martin Fornage in California 1 million microinverters shipped since inception Fourth-generation technology introduced Sixth-generation IQ™ technology Seventh-generation IQ technology introduced More than 30 million microinverters shipped since inception Started shipping Encharge™ storage systems to customers in North America Financial sustainability We have built a solid financial foundation driven by a focus on profitable top line growth and operational excellence. Our revenue nearly doubled in 2019 to $624.3 million, from $316.2 million in 2018. We shipped 6.2 million microinverters in 2019, compared to 2.8 million microinverters in 2018, representing more than a 100% increase. Our non-GAAP gross margin in 2019 was more than 35.7%, compared to 30.2% in 2018, primarily due to great pricing and cost management. We generated $139.1 million of cash flow from operations in 2019, compared to $16.1 million in 2018. GAAP net income was $161.1 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $1.23.“We exited the third quarter Non-GAAP net income was $124.2 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.95. We of 2020 at approximately were pleased to report that 2019 was the first full year of GAAP profitability in Enphase’s history. 41-17-24 – this means 41% gross margin, 17% operating At Enphase we believe in measuring what matters.  We surpassed our original 30-20-10expense and 24% operating target financial model handily for most of 2019. 30-20-10 stands for 30% gross margin, 20% income, all as a percentage operating expenses, and 10% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP of revenue – on a non-GAAP basis. At our Analyst Day in December 2019, we introduced a new baseline financial model of basis.” 35-15-20. This baseline model represents the minimum financial performance we expect to achieve over the next 24 months, while demonstrating profitable topline growth. We exited the third quarter of 2020 at approximately 41-17-24 – meaning 41% gross margin, 17% operating expenses and 24% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue – on a non-GAAP basis. In addition, we exited the third quarter of 2020 with an ending cash balance of $661.8 million. Quarterly revenue by year Quarterly gross margin % by year 45.0% $250 41.0% $210 39.5% 39.6%$206 40.0% $180 37.3%$200 36.2% 34.1% 33.5%35.0% $150 $100 30.0% $100 26.5%$70 25.0% $50 20.0% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1Q2Q3Q4 $0 Quarterly operating expenses % by year Quarterly operating income % by year 30.0% 40.0% 35.0% 25.2% 25.0% 30.0% 23.9%25.0% 25.7% 24.5% 24.9% 21.4% 25.0% 20.0% 20.7% 20.0% 15.0% 11.3% 15.0% 10.0% 12.4% 5.0% 1.2% 10.0% 0.0% Q1Q2Q3Q4 Q1Q2Q3Q4 Quarterly revenue by year is in millions, Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income are 2018 2019 2020 as a percentage of revenue. All numbers reflected are on a non-GAAP basis. Refer to page 43 for reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measure. Our approach to ESG Sustainability is at the core of what we do and our purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. Our focus on ESG starts with our technology solutions that make clean energy more affordable, reliable, and accessible. As our business continues to grow, we are committed to increasing the wellbeing of our stakeholders and communities we serve. “We have recognized the importance of ESG issues since our inception and are committed to the success of our employees, customers, partners, shareholders, and the communities we serve.” Importance of ESG We have recognized the importance of ESG issues since our inception and are committed to the success of our employees, customers, partners, shareholders, and the communities we serve. We believe tracking and reporting on environmental, social, and governance business practices makes our company more responsive to a global business environment characterized by finite natural resources, changing legislation, and heightened public expectations for corporate accountability. In this inaugural ESG report, we describe how we integrate ESG in our own operations, identify gaps and opportunities in our products and processes, publicize innovative and environmentally conscious practices, and receive feedback for continuous improvement. We have identified key focus areas and fundamental ESG standards relevant to our business based on guidance from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) industry-specific standards to help us understand the areas of most relevance to our investors. We have also identified four UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which most closely align with our business activities and strategy. “Our commitment to long.term sustainability starts at the top and extends throughout the organization.” ESG governance and leadership Our ESG program drives the company’s commitment to the triple bottom line of “planet, people, and profit.” Our commitment to long-term sustainability starts at the top and extends throughout the organization. Enphase works to not only be a steward in the solar technology field, but also share best practices and influence standards to collectively advance the industry and deliver better products and services to our customers. Our management team and Board of Directors view sustainability as an integral part of our corporate strategy. Our governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance and establishes the foundation for sustainability at Enphase. We take ESG risks and opportunities seriously and are working to integrate ESG deeper into our existing governance structure and process. This includes expanded oversight and governance by the Board of Directors and the executive leadership team. A cross-functional ESG Working Group manages and operationalizes the program in various parts of the company. The annual Enterprise Risk Management (ERM ) program incorporates ESG risk factors and is reviewed formally by Enphase management and executives with oversight from the Audit Committee of the Board We recently expanded our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter with language that reflects the Committee’s oversight responsibility regarding our Sustainability and ESG strategy, initiatives, and policies. The Board will receive reports on sustainability and ESG matters from the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Executive Leadership Team on an annual basis at a minimum. Additional information about the role of the Board and its various committees is available in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. The ESG Working Group looks for sustainability opportunities in the company and alignment to industry stakeholder initiatives and goals. The company’s ESG Working Group is comprised of senior leaders and key internal stakeholders representing legal, investor relations, global policy and government affairs, facilities, procurement, supply chain, human resources, IT, quality, compliance, and risk management. The purpose of the group is to monitor existing ESG programs and policies and identify opportunities to expand activities. Our Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors is charged with overseeing the company’s compensation policies, plans, and programs on behalf of the Board. The policy of the Committee includes maintaining an overall compensation structure designed to attract, retain, and motivate management and other employees by providing appropriate levels of risk and reward in proportion to individual contribution and performance. In discharging its duties, the Compensation Committee ensures that the company equitably applies its compensation programs. Enphase is committed to providing a work environment free of discrimination and harassment, in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. We apply a compensation philosophy that helps frame our pay and reward strategy.  We follow a pay-for-performance culture that ties compensation to the performance of the individual and the company. We provide competitive compensation programs that focus on the following five key elements: 1. Pay-for-performance -- Reward and recognize leading contributors and high potential individuals, named executive officers excluded, by targeting the 65th percentile of market for total direct compensation, which includes base salary, quarterly bonus, and stock awards; 2. External market factors -- Pay levels of compensation that are competitive with respect to the labor markets in which we compete for talent; 3. Internal equity-- Provide fair pay relationships within the company; 4. Fiscal responsibility -- Establish affordable compensation programs that are within our budget; and 5. Legal compliance -- Ensure that the company is compliant with the laws of the states and countries in which we operate. “We believe that our Board should represent a diversity of thoughts, backgrounds, skills, experiences, and expertise.” Board diversity and independence We believe that our Board should represent a diversity of thoughts, backgrounds, skills, experiences, and expertise. Consistent with this philosophy, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee works to ensure each pool of qualified candidates for additional or vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes candidates who bring racial and/or gender diversity. In 2020, we appointed our first female director, Jamie Haenggi, to our Board of Directors. Ms. Haenggi brings more than 25 years of leadership in marketing, sales, and customer experience. Our seven-person Board is represented by a variety of experience and tenures. We value Board refreshment in order to provide new perspectives, as represented by the two Board members added in 2020. We look forward to continued guidance by these leaders as they play an active role in shaping Enphase’s future in sustainable development. For more information about our Board of Directors, please see our Proxy Statement. 