Corporate governance Our corporate governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance, which serves as the foundation for sustainability and ESG efforts at Enphase. To support our commitment to drive the adoption of sustainable clean energy solutions, we participate in the development of policies and regulations around the world as part of our core governance principles. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 “We appreciate the importance of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board and its committees are responsible for directing our overall ESG strategy.” G1. ESG governance and leadership Board oversight of ESG Our Board of Directors (Board) is presided over by an Independent Chair of the Board. We believe that having an Independent Chair, separate from our CEO, creates an environment that is more conducive to objective evaluation and oversight of management’s performance. We further believe this increases management’s accountability and improves the Board’s ability to monitor whether management’s actions are in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. Our governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance, which serves as the foundation for sustainability and ESG efforts at Enphase. We appreciate the importance of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board and its committees are responsible for directing our overall ESG strategy. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees ESG matters including strategy, initiatives, policies, and outreach to investors and other interested stakeholders. Our cross-functional ESG executive leadership team provides regular updates to the Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee on emerging ESG trends, reporting and regulations, and assessment of strategic objectives over the short-, medium-, and long-term on climate and emissions, diversity, human rights, and other material ESG topics. The Audit Committee annually identifies and assesses all key financial risks and monitors our risk mitigation efforts. The risk management program considers material ESG risk factors, including climate risks, which is reviewed by our management and executives with oversight by the Audit Committee. In 2022, the Audit Committee made the strategic decision to move from an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) approach in evaluating risks and opportunities to an Objective-Centric Risk Management approach (OCRM). The Audit Committee believed that the objective-centric approach better aligns with our vision and mission and facilitates the appropriate integration of risk and strategy. The Compensation Committee oversees matters related to human capital management, including inclusion and diversity, leadership development, and talent assessments. The Committee is also responsible for executive compensation and pay metrics. Additional information about the role of the Board of Directors and its various committees is available in our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our most recently filed Proxy Statement. Board diversity and independence We take seriously our longstanding and continuing commitment to effectiveness in the boardroom. We believe that our Board should represent diversity of thought, background, skill, experience, and expertise. We recognize that enhancing demographic diversity on the Board, through the representation of women and underrepresented groups, encourages a thoughtful decision-making process that is important to effective corporate governance. Consistent with our philosophy, we have codified a version of the Rooney Rule in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which states that, “the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will ensure each pool of qualified candidates for additional or vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes candidates who bring racial and/or gender diversity.” The composition of our seven-person Board reflects a variety of backgrounds, experiences, and tenures, and we continue to seek opportunities to enhance the diversity and effectiveness of our Board. ESG management structure Our ESG efforts are overseen by our General Counsel, with participation from an executive leadership team, along with board-level oversight led by our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Our cross-functional supporting working groups manage and operationalize the ESG program across the company, meeting regularly to review ESG risks and opportunities, develop ESG goals and targets, and allocate necessary resources to achieve ESG objectives. The supporting ESG working groups include senior leaders and key internal stakeholders representing legal, investor relations, global policy and government affairs, facilities, EHS, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, customer service, human resources, compliance, and risk management. Progress toward ESG goals and targets is incentivized through our annual and quarterly bonus programs. “Our ESG program is rooted in addressing those issues most important to both our company and our stakeholders.” ESG pay link We are in the business of providing climate change solutions to the world to mitigate the most serious consequences of global warming. Given our purpose, remuneration to executives, senior leadership, managers, and individual contributors drives performance under the environmental ESG pillar, including quarterly bonus payouts that are a function of company profitability, our company performance against targets, and individual performance. Beyond climate-related goals, employees can also be rewarded in a similar manner through the quarterly bonus system for advancing progress among other various ESG initiatives under the social and governance pillars. Materiality assessment Our ESG program is rooted in addressing those issues most important to both our company and our stakeholders. This allows us to identify and prioritize sustainability risks and opportunities and proactively respond to stakeholder concerns. Our materiality assessment approach considers the expressed concerns among stockholders, company leadership, employees, customers and suppliers, and potential investors, alongside with the evolving regulatory landscape, disclosure requirements, and emerging ESG trends. These issues are scored and ranked based on stakeholder importance, urgency, and legitimacy and help us identify those ESG issues that are most relevant for our company. “We achieved 100% completion of our compliance courses and had no confirmed cases of breaches to our Code of Conduct in 2022.” G2. Business ethics and compliance Enphase Code of Conduct We believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect. Our Code of Conduct applies to all officers, directors and employees, contractors, and consultants. It provides general guidelines to ensure proper and ethical behavior, legal compliance, and compliance with our standards, policies, and procedures. We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere we operate. Supplier Code of Conduct We choose business partners who share our mission and intend to work only with those who agree that our shared success is based on acting ethically and lawfully. We expect our business partners to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes (a) conducting business with high ethical standards; (b) complying with applicable laws; (c) supporting the human rights of workers and treat their employees with dignity; (d) adhering to anti-slavery and human trafficking principles; and (e) maintaining safe and healthy working conditions. Compliance training To meet legal requirements and regulations, such as anti-discrimination laws, health and safety regulations, and data privacy laws, we offer a set of compliance trainings, with an objective to provide all the required information and awareness to all employees on the topics of safety, code of conduct, workplace harassment prevention, ISO training and more. We achieved 100% completion of our required compliance courses and had no confirmed cases of breaches to our Code of Conduct in 2022. Clawback policy Our clawback policy applies to all employees and allows us to recover any incentive-based compensation that was paid based on erroneous financial information reported under securities laws. Specifically, we may recoup any incentive compensation from any employee if: (i) the employee engages in intentional misconduct pertaining to any financial reporting policy; (ii) there is a material negative revision of a financial or operating measure on the basis of which incentive compensation was awarded or paid to the employee; or (iii) the employee engages in any fraud, theft, misappropriation, embezzlement or dishonesty. Any recoupment will be made irrespective of whether the employee’s conduct contributed to the need for the restatement and/or revision. For additional information, please refer to our 2022 Proxy Statement. Whistleblower policy We take matters of ethics and integrity seriously at all levels of our organization and provide an anonymous platform to report violations of the Code of Conduct. We empower each employee to report any witnessed or suspected wrongdoing to ensure the highest levels of integrity. Under our whistleblower protection and non-retaliation provisions, any employee, supplier, or other party is encouraged to anonymously or non-anonymously report concerns and violations of our policies. Our hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and all reports are investigated promptly with the highest degree of confidentiality. Retribution or retaliation against whistleblowers is strictly prohibited, and employees are also encouraged to report any suspicious or unethical activity directly to their manager, human resources, the legal department, or our Compliance Officer. For additional information, please refer to our Code of Conduct. “We are trained on our privacy policy and other data processing activities and frequently refer to it in developing and supporting our products and services.” G3. Data privacy, cybersecurity, intellectual property Data privacy and cybersecurity We continue to carry out our belief that every global citizen is entitled to strong privacy protection. This is encapsulated in our commitment and advancement in the ways of data privacy cybersecurity. Our data privacy program includes record-keeping, communications, and practices that are formed using the world’s strictest standards, including the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA). Every processing activity follows this framework, which ensures that we treat our employees, customers, partners, and general consumers in the proper way. As a few notable examples: • We commit to not “sell” personal information • We have a valued practice of giving consumers notice and choice as to which third-parties may access their data, including built-in consent in many instances where it is not legally required • We comply with data subject requests regardless of where the data subject is located, including requests to access, delete, know, rectify, or not sell or share • Our privacy team routinely engages with consumers on data issues, even where there is no legally recognized privacy request • We demand best-in-class privacy clauses with our service providers/processors Our public privacy policy reflects our privacy practices globally, for every data processing activity in each of our various businesses. Going much deeper than just legal compliance, our privacy policy was created and continues to evolve based on what is “right” rather than merely what is “required.” Our policy is routinely reviewed and updated in accordance with leading data privacy laws, internal policies, and to reflect improvements in internal practices consistent with the principles above. We are trained on our privacy policy and other data processing activities and frequently refer to it in developing and supporting our products and services. All partnerships involving personal information are treated by or at the direction of our privacy team, which seeks to ensure that the relevant responsibilities of the parties are appropriately defined. This includes best-in-class privacy clauses, definition of flows of personal information and, in particular, an emphasis on minimizing collection and further processing personal information, and definition of data retention periods which are defined in consideration with the length of time that such data is relevant or needed. We also deeply integrate our privacy and cybersecurity efforts, on the understanding that the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of personal information inherently impacts our delivery on privacy principles. During 2022, we certified one of our core architectures with SOC2 Type 1 and continue to seek third-party cybersecurity certification both to cover other products and services, and to mature our existing certification. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 365+ patents 185+ pending applications We have a Security Incident Response Team responsible for identifying and handling security events. This program continues to mature through improved documentation, tabletop exercises, cross-functional involvement, and other improvements. Our other ongoing cybersecurity programs include: • Vulnerability management intake and remediation • Enterprise-wide security initiatives designed to constantly adapt to the evolving threat landscape • Cybersecurity Training and Awareness Program that includes new employee training, annual risk-relevant refresher trainings for all employees, quarterly penetration exercises, just-in-time training assignments, and secure coding training for software developers • Next-generation product architectures are designed specifically with security in mind • Our executive staff and Audit Committee are also engaged in periodic reporting and improvement in our security posture Intellectual property We emphasize developing and protecting our clean technologies through a variety of intellectual property types. Patents and trade secrets are among our most valuable assets as they protect our investment in R&D. We place particular emphasis in protecting our digital innovation, including software, through a specifically focused High-Value Trade Secret program. Our patents, as always, reflect our dedication to innovation, and our industry-leading portfolio as of the end of 2022 now has more than 365 patents and more than 185 pending applications, spread across microinverters, batteries, EV supply equipment, grid and microgrid interaction, our supporting hardware and software suite, and various components and technologies within these major categories. We expect this protection to grow exponentially in the years ahead, owing both to our increased innovation and our focus on enhancing our intellectual property position. Chart 4: Patents and pending applications Patents Pending Applications “Falling between the discrete forms of intellectual property, we protect all our confidential information with confidentiality agreements, both with employees and external parties.” As a leading international brand, we also protect our trademarks and have a portfolio of more than 100 unique trademarks, both registered and unregistered. This includes pending marks in more than 40 countries. Our domain protection reflects similar intensity as we continue to expand internationally. We emphasize protection of our copyrights as well, where we restrict any use of Enphase copyrighted content without an express license granted by our intellectual property team. Falling between the discrete forms of intellectual property, we protect all our confidential information with confidentiality agreements, both with employees and external parties. All our R&D personnel have additionally entered into invention assignment agreements with the company, requiring employees to assign to us all the inventions, designs, and technologies they develop during their employment with us. While we expect others to respect our intellectual property, we similarly respect the rights of others, routinely evaluating relevant portfolios for freedom-to-operate, rigidly enforcing internal open-source consumption policies, observing Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) copyright takedown procedures, and ensuring that we are honoring others’ intellectual property rights. 