People At Enphase, we strive to be a great place to work by recruiting and retaining the best, embracing diversity, equity, and inclusion, providing opportunities for learning and development, and cultivating a safe and healthy work environment. P1. Company demographics Geographic headcount Employee headcount 2,8213,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 2,260  850  577427336  2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 P2. Recruiting and retaining the best We are committed to attracting the best talent and developing a strong group of employees from diverse backgrounds. Our robust talent management program includes university outreach, global recruitment, career progression, and leadership development — empowering our employees to reach their full potential and find work satisfaction. Recruitment and onboarding We leverage various employee referral programs, seek talent from specialized conferences, including university recruitment, and work with recruiting agencies to supply a diverse slate of candidates for each job opportunity. In addition, our talent acquisition department sponsors events, partners with multiple student organizations on university campuses, makes certain all published job descriptions contain inclusive language, and ensures that interview teams are broadly represented.  Once hired, our world-class, scalable, and blended model for new employee onboarding and training creates an environment where all employees feel welcomed, supported, and valued. Buddy Up! As part of our new employee onboarding, every new employee is paired with a colleague who is a go-to person for the new employee. The buddy provides assistance and information during the settling-in period and ensures that the new employee is engaged and supported, especially when working remotely. Our buddies benefit from improved self-confidence and the ability to hone managerial and leadership skills. Over 120 buddies received positive recognition in the first six months of launching the program. Employee wellness, engagement, and satisfaction The physical, social, emotional, and financial needs of our employees and their families guide our global wellness program. Accordingly, our employees worldwide are paid competitive wages and are provided retirement saving programs, paid vacation days, sick leave, subsidized health insurance plans, employee assistance programs (EAPs), virtual fitness programs, and other benefits according to local regulations. All employees are eligible for awards of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and quarterly cash bonuses, and can participate (where available) in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). We conduct an annual Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) and employee engagement survey. This survey drives our employee engagement plans and activities for the upcoming year. Each function and business unit also prepares its own action plans for the year based on the survey results and feedback. “Our ability to innovate relies on hiring the best and valuing the perspectives and knowledge from employees across a broad range of backgrounds and experiences.” P3. Embracing diversity, equity, and inclusion Our ability to innovate relies on hiring the best and valuing the perspectives and knowledge from employees across a broad range of backgrounds and experiences. We ensure our leaders and employees at all levels of the organization work with each other to foster an inclusive culture and mindset, and continuously improve our interactions with each other, our partners, our customers, and our communities. In 2022, we formed our DEI Council, which is charged with raising awareness of our global DEI strategy, focused on hiring, engagement, retention, and development efforts to achieve a world-class workforce that is inclusive and diverse. Eliminating bias and ensuring equal opportunity We address the topic of “unconscious bias” in training available to recruiters, hiring managers, and interviewers to ensure inclusive hiring practices. Through our “Interviewing the Enphase Way” and “Hiring the Enphase Way” philosophies and training programs, we evaluate candidates on merit and do not fall victim to prejudice or discrimination. We do not tolerate discrimination of any kind based on race, color, sex, gender, gender expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, or any other protected characteristic as outlined by federal, state, or local laws. This policy applies to all employment practices within our organization, including hiring, recruiting, promotion, termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence, compensation, benefits, training, and apprenticeship. Table 5: Gender diversity Employee group  Female (%)  Male (%)  Not disclosed (%)  Executive officers (16)  25.0  75.0  0.0  Leadership (208)  12.5  81.3  6.2  Managers (462)  15.1  81.2  3.7  All employees (2,821)  18.1  72.6  9.3  Table 6: Ethnic diversity Ethnicity  All employees (No. 2,821) (%)  Leadership (No. 208) (%)  Managers (No. 462) (%)  American Indian or Alaska Native (not Hispanic or Latino)  0.6  0.0  0.2  Asian (not Hispanic or Latino)  49.3  47.6  57.8  Black or African American (not Hispanic or Latino)  1.2  0.0  0.4  Hispanic or Latino  4.8  1.9  2.8  Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (not Hispanic or Latino)  0.4  0.5  0.2  Two or more races (not Hispanic or Latino)  1.2  1.9  1.3  Not disclosed  16.1  11.1  8.9  White (not Hispanic or Latino)  26.4  37.0  28.4  Table 7: Age diversity Employee group  < 30 Years (%)  31-50 Years (%)  > 50 Years (%)  Not disclosed (%)  Leadership (208)  0.0  56.7  39.9  3.4  Managers (462)  5.9  72.5  19.9  1.7  All employees (2,821)  35.8  50.7  10.7  2.8  DEI organizations and partnerships Avtar and Seramount In 2022, Avtar, India’s premier DEI solutions firm, along with Seramount, a strategic professional services firm dedicated to advancing DEI in the workplace in the United States, conducted the seventh successive edition of the Best Companies for Women in India (BCWI) and the Most Inclusive Companies Index (MICI) in 2022. Enphase received two awards — “Top 100 Best Companies for Women in India” and “Exemplar of Inclusion.” These awards honor Enphase’s unbiased, focused efforts towards identifying and developing diverse talent and adopting leading practices in DEI areas. CEO Action for D&I Enphase’s CEO signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge in 2021, joining more than 2,000 other CEOs, to act on supporting more inclusive workplaces. We continued our pledge to promote diversity in our leadership team and began to implement changes focused on attracting more qualified and diverse talent into the company. The pledge also challenges us to evolve our hiring practices to be more inclusive, including with all new executive- and Board-level positions. ParityPledge Enphase is a signatory to the corporate “ParityPledge,” alongside a significant number of established corporations in support of women and people of color in the workplace. We are continuing to honor the pledge goal, which requires a commitment to interview and consider at least one qualified woman and person of color for every open role, vice president and higher, including C-suite and the Board. SEIA DEIJ Certification Program In 2022, Enphase joined forces with the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) to help advocate for diversity and inclusion in the solar industry. SEIA’s Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Justice (DEIJ) program increases social awareness by promoting solar companies that become certified. A company participating in the DEIJ program can earn certification for their work on these issues, allowing SEIA to showcase a company’s progress in this space and educate other member companies through various programs, training, and resource development. SEIA’s DEIJ database provides resources that assist us in expanding our own internal diversity programs. Women in Cleantech & Sustainability Enphase continued its partnership with Women in Cleantech & Sustainability (WCS), an organization that fosters an influential network of professionals to further the roles of women in growing the green economy and making a positive impact on the environment. By supporting WCS, we are helping to shine a light on the need for more women in cleantech and fostering support for clean energy with participation in events and mentorship opportunities. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 P4. Developing our people ‘Experience-Exposure-Education’ learning model Our learning model is designed to enable the majority of knowledge gained from job-related experiences, followed by learning from coaching and mentoring, and participating in formal learning events. This model reinforces our belief that learning is not just a result of functional responsibility — it goes beyond formal training. Learning and development are therefore embedded into daily work, cross-functional interactions, informal mentoring, and stretch assignments. Enphase Learning Academy Last year we built the Enphase Learning Academy, our employee resource learning center. The Academy utilizes EdCast’s Learning Experience Platform (LXP) and serves as a centralized learning hub for all employees. The Enphase Learning Academy brings together internal, external, formal, and informal sources of learning and knowledge in a simple, easy-to-use interface. The platform uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to personalize the content, driving an intuitive user experience for our employees. Apart from self-paced learning, we offer talks on niche technical topics, webinars on wellness and work-life balance, management development modules, and functional product and technical training programs. ‘Ennovate’ – Enphase’s innovation program Innovation is a core value at Enphase and is key to the long-term success of our company. Ennovate, Enphase’s annual company hackathon program, is one of those programs that drives innovation at Enphase. In 2022, the Ennovate program solicited ideas from employees across three broad themes - software, systems, and business processes. We received 130 stunning ideas of which 29 were shortlisted for review by our executive team, funded by Enphase for demo and prototype creation, and the best ideas were awarded with a cash prize based on their novelty and business potential. Education Assistance Program Our Education Assistance Program (EAP) offers qualifying employees financial support to advance their educational goals and increase their business knowledge. In 2022, Enphase enhanced its regional budget for this benefit, enabling employees to choose from a better and wider range of courses offered by education institutions. Enphase behavioral competency framework Competencies play a critical role in organizational success in that they define the skills, behaviors, and attributes for all roles. In 2022, Enphase launched its behavioral competency framework, which includes a set of core capabilities, as well as additional competencies that may be required for specific tasks or responsibilities. These competencies have become the core of internal employee practices such as hiring, performance evaluation, and development. “In 2022, Enphase had zero reportable notices of health and safety violations, worldwide.” *North America operations P5. Promoting a safe and healthy workplace Occupational Health and Safety Enphase’s Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) program has implemented a culture of safety compliance, framed on identifying hazards, minimizing workplace risks, and promoting continuous improvement in safety performance. The U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Health & Safety Administration (OSHA) guidelines are the building blocks for our OHS program in the U.S. and provide significant influence over the development of our OHS systems globally. The OHS program either complies with or exceeds the occupational health and safety regulations in the countries where we operate. We continually monitor and evaluate our OHS program. In 2022, we updated the OHS policy’s strategic direction, guiding principles, and relevant responsibilities for management, employees, and the newly formed Enphase Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) team. Our EHS team is led by a safety professional trained and certified by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP). In 2022, Enphase had zero reportable notices of health and safety violations, worldwide. Workplace accident and injury rates Enphase uses OSHA definitions to calculate recordable incidents, lost time, and restricted-day injuries. These definitions are also implemented globally for data gathering and analysis. As a result of these efforts, our recordable incidents, lost-time, and restricted-day injuries are below industry averages published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Table 8: Accident and injury rates* Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  Days Away, Restricted, Transfer (DART)  Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)  Cases with Job Transfer or Restriction  Other Recordable Cases  Fatality Rate  Enphase Energy  0.09  0.09  0.04  0.05  0  0  Industry Benchmark4  2.7  1.7  1.1  0.6  1  No data  4 NAICS 221114, Solar Electric Power Generation ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 “We believe access to energy helps to reduce poverty, improve health, reduce inequality, and raise standards of living.” P6. Responsible supply chain Our commitment to human rights We acknowledge our responsibility to protect, preserve, and promote human rights around the world. As we expand our global reach and impact, the need for vigilance and due diligence regarding human rights issues throughout our operations will grow. We are committed to ensuring that the people and communities impacted by our business are able to live a life of liberty, dignity, and respect. Our internal codes and policies on human rights are rooted in established frameworks and conventions including: • United Nations Declaration on Human Rights • The Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) • The United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) • The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Beyond the fundamental rights defined in these frameworks and conventions, we also consider access to clean, reliable, and affordable energy as a basic human right and a prerequisite for achieving the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We believe access to energy helps to reduce poverty, improve health, reduce inequality, and raise standards of living. For more information, please refer to our Human Rights Policy. Business relationships We seek to do business with those who share our values and commitment to human rights and expect all business partners to abide by our codes of conduct. We promote awareness and respect for human rights across the value chain, including the adoption of contractual clauses and supplier screening measures. Grievance mechanisms are available, including the use of an anonymous third-party whistleblower hotline when instances of non-compliance with the Enphase Energy Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct) or our Supplier Code of Conduct are observed or reported. Corrective actions are taken by managers, executive sponsors, and the Audit Committee of the Board when appropriate. At a minimum, we expect our business partners to uphold basic human rights pertaining to minimum wage, maximum working hours, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, corporal punishment and disciplinary practices, acceptable living conditions, non-discrimination, and compliance with health and safety laws as defined in domestic and international conventions and frameworks. “We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory compliance requirements in all the countries in which we operate and sell.” Eradicating forced labor and human trafficking in supply chains We take the issues of slavery and human trafficking very seriously and will continue doing our part by responsibly managing our supply chain to help eradicate human trafficking and slavery. As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, our suppliers must not support, promote, or engage in the practice of forced labor, child labor, slavery, or human trafficking. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers, next-tier suppliers, and subcontractors to comply with all international standards and applicable laws regarding slavery and human trafficking and to conduct due diligence on their operations to verify compliance that the materials used in our products comply with laws regarding human trafficking and slavery. Also see our California Transparency in Supply Chains Disclosure. We are committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices, and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery across our operations and supply chain. We continuously monitor and evaluate our processes for assessing supply chain risk exposure, with regular updates provided to the Board of Directors. Materials sourcing and conflict minerals We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory compliance requirements in all the countries in which we operate and sell. We do not use cobalt in our batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of being sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other conflict-affected areas associated with unfair labor practices. We expect our suppliers to source materials and operate in a responsible manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our conflict minerals disclosure on responsible sourcing is updated annually and filed with the SEC and posted on our website. For additional information, please refer to our most recent conflict minerals report and conflict minerals policy. We expect our suppliers to acknowledge and agree to the following terms with respect to conflict minerals: • to meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act • to provide us with conflict mineral content and country of origin information on products supplied to us • to cooperate in our or independent third-party auditing of the supply chain and procurement process, conflict mineral audits, and due diligence on its suppliers, and • to collaborate with us in developing a chain of custody for conflict minerals in the supply chain and identifying and sourcing conflict-free sources for minerals used in our products. “The success of our products would not be possible without positive and long-lasting relationships with suppliers and partners that share our values of quality, design, and sustainability.” Supplier selection and auditing The success of our products would not be possible without positive and long-lasting relationships with suppliers and partners that share our values of quality, design, and sustainability. We work closely with all our contract manufacturers -from onboarding to customer delivery — to ensure that our products are made while adhering to the highest ethical, environmental, and socially responsible standards. We provide a Supplier Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our expectations of new and existing partners. We are committed to producing high quality, reliable, and cost-effective products that are shipped on time, provide customer value, and conform to national and international requirements. We, along with our customers, demand and expect defect-free products and services. Potential suppliers are rigorously screened for quality, including performance on environmental and social factors. Screening and assessment criteria cover: 