Governance We combine strong internal governance with clear communication to ensure that stakeholder goals and objectives translate into actionable business practices by all Enphase employees. To support our commitment to drive the adoption of sustainable clean energy solutions for our customers, we participate in the development of policies and regulations around the world as part of our core governance principles. G1. Business ethics At Enphase, we believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect. We have adopted the Enphase Energy Code of Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) that applies to all officers, directors, employees, contractors, and consultants. It provides general guidelines to ensure proper and ethical behavior, compliance with laws, and compliance with our standards, policies, and procedures. Outlined in the Code of Conduct are topics pertaining to anti-corruption, insider trading, health and safety, conflicts of interest, competition, and others. Enphase is committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere that we operate. We also provide information about our Whistleblower policy, an anonymous platform for reporting violations of the Code of Conduct. Concerns are investigated promptly with the highest level of confidentiality. Employees also have the option to report any suspicious or unethical activity to their manager, human resources, or the legal department, directly. G2. Risk management We work collectively to mitigate and address all the top risks affecting our company’s ability to meet its stated objectives. Our ERM Committee annually identifies and assesses key company risks and monitors risk mitigation efforts. To determine risks year-over-year, 80 risk events are assessed by approximately 60 cross functional employees. We look at risks associated with governance, integrity, employee satisfaction, finance, IT, and business processes. The same employees are also asked to provide input on top risks impacting the company. A robust methodology then combines risk responses and evaluates risk likelihood, impact, and velocity to rank risks by priority. Top risks are identified for every business unit and presented to our Board of Directors. Risk leaders are identified across the company to help mitigate existing risks and proactively address emerging risk factors. Important characteristics of our ERM program are the inclusion of risk inputs from all levels (all geographies and cost centers - executive, operations, finance, IT, among others) and treating risks in the collective. This holistic approach to risk management considers how individual risks interrelate and assists in coordinating risk management strategies spanning all functions of the company. ERM program participants are given absolute assurance that responses are anonymous and individual survey responses are held in confidence. The ERM program is designed to deliver an aggregation of knowledge sharing from our employees on specific risk topics and to accumulate information on areas of opportunity and concern for action by leadership. “We believe that cross industry collaboration is also critical to address challenges in technology development, grid integration and systems capacity, and permitting.” G3. Management of energy infrastructure and related regulations We track market and regulatory requirements that impact our business and play an active role in the development of new standards for the solar industry. We believe that cross industry collaboration is also critical to address challenges in technology development, grid integration and systems capacity, and permitting. We collaborate with national labs, government agencies, and university research groups to develop innovative solutions that enable more efficient and sustainable products. We work closely with the California Solar and Storage Association (CALSSA) to rationalize requirements for both commercial and residential energy storage systems. In 2020, we collaborated with the California Office of the State Fire Marshal to clarify and harmonize the language set forth by the California Fire Code (CFC) and California Residential Code (CRC). This language was approved unanimously by the California State Building Standards Commission and will be reflected nationally in the next edition of the International Residential Code (IRC) and International Fire Code (IFC). We are proud to have influenced this decision that fosters alignment in requirements for energy storage limits. Enphase identified a significant barrier within the National Electrical Code which would block the adoption of Energy Storage Systems (ESS). Through our ongoing participation on the National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) Code Making Panel 4, we successfully submitted proposals for the creation of a new section in the 2020 edition of the National Electrical Code. This new section acknowledges the ability of Power Control Systems (PCS) to limit currents to safe levels, thereby eliminating this impediment to the deployment of ESS. Enphase then formed and led a ULTask Group to develop the corresponding product safety and performance standard necessary for compliance with the new National Electrical Code requirements. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Electric Power Resource institute (EPRI) have both recognized the potential benefits of PCS and the scheduling function. Enphase also partners with numerous prestigious universities throughout the United States to promote technological innovation, conduct research, and engage in development projects, including projects funded by the Department of Energy, relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy.