MANAGING EMISSIONSMethane Emissions and Year-Over-Year VarianceEOG continued to reduce methane emissions across our operations. Our focused efforts on flare reductions, increased accuracy of emissions calculations, and pneumatic controllers and pump conversions contributed to reducing our methane intensity rate by 13% and our methane emissions percentage by 25%, meeting our 2025 methane emissions percentage target of 0.06%.   We will work to maintain our strong methane emissions reduction performance and assess further target setting opportunities. Our ongoing focus will be to implement operational improvements and evaluate technologies and methodologies that advance our ability to detect and quantify methane emissions. For example, we piloted our continuous methane leak detection system, iSense, in 2021. Our efforts to collect, integrate, and analyze data from our operations through applications like iSense enable us to deploy resources more effectively to help minimize methane emissions. (See In Focus — iSense Continuous Leak Detection System on 
page 24 for additional information.)  A note regarding methane emissions metrics: We present our methane emissions both as an intensity rate relative to our total gross operated production and as a percentage metric relative solely to our natural gas production. We believe presenting these two methane metrics allows for consistency with the other GHG metrics presented in this report and greater comparability with peer reporting and industry target setting frameworks, which vary in calculation methodology.SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS For 2021, our indirect Scope 2 emissions from our U.S. operations were 389,865 metric tons CO2e, or approximately 8% of the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from our U.S. operations.OTHER AIR EMISSIONSIn this year’s report, we began disclosing other air emissions, including sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, and volatile organic compounds, from our U.S. operations. For more information on the metrics and calculation methodology, see the Data Tear Sheet 
starting on page 6 and Definitions on page 67. MANAGING EMISSIONSTHE ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIPEOG is a member of The Environmental Partnership, a collaborative effort of more than 90 oil and natural gas companies committed to continuously improving environmental performance in member operations across the country. The Partnership’s goals include accelerating methane emissions reductions through specific environmental performance programs that members have committed to implementing within their operations and providing a platform for the industry to collaborate with stakeholders and share best practices and new technologies. See the accompanying table for more information on EOG’s implementation of The Environmental Partnership’s programs.CDPConsistent with our commitment to transparency, EOG participates in the CDP’s climate change and water programs. Our participation in these programs allows investors and the public to better understand the climate-change-related aspects of our business and our water stewardship practices.EOG 2021 ProgressEOG successfully replaced, removed, or retrofitted all high-bleed pneumatic controllers by the end of 2019. Additionally, EOG continued converting low-bleed and intermittent-vent pneumatic controllers to instrument air in 2021.In 2021, EOG surveyed over 5,100 sites and completed over 12,600 surveys.100% of manual liquid unloading events performed in 2021 were monitored by personnel.EOG is committed to reducing routine flaring of associated gas. EOG had a U.S. wellhead gas capture rate of 99.8% for 2021. We have also committed to companywide zero routine 
flaring by 2025.Environmental Partnership Goals A program to replace, remove, or retrofit 
high-bleed pneumatic controllers.A leak detection and repair program for natural gas and oil production facilities.The monitoring of the manual liquids unloading process on natural gas wells to prevent 
wellhead venting.A flare management program to reduce flaring of associated gas from oil production.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportHydraulic FracturingHydraulic fracturing is part of certain well completion processes. It entails pumping pressurized fluid into underground formations to create tiny fractures or spaces that allow crude oil and natural gas to flow more easily from the reservoir into the well so that it can be brought to the surface. This enables EOG to produce crude oil and natural gas from formations that would otherwise not be recoverable.Hydraulic fracturing technology has been safely 
used by the oil and gas industry for decades. More than 1 million wells have been hydraulically fractured, and the technique is constantly being refined to improve the stimulation of a well and maximize reserve recovery.EOG takes numerous steps to conduct our hydraulic fracturing operations safely and responsibly. 
They include the following steps.BASELINE GROUNDWATER TESTINGA key component of EOG’s water management practices is the performance of baseline water sampling prior to drilling a well in a new area. When testing in areas where regulatory requirements have not been established, we use an internal sampling program based on best practices developed by state and local authorities. Samples are sent to certified third-party laboratories for independent testing.WELLBORE INTEGRITYPrior to drilling any well, EOG performs a site-specific analysis to determine the design and techniques that will be implemented to maintain the integrity of the wellbore throughout the geologic formations the well will intersect. To maintain wellbore integrity, we use cement isolation of casing string, which are lengths of steel pipe. Other standard practices include surface casing tests and annular pressure monitoring. •	Surface casing is the primary steel pipe to be set in the vertical wellbore. This section of casing can run several thousand feet deep and performs many functions including the protection of shallow water aquifers, if present. The integrity of the surface casing is tested prior to flowing the well as a further measure of protection.•	Annular pressure is the pressure that exists in the space between the well casing and internal production tubing. To protect wellbore casing, we establish a maximum allowable annular pressure for each well we operate and monitor this pressure through the life of the well. We engage with industry groups and regulators to incorporate evolving technologies and best practices into state regulations for wellbore integrity.MINIMIZING CHEMICAL ADDITIVESWhile chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing fluid are typically less than 1% of the fluids used, an ongoing focus of EOG is to further minimize the amount of chemicals used to complete our wells.TRANSPARENCYEOG publicly discloses the fracturing fluids used for 100% of our well completions on the industry website FracFocus.org (hosted by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission).Water ManagementEOG is focused on responsibly managing the water used, produced, transported, treated, stored, and disposed of across our operations in a cost-effective and environmentally sustainable manner. This includes a water sourcing strategy centered on reducing freshwater use and implementing or expanding water reuse where feasible. WATER MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT 
AND TECHNOLOGYEOG’s strategic water resources team (SWRT) is responsible for overseeing the management of water resources across our operations. The SWRT is led by our companywide Director of Water Resources and includes water management representatives from each of our operating area offices. Every oil and natural gas producing region has unique risks and opportunities regarding water, from identifying sources and reuse options to determining best methods for water transportation and disposal. The SWRT collaborates with multiple disciplines within EOG and local water management teams to determine water quality and quantity needs, develop multiple water source options and scenarios, and maximize reuse options with the goal of also minimizing disposal needs.EOG also addresses the unique risks and opportunities regarding water in each of our operating areas by:•	Engaging with stakeholders in the communities where we operate to better understand the characteristics of the region and to discuss and collaborate on our water management plans.•	Developing proprietary desktop and mobile applications to support our water management approach and report key water metrics, including real-time water reuse.•	Evaluating the full life cycle of water used in our operations, from acquisition through transportation, storage, production, treatment, reuse, and disposal.•	Conducting a comprehensive evaluation of available sources of water in each of our operating areas, including water reuse and conservation options.•	Developing water transportation infrastructure to maximize the use of pipelines to move water and reduce truck traffic.•	Leveraging our SWRT to accelerate the implementation of best practices throughout 
the company.SOURCES OF WATEREOG uses various sources of water, including surface water, fresh, and nonfreshwater aquifers, and produced water that is recycled and reused.When sourcing water, we focus on reducing freshwater use as much as possible by implementing or expanding reuse capabilities and using nonfreshwater sources, where feasible. Availability of water sources can vary significantly based on a number of factors, including geography, drilling and completion activity levels, production levels, and available infrastructure. Therefore, our approach to water management can differ between operating areas.We evaluate water sourcing options through our SWRT, local water management teams, Trident proprietary water management tool, and third-party analytical tools and studies.Our proactive and innovative approach to water management has resulted in significant achievements in increasing the water sourced from reuse and reducing freshwater use. In 2021, 91% of the water we sourced across our U.S. operations was from reuse or nonfreshwater sources, reducing our total freshwater use percentage to less than 10%. In our Permian Basin operations, over 99% of the water we sourced was from reuse or nonfreshwater sources in 2021, reducing our freshwater use in the Permian Basin to less than 1%. For more information regarding the definitions used for the water sources discussed in this section, see page 69 of the Appendix.Nonfresh WaterEOG is committed to conserving water resources in the communities in which we operate. We take steps to minimize overall freshwater usage, which includes the use of nonfreshwater sources. When sourcing nonfresh water, EOG targets sources that are not primarily utilized as public drinking water sources. Water ReuseWe continue to expand our reuse infrastructure to help us minimize our use of fresh water and reuse produced water. As of year-end 2021, nearly all of our operating areas have some level of reuse capability.The percentage of water we sourced from reuse for our operations has steadily increased over the past three years. In 2021, we increased the percentage of total water we sourced from reuse for our U.S. operations to 55%, up from 46% in 2020, and we believe that this percentage will continue to increase in 2022.Managing Produced Water and Maximizing 
Reuse CapabilityWe have implemented processes and infrastructure designed to reuse or safely dispose of produced water, with a focus on expanding our reuse capabilities. For example, we have implemented automated spill detection technology on our reuse collection ponds and water pipelines where applicable (see page 33). We also follow spill prevention and containment processes when transporting, storing, and treating produced water. We have installed pipelines and temporary, lay-flat hoses to transport produced water in many of our operating areas. These pipelines not only help us increase our ability to reuse water but also reduce the potential for spills compared to trucking water as well as our impacts on roads, road safety risks, and trucking-related emissions. We have also installed dual-purpose water lines that can support sourcing and gathering of produced water for reuse. Optimizing reuse capability is facilitated by our Trident water management tool. (See page 31 
for more.)In areas where produced water cannot be reused, we take measures to responsibly handle and dispose of it at sites that are approved and permitted by the appropriate regulatory authorities. EOG periodically conducts regulatory assessments of these disposal facilities to monitor compliance with applicable regulations. Where possible, we prioritize moving water to disposal through pipelines rather than 
by truck.FRESHWATER INTENSITY RATETo assess performance and support our focus on minimizing freshwater use, we track the freshwater intensity of our operations. Our 2021 freshwater intensity rate was 0.05 barrels of fresh water per barrel of oil equivalent. This rate decreased by 55% in 2021, reflecting the success of our continued efforts to reduce freshwater use by expanding our water reuse infrastructure and identifying and utilizing nonfreshwater sources.In addition to freshwater intensity, we report our total water intensity rate and intensity rates for the other sources of water used in our operations — nonfresh and reuse. We also track and report absolute water use. See the Data Tear Sheet starting on page 6 for additional water data.	For information regarding the methodology used for the water metrics in this section, including the formulas and definitions, see the Appendix starting on page 65.	LIFE CYCLE APPROACH TO WATER MANAGEMENTUseUse fresh, nonfresh, and/or 
reuse water during operational activities such as drilling and completion activities.ProduceWater produced during oil and natural gas production operations.Focus On:Expanding and utilizing 
water reuse infrastructure to help minimize the use 
of fresh water and produced water disposalWithdrawSource fresh and nonfresh water for operations.DisposeDispose of excess produced water.ReuseProduced water handled and treated in EOG-owned/operated water infrastructure for reuse in operations.	WATER MANAGEMENTLEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY TO SUPPORT OUR APPROACH TO WATER MANAGEMENT EOG’s proprietary desktop and mobile applications support our ability to make well-informed, targeted decisions from executive-level oversight to decisions in the field. Trident, one of our proprietary desktop and mobile applications, is central to many of our initiatives for addressing water risks and opportunities in our operating areas. We developed and piloted Trident in 2018, and we are continuing to assess opportunities for expanding implementation and functionality of this tool.Trident supports the evaluation and development of an advanced planning, location-specific water management approach. For example, it facilitates our efforts to optimize the use and management of water resources across our operations. It provides map-based visualizations of our infrastructure, allowing for location-specific scenario planning for water sourcing, storage, and transportation. It also provides real-time operational control to prevent bottlenecks, anticipate takeaway needs, minimize trucking of water, and promote reuse opportunities. By combining topographic information with automated shut-off valves in the field, Trident also helps manage temporary water lines in our reuse infrastructure (see page 32) and supports our efforts to prevent and mitigate spills. (See page 33 for more.)In addition, we have incorporated map-based tools based on the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) Aqueduct tool into Trident to enhance our ability to evaluate water scarcity in our operations.WATER MANAGEMENTIn 2021, we continued to increase the 
amount of water we transport by pipelines instead of trucks. This not only improves our ability to reuse water and our overall operational efficiency, but also significantly reduces spill and road safety risks, and trucking-related emissions.Over 95%of total water transported via pipe in 2021EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportSpill Prevention and ManagementEOG’s goal is to proactively minimize and seek to eliminate the risk of spills. Spill prevention is integrated into our operational planning processes. For example, we install secondary containment under our crude oil and produced water storage tanks. Additionally, our produced water reuse system infrastructure uses specially engineered, double-lined water storage facilities with leak detection technologies such as pond-level detectors.Each operating area has spill prevention and management plans. These plans include site-specific information on spill prevention and control, countermeasures, waste management, and flow-line integrity. If a spill does occur, our spill prevention and management plans are designed to facilitate quick containment of the spill and implement recovery efforts to minimize environmental impact. We conduct regular training to review plan requirements and personnel responsibilities, including incident response training focused on responding to emergencies.Proactive asset integrity maintenance and facility improvements are also important elements of our approach to spill prevention, as they help to address potential risks associated with infrastructure over time, such as corrosion. For example, we perform regular inspections and maintenance of relevant equipment including tanks, compressors, pipelines, line heads, and pumps. A cross-functional group supports our asset integrity efforts and facilitates innovation and communication of new ideas and lessons learned across our operating areas.Automating Spill Prevention and ManagementWe have also implemented a range of remote monitoring and automated spill prevention systems. For example, our control centers in our most active areas, which are staffed 24 hours a day, continuously monitor pump volumes, line pressure, and other operational parameters to proactively identify potential issues that could result in a release or other operational upset.We are also continuing to expand implementation of our iDetect proprietary leak detection software. This technology uses sensors to detect potential leaks in real time on flow lines, gathering systems, and lay-flat lines for temporary water transfers, including reuse water systems. If a potential leak is detected, iDetect sends an alarm notification directly to the mobile devices of our field personnel, which includes a full description and volume estimate of the potential leak. We integrated iDetect into other automation systems in our control centers, allowing remote monitoring in our most active areas and shutdowns if a leak is detected. Additionally, iDetect facilitates spill prevention by providing data to evaluate the origins of leaks and better plan our facility and pipeline designs.OIL AND PRODUCED WATER SPILLS 
AND RECOVERYEOG tracks and documents the volume, number, and rate of oil spills and the volume of produced water spills from our U.S. operations, as well as the recovery volumes from those spills. We also consider our oil spill rate performance in our executive compensation program.EOG has historically reported oil spills outside of primary containment that were greater than five barrels, because it is the most common regulatory spill reporting threshold for our primary operating areas. In our 2020 Sustainability Report, we began disclosing oil and produced water spills greater than one barrel to be more consistent with industry peer reporting. While we have continued that practice 
this year, we are also disclosing the total number of 
oil spills. 	For more information regarding our spill metrics, including the relevant definitions and the regulatory oil spill reporting requirements (i.e., volume thresholds) for our primary operating areas, see the Appendix starting on page 65 and the Data Tear Sheet starting on page 6.In 2021, our oil spill rate for spills greater than one barrel increased by 50% and our produced water spill volume increased 57% from 2020. The increases in 2021 were a result of operational challenges and conditions experienced during Winter Storm Uri. In response, we enhanced our winterization plan for critical equipment and will continue to focus on preventative maintenance. These efforts will be supported by our cross-functional group focused on asset integrity and facilities innovation. (See page 33 for more.)In 2021, we recovered 66% of oil from spills over five barrels and 64% of oil from spills over one barrel. We also recovered 66% of the total volume of our produced water spills over one barrel.SPILL PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES We use multiple methods to help us reduce spill risks, including:•	Site-specific spill prevention and response plans •	Regular equipment inspections and preventative maintenance  •	Secondary containment on tanks•	“Nearly full” tank alarms•	Control-center-based continuous monitoring and remote shut-off capabilities in our most active areas•	Automated and remote leak monitoring and detection technology, including our proprietary iDetectSM softwareSPILL PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENTEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportBiodiversity and Land StewardshipEOG is committed to environmental stewardship throughout the life cycle of our operations, which includes integrating biodiversity and land conservation in the planning and management of our exploration and production activities and subsequent restoration. We also partner with local stakeholders, including community groups, government agencies, and academic institutions, at various stages of project development and operation to help conserve local habitats and wildlife and collaborate on initiatives that go beyond our regulatory requirements.APPROACH TO BIODIVERSITY AND LAND USE MANAGEMENT Our approach to managing biodiversity and land use seeks to focus on avoidance, and then to minimize, mitigate, and offset impacts. We tailor our approach to address the unique biodiversity and surface features, risks, and opportunities for each site. This includes conducting pre-development assessments and ongoing monitoring to help avoid and minimize potential impacts and to support successful site reclamation and restoration. We include third-party experts in these reviews as relevant.As part of our predevelopment process, we evaluate locations to identify site characteristics. These reviews include desktop assessments for a range of features (see accompanying box). In locations where more information may be needed, or to confirm our desktop analysis, we undertake site visits that include a multidisciplinary team of EOG personnel, contractors, regulators, and other stakeholders as relevant.We seek to locate well pads and other operations where they will avoid impacts to biodiversity or cultural resources. We also seek to downsize and centralize our drilling and production facilities and use directional and horizontal drilling technology with longer laterals to reduce our overall surface footprint. During facility construction and operations, we monitor and adjust our activities to minimize 
potential impacts. After active operations are complete, we undertake restoration and reclamation. This can include reducing well pad footprints as well as restoring impacted surface areas after active construction, drilling, and completions work is finished to minimize impacts for wells with ongoing production. We also restore surface impacts related to permanent and temporary pipelines and access roads once those are no longer needed for ongoing operations.Once production activities are completed we decommission wells, including site restoration and reclamation. We have regulatory and contractual responsibilities to remove assets, including the plugging and abandonment of wells at the end of oil and natural gas production operations. This process involves a number of steps:•	An internal multidisciplinary team including land, geology, production, and reservoir engineering personnel reviews the well and develops a well closure plan. •	Where required, EOG notifies the appropriate state or federal agency of the plan to plug and abandon the well and provides a closure plan with a wellbore closure diagram. •	Existing surface production equipment is removed and reused at other locations where possible, and equipment that cannot be reused is salvaged.•	Wells are plugged by filling former production zones with intervals of cement pursuant to relevant state or federal regulations on the size and depth of cement plugs. •	Once the well is plugged, remaining surface equipment is removed and surface restoration commences.Beyond our legal, regulatory, and contractual obligations, we work in partnership with landowners and state and federal regulators to restore land in a manner that is responsive to the specific interests of the local communities.Management OversightEOG personnel from multiple functions, including S&E, operations, drilling, and production, participate in the predevelopment assessment processes. Executive leadership meets with operating areas throughout the year to review and discuss topics that can include biodiversity-related efforts.AVOIDING AND MINIMIZING 
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSThe following are examples of our efforts to avoid and minimize biodiversity impacts in our operations. Improving Biodiversity Assessment Data to Support Habitat AvoidanceIn 2020, we began using drones and fixed wing aircraft to support location assessments. We collect aerial imagery and light detection and ranging (LiDAR) remote sensing as part of our predevelopment planning in the Permian Basin in New Mexico. By combining this high-resolution aerial information with environmental data from national and state government sources, we are able to create three-dimensional elevation maps that enhance our ability to visualize and adjust well pad and infrastructure locations away from sensitive habitat areas and identify areas for targeted on-site surveys. We share these combined data sets with federal regulators to augment their assessment and management tools. We also use drone-based data collection to help identify raptor nesting locations near our well sites and relocate drilling pads outside of raptor nesting areas, as illustrated below.Avian Monitoring and Conservation Planning in the Powder River Basin Since 2014, EOG has led a study to develop better information on the territory and nesting patterns of Ferruginous Hawks, a raptor species that nests throughout the basin. Through a project developed with, and approved by, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management and the Wyoming Game & Fish Department, EOG has fitted 16 of these birds with GPS transmitters over the last seven years to provide real-time, year-round information on their movements and specific details on their breeding locations and migration patterns. This program has allowed us to better support the breeding and nesting of Ferruginous Hawks and manage our operations to avoid impacts to the hawks, including guiding the placement of drilling rigs and timing of our operations.  Protecting Species and Habitats Through Candidate Conservation Agreements EOG participates in collaborative programs between landowners, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and other entities to protect species that are listed as endangered (e.g., the Texas Hornshell Mussel) by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or are being considered for listing as threatened or endangered (e.g., the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard and Lesser Prairie Chicken) under the Endangered Species Act. Through these agreements, we commit to taking mitigative actions to protect certain sensitive areas and designated habitat zones or contributing funds to support habitat restoration and reclamation. Creating Owl Towns and Nesting Perches in the Permian Basin In 2019, we began implementing initiatives to improve nesting conditions for raptors and burrowing owls in our Permian Basin operations. Since then, we have worked with a biologist to install a total of 18 raptor nesting platforms and to create four “owl towns” with a total of 34 artificial burrows. We continue to monitor how the birds respond to these artificial perches and burrows, allowing us to modify and improve existing equipment and designs. RECLAIMING AND RESTORING LANDSWe work with landowners, local communities, and regulatory agencies to undertake reclamation and restoration projects that address the unique biodiversity issues of our sites and interests of local communities. Sagebrush Reseeding to Accelerate ReclamationIn Wyoming, EOG has collaborated with local stakeholders to reclaim land previously used as water reservoirs for drilling and production activities. EOG has worked with Wyoming regulators to plant sagebrush seedlings grown by Sheridan College students to reestablish vegetation and accelerate the restoration of native grasslands and scrublands. Based on the growth rates of these sagebrush seedlings, we are identifying future planning sites and evaluating how to enhance planting practices.Expanding on this work, during the summer of 2021, EOG personnel collected mature sagebrush from a new well site under development and replanted them at a reclamation site. For this pilot project, our team used special tree and shrub transplant equipment to move the plants while keeping the root mass and surrounding soil intact. The technique for preserving the root structure and accompanying soil supports faster plant reestablishment that benefits the habitats of local birds.Restoring Native Texas GrasslandsSince 2015, EOG has supported Texan by Nature, a collaborative partnership between natural resource users and conservation experts to promote conservation efforts that help sustain Texas’s working lands, water supplies, and wildlife. In the Eagle Ford, EOG is working in partnership with Texan by Nature and private landowners to create over 350 acres of native pollinator habitat by reseeding well pads, pipeline rights of way, and other areas associated with our leases with native grasses and nectar-producing plants. These grasses and plants can provide high-protein forage and food plots, which maintain and improve habitat conditions for the monarch butterfly and numerous other species in this migratory corridor. Additionally, the native grasses require less maintenance and are more drought tolerant than nonnative grasses. Since starting this project in 2019, over 60% of the 350-acre commitment has been or is planned to be planted, and we continue to identify additional sites for reseeding.SeismicityPREDEVELOPMENT SITE ASSESSMENTSAs part of our predevelopment site assessments we undertake desktop 
reviews for:•	Protected species and critical habitats •	Vegetation•	Wetlands and waters of the United States•	Hydrology•	Topography and soils•	Archaeological sites and cultural resources•	Other special features unique to an operational areaBIODIVERSITY AND LAND STEWARDSHIPWe work with landowners, local communities, and regulatory agencies to undertake reclamation and restoration projects that address the unique biodiversity issues of our sites and interests of local communities. 	Using Drone-Based Data Collection to Relocate Drilling Outside of Raptor Nesting Areas Raptor nest bufferPre-planned drilling pad locations originally consideredAdjusted drilling pad locations to conserve raptor nesting location based on comprehensive data made available through aerial surveys, biodiversity data sources, and three-dimensional modelingRaptor NestBIODIVERSITY AND LAND STEWARDSHIPBIODIVERSITY AND LAND STEWARDSHIPEOG takes a proactive approach to understanding seismic activity around our areas of operation. We collect and review available geologic data, including 3D seismic subsurface images. We deploy and help fund local seismic monitoring arrays in operating areas with active seismicity. We also monitor flow rates and pressures in our hydraulic fracturing and produced water disposal operations (see Water Reuse on page 32 for more information on produced water management). This information is integrated into our proprietary mapping and analysis applications to support the multidisciplinary analyses our staff undertake as part of our daily operations. Additionally, we work proactively with regulators by providing data and other deliverables to support their research and planning efforts.To advance industry knowledge regarding seismicity, we participate in research and other initiatives with other operators, trade organizations, and academic institutions. EOG sponsors scientific research through the Center for Integrated Seismicity Research, a research center managed by the Bureau of Economic Geology. We also serve on the Center for Integrated Seismicity Research Science Advisory Committee.