OUR COMMUNITIES EOG understands the importance of community engagement. We are a decentralized company, so a large number of our employees and their families are members of the communities in the areas where we operate. Since most of our operations in North America are in rural areas, we regularly interact with the property owners of the land on which we operate. We also proactively engage with others in the communities where we operate, including local community groups, civic leaders, elected officials and first responders. Respect for Cultures, Traditions and Indigenous Peoples EOG strives to respect human rights and native lands as well as to honor the traditions and the cultural, social and religious beliefs of others. We work to comply with local, tribal, state and federal laws that apply to our operations. While EOG does not have a large presence, we do have active operations on Native American lands, most notably at the Fort Berthold Reservation in North Dakota and at the Uintah and Ouray Reservation in Utah. EOG values our operations on the Native American lands in North Dakota and Utah, and partners with local Native American tribes. Various tribal members are employees of EOG, and we utilize Native American service providers in our operations. Engaging in Our Communities: Building and Preserving Our Relationships EOG and our employees appreciate how important it is to develop and maintain mutually beneficial relationships in the communities where we work and operate. The oil and natural gas industry provides many direct benefits to communities, such as diverse career opportunities, the purchase of local goods and services, royalty and lease payments to individuals and the government, and significant local and state tax revenue. At EOG, we also work to help preserve and improve the quality of life for those who live and work in our communities. Communities benefit from safe roads, first-rate schools, quality healthcare, affordable housing and a trained work force. As such, EOG supports numerous efforts to help improve these aspects of the lives of local citizens and to maintain close working relationships with our stakeholders. Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP) EOG is a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership. The PSP, which was formed by companies involved in the oil and gas industry in the Permian Basin region, is working in collaboration with citizens, community organizations, local leaders and elected officials to develop solutions to strengthen local communities in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. The PSP is focused on addressing community priorities that address the quality of life of those who live in the Permian Basin and ensure responsible oil and natural gas development. The PSP priorities include the following: • Improve  • Decrease the  • Increase local  transportation  current labor  access to quality  safety in the  force gap in the  healthcare,  Permian Basin,  Permian Basin,  • Expand the use  • Advocate  • Ensure job  of emerging  for public  openings are  technologies  funding for  being filled  and healthcare  Permian Basin  by skilled  models, and  transportation  candidates, and  • Advocate for  projects, and  • Increase the  programs  • Collaborate with  quality of  to improve  stakeholders to  workforce  wellness across  identify future  amenities across  the Permian  transportation  the region.  Basin.  needs.  • Attract teachers to the Permian Basin to address current teacher shortfalls, • Retain existing teachers by enhancing professional development offerings and developing strong school leadership and culture, and • Engage school districts and other education organizations to collaborate in addressing education issues in the Permian Basin. South Texas Energy & Economic Roundtable (STEER) EOG is also a founding member of the South Texas Energy & Economic Roundtable, which was formed by companies involved in the oil and natural gas industry in the Eagle Ford Shale region of Texas. STEER aims to ensure that the development of the Eagle Ford’s energy resources is accomplished in a manner that is mutually beneficial to the industry and communities throughout South Texas. STEER collaborates with stakeholders and community leaders to help identify educational opportunities for local school districts, and partners with those districts to host science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) events and provide resources that can be used in the classroom. The STEER organization also promotes workforce development, coordinates safety training with local first responders, collaborates on understanding and addressing environmental topics, and more. Charitable Donations and Volunteerism EOG gives back to the communities in which we operate. In 2018, EOG contributed $2.3 million to numerous charitable organizations across our operational footprint. In addition, under EOG’s matching gifts program, employees’ charitable contributions are matched dollar for dollar, up to $75,000 per employee per calendar year. EOG also matches employee pledges to annual United Way campaigns. In 2018, EOG employees contributed over $1.8 million under the matching gifts program and United Way campaigns. With EOG’s $1.8 million match, a total of almost $6.0 million in charitable donations was made by EOG and our employees in 2018. At EOG, the spirit of giving is matched by a tradition of participation. Employees in every EOG location generously donate their time to a wide range of charitable and community organizations and causes, such as Habitat for Humanity, Bike MS, Meals on Wheels, food drives, school supply drives, toy drives, summer reading camps and mentoring. Volunteerism is also encouraged by EOG – employees are allotted paid leave time for volunteer service and are rewarded for volunteer service under EOG’s wellness program. Employees enjoy the opportunity to work together to make a difference in their communities. 2018 CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS OUR PEOPLE By providing employees with a quality culture and environment in which to work, and by maintaining a consistent college recruiting program, EOG is able to attract and retain some of the industry’s best and brightest – individuals who will embrace the company’s culture and our commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility. EOG is a highly collaborative organization where employees continuously learn from one another and strive to do the right thing. Driven from the bottom up, employees understand that the company is, and has always been, a returns-focused, organic-growth organization. EOG places a heavy emphasis on participation so that employees’ ideas and contributions are heard, appreciated and valued. This ensures that the entire organization is involved and engaged in company decision-making. Because employee retention and engagement are very important, EOG offers competitive salaries, bonuses and a subsidized, comprehensive benefits package. In addition, with new hire stock grants and an annual stock grant program, every employee is a shareholder and a participant in the company’s success. Regardless of specific job function, every EOG employee is a business person first. EOG continues to be recognized as a Top Workplace by Energage based on its survey of employees across EOG’s operations. In the fall of 2018, EOG’s offices in Houston, San Antonio and Oklahoma City were each recognized as a Top Workplace, providing a clear reflection of the company’s positive culture and work environment. Another measure of EOG’s strong culture is a low voluntary turnover rate, consistently running around 5 percent annually. EOG is an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer. All employment decisions are made without regard to factors such as race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, marital status, pregnancy, disability, genetic information, veteran status, status as an alien authorized to work in the United States, or any other characteristic protected by law. EOG is a drug-free and smoke-free workplace. Employees As of December 31, 2018, EOG had 2,684 employees working in the United States. Our non-U.S. employees make up less than 5 percent of our workforce. EOG has a well-balanced composition relative to tenure and age, which ensures a sustainable organization. 2% U.S. U.S. EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE TENURE AGE <5 YEARS 5-9 YEARS 10-14 YEARS <30 30-39 40-49 15-19 YEARS 20-24 YEARS 25+ YEARS 50-59 60+ EOG considers the diversity of our employees to be a tremendous asset, and it has strived for and embraced diversity throughout the company, as evidenced by a gender-diverse workforce representing a variety of racial, ethnic and cultural backgrounds. Females and minorities are well represented throughout EOG, including in professional and management positions. EOG will continue our commitments to inclusiveness and diversity at all levels; to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment; and to hiring, evaluating and promoting employees based on skills and performance. U.S. WOMEN AND MINORITIES* (as of 12/31/18) SUPERVISORS & SUPERVISORS & PROFESSIONAL PROFESSIONAL TOTAL TOTAL MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT (Non-Management) (Non-Management) WOMEN MINORITY WOMEN MINORITY WOMEN MINORITY *As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Training and Development The policy also provides 100 percent reimbursement EOG provides internally developed training in leadership, management skills, communication, team effectiveness and use of EOG systems. EOG has also implemented a mentoring program to help employees meet personal career goals and ensure that EOG’s culture is transferred from generation to generation. In addition, EOG holds several internal technical conferences each year designed to share best practices and technical advances across the company. The conferences cover exploration, drilling, completions, reservoir engineering, production, facilities, and safety and environmental topics. EOG is a member of RSP’s Nautilus Training Alliance, the premier membership-based training curriculum for the oil and gas industry. Technical personnel are expected to attend training annually. EOG’s Tuition Reimbursement Policy provides 90 percent reimbursement for post-secondary education that either better qualifies an employee for present duties or prepares the employee for future placement within the company. SAFETY for professional certification tests, such as Professional Engineer, CPA, Certified Internal Auditor, bar examinations and Certified Professional Secretary. Wellness A healthy workforce is a productive and sustainable workforce. Wellness at EOG encompasses more than just physical health – it includes financial health, social health, community engagement and a sense of purpose. Through our Energize You wellness program, employees have the opportunity to earn points that can be used, among other things, to increase the contributions to their Health Savings Accounts, to make charitable donations or to purchase merchandise from an online store. Employees earn points by tracking daily activities such as steps, calorie intake and sleep, participating in health coaching, volunteering in the community, attending safety meetings, making charitable donations, donating blood, taking part in team challenges and more. EOG also holds annual health fairs in each of our office locations to encourage awareness, education and prevention. Across the company, EOG has implemented programs and business processes for managing safety matters with a focus on the assignment of responsibilities, sound risk management and decision-making, efficient and cost-effective planning and operations, legal compliance, and continuous improvement of programs and practices. Our safety management processes are based on a performance-based philosophy, and we set safety expectations and provide a framework within which management can achieve and assess safety performance in a systematic way. Our safety performance is also considered in evaluating employee performance and employee compensation. Set forth below are EOG’s total recordable incident rates and lost time incident rates for each of the years 2016-2018. EOG utilizes the industry-standard measurement of incidents (injuries) per 200,000 man-hours worked in calculating our total recordable incident rate and lost time incident rate. Please see the Appendix to this report for related definitions. TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE 1.09 0.27 0.26 0.25 LOST TIME INCIDENT RATE 2016 2017 2018 Preparedness At EOG, knowing what to do and how to do it is critical to strong, consistent performance. That’s why we provide initial, periodic and refresher safety training to employees, contractors, visitors, vendors and other personnel who may work at or visit EOG’s facilities. These training programs address operating procedures, safe work practices, emergency and incident response procedures, and more. Examples include: • A Safe Practices Manual is provided to employees and contractors and is available online for easy reference • A location-specific Emergency Information Guide is available to all employees and contractors in that location • Basic, mandatory safety training courses and a number of additional safety and operational courses are available online to all EOG employees and to the contractors who work at EOG’s facilities • EOG provides team building training on safety matters for contract crews across our operations • A leadership training program for EOG supervisors, as well as consultants and contractor supervisors, provides in-depth application of safety procedures, with a focus on how accidents can be prevented • EOG monitors contractor performance and verifies that contractors have appropriate safety programs in place • EOG trains with local first responders and regulatory agencies • Control centers in San Antonio, Midland and Denver divisions Emergency Response Each of EOG’s operating areas develops and maintains a written plan that provides a framework for rapid and effective response to emergency situations to protect the public, EOG employees and contractors, and the environment. These plans support and are components of EOG’s corporate Crisis Management Plan, which addresses EOG’s overall corporate response. Each plan includes a tiered response level for activation of the plan based on the type of incident and the response required. Training is provided to relevant field and office personnel. These plans are periodically reviewed and updated, and periodic drills are conducted to verify that EOG personnel are prepared to respond appropriately to any incidents which might occur. 