OUR COMMUNITIESCommunity engagement is important to EOG. We are a decentralized company, so a large number of our employees and their families are members of the local communities in the areas where we operate. In addition, our employees regularly interact with property owners where we operate. We also proactively engage with others in the communities, including civic leaders, elected officials, first responders, non-profits and local community groups. Respect for Cultures, Traditions and Indigenous PeoplesEOG strives to respect human rights and native lands as well as to honor the traditions and the cultural, social and religious beliefs of others. Our culture is based upon core values that reflect our expectations that conduct and behavior should exhibit and model respect for human rights. One of the guideposts for our culture is our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Vendors and Contractors, which set out key tenets of behavior, including promoting honesty, integrity, fair dealing, mutual respect and conducting our business with high ethical and environmental standards. In addition, obeying the law, both in letter and in spirit, including laws with respect to human rights, such as laws prohibiting discrimination in the workplace, is part of the foundation of the ethical standards by which we conduct business and by which we expect our vendors and contractors to conduct business.Our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics provide guidance on human rights issues such as non-discrimination, anti-harassment, workplace safety and equal employment opportunities. Actual or suspected misconduct, including human rights violations, can be anonymously and confidentially reported to our 24-hour Compliance and Ethics Hotline. See “Ethical Business Practices” beginning on page 37 for further discussion of our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics and Compliance and Ethics Hotline. While EOG does not have a large presence on Native American lands, we do have active operations at the Fort Berthold Reservation in North Dakota and at the Uintah and Ouray Reservation in Utah. EOG values our operations on the Native American lands in North Dakota and Utah, and partners with local Native American tribes. Various tribal members are employees of EOG, and we utilize Native American service providers in our operations.In addition, as part of our commitment to respect native heritage resources, we proactively engage federal, state and local land management agencies in multiple jurisdictions to create cooperative cultural review and assessment protocols. Our goal in these efforts is to address site-specific concerns based on stakeholder input, local knowledge and cultural preservation best practices. Engaging in Our Communities: Building and Preserving Our RelationshipsEOG employees appreciate how important it is to develop and maintain mutually beneficial relationships in the communities where we live and work. We are proud to give back to these communities in many ways.The largest and most direct way is by providing diverse career opportunities, a large percentage of which EOG fills with local candidates. For example, while our international footprint is small, approximately 97 percent of our employees in Trinidad are local nationals. EOG also provides significant local and state tax revenue through our operations. Communities benefit from safer roads, high-quality schools, first-rate healthcare and a trained work force. EOG supports numerous efforts to help improve these aspects of the lives of citizens in the communities where we live and work. We believe our decentralized structure allows us to develop and maintain close working relationships with local stakeholders and to effectively engage on a regular basis in ways that are responsive to their specific needs. In particular, our land personnel in each of our operating areas work closely with surface and mineral owners to communicate plans and address questions and concerns. In addition, EOG’s land administration call center is dedicated to addressing questions from interest owners, including inquiries related to land and royalty ownership. Community Safety and Security EOG recognizes the importance of helping make the communities in which we live and work more safe 
and secure. Human Trafficking EOG has taken steps to raise awareness and conduct training regarding the prevention of human trafficking. EOG is a corporate sponsor of Truckers Against Trafficking, a non-profit organization that was formed to educate, equip, empower and mobilize members of the trucking, bus and energy industries to combat human trafficking. Identifying potential human trafficking is discussed in EOG safety meetings for employees and contractors, including the review of human trafficking prevention training materials created specifically for energy companies by Truckers Against Trafficking. EOG is also an active member in industry groups working to raise awareness of, and prevent, human trafficking. As a member of the Oil & Gas Trafficking Awareness Group, EOG meets with other oil and gas companies to discuss the role companies can play in these efforts. In addition, an EOG representative serves on the Board of Directors of the Energy Security Council, an organization that brings together members of the energy industry and law enforcement to collaborate and share best practices on different issues, including human trafficking. Road SafetyEOG is committed to keeping the roads in and around our communities safe. •	Awareness – Our Safe Practices Manual provided to EOG employees and contractors contains vehicle 
safety guidance. •	Training – Safe driving practices are a common focus in our field safety meetings and we also offer specific hands-on, decision-based driving training. •	GPS Monitoring – EOG vehicles are equipped with GPS-based vehicle monitoring systems that provide data for driver feedback that increases driver awareness and allows for focused driver skills training. •	Route Planning – In our operating areas, we thoughtfully plan our travel logistics and, where possible, we route truck traffic onto secondary roads and time our activities outside of local high-traffic times.Partnering with First RespondersEOG regularly meets with first responders in our communities to discuss the scope of EOG’s operations and to collaborate on emergency preparedness. In addition, we have donated equipment to, and funded equipment and training for, local fire and police departments. 
Permian Strategic Partnership EOG is a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP). The PSP, which was formed by oil and gas companies operating in the Permian Basin region, collaborates with citizens, community organizations, private foundations, civic leaders and elected officials 
to develop solutions to strengthen local communities 
in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. The PSP is focused on improving the quality of life of those who live in the Permian Basin region, through long-term projects that result in better roads, quality schools, affordable housing, improved health care and a well-educated and trained work force. In 2019, the PSP committed funds to support the 
following projects:•	Establish 14 public charter schools in the Midland and Odessa, Texas, school districts. The first school opened in August 2020. •	Construct and develop a new career technical education high school in Hobbs, New Mexico, to serve a growing number of students and better prepare them for technical jobs available across the Permian Basin region.•	Expand a Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center program that trains medical residents to work in underserved areas of Texas and New Mexico. •	Provide professional grant writing services to local governments, school districts and non-profits in Lea and Eddy Counties, New Mexico, to strengthen their ability to successfully compete for state, federal and private 
grant programs. •	Provide discounts on 200 apartment rentals for new or current public school teachers in the Midland and Odessa, Texas school districts for the 2019-2020 
school year.The PSP also supported advocacy efforts in Texas, New Mexico and Washington, D.C., focused on additional state and federal investment in road infrastructure, which resulted in nearly $1 billion in funding for road improvements throughout the Permian Basin region.EOG will continue to collaborate with the PSP to identify opportunities to address the quality of life in the Permian Basin region, and will commit its people, expertise, resources and leadership to develop solutions in local partnership with civic leaders, elected officials and 
the local communities.Investing in Our Communities: 
Charitable Donations and VolunteerismEOG gives back to the communities in which we operate. In 2019, EOG contributed $2.3 million to numerous charitable organizations across our operational footprint. In addition, EOG has one of the largest matching gifts programs in the industry, under which employees’ charitable contributions are matched dollar for dollar, up to $75,000 per employee per calendar year. EOG also matches employee pledges to annual United Way campaigns. A total of $5.5 million in charitable donations was made by EOG and our employees in 2019, including EOG’s $1.6 million match. At EOG, the spirit of giving is matched by a tradition of participation. Employees in every EOG location generously donate their time to a wide range of charitable and community organizations and causes for the benefit of local communities, such as Habitat for Humanity, Meals on Wheels, food drives, blood drives, school supply drives, toy drives, walks/runs, clean-up efforts, sports camps, summer reading camps and mentoring opportunities. Volunteerism is also encouraged by EOG – employees are allotted paid leave time for volunteer service and are rewarded for volunteer service under EOG’s wellness program. Employees enjoy the opportunity to work together to make a difference in their communities. Our charitable donation and volunteer philosophy is designed to reflect our decentralized structure and to empower our operating area offices and employees to focus on issues and causes that are most relevant to their local communities. A primary example of our approach to community investment is EOG’s investment in the Artesia Aquatic Center. Our other community investments primarily center on health, STEM education and community vitality and 
quality of life. HealthEOG employees are passionate about helping to find solutions to health challenges that can affect those in our families and communities, including: •	Sponsoring Bike MS teams in Houston, San Antonio and Midland. EOG hit a milestone in 2019 with lifetime fundraising efforts for Bike MS surpassing $3 million, including over $400,000 raised in 2019. Since 2000, 
over 1,100 EOG Bike MS team members have come together to support Bike MS in moving closer to a 
world free of multiple sclerosis.•	Providing financial support to the Carl McCain Memorial Foundation to help individuals and families who have worked in the energy industry cover expenses when 
they are financially burdened by medical expenses.•	Partnering with Pink the Basin, a nonprofit organization that seeks to raise awareness about breast cancer and increase access to mammograms in the Permian 
Basin region.STEM EducationScience, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education helps students become technologically literate so they can understand and solve modern, complex challenges, including those related to energy. EOG supports future innovators and leaders in the energy industry by contributing to STEM programs, including: •	Partnering with the University of Texas to support its Center for Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering Workforce Initiative Program and its Friends of Computer Science Program.•	Supporting and partnering with the IPAA/PESA Energy Education Center by funding scholarships for graduates of the five engineering, geoscience and leadership academies at high schools in the Houston and Fort Worth school districts, providing interview coaching to academy alumni and sponsoring the IPAA Education Foundation Exploring Energy High School Conference. •	Providing financial support for Rice University School House Mania, where 3,500 students participated in STEM activities led by the Rice University School Mathematics Project prior to a Rice University men’s basketball game.Community Vitality and Quality of LifeEOG also engages in projects and programs to help improve quality of life and community vitality in the communities where we live and work, including: •	Working with Habitat for Humanity for the past three years to build homes in metro Denver, where housing is a key need in the community. In 2019, 90 percent of our Denver employees made financial contributions to Habitat for Humanity and our Denver employees also volunteered their time to build homes.•	Sponsoring students from Cristo Rey Jesuit college preparatory school in Houston through a unique corporate work-study program, which allows students of limited economic resources to gain work experience and earn up to 50 percent of the cost of their education.•	Partnering with the Barbara Bush Houston Literacy Foundation to help Houstonians achieve individual, family and community success through the power 
of literacy.•	Providing financial support to New Hope Housing in Houston to help provide shelter and other support services so that homeless adults can reenter the workforce.•	Supporting organizations focused on initiatives to help women and children, including the Women’s Resource of Greater Houston, Casa de Esperanza, the Children’s Fund and Texas Center for the Missing. 
OUR PEOPLEEOG’s culture is key to our sustainable success. Our culture is driven by innovative and highly engaged employees. EOG is a highly collaborative organization where employees continuously learn from one another and strive to do the right thing. Driven from the bottom up, employees understand that the company is, and has always been, a returns-focused, organic-growth organization. Regardless of specific job function, every EOG employee is a business person first.By providing employees with a quality environment in which to work, and by maintaining a consistent college recruiting and internship program, EOG is able to attract and retain some of the industry’s best and brightest – 
individuals who will embrace the company’s culture and our commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility. Because of the importance placed on attracting and retaining talent, we offer competitive salaries, bonuses and a subsidized, comprehensive benefits package. EOG also offers a comprehensive wellness program, a tuition reimbursement program, a matching gifts program and a flexible work schedule. In addition, with new hire stock grants and an annual stock grant program, every employee is a shareholder and a participant in the company’s success. EOG continues to be recognized as a Top Workplace by Energage based on its survey of employees across EOG’s operations. In the fall of 2019, EOG’s offices in Houston, San Antonio and Oklahoma City were each recognized as a Top Workplace, reflecting the company’s positive culture and work environment. Another measure of EOG’s strong culture is a low voluntary turnover rate for employees, including a 3.3 percent voluntary turnover rate in 2019. EOG is an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer. All employment decisions are made without regard to factors such as race, color, religion, 
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, marital status, pregnancy, disability, genetic information, veteran status, status as an alien authorized to work in the United States or any other characteristic protected by law.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2019, EOG had 2,801 employees working in the United States. Our non-U.S.-based employees made up less than 5 percent of our workforce. As indicated in the charts below, EOG has a well-balanced composition relative to employee tenure and age, which helps ensure a sustainable organization.  Diversity of Thought, Background and ExperienceThe diversity of thought, background and experience of EOG’s employees is a tremendous asset. Gender, racial, ethnic and cultural diversity, and diversity in background and experience, fosters diversity of thought, which we strive for and actively embrace. Our collaborative work environment integrates diversity of thought across the company, by ensuring that employees’ ideas and contributions are heard, appreciated and valued. For example, we work to share ideas and best practices across our decentralized organization by bringing together multiple disciplines from our different operating areas for regular internal conferences and planning sessions. This allows the entire organization to be involved and engaged in company decision-making.EOG is committed to fostering inclusiveness and diversity at all levels; to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment; and to hiring, evaluating and promoting employees based on skills and performance. We are encouraged by the fact that representation by women and minorities in professional (non-management) positions exceeds their overall percentage representation in EOG’s workforce. Going forward, EOG is focused on fostering the development of our professional ranks, including those with diverse backgrounds, to allow for career opportunities, including promotion into supervisory and management positions. In addition, in the spirit of continuous improvement that defines how EOG operates, this year we have committed to fostering more inclusiveness and diversity in our workforce. As an initial step, we are establishing a working group to engage employees at the grass-roots level to generate ideas. We are also taking a fresh look at our college recruiting program to ensure that we partner with universities and programs to produce the most talented and diverse pool of candidates. In addition, we will look for opportunities to expand our support of STEM education overall and to educational programs that target under-served communities. WellnessWe are committed to the health and wellness of our employees. Wellness at EOG encompasses more than just physical health – it includes financial health, social health, community engagement and sense of purpose. It is important to us that our programs and benefits help our employees find success both at work and at home. In 2019, we made several enhancements to our benefits program focused on this holistic approach to employee wellness, including providing paid family care leave, volunteer pay and adoption assistance and increasing paid days off for illness or injury. Through our Energize You wellness program, employees have the opportunity to earn points that can be used, among other things, to receive cash benefits or to purchase merchandise from an online store. Employees earn points by tracking daily activities such as steps, calorie intake and sleep, participating in health coaching, volunteering in the community, attending safety meetings, making charitable donations, donating blood, taking part in team challenges and more. EOG also holds annual health fairs in each of our office locations to encourage awareness, education and prevention, and has over 120 active Wellness Ambassadors across the company who volunteer to plan wellness-themed activities in their respective locations. Each location is also allocated funds, based on headcount, which our ambassadors may use for planning onsite wellness-themed events such as Lunch & Learns, or for subsidizing the cost of employee participation in offsite wellness events, such as 5K or 10K runs.SAFETYEOG programs and business processes to manage safety focus on the assignment of responsibilities, risk management, sound decision-making, efficient and cost-effective planning and operations, legal compliance and continuous improvement of programs and practices.Our safety management processes are centered on a performance-based philosophy, that is, we set safety expectations and provide a framework within which management can achieve and assess safety performance in a systematic way. EOG’s safety performance is also considered in evaluating employee performance and employee compensation, including executive compensation. Our commitment to safety is integrated across all areas of the company. The majority of our safety personnel are based in our operating area offices and integrated with our operations in those regions. While the safety personnel support our decentralized operations, their reporting structure is to our company-wide Vice President, Safety and Environmental. In addition, EOG’s Safety and Environmental Leadership Council provides additional senior-level oversight, including reviewing our safety performance and developing strategies to improve ongoing programs. To share ideas and best practices across the company, EOG has a Safety Support Team, which includes safety representatives from all operating regions. This team holds monthly conference calls and quarterly meetings to develop and share safety resources and to collaborate on safety-focused projects. In addition, the Safety and Environmental managers from each of our operating area offices have bi-monthly conference calls, and senior leadership from each of our operating regions provides regular reports to our executive management on safety performance and related matters. Incident RateEOG utilizes the industry-standard measurement of incidents (injuries) per 200,000 man-hours worked in calculating our total recordable incident rate and lost time incident rate. We work closely with our contractors to capture the man-hours worked by their employees and subcontractors. In 2019, our total recordable incident rate continued to decrease, down almost 30 percent from 2018 and down 44 percent since 2017. EOG did not have any work-related fatalities in 2019.Please see the Appendix to this report for the related formulas and definitions. Preparedness and TrainingAt EOG, knowing what to do and how to do it is critical to strong, consistent performance. That is why we provide initial, periodic and refresher safety training to employees, contractors, visitors and other personnel who may work at or visit EOG’s facilities. These training programs address operating procedures, safe work practices, emergency and incident response procedures and more. Examples include:•	A Safe Practices Manual is provided to employees and contractors and is available online for easy reference.•	A location-specific Emergency Information Guide is available to all employees and contractors in that location.•	Basic, mandatory safety training courses and a number of additional safety and operational courses are available online to all EOG employees and to the contractors who work at EOG’s facilities.•	EOG provides team building training on safety matters for contract crews across our operations. A leadership training program for EOG supervisors, as well as consultants and contractor supervisors, provides in-depth application of safety procedures, with a focus on how accidents can be prevented.•	EOG works with local first responders and regulatory agencies.•	Control centers operated 24 hours a day in our San Antonio, Midland and Denver offices.To promote strong and consistent safety performance, EOG also screens the safety practices and performance of our contractors. In addition, we monitor contractor performance and the safety programs contractors have in place while working for EOG.Emergency ResponseEach of EOG’s operating areas develops and maintains a written plan that provides a framework for rapid and effective response to emergency situations to protect local communities, our employees and contractors and the environment. These plans support, and are components of, EOG’s corporate Crisis Management Plan, which details our overall corporate response should an emergency occur. Each emergency response plan includes a tiered response level for activation of the plan based on the type of incident and the response required. Training regarding the plan is provided to relevant field and office personnel, including contractors. These plans are periodically reviewed and updated, and periodic drills, including incident command system training and table top drills, are conducted so that EOG personnel are prepared to respond appropriately to incidents that might occur.
IN FOCUSSUPPORTING COMMUNITY WELLNESS IN ARTESIAOne of EOG’s newest offices is in Artesia, New Mexico, 
which became part of EOG in 2016 after our merger with Yates Petroleum. As active members of the Artesia community, local employees wanted to continue 
supporting the community’s quality of life.After hearing from local employees and community members, EOG donated $1 million to the construction of a new, state-of-the-art community aquatic center, the city’s only public pool. The city’s previous pool was demolished in 2013.The Artesia Aquatic Center held its groundbreaking in May 2019, and has since provided a much-enjoyed source of recreation, safety training and community well-being for Artesia residents.The Artesia Aquatic Center is just one example of how 
EOG’s strong culture emboldens employees to take action 
and help our local communities build strong futures.In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
EOG committed numerous resources to help meet the sudden needs of the local communities where we live and work. We donated more than 3,400 masks, as well as shoe coverings, hand sanitizer and safety glasses to health care workers across our operating areas. We also contributed financially to a local brewery to make hand sanitizer for first responders in North Dakota. In addition, EOG and our employees have committed more than $820,000 toward local food banks as part of a 2-for-1 company-matching program. Throughout the year, we will continue to evaluate the needs of our communities and provide support wherever possible.U.S. EMPLOYEE TENURE (YEARS)U.S. EMPLOYEE AGE20-242%25+3%15-194%<3013%60+9.5%10-1415%<540%30-3940%50-5915%5-936%40-4922.5%U.S. WOMEN AND MINORITY* EMPLOYEES(AS OF 12/31/19)36.0%30.0%WOMEN28.3%MINORITIES25.0%17.8%17.2%SUPERVISORS &MANAGERSPROFESSIONALS(NON-MANAGEMENT)TOTAL*As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.Training and DevelopmentEOG provides internally-developed training in leadership, management skills, communication, team effectiveness and use of EOG systems both online and in-person. Our proactive leadership training, specifically, is focused on providing continuity of leadership at EOG by further developing skills needed to lead a multi-disciplined, diverse workforce. In 2019, more than 1,000 employees, or over one-third of our workforce, received leadership or other professional development training.In addition, EOG holds several internal technical conferences each year designed to share best practices and technical advances across the company. The conferences cover exploration, drilling, completions, reservoir engineering, production, facilities and safety and environmental topics. EOG is a member of the RPS Nautilus Training Alliance, the premier membership-based training curriculum for the oil and gas industry. Technical personnel are encouraged to attend this training annually. EOG’s Tuition Reimbursement Program provides 90 percent reimbursement for post-secondary education that either better qualifies an employee for present duties or prepares the employee for future placement within the company. The policy also provides 100 percent reimbursement for professional certification tests, such as Professional Engineer, CPA, Certified Internal Auditor, bar examinations and Certified Professional Secretary.BEYOND THE WORKPLACE, 
BENEFITS FOR OUR EMPLOYEES INCLUDE:Paid Family Care LeaveFour weeks of paid time off for the birth, adoption or foster care of a child, or serious health condition of an employee’s spouse, child or parent. This leave is in addition to paid leave available to mothers following the birth of a child.Paid Leave for Illness or Injury56 hours of paid time for an employee’s or eligible family member’s illness or injury and routine and preventative medical, dental and vision appointments, in addition to generous short-term disability benefits.Adoption Assistance$5,000 in reimbursement to help offset costs associated with adoption.Employee Assistance Program A comprehensive, confidential support program to provide employees and their dependents with counseling services to support mental well-being.Volunteer PayEight hours for a company-sponsored event or any volunteer activity for which hours are documented.Flexible Work HoursEarly Friday schedules allow most employees a reduced workday on Friday.In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on keeping our employees and their families safe, including by providing technology and support to work from home. Key to effectively making this transition were the ability of our employees to access our proprietary in-house applications from their phones, tablets and home and office computers and our proactive, company-wide integration of an online collaborative work platform and video conferencing prior to the onset of the pandemic. With these tools, our employees not only can work safely and productively from the office or at home, but also remain engaged and connected across the company. In addition, in our offices and at our work sites, we have instituted social distancing practices and protocols and are providing masks, hand sanitizer and additional cleaning. 