LETTER FROM BILL THOMAS, CEODear Stakeholder,I am pleased to introduce EOG Resources’ inaugural Sustainability Report. This report is the result of contributions from many employees across multiple functions throughout the company and is a great example of both EOG’s multi-disciplinary teamwork and our commitment to sustainability. Over the years, we have actively engaged with our investors and other stakeholders regarding environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics to share details about our practices and understand what disclosures are most meaningful to all of our stakeholders. As a result, our website has a rich history of useful performance data detailing our safety record, greenhouse 
gas emissions and water use.We continue to enhance our ESG disclosures, and in conjunction with our first Sustainability Report, we added new metrics. We included our Lost Time Incident Rate going back five years. 
This supplements the Total Recordable Incident Rate that has been available on our website for many years and will broaden the picture on our safety performance. We also added a new section detailing the diversity of our employees, including specific metrics on the minority and female makeup of our workforce and leadership. Diversity of ideas driven by diverse backgrounds is fundamental to our success as a leader in the E&P industry.In addition, our ESG-related operational performance improved in many areas. 
Highlights include:• Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity rate declined more than 9 percent due to reduced emissions from combustion, fugitive and venting sources.• We completed our company-wide rollout of the voluntary portion of our Leak Detection 
and Repair (LDAR) program.• Our fugitive emissions intensity rate dropped nearly 90 percent as a result of our LDAR program.GHG INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)9%19.317.52016 2017Our approach to business sustainability embraces health, safety, diversity, ethics and the environment. We are engaged and committed to improving the communities where we live
and work.Furthermore, EOG’s differentiated culture and strategy fosters a sustainable business model to produce strong performance through commodity price cycles. Here are just a few aspects of our culture and strategy that drive our sustainability:•	We have been a rate-of-return incentivized company since our founding, and our employees’ focus on returns is why we have historically delivered differentiated performance in the
E&P space.•	We are an innovation and technology leader. Our employees are encouraged to think outside the 
box and figure out a better way. Our motto is “pleased, but never satisfied.” Every year we systematically lower costs and improve the performance of the company with continuous technology and efficiency gains.•	We are an exploration-focused, organic growth company. We replace our well inventory by being a first-mover and locking up the best rock in the best plays at low costs. Our ability to capture the 
best rock is the most significant reason we consistently drill the most prolific horizontal wells in 
the industry. •	Our “premium well” return hurdle rate and deep inventory of high quality premium wells is unique in the industry. A “premium well” delivers a minimum 30 percent after-tax rate of return* at $40 per barrel oil price and $2.50 per Mcf natural gas price. Most importantly, EOG’s “premium well” strategy does not change with improving commodity prices. •	Our organization is structurally decentralized, allowing development of 11 different plays across six basins in North America. We are not dependent on any one basin or play to drive our success. Our decentralized organization allows the company to develop each asset at the proper pace to optimally maximize returns, resource recovery and ultimate value. •	Our decentralized structure also means our employees live and work in many culturally and economically diverse communities. We are committed to improving our communities as employees, and more importantly, as neighbors.We also recognize the increasing interest of our shareholders and other stakeholders in how changes in carbon-related regulations and policy initiatives, the availability of alternative energy sources, and consumer behavior could each impact global demand and pricing for crude oil and any corresponding impacts to EOG. Our unique “premium well” strategy positions the company to be one of the lowest-cost producers worldwide and to be successful through commodity price cycles. With our low-cost organic exploration focus, the company is replacing “premium” inventory at a sustainable pace much faster than we drill it. At its heart, EOG is a “high-return organic
growth company.” Providing sustainable, low-cost energy means more jobs and more affordable energy for homes, schools and businesses. At EOG, we embrace all aspects of providing low-cost energy for a sustainable future. William R. ThomasChairman of the Board & CEOENVIRONMENTALOUR PRACTICESEvery horizontal tight rock play is different and requires different techniques and technology to develop. Our decentralized structure is ideal for the type of play-specific innovation needed to determine the right and unique answer to maximize the value of any given play. The same is true for our efforts to reduce and minimize our environmental footprint. Every one of our decentralized offices is continually testing various technologies
and innovations that are most suitable for the area. In many cases, technology can
be transferred and shared across the company. We essentially have eight different teams all independently testing, innovating and eventually sharing the best environmental technologies. We are committed to protecting the environment during all our operations — from conducting initial exploration and drilling, through the life of a well’s production. 
The following are just a few of the efforts EOG undertakes:DRILLINGCOMPLETIONSINFRASTRUCTURE AND LAND USEPRODUCTION AND FACILITIESDRILLING	Reducing our overall surface footprint through the use of directional and horizontal drilling	Minimizing surface disturbance by drilling “packages” of wells from a single well pad 	Reusing and recycling to limit disposal of drilling fluids COMPLETIONS 	Installing water pipeline infrastructure, significantly reducing the number of trucks needed and reducing road congestion and truck emissions	Using non-potable water sources where available to reduce fresh water usage 	Minimizing the use of chemical
additives through innovative
completion technologyINFRASTRUCTURE AND LAND USE 	Installing oil pipeline infrastructure to minimize the number of tanker trucks needed, reducing road congestion and truck emissions	Installing natural gas pipeline infrastructure to reduce flaring and vented emissions	Downsizing drilling sites for production operations	Minimizing our footprint by re-vegetating unused acreagePRODUCTION AND FACILITIES 	Using well-control equipment to minimize the potential for a well-control incident 	Recycling produced water for reuse in operations or other suitable beneficial uses	Continually monitoring facilities remotely using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems	Capturing tank vapors and directing them into a natural gas sales line using vapor recovery units	Installing instrument air systems on facilities to eliminate the emissions associated with facility controllers and pumps 	Designing spill containment into our facilities	Identifying, repairing and monitoring fugitive emissions at EOG facilities through a company-wide leak detection and repair (LDAR) program 	Reducing our emissions and footprint through centralized production facilitiesMILES OF NATURAL GAS GATHERING INFRASTRUCTURE INSTALLED BY EOG (U.S.)379223165145472013 201420152016 2017Our environmental management processes are based on a performance-based philosophy. The company sets environmental expectations and provides a framework within which management can achieve and assess environmental performance in a systematic way. EOG’s environmental performance is also considered in evaluating employee performance and managing employee compensation throughout the organization.Furthermore, regular environmental training is critical to consistent performance. We provide initial, periodic and refresher environmental training for employees, contractors, visitors, vendors and other personnel who may work at or visit EOG’s facilities, including: 	Environmental Stewardship Training to educate our employees on stewardship issues	Infrared Camera Training to proactively identify and manage emissionsEOG has also established a Safety and Environmental Leadership Council, which is an internal leadership team of senior management, legal, operations, and safety and environmental personnel. This team reviews EOG’s safety and environmental performance and develops strategies to improve ongoing safety and environmental programs.ENVIRONMENTALGLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE EOG supports efforts to understand and address the contribution of human activities to global climate change. We believe climate change policies should be based on sound scientific and economic considerations and rely on market forces to efficiently encourage consumer conservation and the development of alternative energy sources. EOG also believes that any emission limits or standards should be based on reliable, available and economically feasible technology.It is important to EOG — for environmental, operational and economic reasons — to reduce emissions from its operations. Our practices and programs to pursue this goal are described in this report, and our quantitative metrics regarding emissions from our operations are also included, which allow our shareholders and other stakeholders to gauge our year-over-year performance and also benchmark our performance against that of our peer companies.It is important to EOG — for environmental, operational and economic reasons — to reduce emissions from its operations.MANAGING EMISSIONS EOG’s normal operating practices are designed to minimize emissions. To reduce or eliminate flaring, we install natural gas gathering pipelines early in the life of a play, and we use reduced emissions completion systems (“green completions”). The use of multi-well pads not only reduces overall emissions, it also reduces our footprint. Other equipment we use includes intermittent low-bleed controllers, “instrument air” controllers and systems, compressors equipped with emissions control technology, electric and solar-powered chemical pumps, and motor valves.Furthermore, EOG’s facilities are designed to minimize emissions and maximize recovery of vapors. Where operationally appropriate, EOG installs specialized control equipment, such as vapor recovery units and towers, vapor balance systems, high-efficiency combustion devices, and multi-stage separators. In certain operating areas, we install electricity infrastructure to permit the use of electric-powered (versus fuel-powered) equipment. Facilities are periodically reviewed to optimize equipment, including compression. In addition, EOG uses the latest technology, such as infrared cameras, to identify and manage emissions. LEAK DETECTION AND REPAIR PROGRAMDuring 2017, we completed the implementation of our company-wide voluntary leak detection and repair (LDAR) program. While certain EOG production locations are subject to LDAR programs mandated by state or federal regulations, our voluntary program goes farther and provides operational procedures for detecting, repairing and monitoring emissions leaks at our facilities not covered by state or federal requirements. The program consists of:Monitoring components – We monitor emissions from components such as connectors, pressure relief valves, controllers and tank thief hatches.Monitoring frequency guidelines – These guidelines take into account activity levels at our facilities and other factors that may affect emissions.Identification and repair of leaks – We have protocols for the identification and timely repair of detected leaks and the inspection of repaired components at specified time periods.Infrared cameras/thermal-imaging technology – A substantial part of the monitoring under our LDAR program is conducted through the use of infrared cameras and other thermal imaging technology.Documentation, review and retention – Our LDAR program includes requirements with respect to record maintenance and retention. The program will be reviewed on an annual basis.GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) METRICS GHGs predominantly include gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Processing equipment is used to separate and recover associated natural gas at the wellhead so it can be directed to a pipeline and sold. Capturing natural gas at the wellsite reduces GHG emissions from both flaring and venting of natural gas. EOG continues to install natural gas gathering infrastructure to capture associated natural gas. In addition, EOG utilizes “green completion” systems for both natural gas and crude oil well completions.GHG intensity is a measure of GHG emissions per unit of economic activity and is typically based on gross domestic product (GDP) when measured at a national (i.e., country) level, or on aggregate output or production when measured at an industry or individual company level. GHG intensity is used to compare the environmental impact of different fuels or activities across multiple industries. Sources of EOG’s GHG emissions related to our U.S. oil and gas operations are reported to the EPA and include combustion (e.g., engine exhaust), pneumatics, flaring, fugitives and venting.To calculate our overall GHG intensity rate, EOG uses the EPA’s methodology to calculate emissions, which includes all GHGs and emission sources. Furthermore, we include the emissions from our facilities and sources that fall below the EPA reporting threshold in our GHG intensity rate calculation. All intensity rates included in this report are calculated based on EOG’s operated U.S. gross production, since GHG emissions are reported to the EPA on a gross production basis.In 2016, the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program expanded the scope of facilities subject to emissions reporting by adding a separate gathering and boosting segment. Beginning with that reporting year, GHG emissions from gathering pipelines as well as compression facilities are included in EOG’s reportable emissions. The scope of gathering and boosting sources subject to emissions reporting was not as broad prior to 2016. With the expansion of the scope of the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program, we made the decision to set out our emission intensity metrics from 2016 forward to ensure data comparison consistency. In 2017, our GHG intensity rate declined by more than 9 percent, primarily due to more efficient operations across all our assets. GHG INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)19.317.52017*2016 * The decline between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to reduced carbon dioxide emissions from combustion sources and reduced methane emissions from fugitive and venting sources.GHG — METHANE-ONLY EMISSIONSOne of the gases included in the CO2e GHG data we provide to the EPA is methane (CH4). The following chart provides data on methane emissions from all sources reported to the EPA converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). The chart reflects EOG’s successful reduction of our methane-only emissions intensity rate over the last year.METHANE-ONLY EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e (related to methane emissions) per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)4.74.02016 2017** The decline between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to the conversion of high-bleed pneumatic controllers to low-, intermittent- 
and no-bleed controllers or instrument air.ENVIRONMENTALGHG SOURCESThe GHG emissions used to calculate our overall GHG intensity rate are predominantly from five sources: combustion, pneumatics, flaring, fugitives and venting. The charts indicate our GHG intensity rates attributable to these emission sources for 2016 and 2017.COMBUSTION EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)PNEUMATICS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations) 11.59.73.22.92017*2017*2016 2016 * The decline between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to replacement of compressors with lower horsepower requirements and lower run-time.* The increase between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to the addition of equipment associated with the acquisition of Yates Petroleum and related companies.FLARING EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)FUGITIVE EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)0.94.03.30.12016 2016 2017*2017** The decline between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to more accurate measurements as a result of the company-wide LDAR program.* The increase between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to third-party downstream infrastructure downtime or bottlenecks that caused upstream facilities to go to flare (e.g., pipeline shutdown or plant outages). VENTING EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATE(metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced in U.S. operations)0.50.32016 2017** The decline between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to routing tank vapors to emission control devices.13  2017 EOG RESOURCES              SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCONSERVATION MEASURES EOG frequently reviews energy use and efficiency, and takes action to reduce consumption and improve the energy efficiency of field operations. We use a variety of existing technologies and are constantly testing new technologies developed both internally and made available from third parties. These technologies reduce our overall fuel usage, increase fuel efficiency and drive down emissions. 
Examples include:INSTRUMENT AIR SYSTEMSVAPOR RECOVERY SYSTEMSELECTRIC-DRIVEN PUMPS AND COMPRESSORSMULTI-WELL PADS AND PIPELINE GATHERING SYSTEMS TO REDUCE TRUCKINGOFFICES IN BUILDINGS WITH LEED “GREEN BUILDING” CERTIFICATION