2021 HIGHLIGHTSBOARD DIVERSITY AND TENUREThe composition of EOG’s Board reflects a balance of experience and perspectives. 9.1 YEARSaverage director tenure 
(as of October 5, 2022)33% of directors are women or are 
racially/ethnically diverse2/3 of Board committee chairs are womenEXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
TIED TO ESGIn 2021, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee again established a separately weighted ESG-related annual performance goal to:•	Reduce GHG, methane, and flaring emissions intensity rates•	Reduce total recordable incident rate•	Reduce oil spill rates•	Increase wellhead gas capture rateGovernance56	Board of Directors	59 	Oversight and 
Practices	BOARD OVERSIGHTEOG’s strong corporate governance practices enhance board and management accountability to our stockholders and other stakeholders and enhance our risk oversight and management efforts.CYBERSECURITYData and information technology systems are supported by the continued evaluation and modification of our business continuity plans as well as our cyberthreat detection and mitigation systems.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportBoard of DirectorsEOG BOARD OF DIRECTORSCurrently, our Board of Directors comprises eight nonemployee, independent directors, and our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Ezra Yacob. All directors are elected annually under a majority-vote standard, which provides our stockholders with a meaningful voice in the annual director election process. Our Board committees — the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee — are each solely composed of independent directors. The independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions led by the independent Presiding Director, who is elected annually by the independent directors of our Board. The independent Presiding Director, whose duties are set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, plays a valuable role in the overall leadership of the Board and serves as a liaison between our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers, and the independent directors. Janet ClarkDIRECTOR SINCE 2014Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee Chair Mike KerrDIRECTOR SINCE 2020Charlie CrispDIRECTOR SINCE 2002Julie RobertsonDIRECTOR SINCE 2019Compensation and Human Resources Committee ChairBob DanielsDIRECTOR SINCE 2017Don TextorDIRECTOR SINCE 2001Ezra YacobDIRECTOR SINCE 2021Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerJim DayDIRECTOR SINCE 20082022 Presiding DirectorCris GautDIRECTOR SINCE 2017Audit Committee ChairBOARD OF DIRECTORSDIRECTOR DIVERSITY, SKILLS, 
AND EXPERIENCEThe directors serving on our Board possess diverse professional experiences, skills, and backgrounds. Our directors also have high standards of personal and professional ethics, proven records of success in their respective fields, and valuable knowledge of our business and of the oil and gas industry. 	See Key Director Skills and Areas of Experience 
on page 58 for descriptions of certain key skills and areas of experience that we believe are relevant to our business, along with a matrix setting forth the number of our current directors that possess each skill or area of experience.Our Board and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee regularly review the composition, performance, and skillsets of the Board and Board committees. In deciding what the Board’s priorities should be for further refreshment, we take into account the results of the Board evaluations; the current composition of the Board; the areas of experience, skillsets, and diversity of our directors; and the attributes of potential director candidates. The Board and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee also actively seek to create a pipeline of individuals qualified to become Board members, including candidates with diverse ethnic and racial backgrounds and gender diversity. The Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee utilizes various approaches for identifying director candidates, including recommendations from current and former EOG directors, EOG’s contacts in the business community, and professional search firms. If we engage a search firm to assist in identifying candidates for the Board, our policy is to instruct the search firm to seek out and present qualified women and minority candidates for 
consideration.In evaluating director candidates and Board committee appointees, the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee considers a person’s range of professional experience, skills, background, and diversity in gender and race, as well as other credentials and qualifications, including those set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.BOARD DIVERSITY AND TENUREWe have advanced diversity on the Board in part through refreshment, including the appointment of three new directors in the past three years. These charts reflect the diversity and tenure of our Board as of October 5, 2022.BOARD OF DIRECTORSKEY DIRECTOR SKILLS AND AREAS OF EXPERIENCE Below are descriptions of certain key skills and areas of experience that we believe are relevant to our business, along with a matrix setting forth the number of our current directors that possess each skill or area of experience.SKILL/EXPERIENCE RELEVANCE NUMBER OF DIRECTORS Executive Management Has a demonstrated record of leadership and valuable perspectives on issues affecting large and complex organizations.  Financial Reporting, Accounting & Finance Has an understanding of, and experience with, financial reporting and accounting matters and capital markets matters (both debt and equity) relevant to a large, publicly traded company.  Energy Industry (Upstream Exploration) Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to our operations in the upstream exploration sector of the oil and gas industry.  Energy Industry (Marketing & Midstream) Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to our operations in the marketing and midstream sector of the oil and gas industry.  Energy Industry (Oilfield Services) Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to the oilfield services sector (as it relates to our operations) of the oil and 
gas industry.  Corporate Governance & Risk Management Has an understanding of, and experience with, the roles of corporate strategy and risk management necessary for organizational performance.  International Provides valuable insights into the international aspects of our business and operations.  SKILL/EXPERIENCE RELEVANCE NUMBER OF DIRECTORS Governmental & Regulatory Has an understanding of the role governmental and regulatory actions and decisions may have on our business.  Public Company Board Service Contributes an understanding of corporate governance practices and trends and insights into board management.  Environmental, Health & Safety Strengthens the Board’s oversight and understanding of the interrelationship between environmental and safety matters and our operational activities and strategy.  Human Resources & Compensation Has an understanding of compensation factors and components that influence the attraction, motivation, and retention of a talented workforce.  Civic, Community & Charitable Organizations Contributes to a better understanding of sustainable engagements with the communities in which we do business.  Technical, Geologic, and Engineering Education background brings an understanding of technical, geologic, and engineering disciplines necessary for the identification of our exploration plays and development of our prospect inventory.  Information Technology Contributes to the Board’s understanding of innovative information technology applications utilized in our operations and business.  EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportOversight and PracticesEOG’s strong corporate governance practices enhance board and management accountability to our shareholders and other stakeholders and enhance our risk oversight and management efforts.BOARD RISK OVERSIGHT OF ESG MATTERSOur Board has primary responsibility for risk oversight, including risks related to environmental, social, and governance matters. To ensure that our Board has a comprehensive view of EOG’s overall risk exposure, the Board regularly reviews our long-term strategic plans. Principal issues and risks that we may face in executing those plans — including regulatory, legal, market, financial, reputational, and ESG-related risks — are evaluated along with the processes we employ to identify, manage, and mitigate such risks. To assist with its risk oversight responsibility, the Board delegates certain elements of its oversight functions to one or more of its standing committees. The Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee has primary responsibility for oversight and guidance of ESG-related matters. As part of this responsibility, the Committee reviews potential ESG-related impacts to the company and makes recommendations to the Board, our Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, and management, as appropriate.The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for oversight of our guidelines and policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, including major financial and other risk exposures, such as cybersecurity risks. The Audit Committee also oversees our Ethics and Compliance Program and policies, as well as Internal Audit function, and monitors the results of compliance efforts. (See 
Page 62 for a related discussion.) The Compensation and Human Resources Committee, in consultation with the Board and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee, oversees matters relating to our human capital management. Our approach to human capital management focuses on employee culture, recruiting, and retention; compensation, training, and development; diversity and inclusion; and safety. For additional discussion regarding these areas, see Our People, starting on page 46, and Safety, starting on page 52.While all our current directors have experience with environmental, safety, human resources, and compensation matters, members of our senior management assist the Board with their risk oversight function by presenting and discussing emerging ESG-related risks — including risks associated with climate change — throughout the year. In addition, at least once per year, members of senior management report to our Board on EOG’s safety and environmental performance, climate-related scenario analyses, sustainability disclosures, and feedback from key stakeholders on ESG and other issues, in addition to reviewing trends and other industry information. Our Board, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee also receive regular reports from — and have regular discussions with — our 
Vice President, Human Resources and other members of our senior management on various human capital management topics, including peer benchmarking data and trends.ROLE OF MANAGEMENT IN ASSESSING 
AND MANAGING ESG MATTERSOur executive management team is responsible for supporting our Board and its committees in discharging their risk oversight functions, including with respect to ESG matters. The executive management team works with personnel across the company to assess and manage risks, implement sustainability efforts, and report performance. Ideas for improvement are generated by multidisciplinary teams at every level of the organization, with members of executive management providing centralized oversight of key issue areas.	See In Focus: Decentralized Structure Fosters Innovation on page 51 to learn more. For example, our President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) provides overall leadership for safety and environmental matters, including risks and opportunities in connection with emissions management and climate change. As part of our integrated approach to management of these 
matters, our Director of Sustainability, our Vice President, Safety and Environmental, and our 
Manager of Sustainable Power regularly brief executive management on these matters. Our Safety and Environmental (S&E) Group and Sustainable Power Group also meet regularly with our COO to discuss emissions reduction strategies and play critical roles in assessing and managing safety and environmental risks across the company.The S&E Group is responsible for managing and measuring environmental and safety performance. They work collaboratively with our operations group on initiatives related to our technologies and practices for managing safety and environmental matters and with other departments with respect 
to related policy and regulatory matters. The 
S&E Group’s senior leadership is centralized at EOG’s Houston headquarters and includes our Vice President, Safety and Environmental, our Director of Safety and Environmental, our Director of Water Resources, our Directors of Environmental, and our Director of Safety. Field-level management of safety and environmental matters is performed by S&E personnel that work in our operating area offices and live in the local communities. As such, the majority of EOG’s S&E staff is integrated with EOG’s operations in order to effectively manage day-to-day safety and environmental matters.The Sustainable Power Group is dedicated to supporting EOG’s efforts to identify and implement emissions reduction initiatives. The Sustainable Power Group (SPG) comprises engineers and other specialists and is led by our Manager of Sustainable Power, who reports to the group’s Executive Vice President. The team provides leadership and supports our culture of innovation to develop and apply technologies and other solutions to help achieve our emissions targets and net zero ambition. To facilitate a consistent team effort in assessing and managing environmental and safety risks across the company, S&E leaders across all of our operating area offices and S&E personnel at our Houston headquarters meet throughout the year to discuss our safety and environmental policies, best practices, and related risks. The team also periodically updates our executive management regarding progress toward our safety and environmental strategic goals and any related risks. EOG has also implemented the following practical mechanisms as part of our efforts to identify, assess, and manage environmental and safety matters and facilitate continuous improvement and consistency throughout our decentralized operations:•	Regular reports to our executive management from both the senior leadership in each of our operating areas on their area’s safety and environmental performance and related matters and the SPG•	S&E conferences attended by the S&E teams from each operating area and senior executives•	Regular meetings among EOG’s S&E personnel to share information, best practices, and goals •	Regular S&E training, available to employees 
and contractors, as applicable•	Discussion of ESG matters at EOG’s in-house drilling, completions, and production & facilities technical conferences to increase engagement by our operations personnel•	Environmental staff dedicated to GHG emissions data collection and analysis •	Monthly meetings to discuss production and facility GHG emissions that are attended by a multidisciplinary team, including production facility engineers, the SPG, and representatives from our legal, sustainability, S&E, and information 
systems groupsTo ensure that our Board has a comprehensive view of EOG’s overall risk exposure, the Board regularly reviews our long-term strategic plans. Principal issues and risks that we may face executing those plans — including regulatory, legal, market, financial, reputational, and ESG-related risks — are evaluated along with the processes we employ to identify, manage, and mitigate such risks.OVERSIGHT AND PRACTICESOVERSIGHT AND PRACTICESEXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONEOG’s executive compensation program is designed to attract and retain a highly qualified and motivated management team and reward individual executive officers for their contributions to the achievement of our key short-term and long-term goals. EOG’s executive officers are eligible to receive bonuses under the Annual Bonus Plan based on the achievement of operational, financial, and strategic goals established by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board. The Committee believes that setting specific performance goals around continuous improvement helps establish important benchmarks and communicates EOG’s top priorities to our executive officers and employees.Our ESG-related annual performance goals have historically incorporated improving our strong S&E record, including reducing our recordable incident and oil spill rates. In 2019, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee expanded the ESG-related annual performance goals to include the reduction of EOG’s GHG emissions intensity rate and methane emissions intensity rate, in each case for 2019, below prior years.In 2020, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee again expanded our ESG-related annual performance goals. Based on its review of our compensation program and shareholder feedback, 
the Committee established a separately weighted ESG-related annual performance goal to reduce our GHG, methane, and flaring emissions intensity rates, total recordable incident rate, and oil spill rates below 
2019 levels. In 2021, this Committee again established a separately weighted ESG-related annual performance goal — specifically, to reduce our GHG, methane, and flaring emissions intensity rates, total recordable incident rate, and oil spill rates below 2020 levels and increase our wellhead gas capture rate above the 2020 level. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICESEOG is committed to conducting our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with the laws of all countries where we operate, as well as ensuring that all employees and business partners are treated fairly and with respect.To reinforce this commitment, EOG maintains a Compliance Program. The program includes strong nonretaliation provisions intended to ensure that EOG’s business is conducted with high ethical standards and in compliance with the letter and spirit of the law. The program also includes review and enforcement of EOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics and other policies related to legal compliance and ethics; overseeing employee communications, training, and compliance monitoring; and monitoring the investigation and resolution of complaints 
and inquiries.The Audit Committee of the Board oversees EOG’s Compliance Program, and we have a standing Compliance Committee that is responsible for implementing EOG’s Compliance Program and providing regular reports to the Audit Committee. The standing members of the Compliance Committee are our General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Human Resources, and Vice President, 
Internal Audit. CODES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT 
AND ETHICSEOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics detail our expectations with respect to business conduct, our legal and ethical responsibilities, and our expectations for our officers, directors, and employees as well as our contractors and vendors.Directors, Officers, and Employees — EOG’s 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers, and Employees includes sections on workplace safety, security, data privacy, protection of the environment, human rights, and fair treatment and mutual respect of workers. All employees are required to acknowledge receipt of EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers, and Employees when hired. In addition, employees agree to adhere to EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers, and Employees and related policies in accepting annual grants of restricted stock from EOG’s Compensation and Human Resources Committee. Contractors and Vendors — Our contractors and vendors must agree to abide by EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Vendors and Contractors. The policy obligates our contractors and vendors to provide their services in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health, safety, and human rights matters. In addition, we maintain a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers to which our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and controllers are subject. All three of these codes can be found in the “Board of Directors” section of the “Company” page of eogresources.com. EOG also requires our directors, officers, employees, contractors, and vendors to comply with related policies, including those related to anticorruption and anti-money-laundering compliance. Our Codes 
of Business Conduct and Ethics and the related policies are reviewed annually — including with our Audit Committee — and updated as necessary 
or appropriate.2022 ESG-RELATED 
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE GOAL ESG-related performance is evaluated under a separately weighted ESG-related goal as part of the Annual Bonus Plan. The weighting of this goal increased from 5% to 7.5% for 2021 and to 10% for 2022. It includes the following criteria: •	Reduction of each of our GHG, methane, and flaring emissions intensity rates below 2021 levels•	Total recordable incident rate and oil 
spill rates below the averages of the prior three years•	Wellhead gas capture rate of at 
least 99.8%EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportOVERSIGHT AND PRACTICESEOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics detail our expectations with respect to business conduct, our legal and ethical responsibilities, and our officers, directors, and employees as well as our contractors and vendors.TRAINING AND CONFIDENTIAL 
REPORTING MECHANISMSTo promote our commitment to ethical business practices, EOG maintains an active global compliance training program. Training is provided to employees upon joining the company and then to employees and contractors periodically thereafter. All employees also complete harassment prevention training.EOG encourages employees, contractors, and business partners to report any violations of the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics or other conduct relating to EOG’s business that they suspect may be unethical or in violation of applicable laws 
and regulations. EOG provides several confidential options for reporting actual and suspected misconduct, including speaking with a supervisor or contact at EOG, an EOG Human Resources representative, or a member of EOG’s Legal Department or Compliance Committee. Employees, contractors, suppliers, business partners (including joint venture partners), shareholders, and other external stakeholders may also report actual or suspected misconduct anonymously through EOG’s confidential 24-hour hotline or by submitting a confidential report online. EOG’s hotline and online reporting system are hosted by a third party to maintain anonymity. The hotline and online reporting system are available worldwide in local languages spoken in our areas of operation. A link to both resources is publicly available on eogresources.com, including in the “Board of Directors” section of the “Company” page. All complaints received are immediately forwarded to the Chief Compliance Officer, periodically reviewed by the Compliance Committee, and investigated as appropriate. The Audit Committee is also regularly updated regarding matters reported through the hotline or online reporting system. EOG’s third-party hotline and online reporting system include the ability to arrange a callback time to hear the status of EOG’s response to a report and to answer any follow-up questions anonymously. EOG does not tolerate retaliation, including legal retaliation, for raising an ethical or legal concern or asking questions in 
good faith. RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTSEOG is committed to conducting our business in 
a manner that respects the dignity and human rights of all individuals. We also encourage and expect 
our contractors and vendors to adhere to this 
same commitment. Oversight of our approach to human rights issues is primarily the responsibility of our Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee. To formalize our commitment and reflect our practices, in 2021 we adopted a companywide Human Rights Policy and added a human rights provision to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers, and Employees and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Vendors and Contractors. Our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics also provide guidance on issues such as nondiscrimination, anti-harassment, workplace safety, and equal employment opportunities.To help implement our human rights commitment, 
we provide guidance on the importance of respecting human rights and identifying potential human rights issues as part of our global compliance training program. PUBLIC ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTEOG does not contribute corporate funds to any federal, state, or local political candidate, party, organization, or campaign. In addition, EOG does not sponsor or administer a political action committee. We respect and support the right of our directors, officers, and employees to support political parties and candidates with their personal time and money. However, use of EOG company resources for such purposes, including employee time, company funds, and company supplies, is prohibited without the express approval of EOG’s Chief Executive Officer. EOG engages with regulators and elected officials 
to educate them on issues affecting our company and industry, changing technologies, and best practices. In addition, EOG employees are active participants in industry coalitions and working groups, including those focused on safety, water reuse, and reducing emissions, to share information and promote 
best practices.EOG pays membership dues to certain trade associations and benefits from the time these trade associations spend engaged in efforts to educate lawmakers and voters on issues relevant to the oil and gas industry. As part of our ongoing evaluation of our trade association memberships, we monitor the policy positions of the trade associations of which we are active members. While we strive to promote policies and practices that we support through our membership and participation in trade associations, trade associations represent their collective membership, not individual member companies, and may take positions on a wide variety of matters that are not necessarily supported by EOG.Our Government Relations group reviews and oversees our participation in trade associations and, at least once a year, the Board’s Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee reviews EOG’s contributions to trade associations, including any amounts related to political activities and lobbying expenses.INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
AND CYBERSECURITYEOG relies on information technology systems to run our business, including managing data from creation in the field to delivery to end users with proprietary applications built in-house. EOG’s supply chain of data helps enable us to operate as a real-time, mobile, and transparent company; to empower employees to make well-informed decisions; and to identify and develop opportunities for improvement, including the company’s ESG performance.As our reliance on data and our information technology systems has increased, we have continued to evolve and modify our business continuity plans as well as our cyberthreat detection and mitigation systems. We have implemented and invested in controls, procedures, and protections designed to protect our systems, identify and remediate vulnerabilities in our systems and related infrastructure, and monitor and mitigate the risk of data loss and other cybersecurity threats 
and intrusions. Additionally, our internal audit team, in conjunction with third-party experts, plays an important role in reviewing and assessing our cybersecurity controls, procedures, and protections, including conducting penetration testing and vulnerability assessments of the external devices utilized by our employees and contractors. We also monitor the cyber risk exposure and security practices of EOG and key service providers to assess cyber preparedness. In the event of an incident, there is a response team and plan in place with predefined escalation and response procedures. Our Information Systems team is responsible for cybersecurity strategy and planning. The team reports to our Senior Vice President and Chief Information and Technology Officer who, in turn, reports to our Chief Executive Officer. Our executive management team, which is responsible for the day-to-day management of cybersecurity risk, regularly reports to the Audit Committee regarding cybersecurity matters. As part of its risk oversight responsibility, our Audit Committee oversees our policies, strategies, and initiatives 
for mitigating cybersecurity and information technology risks. While we have experienced limited cybersecurity incidents in the past, we believe potential threats and intrusions to EOG’s systems have been effectively managed and contained by EOG’s intrusion technology systems and staff, and we have not had, to date, any business interruptions or material losses from breaches of cybersecurity. As technology and potential cybersecurity threats evolve, we will look to adapt and enhance our security measures as necessary.OVERSIGHT AND PRACTICESINTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND FRAMEWORKS INFORMING OUR 
APPROACH TO HUMAN RIGHTS •	United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights •	Universal Declaration of Human Rights •	International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including those regarding freedom of association and prohibitions on child labor, forced labor, and discrimination in the workplaceWe also recognize the importance of internationally recognized principles regarding the rights of Indigenous 
groups, such as those in the United 
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. (See page 40 for more information on EOG’s approach to engagement with local stakeholders, including Indigenous peoples.)OVERSIGHT AND PRACTICESCYBERSECURITY IS 
EMBEDDED IN OUR CODES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICSOur Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics communicate the following expectations of employees and contractors related to cybersecurity matters:•	Safeguard EOG’s information systems and related technologies from theft, fraud, unauthorized access, alteration, 
or other damage.•	Avoid any usage of EOG’s information systems that might lead to a breach of EOG’s information systems security.•	Immediately contact a member of EOG’s Information Systems team upon becoming aware of a situation that 
might compromise EOG’s information systems security.