COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY EOG Resources 2018 Sustainability Report “To create long-term value for our shareholders, we must be good stewards of all our resources – our assets, the environment, our people, and the communities where we live and work.” Dear Stakeholder, Being a good corporate citizen goes hand in hand with delivering long-term value for our shareholders. Responsible stewardship of our resources is essential to our long-term sustainability.  Put simply, to create long-term value for our shareholders, we must be good stewards of all our resources – our assets, the environment, our people, and the communities where we live and work. EOG’s culture is our sustainable competitive advantage. Our culture is one of continuous improvement throughout all aspects of our operations - developing new and innovative practices, improving operational efficiency and reducing the cost structure of our business. That same focus extends to our environmental stewardship, fostering diversity of thought, experience and background at all levels of our organization, and making a positive community impact on a local, national and global scale. We believe we are a leader in environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives and we look to improve our performance every year. While there is more we want to accomplish, we are proud of what we have achieved so far. Accomplishments in 2018 include: • Pneumatics and Methane - We reduced our methane emissions intensity rate by more than 45 percent as a result of a 2017 initiative to retrofit or, where feasible, remove high-bleed pneumatic controllers from our operations. We are optimistic we can reduce our methane emissions intensity rate further in 2019. • Methane Emissions Reduction Target – We formalized our goal to lower our methane emissions intensity rate and tied that reduction goal to executive compensation for 2019. In 2020, we will expand and publish our methane intensity reduction goal as a long-term quantitative target. • Water Reuse Technology – We expanded our water reuse operations, increasing our percentage of reuse water to more than 20 percent.  Combined, reuse and non-fresh water provided nearly two-thirds of our water needs in 2018, consistent with our efforts to minimize fresh water use. • Diversity in Leadership – We formalized our historical practice of considering diverse director candidates when engaging search firms in our director searches.  Also, EOG appointed Julie Robertson to our Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2019. Along with being a leader in ESG performance, our goal is to also be a leader in ESG-related disclosure and transparency. We actively engage and communicate with our stakeholders to understand what metrics are most useful. For our 2018 Sustainability Report, we’ve expanded on existing disclosures, and added new disclosures, in a number of areas: • Alignment with TCFD – To address stakeholders’ desire for more disclosure on EOG’s climate-related risk assessment and management, we integrated recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. • Scenario Analysis – We assessed the viability of our business by conducting a robust, long-term analysis of our current portfolio of assets to test its resiliency in a low-carbon scenario as set forth in the International Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development Scenario. • Methane Emissions Intensity Rate Calculation – Historically, we disclosed our methane emissions as an intensity rate relative to our total production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids because methane emissions result from all our production activity. While we continue that practice, we added a new percentage metric that represents our methane emissions relative solely to our natural gas production to be consistent with an emerging energy industry standard. • Water Reuse and Non-Fresh Percentages – We enhanced our water intensity rate disclosure by providing the percentage of reuse back to 2016. For the reporting year 2018, we further categorized our water use into fresh, non-fresh and reuse. We expect to provide these additional categories in future years. EOG is committed to delivering high returns through responsible operations. Staying true to our “pleased, but not satisfied” approach to business, we are excited about several new initiatives that will further reduce our environmental footprint while helping to lower costs and earn strong returns. These initiatives include: • Water Reuse - We are busy transferring and expanding our water reuse technology across our most active basins. • Electrification - EOG is a first mover in, and we believe the largest user of, electric-powered hydraulic fracturing equipment. • Solar Power - We are testing the use of solar power to generate electricity for natural gas compression. Our expanding implementation of water reuse, electric fracturing fleets and solar power are just a few of the many things we are doing to reduce our environmental footprint. We have the opportunity to reduce that footprint even further through continued innovation and application of technologies being developed in-house at EOG and by third parties. We are committed to sustainability so you can count on EOG to be a leader in bringing that innovation forward, not just for our advantage, but to the benefit of all of our stakeholders. Sincerely, William R. Thomas CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OPERATIONS  2018  2017  2016  EOG’s Total Gross Operated U.S. Production - million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe)  306  255  239  EOG’s Total Gross Operated U.S. Natural Gas Production - billion cubic feet  640  535  566  Manhours Worked - millions  44  33  25  Gross Completed Wells  896  604  570  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Intensity Rate - metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (MBoe) produced  17.7  17.5  19.3    Combustion Emissions Intensity Rate - metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced  11.7  9.7  11.5    Flaring Emissions Intensity Rate - metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced  4.0  4.0  3.3    Pneumatics Emissions Intensity Rate - metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced  1.3  3.2  2.9    Emissions Intensity Rate from Other Sources - metric tons of CO2e per MBoe produced  0.7  0.6  1.6  Methane Intensity Rate - metric tons of CO2e (related to methane emissions) per MBoe produced  2.2  4.0  4.7  Methane Emissions Percentage - thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of methane emissions per Mcf of natural gas produced  0.22  0.40  0.42  Natural Gas Gathering Infrastructure Installed - miles  178  145  47  Water Management:  Water Intensity Rate - barrels (Bbls) of water used per barrel of oil equivalent produced  0.82  0.68  0.53  Water Sourced from Reuse (%)  21  13  6  Water Sourced from Fresh/Non-Fresh Water (%)  79  87  94  Spill Prevention and Management:  Oil Spill Rate - Bbls of oil spilled (spills over five Bbls) per MBoe produced  0.047  0.010  0.013    Recovered Oil Rate - spilled Bbls recovered per MBoe produced  0.041  0.008  0.006    Unrecovered Oil Rate - spilled Bbls not recovered per MBoe produced  0.006  0.002  0.007  SOCIAL  2018  2017  2016  U.S. Employees (as of December 31)  2,684  2,541  2,532   Percentage:   Minority Employees  23.2  22.2  21.5   Minority Professionals  27.8  26.8  26.0   Minority Supervisors and Managers  15.9  14.7  15.1   Female Employees  29.5  29.7  30.1   Female Professionals  36.1  34.9  36.3   Female Supervisors and Managers  17.5  18.2  18.3  Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) - incidents per 200,000 work hours, including employees and contractors  0.87  1.09  0.87  Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) - incidents per 200,000 work hours, including employees and contractors  0.25  0.26  0.27  * U.S. operations OUR PRACTICES Every horizontal tight rock play is different and requires different techniques and technology to develop. Our decentralized structure is ideal for the type of play-specific innovation needed to optimize unique development techniques to maximize the value of any given play. The same is true for our efforts to minimize our environmental footprint, improve the energy efficiency of our field operations, reduce overall fuel usage and drive down emissions. Each of our decentralized offices is continually testing various technologies and innovations that are most suitable for their local basin’s unique geology and surface area environment. In many cases, technology can be transferred and shared across the company. We essentially have eight different teams all independently testing, innovating and eventually sharing the best environmental stewardship innovations, approaches and technologies. We are committed to protecting the environment during our exploration and development operations – from our initial exploration efforts, through the life of a well’s production. The following are just a few of the efforts EOG undertakes: Drilling • Limiting our overall surface footprint by: - Using directional and horizontal drilling technologies - Drilling multiple wells from a single well pad - Reducing drilling days across all plays • Reusing and recycling to limit disposal of drilling fluids Completions • Using electric completion spreads, as a first mover in the industry, to reduce diesel fuel combustion emissions • Reducing fresh water usage by using non-fresh water sources where available • Increasing recycling and reuse of the water produced from our oil and gas wells during operations (produced water) to reduce fresh and non-fresh water use • Minimizing the use of chemical additives through innovative completion technologies • Utilizing “green completions,” which are reduced emissions completion systems Production and Facilities • Recycling produced water for reuse in operations • Real-time, remote facility monitoring using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems • Reducing or eliminating emissions by: - Capturing GHG emissions and reducing flaring using vapor recovery units that direct tank vapors into a natural gas sales line - Installing instrument air systems on facilities to reduce GHG emissions associated with facility controllers and pumps - Identifying, repairing and monitoring fugitive emissions at EOG facilities through a company-wide leak detection and repair program - Removing or retrofitting high-bleed pneumatic controllers - Converting pneumatic pumps to electric or solar power • Designing improved spill containment infrastructure for our facilities • Reducing our emissions and surface footprint through centralized production and compression facilities Infrastructure and Land Use • Installing water pipeline infrastructure to reduce the number of trucks needed, road congestion and truck emissions • Installing natural gas gathering infrastructure to reduce flaring and vented emissions, including the installation of over 178 miles of natural gas gathering lines during 2018 • Building out oil gathering systems and pipelines to reduce truck traffic and eliminate storage tank emissions • Downsizing drilling sites for production operations • Minimizing our surface footprint by re-vegetating unused acreage Other Energy Efficiency and Conservation Measures • Designing multi-well pads, thus removing the need for multiple separators, tanks and flares and reducing trucking • Using electric pumps and compressors • Houston offices are in a building with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) “Green Building” certification CLIMATE-RELATED STRATEGY AND SCENARIO ANALYSIS Global demand and pricing for crude oil may be affected by changes in carbon-related regulations and policy initiatives, the availability of alternative energy sources, and consumer behavior. In addition, the Paris Climate Agreement seeks to limit global temperature increases in this century to below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Signatory countries to the Paris Climate Agreement have committed to reduction targets under their own Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). The United States previously published an NDC in 2016 setting forth an economy-wide target of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28 percent below its 2005 level by 2025. We recognize the increasing interest of our shareholders and other stakeholders in the potential impacts of climate change on our operations and how EOG is assessing and managing that risk. In response, EOG is integrating certain recommended disclosure components from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into our Sustainability Report. Established in 2015, the TCFD developed four core elements of climate-related financial disclosures: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. Components of each of these recommended core TCFD elements are discussed in this report. Resilience of Long-Term Strategy and Scenario Analysis EOG is a rate of return incentivized company at every level of the organization. As such, disciplined capital allocation is a rigorous process guided by our “premium well” investment standard. A premium well delivers a minimum of 30 percent direct after-tax rate of return using a very low commodity price deck: $40 per barrel of oil and $2.50 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas. A minimum of 30 percent on a direct basis would translate to a healthy, all-in return that is fully burdened with indirect costs such as overhead. As of year-end 2018, we had identified 9,500 premium well locations. Since establishing the premium standard in 2016, EOG has replaced our premium locations at least two times faster than our pace of drilling. EOG’s unique premium well strategy positions the company to be one of the lowest-cost oil and natural gas producers worldwide capable of earning competitive returns throughout commodity price cycles. EOG’s capital planning process every year contemplates current commodity prices to forecast cash flow as a baseline for the annual plan. EOG’s longer-term strategic planning process includes analysis of market forces and conditions that present risks and opportunities to our business plans and strategy. We assess risks and opportunities under various commodity price outcomes that result from certain policy and market assumptions. To assess the risks and opportunities related to global climate change policy scenarios, EOG referenced the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) 2018 World Energy Outlook, which includes the Sustainable Development Scenario that is widely used to assess portfolio resilience within the oil and natural gas industry. The Sustainable Development Scenario is based on the main energy-related components of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, including the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting the increase in global average temperatures to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. To evaluate the resilience of our portfolio in such a scenario, we started with a reference case model that consisted of our premium well inventory. For conservatism, we did not assume any additions to our current premium inventory; rather, we assumed development of our non-premium inventory for the remainder of the model’s time frame, to year 2040. Other assumptions and optimization criteria used to develop our reference case model included the following: • The commodity price outlook determined by the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario, which averages $68 per barrel of oil and $3.40 per Mcf of natural gas over the life of the scenario. • Carbon pricing costs defined by the Sustainable Development Scenario for carbon dioxide prices in the U.S.of $63 per metric ton beginning in 2025 and growing to $140 per metric ton by 2040. The carbon pricing costs were calculated assuming EOG’s current GHG emissions intensity metrics resulting in additional cost of approximately $1.00 to $2.40 per barrel of oil equivalent. • Realistic production and dividend growth, and a requirement to generate free cash flow every year. Evaluating our reference case model under the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario assumptions resulted in significant positive net present value of future cash flows using a 10 percent discount rate (NPV10). In addition, the reference case model was further stress tested using a flat commodity price of $50 per barrel of oil and $2.75 per Mcf of natural gas. Using the same carbon costs, production growth and dividend growth assumptions, the more conservative commodity price scenario still yielded significant free cash flow and generated positive NPV10. EOG’s premium well strategy, disciplined capital allocation and distinctive culture is driving long-term, sustainable shareholder and stakeholder value. The analysis confirmed the resiliency of EOG’s current well inventory and its sustainable business model against various changes in commodity pricing and market demands, including those related to global climate change. Environmental Management Systems Proactive environmental stewardship requires effective mechanisms and a systematic approach. Therefore, we utilize a combination of internal and third-party, web-based environmental management systems (EMS) to manage environmental risks and increase operating efficiencies. Our EMS organize large quantities of data into a database structure so it can be reviewed, used, monitored, and maintained. Our EMS support our efforts to set environmental goals, review progress and track our environmental performance. Data in our EMS can be used to maintain regulatory monitoring and reporting schedules and drive improvements in our operating processes. Our EMS are an important part of tracking EOG’s environmental performance and allows us to focus on continuous improvement. Our EMS are based on performance. The company sets environmental-related expectations and provides a framework within which management can achieve and assess performance in a systematic way. EOG’s environmental performance is considered in evaluating employee performance and compensation throughout the organization. Regular environmental training is critical to consistent performance. We provide initial, periodic and refresher environmental training for employees, contractors and other personnel who may work at or visit EOG’s facilities, including: • Environmental stewardship training • Optical gas imaging (OGI) Training for EOG’s leak detection and repair program • Audio, visual and olfactory (AVO) Training to proactively identify and manage emissions on a regular basis In addition, EOG’s Safety and Environmental Leadership Council, an internal leadership team consisting of senior management and legal, operations, and safety and environmental personnel, reviews EOG’s performance and develops strategies to improve ongoing programs. MANAGING EMISSIONS Environmental Metrics and Methane Reduction Target It is important to EOG – for environmental, operational and economic reasons – to reduce emissions from our operations. For 2019, we set a qualitative goal to reduce our methane emissions intensity rate. Looking ahead to 2020, we will establish a longer-term, quantitative methane emissions target rate. Our practices and programs to pursue these goals and the quantitative metrics we use to measure our progress are described in this report, which allow our shareholders and other stakeholders to gauge our year-over-year performance and also benchmark our environmental performance against that of our peer companies. Operating Practices As discussed above, EOG’s normal operating practices are designed to minimize emissions. To reduce or eliminate flaring, we install natural gas gathering pipelines early in the life of a play and contract sufficient pipeline takeaway capacity to provide flow assurance. The use of multi-well pads and green completions also reduce overall emissions. Other equipment we use includes low-bleed controllers, “instrument air,” compressors equipped with emissions control technology, and electric and solar-powered pumps. EOG’s facilities are also designed to minimize emissions and maximize the recovery of vapors. Where operationally appropriate, EOG installs specialized control equipment, such as vapor recovery units and towers, vapor balance systems, high-efficiency combustion devices, and multi.stage separators. In certain operating areas, we install electricity infrastructure to permit the use of electric-powered (versus fuel-powered) equipment. Facilities are periodically reviewed to optimize equipment, including compression. In addition, EOG uses the latest technology, such as OGI, to identify and manage emissions. Pneumatic Controller Program High-bleed pneumatic controllers were identified as the largest contributor of methane emissions in EOG’s operations. Retrofitting a high-bleed pneumatic controller to low-bleed results in meaningful reductions in methane emissions. In 2017, EOG began a program to retrofit or, where feasible, remove high-bleed controllers. EOG plans to have this program completed by year-end 2019. This retrofit/removal program, which is further discussed below, has significantly reduced methane emissions from EOG's operations. Additionally, EOG frequently installs compressed instrument air for pneumatic controllers and pumps in our development areas. An instrument air system replaces natural gas with compressed air to operate pneumatic controllers and pumps, thereby eliminating methane emissions. Leak Detection and Repair Program During 2018, EOG built upon the success of our company-wide voluntary leak detection and repair (LDAR) program by conducting LDAR inspections across the company, which consisted of OGI inspections and/or AVO inspections. While certain EOG production locations are subject to LDAR programs mandated by state and/or federal regulations, our voluntary program goes further and provides operational procedures for detecting and repairing emissions leaks at facilities not covered by state or federal requirements. Additionally, EOG utilizes our own information technology system applications to capture LDAR data electronically, including a mobile application to capture data directly from our field locations. These applications improve the accuracy of our data, identify trends, eliminate paper processes and allow timely repairs through the lifecycle of our LDAR program. EOG’s program consists of: • Monitoring components – We monitor emissions from components such as connectors, pressure relief valves, controllers and tank thief hatches • Monitoring frequency guidelines – These guidelines take into account activity levels at our facilities and other factors that may affect emissions • Identification and repair of leaks – We have protocols for the identification and timely repair of detected leaks and the re-inspection of repaired components at specified time periods • OGI – A substantial part of the monitoring under our LDAR program is conducted through the use of infrared cameras and other thermal imaging technology • AVO inspections – Audio, visual and olfactory inspections identify and manage emissions as part of field and facility visits • Documentation, review and retention – Our LDAR program includes requirements with respect to record maintenance and retention Our LDAR program, which is reviewed on an annual basis, has resulted in a significant reduction in fugitive emissions at EOG facilities, including reductions in methane emissions and other emissions. See the following discussion regarding our GHG and methane emissions metrics for 2016, 2017 and 2018. 