ENVIRONMENT OUR PRACTICES EOG Resources’ approach to envi.ronmental stewardship is directed by the same decentralized structure, operational and technological focus and innovative culture that drives our leadership in the exploration and development of unconventional oil and gas plays. No two unconventional oil and gas plays are alike. Each is unique and therefore requires tailored techniques and technology to develop. EOG’s decentralized structure fosters play-specific innovation to optimally develop and maximize the value of any given play. Each of our operating area offices is continually testing various technologies and innovations that are most suitable for its unique geology and surface area environment. In many cases, technology can be trans.ferred and shared across the company. The same is true for our efforts to minimize our environmental footprint, improve the energy efficiency of our field operations, reduce overall fuel usage and address emissions. We essentially have multiple teams across each of our operating areas all testing, innovating and eventually sharing the best environmental stewardship innovations, approaches and technol.ogies. We also work with community, Commitment to Environmental Stewardship We are committed to protecting the environment throughout our exploration and development operations – from our initial exploration efforts, through the life of a well’s production, to reclamation and restoration. The following practices are just a few of the efforts EOG undertakes: DRILLING & COMPLETIONS • Reducing drilling days • Limiting disposal of drilling fluids through reuse and recycling • Using reduced emissions completions systems • Minimizing the use of chemical additives • Minimizing fresh water usage PRODUCTION • Recycling produced water for reuse in operations • Minimizing and eliminating emissions, including through our: • Flaring reduction initiatives • Efforts to reduce emissions from pneumatic controllers and pumps • Leak detection and repair (LDAR) program INFRASTRUCTURE & FACILITIES • Installing oil, natural gas and water infrastructure to reduce truck traffic and emissions • Limiting our overall surface footprint with multi-well pads and centralized production and compression facilities • Designing and implementing enhanced spill containment and mitigation controls • Real-time, remote facility monitoring using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems RESTORATION & RECLAMATION • Revegetating unused acreage during reclamation and restoration of well sites and facilities • Partnering with stakeholders to restore land in a manner responsive to the specific interests of local communities and landowners government and other industry stake.EOG’s information technology applications promote holders in each operating area to environmental stewardship by: tailor our environmental practices to • Providing advanced measurement and address localized factors as needed. tracking tools • Enhancing our ability to monitor performance and Using Information Technology set goalsto Drive Transparency and Fit-for-Purpose Solutions • Equipping company personnel with information to make better, faster, well-informed decisions EOG’s environmental stewardship practices leverage our extensive supply chain of data and predictive management and spill management, help prevent flooding of our facilities. analytics tools. Our Information see In Focus – Automating LDAR, Across our operating areas, including Systems team has developed over In Focus – Significantly Increasing areas prone to water scarcity, EOG is 140 desktop and mobile applications Reuse in the Powder River Basin and focused on reducing the use of fresh in-house that help provide: In Focus – Automating Spill Prevention water. In areas prone to extreme and Management. heat, we take measures to protect the • Real-time data capture, including health and safety of our employees real-time reporting of water reuse, Planning for Weather Events and and contractors, including using Related Physical Risks potential leaks and flaring metrics cooling trailers. • Mobile data access and analysis As part of the evaluation and planning EOG also operates three central • Equipment optimization through of our operations, EOG considers how control rooms, built to manage our automation to mitigate relevant physical risks from operations in our most active areas. weather changes and extreme weather In the event of severe weather, EOG These applications drive transparency events, such as floods, hurricanes and can remotely monitor production and throughout the organization and intense heat and cold. infrastructure of an impacted oper.allow for better, faster, well-informed ating area from one of our central decisions. We operate a diversified portfolio of control rooms and, if needed, safely assets across multiple regions that In addition, our ability to develop shut down operations. each have unique environmental and applications in-house allows for weather-related considerations. Our collaboration on fit-for-purpose decentralized structure enables us to solutions, such as our TridentSM apply our localized knowledge so we application that helps manage our are prepared for the weather-related water resources in real time, and physical risks specific to each of our iDetectSM, our proprietary leak detec.operating areas. For instance, in areas tion software. For more specifics on prone to flooding, we build drainage how our proprietary applications are systems and protective structures to enhancing our LDAR program, water ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS At EOG, we are guided by the fun.damental elements of our Safety & Environmental Policy, which commits to safeguarding people and the envi.ronment by making performance the responsibility of every EOG employee and contractor. • Environmental protection – We are committed to reducing the impact of our operations on the environment. • Compliance – Our policy is to com.ply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations and to apply responsible standards where such laws or regulations do not exist. • Continuous improvement – We strive to continuously improve our safety and environmental performance and enhance our process through collaboration and sharing ideas and practices across the company. Our environmental management systems (EMS) are key to integrating our proactive approach to environ.mental stewardship into our planning, development and decision-making. Our EMS provide a framework to manage our environmental processes and performance. Our EMS also provide transparency and help us identify and manage environmental risks, leverage opportunities and drive continuous improvement. Environmental Management Applications – As part of our EMS, we use a combination of internal and third-party systems to organize large quantities of data into a data.base structure so it can be easily analyzed, monitored and maintained to improve our day-to-day operations. In addition, data in our EMS is used to track regulatory monitoring and reporting schedules, environmental incidents and process changes that are being implemented. Performance Goals – Our EMS also support our efforts to set environmen.tal goals, review progress and track our performance. We set environ.mental goals on an annual basis and the data from our EMS allows man.agement to assess performance in a systematic way. EOG’s environmental performance is considered in evaluat.ing employee performance and com.pensation throughout the organization, including executive compensation. Management Oversight – EOG’s Safety and Environmental Leadership Council, an internal leadership team consisting of senior management and legal and safety and environmental personnel, reviews EOG’s perfor.mance and oversees development of strategies to improve our processes. This review system further serves to identify trends to develop the overall safety and environmental strategy for our organization. See Oversight and Practices – Role of Management in Assessing and Managing ESG Matters in the Governance section for further discussion. Training – We believe regular envi.ronmental training is important to consistent performance. We provide environmental training for employees and contractors on a variety of topics including: • Environmental stewardship • Optical gas imaging (OGI) training for EOG’s LDAR program • Audio, visual and olfactory (AVO) training to proactively identify and manage emissions • Spill prevention control and counter.measure training Contractor Management – To help promote sound environmental prac.tices, our contractor onboarding process includes an orientation on EOG’s environmental management and stewardship expectations. We seek to further manage climate-our control, such as the business cycle, CLIMATE-RELATED related regulatory, legal and reputa.complex geopolitical relationships and RISKS, LONG-TERM regulatory changes, is a risk we are tional risks by, among other things,STRATEGY AND actively managing our portfolio of oil and gas company. long-accustomed to managing as an diverse oil and gas assets to provide SCENARIO future investment optionality, actively ANALYSIS EOG is focused on playing a significant engaging with our shareholders role in the long-term future of ener.and other stakeholders on climate-Global supply and demand for crude gy by being among the lowest cost, related matters, and evaluating the oil and natural gas may be affected highest return, and lowest emissions resilience of our portfolio to climate-by many factors, including the avail-producers of oil and natural gas. We related scenarios. ability of alternative energy sources, believe the best strategy for a sustain-consumer demand and behavior, able business model in a commodity What follows is a description of our and carbon-related regulations and business exposed to volatile prices long-term premium well strategy and policy initiatives. EOG recognizes that the climate scenario analysis under-and the risks that drive price volatility, countries are implementing policies taken to evaluate the potential future including climate-related risks, is to and taking actions designed to reduce be a returns-focused, low-cost and implications for oil and natural gas global emissions as part of the broader supply and demand as related to the low-emissions producer, supported framework of the Paris Agreement long-term resilience of our portfolio to by a conservative financial structure. to limit global warming to well below Capital allocation at EOG is guided various climate-related conditions and 2 degrees Celsius compared to policy changes through 2040. by our “premium well” strategy, pre-industrial levels, and that reliable described in more detail on page 15. and affordable energy is needed to power a growing global population. Our strategy is also supported by a strong focus on addressing emissions Forecasts of how to meet global from our operations. Our approach energy demand in the future are includes practices that minimize and/ wide-ranging. The timing and scale of or eliminate emissions, developing and specific climate-related efforts bring investing in technologies that reduce unique challenges to predicting the both costs and emissions intensity and impact on future supply, demand and setting near- and long-term emissions commodity prices. However, exposure targets and ambitions. See Managingto commodity prices determined by Emissions for more information on our supply and demand factors outside practices and commitments driving emissions performance improvement in our operations. inventory. Other assumptions and We further stress tested our reference optimization criteria used to develop SCENARIO ANALYSIS case model using a flat commodity To evaluate the resilience of our our reference case model included price of $50 per barrel of oil and $2.00 portfolio to climate-related scenarios, the following: per Mcf of natural gas. Using the we considered the Sustainable same carbon pricing costs, production Development Scenario (SDS) in the • The commodity price outlook growth and dividend growth assump-International Energy Agency’s (IEA) determined by the SDS, which aver.tions, the more conservative commod.2020 World Energy Outlook (WEO). aged $56 Brent per barrel of oil ity price scenario still yielded signifi-The WEO uses a model to estimate ($52 WTI equivalent per barrel of oil) cant profitability and free cash flow. the future supply, demand and prices and $2.17 per million Btu of natural for oil and natural gas under various gas over the life of the scenario. While the scenarios we evaluated hypothetical scenarios. The SDS is are not predictions of the future, • Carbon pricing costs defined by based on the main energy-related we believe the results of the analysis the SDS for carbon dioxide taxes components of the United Nations’ confirm the resiliency of EOG’s in advanced economies of $63 per Sustainable Development Goals, portfolio of premium well inventory metric ton beginning in 2025 and including the Paris Agreement’s goal against climate-related risks to growing to $140 per metric ton by of limiting the increase in global long-term commodity pricing and 2040. The reference case model average temperatures to well below demand. This analysis also supports used projections for our Scope 1 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial our continuing efforts to identify and and Scope 2 GHG emissions that, levels. The SDS is widely recognized manage climate-related risks, includ.for conservatism, assumed no and used to assess portfolio resilience ing those related to changes in the meaningful emissions control within the oil and natural gas industry global energy demand and supply mix, improvements. These assumptions under a carbon-constrained scenario. and global climate change policy. resulted in additional costs that grow to approximately $1.85 per We believe that our culture of disci-Under the SDS, demand for oil and barrel of oil equivalent by 2040. plined capital allocation to a premium natural gas is projected to decrease • Realistic production growth and well strategy that is focused on high-by 2040, however oil and gas remains steady, consistent dividend growth return, low-cost oil and natural gas a key part of meeting future energy through 2040, supported by an production supported by a conserva.demand during the same time period. internal requirement to generate tive financial structure and strong free cash flow every year. Our analysis used a reference case focus on addressing emissions from model for our U.S. operations running our operations will drive long-term, Evaluating our reference case through 2040 and consisting of our sustainable shareholder and stake-model under the SDS assumptions premium well inventory of 11,500 loca.holder value. noted above resulted in significant tions. For conservatism, we assumed profitability and free cash flow. development of only our existing non-premium inventory after our pre.mium inventory was used up. We did not assume that successful explora.tion will add to our current premium ambition drives continued improve.ment in our management of emissions and innovation in our practices. Our newly-formed Sustainable Power EOG Emissions Ambition and Targets AMBITION FOR SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS BY 2040 Group is working to accelerate innova-NET ZERO tion to support our emissions goals. GHG INTENSITY RATE BY 2025 We believe the practices and processes 13.5 described in this report, continued METHANE EMISSIONS PERCENTAGE BY 2025 0.06 ROUTINE FLARING BY 2025 ZERO WELLHEAD GAS CAPTURE RATE IN 2021 99.8% investment in innovation and the appli.cation of future technologies will help us achieve our near-term targets and net-zero ambition. Our progress toward targets is regularly reviewed by executive management and our Board of Directors, and we will continue to report our progress annually. LONG TERM: NET-ZERO AMBITION MANAGING EMISSIONS Continuing to improve our emissions performance is important for envi.ronmental, operational and economic reasons. We know that to be part of the long-term energy solution, we not only have to be a low-cost producer, we have to do it with a responsible environmental footprint. EOG proactively manages and mini.mizes emissions of methane and other greenhouse gases from our existing operations through responsible oper.ating practices, such as advance infra.structure planning, and through the use of proven in-field and information systems technology. For more infor.mation, see Today: Operating Practices. Our approach to reducing emissions from future operations remains operationally focused. We invest with returns in mind and seek achievable and scalable results. Our investments in environmental projects to pilot new technology can pay off in two ways: they can lower emissions and function as learning mechanisms for future innovation contributing to our sustain.able business model. We recently added to our near-term emissions targets and established a long-term net-zero ambition. See the following sections for more detail. Setting these targets and long-term Earlier this year we announced our ambition to reach net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2040. Our net-zero ambition helps set the long-term direction for our efforts to address emissions from our opera.tions, which fall into three general categories: reduce, capture and offset. Reducing emissions intensity from our operations is an immediate and direct path to reducing our carbon footprint. With that focus, we have made significant progress achieving a number of technical innovations and operational advancements that have enabled us to generate significant reductions in methane intensity and overall Scope 1 GHG intensity rates.  NEAR TERM:  Our emissions intensity performance  We are also exploring technology to  EMISSIONS TARGETS  is considered in evaluating executive  capture carbon emissions from our   compensation. For 2020, year-over. operations for long-term storage or  EOG values the significance of a  year reductions in our GHG, methane  use in other applications. Beyond  long-term, net-zero ambition while  and flaring intensity rates were  reducing and capturing emissions,  also recognizing the need for near- included as part of a separately  we expect to evaluate options to  term targets with a specific path to  weighted, ESG-specific performance  offset GHG emissions.  more immediate results. Last year,  goal considered to determine our  we established two 2025 emissions  executives’ annual bonuses. See the  To assist both our current emissions  targets for both GHG and methane  Governance section for more details.  intensity reduction efforts and long- in our U.S. operations. This year, we  term, net-zero ambition, we are  endorsed the World Bank Zero Routine  Our routine flaring goal will be  currently implementing internally  Flaring by 2030 Initiative and set a goal  assessed under the World Bank Zero  developed technology to measure and  to meet that target companywide by  Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative.  calculate more detailed, real-time  2025. We are optimistic these targets  For more information regarding the  runtime data for our facilities. This  will function as more than just steps  methodology used to calculate our  data is the starting point for our  toward our net-zero ambition pathway,  emissions intensity rates and methane  emissions calculations and provides  serving as incubators to learn and  emissions percentage, including  increased visibility on our emissions  build expertise through the application  formulas and definitions, see the  footprint. Having a more accurate  of existing technology and pilots of  Appendix. Our targets are based on  picture of our emissions on a real-time  new technology.  our current operating footprint,  basis also helps identify where we  and we expect to reassess our targets  need to focus our efforts for the most  Our near-term 2025 targets are:  as changes to our asset base and  immediate and impactful result and  operations warrant.  encourages innovation and develop. • Reduce our GHG intensity rate to  ment of unique solutions to achieve  13.5 for our U.S. operations  our net-zero ambition.  • Reduce our methane emissions  percentage to 0.06 percent for our  U.S. operations  • Zero routine flaring  In addition, this year we set a goal to  capture 99.8 percent of our wellhead  gas for our U.S. operations in 2021, up  from a strong 99.6 percent wellhead  gas capture rate achieved in 2020.  SUSTAINABLE POWER GROUP EOG has a long history of adapting to changing industry conditions and using technology to improve the com.pany. In early 2020, we established a new Sustainable Power Group to bring even greater emphasis to improving our environmental performance and creating long-term value for the com.pany. Working directly with employees in each of our operating areas, this team of engineers and other special.ists is dedicated to identifying and implementing emissions reduction ini.tiatives. The Sustainable Power Group provides leadership and supports our culture of innovation to develop and apply technologies and other solutions to achieve our emissions targets and net-zero ambition. TODAY: OPERATING PRACTICES EOG’s approach is to proactively manage and minimize emissions of greenhouse gases from our operations through advance infrastructure plan.ning, efficient facility design and the use of innovative, in-field technology. We plan for and install natural gas gathering pipelines early in the life of a play to minimize flaring and other sources of emissions. This is partic.ularly important for development of oil plays that produce large quantities of associated gas. We also contract Our approach to reducing emissions from future operations remains operationally focused. We invest with returns in mind and seek achievable and scalable results. sufficient pipeline takeaway capacity, and where possible, multiple takeaway options to provide production flow assurance. Our approach to advance infrastructure planning is covered in more detail in Minimizing Flaring. We continuously look for ways to improve the design of our facilities to minimize emissions and maximize the recovery of resources. Our facilities are periodically reviewed to optimize equipment and implement new tech.nologies. Using centralized facilities, such as multi-well pads and central.ized gas lift, eliminates the need for multiple separators, tanks and flares, which reduces fugitive emissions and trucking. In addition, our in-house, proprietary applications allow us to gain opera.tional efficiencies by automating and optimizing artificial lift. This reduces gas lift volumes and the overall com.pression needed to inject gas, which minimizes emissions from combustion. Other technology we use in-field to minimize emissions from our opera.tions includes low-bleed and no-bleed controllers, instrument air systems, engines equipped with emissions control technology, electric and solar-powered pumps and automa.tion. Where operationally appropriate, we install specialized control equip.ment, such as vapor recovery units and towers, vapor balance systems, high-efficiency combustion devices and multi-stage separators. In certain operating areas, we install electricity infrastructure to permit the use of electric-powered (versus fuel-powered) equipment. In Focus Closed-Loop Gas Capture Minimizing Flaring from Downstream Interruptions Through Innovation and Collaboration Temporary downstream market interruptions, such as the shutdown of facilities and pipelines for maintenance and repair, can affect the ability to transport gas to processing facilities and result in the need to shut in producing oil wells or flare associated gas. To minimize impacts from downstream market interruptions, EOG has invested in gas gathering and multi-outlet compression stations to allow for multiple takeaway options to provide redundancy in the event of down.stream interruptions. We also have control centers in our most active areas designed to manage the flow of our natural gas in real time so that we can avoid flaring. In 2020, a multi-disciplinary team of EOG employees devel.oped a closed-loop gas capture (CLGC) process to provide an additional alternative to dealing with temporary downstream market interruptions. CLGC is an automated process that re-routes natural gas back into existing wells when a downstream interruption occurs. After the interruption clears, the well is produced using existing production and measurement equipment. We conducted a pilot test of CLGC in the Permian Basin in 2020. Results of this pilot test were successful and we are working on expanding our pilot project to additional wells and operating areas. By engaging with regulators and other industry stakeholders, we have also worked to make CLGC a solution that is available for others to use. By further reducing the dependency on market runtime and using existing infrastructure, we believe CLGC will provide multiple benefits, including: • Minimizing Flaring Emissions – by providing a real-time, automated response to reduced market takeaway. • Improving Recovery of Resources – by enabling continued production of oil that might have been shut in and the recov.ery of gas that might otherwise need to be flared. • Limiting Surface Disturbance – by using existing compres.sors, wells and production facilities and requiring minimal additional pipeline infrastructure. • Producing Wells – oil and associated natural gas is produced. • Production Facilities – oil and natural gas is separated. • Natural Gas Compression – natural gas is compressed and transported by pipeline to a third-party company for processing and sales. • Closed-Loop Gas Capture – natural gas is redirected through an existing well and contained in an oil and natural gas reservoir when a downstream market interruption occurs. When the interruption clears, the natural gas is produced and transported for processing and sale. Compression Natural gas flow during Natural gas diverted during Closed-loop gas normal operations downstream market interruption capture infrastructure Minimizing flaring is a priority for EOG. We continually review all processes where flaring can occur, including at the wellhead, storage tanks and during completions, to maximize gas capture and improve our performance. Minimizing Flaring Minimizing flaring is a priority for EOG. We continually review all processes where flaring can occur, including at the wellhead, storage tanks and during completions, to maximize gas capture and improve our performance. Our approach includes active manage.ment oversight of our operations aided by information technology, advance infrastructure planning and in-field technology innovation. Daily operations are actively managed to minimize flaring through use of proprietary desktop and mobile appli.cations built in-house that provide real-time data capture and reporting of our flaring metrics. Management and field personnel are able to analyze root causes and conditions of flaring in real-time, and are able to take immedi.ate actions in the field to minimize or even eliminate the need for flaring. The result is better, faster, well-informed decisions. Real-time data access through our information systems drives transparency throughout the company and helps us meet our flaring and wellhead gas capture goals. Advance infrastructure planning and takeaway optionality are two of the most important tools we use to mini.mize flaring: • We anticipate and develop gathering and takeaway infrastructure needs to transport our production when formulating our development plans for a play, not only to minimize flaring, but also to lower costs and maximize efficiencies. • We start planning for the regulatory permitting process well in advance of the need for infrastructure con.struction to begin. • We install natural gas gathering infrastructure early in the develop.ment of a play so that natural gas associated with the production of oil can be gathered, processed and sold. • Our marketing group secures the ability to sell to multiple mar.kets, to provide takeaway options for our natural gas production and mitigate the effects of downstream market interruptions. • Control centers for our most active areas are built to control the flow of our natural gas in real time and are instrumental in avoiding interruptions and executing our takeaway plans. We further reduce or eliminate flaring in our operations through targeted practices and use of in-field technology and solutions developed in-house: • During completion operations, we seek to route the natural gas to onsite separators early in the process rather than flaring. • Capturing tank vapors both reduces flaring and provides a valuable revenue stream due to the liquids-rich, high energy content of tank vapors. We capture vapors from storage tanks and route these vapors back to the sales line through vapor recovery equipment. We are also implementing new practices and technologies to improve the efficiency of our recovery systems to capture tank vapors. • To minimize flaring at our facilities caused by downstream market interruptions, we developed a closed-loop gas capture process that uses automation to re-route natural gas back into existing wells when a downstream interruption occurs. The In Focus in this section describes this innovative new pro.cess in more detail. Pneumatics Program Pneumatic Controllers In recent years, EOG has implemented A pneumatic controller is a device that uses air or gas under a comprehensive program focused pressure to operate a mechanical device. For example, the on both reducing emissions from, force of pressurized air or gas can be used to open and close a and refining emissions data associ.control valve. In oil and gas production operations, pneumatic ated with, pneumatic controllers and controllers are used to regulate process equipment pressures, pumps. As a part of this program, temperatures and liquid levels. from 2017 to 2019, we retrofitted, replaced or removed all of our high-bleed natural gas-powered pneumatic controllers from our operations. our U.S. operations. Our proactive, • Monitoring-frequency guidelines – voluntary LDAR program detects and Our past practice has been to visit Since then, EOG has continued to repairs leaks at facilities that are not every facility at least once a year with implement measures to reduce otherwise subject to regulatory LDAR an OGI camera. EOG plans to enhance emissions from pneumatic pumps requirements, resulting in lower our program by increasing the fre.or controllers, including eliminating methane emissions. quency of OGI inspections in 2021.emissions from these sources where • Timely repair and re-inspection – feasible by: EOG’s LDAR program includes: Once a leak is identified, time-based protocols for the repair and the • Converting to or installing pneumatic • Component-level monitoring – We re-inspection of repaired compo-pumps and controllers using instru.monitor emissions from compo.nents are supported through soft.ment air systems (i.e., compressed nents such as connectors, pressure ware and automation. The In Focus air) rather than natural gas; and/or relief valves, controllers and tank in this section provides more detail. • Converting to or installing pneumatic thief hatches. • Documentation, review and reten.pumps that utilize solar power. • AVO inspections – We also inte.tion – Our LDAR program includes grate audio, visual and olfactory requirements with respect to record In addition, in certain circumstances, inspections to identify and manage maintenance and retention. we route pneumatic controller and emissions as part of other field and pump exhaust gas to a control device, facility visits. Our LDAR program is reviewed on an which reduces methane emissions. • OGI technology – A substantial part annual basis for trends and opportu.of the monitoring under our LDAR Leak Detection and Repair Program nities for improvement and has been program is conducted through the instrumental in minimizing fugitive Each of EOG’s operating areas has use of optical gas imaging, such as emissions at EOG facilities. an ongoing leak detection and repair infrared cameras and other thermal (LDAR) program in place. While LDAR imaging technology. is required for certain EOG locations by state regulations, federal regulations or both, EOG has also implemented a voluntary LDAR program across In Focus Automating LDAR EOG utilizes proprietary information technology system applications built in-house to capture LDAR data electronically, including a mobile application to capture data directly in the field, real-time. These applications improve the accuracy of our data, identify trends, eliminate paper processes and allow timely repairs throughout our LDAR program. SURVEY • No repair needed – automatic future survey date generated • Minor repair made immediately and entered into a proprietary, in-house application for tracking TAG • Repairs needed, barcode attached to component, scanned and repair assignment prioritized and automatically sent • Photo of component can also be uploaded into a proprietary, in-house application for more detailed repair instructions REPAIR • Repair made, tag is scanned and email alert automatically sent to schedule resurvey VERIFY • Repair surveyed for repair completion • Tag scanned and removed and repair recorded in a proprietary, in-house application RECORD • Repair and survey tickets stored electronically in a proprietary, in-house database for ease of review Record Stored in a Proprietary, In-house Database Leaks Repaired Repair Verified Year-Over-Year Variances by Source Our GHG intensity rate continued its year-over-year improvement, decreasing by eight percent driven by significant reductions in flaring emissions. Measuring and evaluating changes in our GHG intensity rate by source enhances our ability to manage our emissions. Below are year-over-year variance explanations by GHG source. COMBUSTION Despite lower production and a slight increase in emissions from stationary combustion, our total combustion emissions intensity rate remained relatively flat in 2020 as a result of decreased emissions from portable combustion due to reduced drilling and completion activity. As the largest source of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, EOG is focused on identifying opportunities to optimize compression operations and improve combustion efficiencies. For example, as we expand the use of centralized gas lift compressors, we are able to replace many small combustion engines with larger, more efficient engines serving the same number of well sites while also improving run time. PNEUMATICS Our GHG intensity rate from pneumatic sources continued to decline in 2020 due primarily to a comprehensive review of all pneumatic sources. EOG worked with vendors and manufac.turers to review the classifications and actual bleed rates of our pneumatic controllers, which supported refined bleed rates and resulted in lower emissions totals. Our program to retrofit pneumatic pumps to use solar power or instrument air at exist.ing facilities along with our use of solar power and instrument air for pneumatic pumps and controllers, as applicable, at new facilities also contributed to reductions in our GHG intensity rate from pneumatic sources in 2020. For more information on our practices, see Pneumatics Program. GHG Intensity Rate – Total and by Source metric tons CO2e/MBoe 17.7 0.7 1.3 14.8 0.7 13.6 13.50.5 0.74.0 0.22.8 1.6 11.7 10.9 11.1 ˜ Other Sources ˜ Pneumatics ˜ Flaring ˜ Combustion 2018 2019 2020 2025 Target FLARING We once again substantially reduced our flaring emissions intensity rate. The intensity rate declined in 2020 primarily due to targeted efforts to reduce wellhead flaring through process changes that included expanded management and employee oversight, central control room supervision, and operational changes. We also continued to focus on advanced infrastructure planning and establishing multiple takeaway markets to minimize flaring. Over the last two years, we have improved our rate 60 percent from 4.0 to 1.6. In 2021, we expect to expand implementation of innovative technology such as our closed-loop gas capture process. For more information, see Minimizing Flaring. OTHER SOURCES Our GHG intensity rate from other sources remained flat in 2020 due to the ongoing success of our LDAR program and our continued focus on reducing other minor sources of emissions throughout our operations. See Leak Detection and Repair Program for details on improve.ments we are making this year through process enhancements and the use of technology. HYDRAULIC FRACTURING Hydraulic fracturing is part of certain well completion processes, in which pressurized fluid is pumped into underground formations to create tiny fractures or spaces that allow crude oil and natural gas to flow more easily from the reservoir into the well so that it can be brought to the surface. This enables EOG to produce crude oil and natural gas from formations that would otherwise not be recoverable. Hydraulic fracturing technology has been safely used by the oil and gas industry for decades. More than one million wells have been hydraulically fractured and the technique is con.stantly being refined to improve the stimulation of a well and maximize reserve recovery. EOG takes numerous steps to conduct our hydraulic fracturing operations safely and responsibly, including: BASELINE GROUNDWATER TESTING A key component of EOG’s water management practices is the perfor.mance of baseline water sampling prior to drilling a well in a new area. When testing in areas where regulatory requirements have not been established, we use an internal sampling program based on best practices developed by state and local authorities. Samples are sent to certified third-party laboratories for independent testing. WELLBORE INTEGRITY Prior to drilling any well, EOG per.forms site-specific analysis to deter.mine the design and techniques that will be implemented to maintain the integrity of the wellbore throughout the geologic formations the well will intersect. To maintain wellbore integrity, we use cement isolation of casing string, which are lengths of steel pipe. Other standard practices include surface casing tests and annular pressure monitoring. • Surface casing is the primary steel pipe to be set in the vertical well-bore. This section of casing can run several thousand feet deep and performs many functions including the protection of shallow water aquifers, if present. The integrity of the surface casing is tested prior to flowing the well as a further measure of protection. • Annular pressure is the pressure that exists in the space between the well casing and internal production tubing. To protect wellbore casing, we establish a maximum allowable annular pressure for each well we operate and monitor this pressure through the life of the well. We engage with industry groups and regulators to incorporate evolving technologies and best practices into state regulations for wellbore integrity. MINIMIZING CHEMICAL ADDITIVES While chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing fluid are typically less than one percent of the fluids used, one of EOG’s ongoing goals is to further minimize the amount of chemicals used to complete our wells. TRANSPARENCY EOG publicly discloses the fracturing fluids used for 100 percent of our well completions on the industry website FracFocus.org (hosted by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission). When sourcing water, our consistent focus is to reduce fresh WATER water use and implement or expand reuse where feasible. MANAGEMENT EOG is focused on responsibly • Developing water transportation scenarios, and maximize reuse options managing the water used, produced, with the goal of also minimizing infrastructure to maximize the use transported, treated, stored and dis-disposal. In addition, reporting of key of pipelines to move water and posed of across our operations in reduce truck traffic. water metrics, including real-time a cost effective and environmentally reporting of water reuse, on our • Leveraging our SWRT to accelerate sustainable manner. proprietary desktop and mobile appli.the implementation of best practices cations supports our ability to make throughout the company. WATER MANAGEMENT well-informed, targeted decisions from OVERSIGHT AND TECHNOLOGY executive-level oversight to decisions Central to many of these initiatives is in the field. the use of TridentSM, EOG’s proprietary EOG’s strategic water resources team in-house application that facilitates the (SWRT) is responsible for overseeing EOG also addresses the unique risks optimization of water resources across the management of water resources and opportunities regarding water in our operations. Trident provides map-across our operations. The SWRT is our operating areas by: based visualization of our infrastructure led by our companywide manager of for any given operating area, allowing water resources and includes water • Engaging with stakeholders in the for location-specific scenario planning management representatives from communities where we operate with real-time operational control to each of our operating area offices. to better understand the unique prevent bottlenecks, anticipate take-characteristics of the region and away needs, minimize trucking of water Every oil and gas producing region to discuss and collaborate on our and promote reuse opportunities. has unique risks and opportunities water management plans. regarding water, from identifying In 2020, Trident’s capabilities were • Evaluating the full life cycle of sources and reuse options to deter-water used in our operations, from enhanced to include planning tools mining best methods for water acquisition through transportation, that map topography. Combining this transportation and disposal. The new feature with additional automated storage, production, treatment, SWRT collaborates with multiple reuse and disposal. shutoff valves in the field has provided disciplines and local water manage-for greater operational control over • Conducting a comprehensive ment teams to determine water temporary water lines in our reuse evaluation of available sources of quality and quantity needs, develop infrastructure and supports our efforts water in each of our operating multiple water source options and to prevent and mitigate spills. In addi.areas, including water reuse and tion, we have incorporated map-based conservation options that are tools based on the World Resources available to be implemented in Institute’s Aqueduct tool into Trident to the area. enhance our ability to evaluate water scarcity in our operations. In Focus Significantly Increasing Reuse in the Powder River Basin A focus area for the strategic water resources team in 2020 was the continued build out of the water management system and infrastructure for our Powder River Basin operations, which are in early development. Supported by the sourcing, scenario planning and cost analysis tools in TridentSM, the team evaluated how to best apply the practices and technology from our operations in other basins to the unique conditions in the Powder River Basin. Based on the team’s analysis, EOG implemented water distri.bution infrastructure utilizing a single reuse collection pond with dual-purpose lines for both sourcing and gathering. This structure allows for produced water to be cycled to and from well pads when needed for drilling or completion operations. In addition, we installed bidirectional pipelines connected to third-party operated commercial evaporation ponds to enhance our reuse capabilities. Early infrastructure planning and installation of targeted water reuse infrastructure, combined with our Trident technology, has allowed us to source nearly all of our water for our Powder River Basin operations during 2020 from reuse water and minimize truck traffic. Remote Producing Well Producing Wells EOG Water Lifecycle USE Use fresh, non-fresh and/or reuse water WITHDRAW Source fresh and non-fresh water for operations REUSE Water handled and treated in EOG-owned/operated water infrastructure for reuse in operations PRODUCE Water produced during oil and natural gas DISPOSE Dispose of excess produced water EOG’s proactive and innovative  NON-FRESH WATER  The availability of non-fresh water  approach to water management has   differs regionally and we continue  resulted in significant achievements  EOG is committed to conserving  to evaluate water sourcing options  in increasing our sourcing from reuse  water resources in the communities  through our strategic water resources  and reducing fresh water use. In 2020,  in which we operate. We take steps to  team, our local water management  81 percent of the water we sourced  minimize overall fresh water usage,  teams and third-party analytical tools  across our U.S. operations was from  which includes the use of non-fresh  and studies.  reuse or non-fresh water sources,  water sources.  reducing our total fresh water use  percentage to less than 20 percent.  When sourcing non-fresh water,  In the Permian Basin, over 99 percent  EOG targets sources that are not  of the water we sourced was from  primarily utilized as public drinking  reuse or non-fresh water sources,  water sources.  reducing our fresh water use in  the Permian Basin to less than  one percent.  Additionally, training is regularly conducted to review the requirements of the plans and personnel responsibilities. This training includes incident command system training focused on responding to emergencies. 