2021 HIGHLIGHTSSAFETY PERFORMANCECULTURE IS KEY TO OUR 
SUSTAINABLE SUCCESSOur decentralized structure empowers and 
drives innovation and performance improvements across the company by encouraging employees in each operating 
area to develop their own solutions to 
unique challenges 15%reduction in workforce 
Lost Time Incident Rate compared 
to 202011%reduction in 
workforce 
Total Recordable Incident Rate 
compared to 2020SocialCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
AND INVESTMENTUnderstanding and responding to community needs is key to creating shared value in the communities where we live and work$7.1 million contributed by EOG, our U.S. employees, and our directors to support community needs TOP PLACES TO WORKBased on the 2021 engagement survey, our offices in Artesia, Houston, Oklahoma City, and San Antonio were each recognized as a Top Workplace by Energage, and EOG was included in the Top Workplace USA list40 	Our Communities	46 	Our People	52 	Safety	DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE22% of our executive- and senior-level managers 
are women, a 23% increase from 2020EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportOur CommunitiesUnderstanding community needs and responding to concerns is key to creating shared value in the communities where we live and work. As a decentralized company, our local engagement efforts benefit from the insights of our employees and their families who live in the local communities where we operate. Each of our operating areas is unique, and we proactively engage with community stakeholders, including property owners, civic leaders, elected officials, first responders, nonprofits, and local community groups, to identify and address specific community needs and concerns.ENGAGING IN OUR COMMUNITIESEOG develops and maintains mutually beneficial relationships in the communities where we live and work in many ways. The largest and most direct way is by providing diverse career opportunities, a large percentage of which EOG fills with local candidates. We support numerous efforts to help improve quality of life through charitable donations and local community giving; partnering with local community organizations; encouraging local volunteerism; investing in initiatives that increase access to science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education in our local communities; and by generating local and state tax revenue both directly and indirectly from our operations.Stakeholder engagement is integral to building and preserving relationships. In keeping with EOG’s culture, our stakeholder outreach efforts are decentralized. Local offices are empowered to develop and maintain close working relationships with community stakeholders, actively communicate on a regular basis, and be responsive. Our stakeholder engagement includes a wide range of activities throughout the life cycle of our operations. We meet with community leaders and permitting authorities to discuss specific projects during the planning process and on an ongoing basis. We also reach out to — and engage with — community leaders and civic organizations to learn how we can support local philanthropic and other community efforts. In addition, the land personnel in our operating areas work closely with surface and mineral owners and other community members near our operations to communicate plans and address questions and concerns. Our Land Administration Call Center addresses questions from interest owners, including inquiries related to land and royalty ownership.Respect for Cultures, Traditions, and 
Indigenous PeoplesEOG respects the rights and local traditions of stakeholders where we operate. We seek to contribute to economic growth, social development, and the overall welfare of the community, and to tailor our actions to each community’s particular culture. ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERSDevelop relationships and lines of communication with local stakeholders, including through individual or community meetingsIdentify local 
stakeholder and potential community concernsPartner to build strong relationships with stakeholders through collaborative effortsIN FOCUSEOG Volunteer Culture: Employee Powered, EOG Supported Employees power EOG’s tradition of volunteerism by donating their time to a wide range of charitable and community organizations. The company supports this culture of volunteering by providing employees with eight hours of paid volunteer time annually. This allows employees the flexibility to volunteer their time to support community causes that are meaningful to them. Additionally, members of our executive team sponsor, organize, and participate in volunteer activities that allow our employees to come together with purpose to support community needs. Our corporate Energize You wellness program recognizes and encourages volunteerism as an important contributor to overall well-being. Participating in volunteer activities is one of the ways that employees can earn points toward quarterly incentives. In 2021, the wellness program further promoted volunteerism through the Community Engagement Challenge, a competition among EOG divisions to have the highest percentage of employees using volunteer hours for community service activities. It resulted in more than 45 community service activities across our operating areas. Despite the ongoing pandemic, EOG employees found ways to safely donate their time and efforts to a broad range of community projects. STEM Education & Job TrainingHealth & WellnessCommunity Vitality & Quality of Life•	Encouraged the next generation of STEM professionals by guest lecturing at Newcastle 
Public Schools in Oklahoma.•	Supported educators by participating in an energy education workshop in Oklahoma and hosting a field tour in Wyoming.•	Helped deliver classroom supplies to San Antonio educators through United Way’s “Write Start Project” back-to-school drive.•	Collected wellness items to support the Center for Transforming Lives’ efforts to help women and children living in poverty in Fort Worth.•	Decorated and assembled bags of medically tailored meals for Project Angel Heart in Colorado.•	Packaged and distributed donations at food banks in Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas.•	Built safe, affordable housing through Habitat for Humanity in Denver, Fort Worth, Houston, Oklahoma City, and San Antonio.•	Beautified communities with trash cleanups in Utah and Texas, including a section of the Gulf Coast EOG adopted through Texas Adopt-A-Beach.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportOUR COMMUNITIESAs part of our commitment to respect tribal heritage resources, we proactively engage federal, state, and local land management agencies in multiple jurisdictions to create cooperative cultural review and assessment protocols. Our goal in these efforts is to address site-specific concerns based on stakeholder input, local knowledge, and cultural preservation best practices. Stakeholder Grievance Reporting 
MechanismsWe provide multiple mechanisms for stakeholders 
to report concerns or ask questions related to 
our operations. •	Company contacts — Feedback may be 
provided to company representatives at work locations or by contacting representatives in 
the Human Resources or Legal Department as 
well as the Compliance Committee.•	24-hour hotlines — We maintain a 24-hour compliance and ethics hotline and online reporting system through which concerns can be shared confidentially and anonymously. We also maintain a Land Administration Call Center for interest owners. 	See the Governance section starting on page 55 for further discussion of our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics and Compliance Program and page 62 for more on the investigation and resolution process. HUMAN TRAFFICKING PREVENTIONEOG has raised awareness and conducts training for employees and contractors to identify and prevent human trafficking. EOG is a corporate sponsor of Truckers Against Trafficking, a nonprofit that was formed to educate, equip, empower, and mobilize members of the trucking, bus, and energy industries to combat human trafficking. Human-trafficking-prevention educational materials created specifically for energy companies by Truckers Against Trafficking are available to company personnel. EOG is also an active member in other industry groups working to raise awareness about human trafficking. For example, an EOG representative serves on the Board of Directors of the Energy Security Council, an organization that brings together members of the energy industry and law enforcement to collaborate and share best practices on different issues, including human trafficking.COMMUNITY INVESTMENTEOG employees take pride in their communities, 
and EOG encourages and supports investing in 
and giving back to those communities in a variety 
of ways, including financial and in-kind giving 
and volunteerism. Our giving is focused on causes and organizations that are of particular importance to our company, our local communities, and our employees. In 2021, our contributions largely fell into three categories: STEM education and job training, health and wellness, and community vitality and quality of life.Partnering With Local 
Community Organizations We invest resources and funds in our communities through partnerships with nonprofits and state-affiliated agencies, which helps to maximize our positive impact. Organizations that we have partnered with include the Oklahoma Energy Resources Board (OERB) and Wyoming Agriculture in the Classroom, and we are a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP). We supported the OERB by participating in workshops and roundtables that help educate that state’s next generation of innovators and leaders. Wyoming Agriculture in the Classroom helps students develop an understanding of Wyoming’s resources so that they are capable of serving as stewards of that state’s future. EOG’s participation includes hosting site visits at some of our facilities to help teachers better understand our industry and the work we do in their communities. 	See In Focus — Developing the Next Generation of Energy Professionals Through STEM Education on page 45 to learn more. Stakeholder engagement is integral to building and preserving relationships in the communities where we live and work. In keeping with EOG’s culture, our stakeholder outreach efforts are decentralized. Local offices are empowered to develop and maintain close working relationships with community stakeholders, actively communicate on a regular basis, and 
be responsive. CHARITABLE DONATIONS AND 
COMMUNITY GIVINGIn 2021, EOG, our U.S. employees, and our directors contributed $7.1 millionto support charitable and community needs.This amount included$2.1 millionin matching gift donations by EOG. OUR COMMUNITIES2021 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTSExamples of community investments made in 2021 include the following: Health & Wellness Community Vitality & Quality of Life•	Supported more than a dozen food banks, many of which were in areas that were hit hard by Hurricane Ida in August 2021.•	Supported efforts to expand adult literacy in Houston by helping sponsor Houston’s Adult Literacy Blueprint and donating laptops to the Mayor’s Office for Adult Literacy.•	Supported LGBTQ Saves, which provides safe spaces for social and personal development of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) youth, as well as Tony’s Place, a drop-in center focusing on LGBTQ+ youth up to 25 years of age who are unstably housed, couch surfing, or experiencing homelessness.•	Participated in Discard and Donate and 
Move For Hunger, which are programs that work with employees who are relocating to collect unwanted household items and unopened food for donation to local facilities. •	Sponsored a Bike MS team for over 20 consecutive years, raising over $245,000 in 2021.•	Provided financial support to the Carl McCain Memorial Foundation to help individuals and families who have worked in the energy industry cover expenses when they are financially burdened by medical costs.•	Supported organizations such as The Council on Recovery, Texas Children’s Hospital, and Hunting For The Cure, which provides outdoor experiences for children with cancer.MATCHING GIFTS PROGRAMEOG has one of the largest matching gifts programs in the industry. In 2021, employee and director contributions to qualified charitable organizations were matched dollar for dollar, up to $100,000 per employee or director. EOG also matched contributions made under our annual United Way campaign, which was in addition to the matching gifts program limit. STEM Education & Job Training•	Donated funds to the Switch Energy Alliance, 
an organization dedicated to inspiring an 
energy-educated future.  •	Supported the Independent Petroleum Association of America Energy Workforce Education Center, which encourages students to delve into the energy industry and its many career fields, through funding of the Exploring Energy Program and providing career guidance to high school students.•	Sponsored students from Cristo Rey Jesuit College Preparatory School of Houston through a unique corporate work-study program. The program provides students of limited economic resources with the opportunity to gain work experience and earn up to 50% of the cost of their annual tuition. EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportOUR COMMUNITIESSUPPORTING THE PERMIAN STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPWe are a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership, which was formed by oil and gas companies operating in the Permian Basin region, and we continue to contribute funds and other support to the organization annually. The PSP collaborates with citizens, community organizations, private foundations, civic leaders, and government officials to develop solutions that strengthen local communities in West Texas and southeast New Mexico. From its inception in 2018 through 2021, the PSP has committed over $90 million to community-oriented investments in road improvements, quality schools, affordable housing, improved health care, and workforce development. In 2021, EOG committed funds to the PSP to support the 
projects below.Permian Warrior Partnership, a collaboration with America’s Warrior Partnership to increase support for the approximately 20,000 veterans across the Permian Basin region. The partnership aims to provide community support for local veterans and ensure access to quality services and opportunities. A SkillPoint Alliance program that aims to provide rapid training in fields such as electrical; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC); 
and plumbing.Efforts to expand the availability of health care resources in Permian Basin communities, such as 
the following:•	Expansions of building infrastructure for health-related studies at Odessa College and Texas Tech University. These projects aim to increase the number of students graduating with degrees in health-related fields.  •	Scholarships for The University of Texas Permian Basin and funding for Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center’s (TTUHSC) Rural Residency Track.   •	TTUHSC’s Medicine on the Move initiative, which will help provide rural communities with expanded access to quality and affordable health care via mobile health care units. A COVID-19 campaign using digital and 
social media, TV, video, and print outlets to encourage vaccination.UTeach Permian Basin, which focuses on recruiting and training STEM majors for the teaching field. The Catalyst workforce development program, which aims to align industry training needs with the ability of the educational and training systems to provide relevant resources. IN FOCUSDeveloping the Next Generation of Energy Professionals Through STEM EducationThe oil and gas industry continues to be transformed by advances in technology and innovation that focus on lowering costs, increasing efficiency, and reducing its environmental footprint. STEM education has been key in this transformation and will help create the next generation of energy professionals. EOG invests time and financial contributions in initiatives that increase access to STEM education across the communities where we live and work.We strive to help students foster an interest in science, technology, engineering, and math and raise awareness of energy-related STEM careers. EOG supports a range of STEM programming that reaches students from elementary school through the college and university levels. At the elementary, middle, and high school levels, we often partner with a nonprofit or industry organization that promotes early access to STEM learning and exposure to STEM-related careers. Our support also includes financial contributions to schools and organizations as well as engaging with students and educators directly through tours and workshops. Our relationship with Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) is a recent example of our STEM support. TAMIU welcomed the first class of students into its new petroleum engineering degree program in fall 2021, an important step in a multiyear initiative to create access to a petroleum engineering degree in the Laredo, Texas community. EOG is proud to be among the industry partners to assist TAMIU financially with the launch of its new Bachelor of Science degree. Establishing a new degree program takes time and commitment; EOG made our first donation to TAMIU in 2013. In 2021, we continued our support for the university’s petroleum engineering students by creating an endowed scholarship. Full-time undergraduate petroleum engineering students who maintain a minimum GPA and meet the federal guidelines for a financially disadvantaged student are eligible for the scholarship.STEM Education Support in Elementary, 
Middle, and High SchoolsWYOMINGEOG hosted a group of elementary school teachers for a drilling rig tour through Wyoming Agriculture in the Classroom. The nonprofit develops STEM and natural-resource-related curricula for elementary school students and offers teachers training and support to bring the curriculum into their classrooms. NEW MEXICOEOG donated funds to help the Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation build STEM centers that will give elementary school students in southeast New Mexico opportunities to participate in STEM activities. STEM centers will provide hands-on learning activities and access to learning tools that support STEM education.OKLAHOMAEOG volunteered with the OERB to educate students and teachers on the oil and gas industry and STEM activities in the classroom. At a STEM summer camp, middle school students learned about oil and gas careers, geology, and safety. Another presentation took place at an energy education workshop for K–12 educators and covered bringing interactive STEM activities into the classroom. EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportOur PeopleEOG’s culture is key to our sustainable success. Innovative and highly engaged employees at all levels of the company drive our collaborative approach and continuously learn from one another. By providing employees with a quality work environment and maintaining a consistent college recruiting and internship program, EOG is able to attract and retain some of the industry’s best and brightest — individuals who will embrace the company’s culture and our commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility.RECRUITING AND RETENTIONEOG values attracting and retaining talent, and for this reason, we offer competitive salaries, bonuses, and a subsidized, comprehensive benefits package. EOG also offers a holistic wellness program, tuition reimbursement (see page 49), a matching gifts program, and a flexible work schedule. New-hire stock grants, annual stock grants, and an employee stock purchase plan give every employee the opportunity 
to be a participant in the company’s success. (See page 50 for more.)EOG is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer. All employment decisions are made without regard to factors such as sex, race, color, age, religion, national origin, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, protected veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other characteristic protected by law.EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTOur decentralized organization supports engagement by empowering employees at all levels to develop new ideas that help us improve performance across the organization. We engage employees and build our collaborative culture by encouraging teams throughout the company — and across disciplines 
— to share their thoughts and solutions at regular internal conferences and planning sessions. This focus on employee empowerment and the cross-pollination of ideas underpins our ability to innovate and continuously improve.In addition to fostering engagement across functions and operating areas, members of our executive team routinely interact with personnel throughout the company. For example, they participate in operating area reviews and annual technical conferences with employees from across disciplines, as well as the annual management conference that is attended by leaders from across the company. Furthermore, our CEO provides a company update to each operating area at least three times per year. EOG also facilitates engagement through regular all-staff meetings in our operating areas, company newsletters, intranet articles, and training. We organize a broad range of volunteer activities and support employees in volunteering in our communities. 	Read about some of the organizations to which our employees gave their time in 2021 in In Focus — EOG Volunteer Culture: Employee Powered, EOG Supported on page 41.EOG continues to be recognized as a Top Workplace by Energage based on an annual survey of employees across the company’s operations, reflecting EOG’s positive culture and work environment. Based on the 2021 survey, our offices in Artesia, Houston, Oklahoma City, and San Antonio were each recognized as a Top Workplace. EOG was also included on the Top Workplace USA list, which recognizes companies that create a positive work environment by prioritizing a people-centered culture and giving employees a voice.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIONEOG and our employees have a collective responsibility for creating a workplace where everyone feels included and respected. EOG values gender, racial, ethnic, and cultural diversity. We believe diversity in background and experience lead to diversity of thought, which helps drive innovation.We have taken steps to raise employee awareness and provide leadership support to help advance our diversity and inclusion (D&I) efforts. We have a D&I Working Group to engage employees at the grassroots level and help develop and implement D&I initiatives. Sponsored by an executive-level steering committee, the working group is made up of employees from multiple disciplines across our operating areas and typically meets monthly. Among our other D&I efforts, we have enhanced our approach to college recruiting. At schools where EOG has established recruiting pipelines, we are expanding our efforts by partnering with student and university organizations that focus on underrepresented groups, including female and minority students. This includes sponsoring student events, lunches, and speakers. In 2021, we also conducted recruiting at an expanded group of colleges, with a focus on building relationships with minority-serving institutions. To provide context around our demographics across the company, our disclosures include information on female and minority representation. 	For more detailed information, see the Data Tear Sheet starting on page 6. In addition to the diversity metrics presented in this report, we also make a copy of our EEO-1 Report available in the Sustainability section of our website. EEO-1 report data is based on a pay period in the fourth quarter of a given year, which was December 18 through December 31 for the 2021 report, and adheres to reporting requirements of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. As a result, EEO-1 report data may differ from our employment data reported as of December 31, including in this sustainability report.OUR EMPLOYEES2,697U.S. employees as 
of year-end 2021 96%of employees are based in the U.S.29.1%of employees 
are women27.2%of employees are a racial/ethnic minority*62% of employees have been with the company for five 
or more years3.8%voluntary turnover rate in 2021*	As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and based on self-identification by employees.OUR PEOPLERESPONSE TO COVID-19 PANDEMIC As our industry and communities continued to face challenges stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, EOG remained focused on keeping employees motivated and engaged. Our resilience helped us emerge stronger in 2021. We maintained our commitment to keeping our employees and their families safe and providing the technology and support to enable them to not only work safely and productively from the office or at home, but also to remain engaged and connected across the company. This technology and support included proprietary in-house applications that employees could access through their phones, tablets, and computers, as well as an external online collaborative work platform and video conferencing capabilities. We also continued to adapt our safety protocols as we reopened our offices in a phased approach to allow employees to spend more time back in the workplace during the last half of the year.EOG Resources is a Top Workplace three years running!EOG Resources is a Top Workplace 12 years running!We engage employees and build our collaborative culture by encouraging teams throughout the company — and across disciplines — to share their thoughts and solutions at regular internal conferences and planning sessions. This focus on employee empowerment and the cross-pollination of ideas underpins our ability to innovate and continuously improve.EOG Resources is a 
Top Workplace nine years running!EOG Resources is a 
Top Workplace nine years running!Top Workplace USA recognizes companies that create a positive work environment by prioritizing a people-centered culture and giving employees a voice.OUR PEOPLEU.S. FEMALE AND MINORITY* EMPLOYEES
as of December 31, 2021U.S. EMPLOYEE AGES
yearsWe focus on developing our employees for meaningful career opportunities, including promotion into supervisory and management positions and enhanced compensation opportunities. *	As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.+	Based on self-identification by employees. OUR PEOPLETRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT EOG provides training in leadership, management skills, communication, team effectiveness, technical skills, and use of EOG systems and applications. We focus on developing our employees for meaningful career opportunities, including promotion into supervisory and management positions and enhanced compensation opportunities. Our leadership training, in particular, is focused on providing continuity of leadership at EOG by further developing the skills needed to lead a multidisciplined, diverse, and decentralized workforce.EOG also holds several internal technical conferences each year designed to share best practices and technical advances across the company. These annual conferences cover exploration, drilling, completions, reservoir engineering, production, facilities, and safety and environmental topics. EOG is a member of the RPS Nautilus Training Alliance, the premier membership-based training program for the oil and gas industry. Technical personnel are encouraged to attend this training annually. EOG’s Tuition Reimbursement Program provides 90% reimbursement for postsecondary education that either better qualifies an employee for present duties or prepares the employee for future placement within the company. The policy also provides 100% reimbursement for professional certification tests, such as professional engineer or certified public accountant. WELLNESSWe are committed to the health and wellness of our employees. Wellness at EOG encompasses more than just physical health — it includes emotional, social, and financial health. It is important to us that our programs and benefits help our employees find success both in their personal and professional lives.Wellness ProgramOur Energize You wellness program, administered through Virgin Pulse, gives employees the opportunity to earn points that can be used to receive cash, to make donations to charities, or to purchase merchandise from an online store. Employees earn points by taking “journeys,” which are daily, self-guided online courses to help build healthy habits. They can also earn points through various types of coaching, volunteering in the community, attending safety meetings, making charitable donations, donating blood, taking part in team challenges, 
and more. EOG promotes engagement, awareness, education, and prevention throughout the year by supporting wellness-themed activities for employees. These activities are planned by more than 80 active volunteer Wellness Ambassadors across the company and include lunch and learns on health-related topics; donation drives for food, clothing, or school supplies; and virtual workout challenges and classes.Volunteer PayWe offer eight hours of paid volunteer time for a company-sponsored event or any volunteer activity for which hours are documented.Flexible Work Hours Early Friday schedules allow most employees a reduced workday 
on Friday.OUR PEOPLESavings and Retirement Plan EOG matches employee contributions up to 6% and makes annual retirement contributions ranging from 
3%–9% based on employee age 
and years of service up to statutory limits.Adoption Assistance We offer $5,000 in reimbursement to help offset costs associated with adoption.BENEFITS PROGRAMHelping our employees stay healthy and plan for their futures is important to EOG. Our benefits program is designed to support a holistic approach to employee wellness. We provide U.S. employees with medical, prescription drug, vision, and dental coverage. These benefits are also available to our employees’ legally recognized spouses and eligible dependents. EOG provides both short- and long-term disability protection, basic life, and accidental death and dismemberment coverage as well. Two new benefits for medical plan members added in 2021 were Lyra Health and Hinge Health. We have long prioritized the mental and emotional well-being of employees through our Employee Assistance Program (EAP), and using Lyra Health as an EAP provider further enhanced the scope and availability of the services offered. Lyra’s evidence-based mental health platform gives access to a curated network of clinicians. Hinge Health provides an easy-to-access digital platform for addressing back pain or other musculoskeletal issues through self-guided exercise therapy sessions. Employee Assistance Program This comprehensive, confidential support program provides employees and their eligible family members with counseling services to support mental well-being. Provided through Lyra, this benefit includes 16 free sessions with a mental health professional.Employee Stock Purchase Plan Employees have the opportunity to purchase our common stock at a 15% discount on certain dates during set offering periods, with no commission or fees and subject to applicable statutory limits.EMPLOYEE 
BENEFITSHealth Savings Account With Company ContributionsThis program allows employees to save pretax dollars to pay for qualified medical, dental, and vision expenses. EOG contributes up to $1,000 annually to the accounts of participating employees.Performance-Based CompensationEmployees are eligible to receive annual salary increases, annual stock grants, and a discretionary annual bonus.Family Care PayWe offer up to 160 hours of paid time off for the birth, adoption, or foster care of a child, or serious health condition of an employee’s spouse, child, or parent, and any step or in-law relationship that applies to those listed. This pay is in addition to paid leave available to mothers following the birth of a child.Sick PayWe offer 56 hours of paid time for an employee’s or eligible family member’s illness or injury and routine and preventative medical, dental, and vision appointments, in addition to short-term disability protection.Ovia Health This maternity and family benefits platform offers apps that provide support across the entire parenthood journey. Features include a health assessment, symptom tracking, one-on-one coaching, and return-to-work support.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportIN FOCUSDecentralized Structure Fosters InnovationEOG is unique in our ability to leverage our culture and operating structure to get incrementally better every year. Our decentralized model fosters innovation across operating areas and compounds the impact of innovation by taking ideas born in one operating area and expanding them across multiple basins and across multiple functions — from innovative completion techniques and drilling motor designs to improved procurement practices like self-sourced sand to information-technology-driven solutions to reduce emissions. Executive leadership works to empower every employee as a decision-maker, idea  generator, and critical contributor to EOG’s performance and success. This empowerment is further bolstered by giving employees access to real-time performance data across a wide range of operational and financial functions with more than 140 proprietary applications developed in-house through cross-functional collaboration. Once improvement ideas have been identified locally, we foster collaborative, multidisciplinary teams across each of our operating areas to innovate, test, and share new technologies and practices to improve performance across everything we do. Examples of our communication and collaboration forums include the following: Technical conferences bring employees from across our operating areas who work in the same discipline together to present and discuss ideas. Annual technical conferences are held for nearly every discipline across our operations (e.g., Drilling, Exploration) and support functions (e.g., Safety and Environmental, Accounting).Division reviews are hosted by each EOG operating area multiple times a year to share performance as well as new innovations and to collect input from executive management. Executive management engages in daylong reviews of each operating and support discipline.Specialized functional teams, such as our Sustainable Power Group (SPG), strategic water resources team, and Safety and Environment Group, share expertise and learnings from across the company on topics including emissions reduction, water management, and environmental and safety performance. The EOG Technology Center provides a venue that functions as an innovation laboratory to test ideas and technological advancements for improved operational performance, including emissions reductions and produced water spill management.The validity of our approach can be seen in the results from everyday operational practices to large projects. Closed Loop Gas Capture (CLGC) is one such success story. This technology provides an alternative to the flaring that can result from downstream market interruptions. While the idea was initiated by employees operating in the Delaware Basin, the innovative solution has since been shared across the company. 
Other operating areas are conducting pilot projects to understand its localized application. We have also supported regulatory adoption of CLGC, which has led 
to a successful partnership with the government of New Mexico for the approval 
of this technology. In another example, we established the SPG to support emissions performance efforts. The SPG provides centralized communication and coordination to maximize contributions from across the organization. The group brings together employees who understand the unique features of each of our operational areas and have strong working relationships with their colleagues across disciplines and areas. Building on this knowledge and rapport, they test technologies in the field, utilize the EOG Technology Center, and then share results with the goal of scaling successful emission management solutions.See In Focus — iSense Continuous Leak Detection System on page 24 for another example of innovation at EOG.Advancing a Culture of InnovationExecutive empowerment
and oversightAccess to real-time performance dataCross-company communication channelsMultidisciplinary teams 
across operating areasEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportSafetyEOG believes that leadership, commitment, and communication are key characteristics of safe operations. We also emphasize the importance of having our employees and contractors take personal responsibility for conducting operations in a safe manner. SAFETY MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHTEOG’s safety management processes provide a framework for assessing safety performance in a systematic way. Guided by our companywide Safety and Environmental Policy and Safe Practices Manual, these processes are adaptable to the specific risks and conditions of our operating areas. The majority of our safety personnel are based in our operating area offices to support our decentralized organization. Their reporting structure is to our companywide Vice President, Safety and Environmental, and ultimately to our Chief Operating Officer (COO). This approach promotes local responsibility while supporting implementation of companywide processes across our areas of operation. To foster accountability, EOG’s safety performance is also considered in evaluating employee performance and compensation, including executive compensation. EOG discusses safety management across the company in a variety of ways to drive the sharing of ideas and continuous improvement. For example, our Safety Support team, composed of safety representatives from all operating areas, holds regular meetings to share area-specific safety matters and projects. The team also shares resources and collaborates on safety-focused projects. Safety performance is reported to supervisors and division leadership regularly. Senior leadership for each of our operating areas also provides regular reports to our executive management on safety performance and related matters.SAFETY PREPAREDNESS AND TRAININGKnowing what to do and how to do it is critical to strong, consistent performance. We provide initial, periodic, and refresher safety training to employees and contractors. These safety training programs focus on topics such as operating procedures, safe work practices, and emergency and incident response. While practices vary across operating areas, they can include the following: •	Providing the Safe Practices Manual to employees and contractors and making it available online for easy reference•	Offering safety training courses for EOG employees and contractors who work at EOG’s facilities, plus additional online safety and operational courses 
to employeesINTEGRATED SAFETY PRACTICESAt EOG, we strive to achieve strong, consistent 
safety performance across our operations. We 
have implemented several practices to help drive 
this performance. All workers are empowered to proactively identify and communicate potential hazards, near misses, and other safety issues. These observations can help us to recognize trends and identify and mitigate factors that can lead to incidents. We collect incident data to identify trends and implement corrective actions as necessary. (See Monitoring Performance — Incident Rates on page 54.) Hazards and appropriate safety precautions are assessed, identified, and discussed in prejob safety meetings before tasks are performed. As necessary, we also conduct safety stand-downs in which we stop work across an operation to discuss safety hazards and mitigations. All employees and contractors working on our sites have the authority — and are encouraged — to request that work be stopped if they are concerned about safety. This allows personnel to ask questions or confirm procedures. Employees can also report safety concerns or grievances through our ethics hotline, which is managed by a third party. (See page 62
for more.)SAFE DRIVINGDriving is a common aspect of our work given the remote location of many EOG operations. We work to equip our employees with tools related to safe driving practices including:•	Awareness — Our Safe Practices Manual includes specific guidance on our vehicle safety expectations and practices.•	Training — Safe driving practices are a common focus in our field safety meetings. We also offer specific hands-on, decision-based driver training, as available.•	GPS Monitoring — We equip EOG vehicles with GPS-based vehicle monitoring systems, which provide data for driver feedback that increases driver awareness and allows for focused driver-skills training.•	Route Planning — We plan our travel logistics to route truck traffic onto secondary roads and time our activities outside of local high-traffic times where possible.PROMOTING SAFETY THROUGH 
CONTRACTOR ENGAGEMENT We engage with our contractors on safety matters. This engagement includes reviewing the safety practices and performance of contractors with master service agreements to perform work on our locations. In addition, we assess the safety performance of contractors and the programs they have in place while working on location for EOG, monitor performance, and provide them with various training opportunities. (See page 52 for more.)Since 2019, we have used a third-party vendor or internal systems to support prescreening and ongoing reviews of contractors, including tracking their safety performance and management programs. EOG undertakes assessments of certain contractors’ compliance with our safety standards. Additionally, certain contractor reviews are completed for different safety-related elements. This includes reviewing safety policies, procedures, and training, as well as on-site safety performance assessments to review contractor compliance with our safety requirements. EMERGENCY RESPONSE Each of EOG’s operating areas develops and maintains a written plan that provides a framework for rapid and effective response to emergency situations to protect local communities, our employees and contractors, and the environment. These plans support, and are components of, EOG’s corporate Crisis Management Plan, which details our overall corporate response should an emergency occur. Emergency response plans include a tiered response level for activation of the plan based on the type of incident and the response required. These plans are updated as needed, and training is provided to relevant field and office personnel, including contractors as needed. We also conduct periodic drills, including incident command system training and tabletop drills, to prepare EOG employees and contractors to respond appropriately to incidents.PROMOTING SAFE OPERATIONSTo help promote safe operations, we 
seek to: •	Communicate a vision for safe operations that is both visible and consistent •	Empower all personnel to be proactive and use their stop-work authority •	Take measures to continuously improve the safety of our operations •	Support our contractors’ safety programsSAFETYSAFETY HAZARD IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES Our practices related to hazard identification and risk management include:•	Providing initial, periodic, and refresher safety training•	Collecting incident data and conducting trend analysis•	Identifying and reporting potential hazards and near misses•	Utilizing work methods that manage the level of risk•	Taking corrective actions as necessaryEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportSAFETYMONITORING PERFORMANCE — INCIDENT RATESOur workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) fell by 11% in 2021 following double-digit percentage improvements in each of the preceding two years. We also saw a 15% reduction in workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) in 2021. We believe the reductions in our workforce safety metrics over the past several years reflect a number of factors, including the increased availability of safety data and our continued engagement with contractors.	See the Appendix starting on page 65 for related formulas and definitions and the Data Tear Sheet starting on page 6 for expanded safety metrics, including work-related fatalities.* 	EOG utilizes the industry-standard measurement, as established by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), of incidents (injuries) per 200,000 hours worked in calculating the total recordable incident rate and lost time incident rate. We work closely with our contractors to capture the hours worked by their employees and subcontractors. EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability Report