Letter to StakeholdersDEAR STAKEHOLDER,EOG Resources has emerged from the downturn a stronger company led by the resilience of our employees. Like much of the global economy, our industry and communities were faced with ongoing challenges stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic throughout 2021. EOG employees remained motivated, engaged, and focused on applying innovative solutions and new technologies to further lower our cost structure and improve our environmental performance. Our high-return multi-basin inventory, low-cost operations, peer-leading technology, pristine balance sheet, commitment to sustainability, and a culture strengthened by the challenges we have overcome together, puts EOG in its strongest position ever to deliver low-cost, reliable, and cleaner energy while generating significant value to shareholders.To meet growing energy demand, long-term energy solutions will require a worldwide portfolio of diverse energy sources including supplies of low cost, lower emissions oil and natural gas production. The challenge for the industry is to lower our environmental footprint while producing energy that is affordable and reliable. We believe that affordable, reliable energy and lower carbon energy aren’t mutually exclusive. Companies that invest in innovative solutions to meet the world’s energy needs will be part of the long-term sustainable energy solution. At EOG, we are focused on being among the lowest cost, highest return, and lowest emissions producers of oil and natural gas playing a significant role in the long-term future of energy.Operationally, we have never been more efficient. Financially, we delivered record net income, free cash flow, and cash return to shareholders last year. We also made significant progress on our environmental and safety performance:•	WE ACHIEVED 
our near-term 2025 methane emissions percentage target of 0.06% last year — a 50% reduction 
from 2019. •	WE CAPTURED 
99.8% of natural gas produced at the wellhead, meeting our 2021 gas capture target.•	WE IMPROVED 
our safety performance with lower total recordable and lost time incident rates.•	WE REDUCED 
our freshwater intensity rate by 55% since 2020.I am particularly proud of our employees’ efforts to reduce methane emissions. It was through their dedication and focus that we achieved our 2025 methane emissions percentage target last year. However, we aren’t done. We are currently deploying a continuous methane monitoring solution named iSenseSM. iSense is featured in one of this year’s 
In-Focus articles and represents just one example of how EOG’s unique culture drives innovation.The In-Focus article titled Decentralized Structure Fosters Innovation, provides a “behind the scenes” look at one aspect of our culture that leads to solutions like iSense. EOG’s decentralized model not only fosters innovation within eight operating area-teams, it also compounds the impact of innovation by taking ideas originating in one operating area and expanding them across multiple basins. From the latest in information technology-driven solutions to reduce emissions to innovation focused on drilling and completions operations to procurement of casing and sand, EOG is unique in its ability to leverage its culture and operating structure to get incrementally better every year.Another important element of EOG’s culture is communicating openly and transparently, which is reflected in the enhanced disclosures in several sections this year:•	Safety
added detail on our efforts regarding safe driving, hazard identification and mitigation, and contractor safety assessments.•	Biodiversity, Surface Impact Minimization, 
and Seismicity 
included specific descriptions of efforts unique 
to our operating areas.•	Stakeholder Engagement Approach 
identified the strategies and tools we use to facilitate engagement throughout the year.•	Executive Compensation
established a separately weighted ESG performance factor tied to executive compensation in 2020, we increased the percentage to 7.5% last year and have increased it once again in 2022 to 10%.•	Environment Metrics 
added disclosures for Other Air Emissions (SO2, 
NOx, and VOCs) and Number of Oil Spills to the Data Tear Sheet (See page 6 for the disclosures.).We believe the world will continue to demand affordable, reliable, and cleaner energy in the years ahead and that oil and natural gas will remain an essential source of long-term global energy supply to meet that demand. EOG has the asset quality, size, scale, and environmental footprint to compete globally on oil and natural gas cost of supply while producing barrels with a lower environmental footprint. We are driven to be a premier provider and a long-term global oil and natural gas exploration 
and production leader.Sincerely, Ezra Y. Yacob
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer
October 2022I am particularly proud of our employees’ efforts to reduce methane emissions. It was through their dedication and focus that we achieved our 2025 methane emissions percentage target last year. About EOGEOG Resources, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is one of the largest crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies in the United States.EOG’s business and operational strategy focuses on creating long-term shareholder value by controlling operating and capital costs and maximizing reserve recoveries. Maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure, coupled with efficient and safe operations and robust environmental stewardship practices and performance, is integral in the implementation of 
EOG’s strategy.We use advanced technologies, such as 3D seismic, core analysis, and microseismic, to develop proprietary petro-physical models. These models inform our execution of precision horizontal targeting and customized advanced completions.In order to find and develop low-cost reserves, EOG emphasizes exploration and drilling of internally generated prospects. This strategy is intended to consistently deliver cost-effective crude oil and natural gas production that maximizes the generation of cash flow and earnings from each unit of production, allowing the company to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value while maintaining 
a strong balance sheet.As of December 31, 2021, EOG’s total estimated net proved reserves were 3,747 MMBoe and were located in the United States and Trinidad, with approximately 99% of our year-end net proved reserves located 
in the United States.* Such U.S. reserves comprised 42% crude oil and condensate, 22% natural gas liquids, and 36% natural gas.*	In May 2021, EOG completed the sale of all of our interest in EOG Resources China Limited. EOG no longer has any operations or assets in China.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportAbout This ReportOur 2021 Sustainability Report presents our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. We report on our 2021 activities and accomplishments, progress toward near-term 
emissions targets, and areas where we are focused moving forward.This report reflects our ongoing commitment to enhancing our ESG-related disclosures and transparency. Subjects featured highlight 
EOG’s decentralized structure and focus on 
enabling innovation.We cover issues and topics that we believe are of interest to our stakeholders. However, identification of an item for inclusion in this report is not meant to correspond with the concept of materiality associated with disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information about issues deemed material to our investors as defined by regulatory requirements may be found in our 
SEC filings.In developing the contents of this report, we were informed by an in-depth analysis of topics of interest to our stakeholders, topics being considered by ESG rating agencies and surveys, and peer reporting 
and benchmarking.The report is also informed by common voluntary reporting frameworks, including the disclosure framework of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the recommended disclosure elements from the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 	Refer to the SASB and TCFD Indexes starting on page 70 in the Appendix to see how we map the contents of this report to SASB and TCFD disclosure topics.To support more comparability in reporting across independent oil and natural gas exploration and production companies in the United States, we are also including metrics based on the American Exploration and Production Council’s ESG metrics framework.	Refer to American Exploration and Production Council — ESG Metrics on page 73 in the Appendix for more information.SCOPEUnless otherwise stated, the topics and information covered in this report apply to our U.S. operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, and do not include our international operations. International operations represented 1% of our total net proved reserves as of December 31, 2021, and less than 5% of our total production in 2021.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTEOG interacts with a variety of stakeholders who are interested in different aspects of our business, including our financial performance; human capital management practices; health, safety, and environmental performance and management; public policy positions; and community investment and engagement. We consider stakeholder interests when developing our approach to ESG matters and the content in this report. The accompanying table is an overview of stakeholders with whom we engage regularly and examples of strategies and tools we typically use to facilitate engagement.REVIEW AND VERIFICATIONThe data included in this report was subject to internal review and verification. The 2021 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and energy use data presented in this report was also subject to independent third-party verification and assurance and was verified at a reasonable level of assurance. 	Refer to Internal and Third-Party Verification and Assurance on page 75 
in the Appendix for more information.ABOUT THIS REPORTEOG Stakeholders Communities •	Local outreach and partnerships•	Grievance and resolution mechanisms•	Philanthropy — community investment and volunteerism•	Work with local first responders in preparedness planning Contractors •	Onboarding and assessments•	Training on safety and environmental topics•	Grievance and resolution mechanisms Employees •	Talent acquisition and training•	Technical conferences and periodic reviews with senior executives•	Cross-functional working groups•	Meetings and training on safety and environmental topics•	Health and wellness programs and wellness ambassadors•	Grievance and resolution mechanisms•	Internal electronic newsletters Investors •	Individual investor discussions and correspondence•	Earnings calls •	SEC filings •	Annual sustainability report•	Annual shareholders meeting•	Investor conferences Land and 
Mineral Owners •	Local outreach and engagement•	Dedicated section on EOG website•	Grievance and resolution mechanisms Nongovernmental 
Organizations •	Education and information exchanges•	Annual sustainability report Regulators and Legislators •	Education and information exchanges•	Regulatory compliance and audits•	Permit reviews•	Hearings 1	U.S. operations.2	The metrics in this table and elsewhere in this report have been calculated using the best available information at the time of preparation of this report. The data utilized in calculating such metrics is subject to certain reporting rules, regulatory reviews, definitions, calculation methodologies, adjustments, and other factors. As a result, these metrics are subject to change if updated data or other information becomes available. Accordingly, certain metrics in this table and elsewhere in this report in respect to prior years may be revised from previous sustainability reports to reflect updated data and other information. Any updates to the metrics in this table, prior to our next sustainability report, will be set forth in the data tear sheet posted to the “Sustainability” section of the EOG website. Further, certain total amounts in this table and presented elsewhere in this report may not equal the sum of their components due to rounding.3	Does not include voluntary retirement rates of 1.1%, 0.9%, and 1.6% for 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively.4	As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).5	Based on employee self-identification. The “Other” category includes American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and two or more races.2021 HIGHLIGHTSNET ZERO AMBITIONNEAR-TERM EMISSIONS TARGETS13.5GHG intensity rate 
by 20250.06methane emissions percentage by 2025NET ZEROScope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions by 2040EOG is focused on playing a significant role in the long-term future of energy by being among the lowest-cost, highest-return, and lowest-emissions producers of oil and natural gas.EnvironmentZEROroutine flaring 
by 202599.8% wellhead gas capture rate in 202210 	Our Environmental Practices	12 	Environmental 
Management Systems	14 	Climate-Related Risks, Long-Term 
Strategy, and Scenario Analysis	18 	Managing Emissions	29 	Hydraulic Fracturing	30 	Water Management	33 	Spill Prevention and Management	35 	Biodiversity and Land Stewardship	38 	Seismicity	REDUCING FRESHWATER USEWe thoughtfully manage water across 
the life cycle of our operations with a 
focus on reducing use of fresh water and protecting water quality.91% of water sourced from reuse or 
nonfreshwater sourcesEMISSIONS PERFORMANCEPROTECTING BIODIVERSITY AND MINIMIZING SURFACE IMPACTSWe seek to protect biodiversity throughout the life cycle of our operations, including integration of habitat and wildlife conservation into the planning, management, and restoration 
of our exploration and production activities.Our Environmental 
PracticesAPPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTEOG’s approach to environmental stewardship is based on the same decentralized structure, operational and technological focus, and innovative culture that drives our leadership in the exploration and development of unconventional oil and natural gas plays. Supported by companywide management systems and executive oversight, this approach empowers innovation, ownership, and operating-area-specific practices while maintaining our high standards of environmental performance. Few unconventional oil and natural gas plays are alike. Each is unique and therefore requires tailored techniques and technology to develop. EOG’s decentralized structure fosters play-specific solutions to optimally develop and maximize both the value of any given asset and our ability to understand, protect, and conserve the unique environmental resources of the local area.Our people are focused on innovation to minimize our environmental footprint, improve the energy efficiency of our field operations, and reduce emissions. Within each of our operating areas, we continually test technologies that are most suitable for the location’s unique geology and surface area environment. Many are shareable and adaptable across our operations. We also work with community, government, and 
other industry stakeholders in each operating area 
to tailor our environmental practices to address localized factors.PLANNING FOR WEATHER EVENTS AND RELATED PHYSICAL RISKSAs part of the evaluation and planning of our operations, EOG considers how to mitigate relevant physical risks from weather changes and extreme weather events such as floods, hurricanes, and intense heat and cold. We operate a diversified portfolio of assets across multiple regions that have unique environmental and weather-related considerations. Our decentralized structure enables us to apply our localized knowledge, so we are prepared for the weather-related physical risks specific to each of our operating areas. For instance, in areas prone to flooding, we build drainage systems and protective structures to help prevent flooding of our facilities. Across our operating areas, including areas prone to water scarcity, EOG is focused on reducing the use of fresh water. In areas prone to extreme heat, we take measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and contractors, including using cooling trailers.EOG also operates four control centers, built to manage our operations in our most active areas. In the event of severe weather, EOG can remotely monitor production and infrastructure of an impacted operating area from one of our control centers and, if needed, safely shut down operations in our most active areas.At EOG, we are guided by our Safety & Environmental Policy, which commits to safeguarding people and the environment by making performance the responsibility of every EOG employee and contractor. Key elements of our policy include:Environmental ProtectionWe are committed to reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.Continuous Improvement We strive to continuously drive environmental performance improvement through setting goals, training, monitoring progress, and utilizing data-driven decision-making and adaptive management.Compliance Our policy is to comply with 
all applicable environmental laws and regulations and to apply responsible standards where such laws or regulations do not exist.Planning We make environmental matters an integral part of our business planning, training, development, and decision-making.Communication We communicate openly with our customers, employees, contractors, communities, appropriate officials, public interest groups, shareholders, and other stakeholders regarding significant environmental matters.EngagementWe engage with regulators, industry groups, and others to facilitate the development of sound, effective laws and regulations, policies, and procedures to protect the environment, employees, contractors, and communities and to raise the standards of our industry.Transparency We seek to make consistent, informed decisions by promoting knowledge sharing, data stewardship, and collaboration within the organization, and with stakeholders.OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICESOUR COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENTOur commitment to environmental stewardship is evidenced throughout our exploration and development operations — from our initial exploration efforts through the life of a well’s production to reclamation, restoration, and decommissioning.The following practices — many of which are described in more detail throughout this section .— are just a few of the efforts EOG undertakes.Drilling & Completions•	Reducing drilling days and associated 
emissions footprint•	Limiting disposal of drilling fluids through reuse and recycling•	Using reduced emissions completions systems•	Minimizing the use of chemical additives •	Minimizing freshwater usageProduction•	Recycling produced water for reuse in operations•	Minimizing and eliminating emissions, including through our:	—	Flaring reduction initiatives	—	Efforts to reduce emissions from pneumatic controllers and pumps	—	Leak detection and repair (LDAR) program Infrastructure & Facilities•	Installing oil, natural gas, and water pipeline infrastructure to reduce truck traffic and emissions •	Limiting our overall surface footprint with multi-well pads and centralized production and compression facilities •	Designing and implementing enhanced spill containment and mitigation controls •	Real-time, remote facility monitoring using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems Decommissioning, Restoration, and Reclamation•	Following industry practices for plugging and abandoning wells and surface reclamation and restoration•	Revegetating unused acreage during reclamation and restoration of well sites and facilities, using native plants where appropriate•	Partnering with stakeholders to restore land in a manner responsive to the specific interests of local communities and landownersEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportEnvironmental Management SystemsOur environmental management systems (EMS) are key to integrating our proactive approach to environmental stewardship into our planning, development, and decision-making. Our EMS provide a framework to manage our environmental processes and performance. They also provide transparency and help us identify and manage environmental risks, leverage opportunities, and drive continuous improvement. Environmental Management ApplicationsAs part of our EMS, we use a combination of internally developed and third-party systems to organize large quantities of data into a database structure so it can be easily analyzed, monitored, and maintained to improve our day-to-day operations. In addition, data in our EMS are used to track regulatory monitoring and reporting schedules, environmental incidents, and process changes that are being implemented.Performance GoalsOur EMS also support our efforts to set environmental goals, review progress, and track our performance. We set environmental goals on an annual basis, and the data from our EMS allows management to assess performance systematically. EOG’s environmental performance is considered in evaluating employee performance and compensation, including executive compensation.Management OversightSafety and environmental leaders from each of our operating areas review EOG’s performance and oversee the development of strategies to improve our processes. This review system further helps us identify trends to enhance the overall safety and environmental strategy for our organization. (See page 59 for more.)Compliance and PerformanceWe assess environmental compliance and performance under our environmental permits; applicable federal, state, and local safety and environmental rules and regulations; and EOG’s internal policies.Training, Communication, and EngagementRegular environmental training, communication, and engagement are important to consistent performance. We train employees and contractors on a variety of topics including:•	Environmental stewardship•	Optical gas imaging (OGI) training for EOG’s 
LDAR program •	Spill prevention control and countermeasure In 2021, we also published an internal environmental and sustainability newsletter to inform and engage our employees on environmental focus areas, including key messages from leadership, performance metrics, programs, and initiatives. Contractor ManagementOur contractor onboarding process includes an orientation on EOG’s environmental management and stewardship expectations to help promote sound environmental practices by our contractors.IN FOCUSLeveraging Information Technology to Drive Transparency and PerformanceEOG’s environmental stewardship practices leverage our extensive suite of data and predictive analytics tools. Our Information Systems team has developed over 140 desktop and mobile applications in-house, a number of which help support our EMS and environmental performance, including:•	Real-time data capture, including daily reporting 
of water reuse, potential leaks, and high-pressure 
flaring metrics  •	Mobile access to data and analysis•	Facility and equipment optimization 
through automation•	Continuous improvement of facility designThese applications drive transparency throughout 
the organization by:•	Providing advanced measurement and tracking tools, including real-time operational and financial data for select parameters•	Enhancing our ability to monitor performance 
and set goals•	Equipping company personnel with information 
to make better, faster, well-informed decisions In 2021, we introduced two new emissions management applications, iSenseSM, our proprietary continuous methane monitoring system (see 
In Focus — iSense Continuous Leak Detection System on page 24), and iEnergy, which helps EOG improve our data-driven planning and identification of operational GHG emissions reduction opportunities. These new applications expand the portfolio of proprietary information technology applications we use to identify and implement emissions reduction opportunities and to help manage and improve our environmental performance. Other environmental management applications include TridentSM, which helps manage our water resources in real time (see Leveraging Technology to Support Our Approach to Water Management on page 31), and iDetectSM, our automated leak detection software (see Spill Prevention and Management on page 33).iEnergy Helps EOG Manage Operational GHG Emissions PerformanceTo support our emissions reduction efforts, we continue to seek ways to better understand, measure, and manage emissions. In 2021, EOG launched a new data visualization tool to help track, anticipate, and manage our operational GHG emissions performance and support our emissions reduction efforts. The application, which we call iEnergy, provides greater visibility on operational GHG emissions at the facility level for our operations. This data helps us evaluate and monitor emissions performance across our U.S. operating areas on a daily basis and enhances data-driven planning and identification of potential areas for improvement.Launching iEnergy also helps to drive transparency and informed decision-making throughout the company. For example, operational employees can use this data to identify potential areas for improvement in order to contribute to our emissions reduction efforts.As a data-focused company, we believe that increasing the accuracy and transparency of emissions data across the company will help us continue to support our GHG emissions reduction efforts and drive further improvements across 
our company.