GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Currently, our Board of Directors is comprised of eight non-employee, independent directors, our non-executive Chairman of the Board and former Chief Executive Officer, Bill Thomas, and our current Chief Executive Officer, Ezra Yacob. All directors are elected annually under a majority vote standard, which provides our stockholders with a meaningful voice in the annual director election process. Our Board committees – the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee – are each solely com.posed of independent directors. The independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions, led by the independent presiding director who is elected annually by the independent directors of our Board. The indepen.dent presiding director, whose duties are set forth in our Corporate Gover.nance Guidelines, plays a valuable role in the overall leadership of the Board and serves as a liaison between our non-executive Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers, and the independent directors. EOG Board of Directors Key Director Skills and Areas of Experience Below are descriptions of certain key skills and areas of experience that we believe are relevant to our business, along with a matrix setting forth the number of our current directors that possess each skill and area of experience. SKILL/EXPERIENCE RELEVANCE Executive Management Financial Reporting, Accounting & Finance Energy Industry (Upstream Exploration) Energy Industry (Marketing & Midstream) Energy Industry (Oilfield Services) Corporate Governance & Risk Management International Governmental & Regulatory Public Company Board Service Environmental, Health & Safety Human Resources & Compensation Civic, Community & Charitable Organizations Technical, Geologic & Engineering Information Technology Has a demonstrated record of leadership and valuable perspectives on issues affecting large and complex organizations. Has an understanding of, and experience with, financial reporting and accounting matters and capital markets matters (both debt and equity) relevant to a large, publicly traded company. Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to our operations in the upstream exploration sector of the oil and gas industry. Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to our operations in the marketing and midstream sector of the oil and gas industry. Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to the oilfield services sector (as it relates to our operations) of the oil and gas industry. Has an understanding of, and experience with, the roles of corporate strategy and risk management necessary for organizational performance. Provides valuable insights into the international aspects of our business and operations. Has an understanding of the role governmental and regulatory actions and decisions may have on our business. Contributes an understanding of corporate governance practices and trends and insights into board management. Strengthens the Board’s oversight and understanding of the interrelationship between environmental and safety matters and our operational activities and strategy. Has an understanding of compensation factors and components that influence the attraction, motivation and retention of a talented workforce. Contributes to a better understanding of sustainable engagements with the communities in which we do business. Education background brings an understanding of technical, geologic and engineering disciplines necessary for the identification of our exploration plays and development of our prospect inventory. Contribution to the Board’s understanding of innovative information technology applica.tions utilized in our operations and business. Key Director Skills and Areas of Experience cont EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL REPORTING, ACCOUNTING & FINANCE ENERGY INDUSTRY (UPSTREAM EXPLORATION) ENERGY INDUSTRY (MARKETING & MIDSTREAM) ENERGY INDUSTRY (OILFIELD SERVICES) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL GOVERNMENTAL & REGULATORY PUBLIC COMPANY BOARD SERVICE ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH & SAFETY HUMAN RESOURCES & COMPENSATION CIVIC, COMMUNITY & CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS TECHNICAL, GEOLOGIC & ENGINEERING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 0 1 2 34 5 6 7 8 910 NUMBER OF DIRECTORS Our Board and the Nominating,  The Board and the Nominating,  In evaluating director candidates  Governance and Sustainability  Governance and Sustainability  and Board committee appointees,  Committee regularly review the com- Committee also actively seek to create  the Nominating, Governance and  position, performance and skillsets  a pipeline of individuals qualified to  Sustainability Committee considers  of the Board and Board committees.  become Board members, includ. a person’s range of professional  In deciding what the Board’s priorities  ing candidates with diverse ethnic  experience, skills and background,  should be for further refreshment,  and racial backgrounds and gender  diversity in gender and race, as well  we take into account the results of  diversity. The Nominating, Governance  as other credentials and qualifications,  the Board evaluations; the current  and Sustainability Committee utilizes  including the credentials and qualifi. composition of the Board; the areas  various approaches for identifying  cations set forth in our Corporate  of experience, skillsets and diversity  director candidates, including recom- Governance Guidelines.  of our directors; and the attributes of  mendations from current and former  potential director candidates.  EOG directors, EOG’s contacts in the  business community and professional  search firms. If we engage a search  firm to assist in identifying candidates  for the Board, our policy is to instruct  the search firm to seek out and  present qualified women and minority  candidates for consideration.  The Compensation Committee, in consultation with the Board and the Nominating, Governance and Sustain.ability Committee, oversees matters relating to our human capital manage.ment. Our approach to human capital management focuses on employee culture, recruiting and retention, com.pensation, training and development, diversity and inclusion, and safety. For additional discussion regarding these areas, see Our People and Safety in the Social section. While all our current directors have experience with environmental, safety, human resources and compensation matters, to assist the Board with their risk oversight function, members of our senior management present and discuss emerging ESG-related risks – including risks associated with climate change – with the Board throughout the year. In addition, at least once per year, members of senior management report to our Board on EOG’s safety and environmental performance, in addition to reviewing trends and other industry information. Our Board, Compensation Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee also receive regular reports from, and have regular discussions with, our Chief Human Resources Officer and other mem.bers of our senior management on various human capital management topics, including peer benchmarking data and trends. Further discussion of our senior management’s role in ESG management is below. ROLE OF MANAGEMENT IN ASSESSING AND MANAGING ESG MATTERS Our executive management team is responsible for supporting our Board and its committees in discharging their risk oversight functions, includ.ing with respect to ESG matters. The executive management team works with personnel across the company to assess and manage risks, implement sustainability efforts and report per.formance. Ideas for improvement are generated by multidisciplinary teams at every level of the organization, with members of executive management providing centralized oversight of key issue areas. For example, our President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) provides overall leadership for management of safety and environmental matters, including emissions performance and risks related to climate change. As part of our integrated approach to management of these matters, our Director of Sustainability, who reports to our COO, our Vice President, Safety and Environmental, and our Manager of Sustainable Power regularly brief executive management on these matters. Supporting ESG Management The executive management team works with personnel across the company to assess and manage risks, imple.ment sustainability efforts and report performance. For example, groups that support management of safety and/or environmental matters include: • S&E Group • Sustainable Power Group • S&E Leadership Council • S&E Leadership Team Our Safety and Environmental (S&E) company. The team also periodically group and Sustainable Power Group • Sustainable Power Group is dedi.updates our executive management also meet regularly with our COO to cated to supporting EOG’s efforts regarding our progress towards our discuss emissions reduction strategies to identify and implement emissions safety and environmental strategic and play critical roles in assessing and reduction initiatives. The Sustainable goals and any related risks. managing safety and environmental Power Group is comprised of engineers and other specialists risks across the company: EOG has also implemented a number Power who reports to an Executive led by our Manager of Sustainable of practical mechanisms as part of • S&E Group is responsible for our efforts to identify, assess and managing and measuring environ-Vice President. The team provides manage environmental and safety mental and safety performance. leadership and supports our culture matters and facilitate continuous The S&E group works collaboratively of innovation to develop and apply improvement and consistency through-with our operations group on initi.technologies and other solutions to out our decentralized operations: atives related to our technologies help achieve our emissions targets and net-zero ambition. and practices to manage safety and • Regular reports to our executive environmental matters and with management from both (1) the other departments with respect to To facilitate a consistent team effort senior leadership in each of our related policy and regulatory matters. in assessing and managing environ-operating areas on their area’s safety company, EOG has also established mental and safety risks across the and environmental performance The S&E function’s senior leader-the following groups: and related matters and (2) the ship is centralized at EOG’s Sustainable Power Group. Houston headquarters and includes • The S&E Leadership Council – An • S&E conferences attended by the internal, multidisciplinary leadership our Vice President, Safety and S&E teams from each operating team comprised of senior manage-Environmental, our Director of area and senior executives. ment and representatives from our Safety and Environmental, our Water Resources Manager, our • Leadership meetings and confer-S&E and legal functions. The council Manager of Environmental and our ences among EOG’s S&E personnel, reviews our performance and over-Director of Safety. Field-level to share information, best practices sees development and setting of management of the S&E function and goals.our safety and environmental is performed by S&E personnel that • Regular S&E training, available to strategic goals. work in our operating area offices employees and contractors. • The S&E Leadership Team –and live in the local communities. • Discussion of ESG matters at EOG’s Membership is comprised of S&E As such, the majority of EOG’s in-house drilling, completions, and leaders across all of our operating S&E staff are integrated with EOG’s production & facilities technical area offices and S&E personnel at operations in order to effectively conferences to increase engage-our Houston headquarters. The S&E manage day-to-day safety and ment by our operations personnel. Leadership Team regularly meets throughout the year to discuss our environmental matters. • Environmental staff dedicated safety and environmental policies, to GHG emissions data collection best practices and related risks, and analysis. to provide consistency across the In Focus Information Technology and Cybersecurity Our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics communicate our expectations of employees and contractors related to cybersecurity matters: • Safeguard EOG’s information systems and related technologies from theft, fraud, unauthorized access, alteration or other damage; • Avoid any usage of EOG’s information systems that might lead to a breach of EOG’s information systems security; and • Immediately contact a member of EOG’s Information Systems team upon becoming aware of a situation that might compromise EOG’s information systems security. Our Information Systems team is responsible for cybersecurity strategy and planning. The team reports to our Senior Vice President and Chief Information and Technology Officer who, in turn, reports to our Chief Executive Officer. Our executive management team, which is responsible for the day-to-day management of cybersecurity risk, regularly reports to the Audit Committee regarding cybersecurity matters. As part of its risk oversight responsibility, our Audit Committee oversees our policies, strategies and initiatives for mitigating cyberse.curity and information technology risks. While we have experienced limited cybersecurity incidents in the past, we believe potential threats and intrusions to EOG’s systems have been effectively managed and contained by EOG’s intrusion technology systems and staff and we have not had, to date, any business interruptions or material losses from breaches of cybersecurity. As technology and potential cybersecurity threats evolve, we will look to adapt and enhance our security measures as necessary. In 2020, the Committee again expanded our ESG-related performance goals. 2021 ESG-Related Annual Performance Goal To reduce each of our GHG, methane and flaring emissions Based on its review of our compen.intensity rates, total recordable incident rate and oil spill rates, sation program and shareholder and increase our wellhead gas capture rate. feedback, the Committee established a separately weighted ESG-related EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION annual performance goal for 2020 to EOG’s executive compensation program is designed to attract and retain a highly qualified and motivated management team and reward individual executive officers for their contributions to the achievement of our key short-term and long-term goals. EOG’s executive officers are eligible to receive bonuses under the Annual Bonus Plan based on the achievement of operational, financial and strategic goals established by the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Committee believes that setting specific performance goals helps establish important bench.marks and communicates EOG’s top priorities to our executive officers and employees. Our ESG-related annual performance goals have historically included improving our strong S&E record, including reducing our recordable incident and oil spill rates. In 2019, the Committee expanded the ESG-related annual performance goals to include the reduction of EOG’s GHG emissions intensity rate and methane emissions intensity rate. reduce our GHG, methane and flaring emissions intensity rates, total record-able incident rate and oil spill rates. To evaluate our 2021 performance, the Committee has again established a separately weighted ESG-related annual performance goal – specifically, to reduce each of our GHG, methane and flaring emissions intensity rates, total recordable incident rate and oil spill rates, and increase our wellhead gas capture rate. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES EOG is committed to conducting our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in com.pliance with the laws of all countries where we operate and to ensuring that all employees and business partners are treated fairly and with respect. 