THE ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIPEOG is a member of The Environmental Partnership, a coalition of more than 80 oil and natural gas companies committed to continuously improving environmental performance in operations across the country. One of the partnership’s goals is to accelerate emissions reductions. To accomplish this, it has developed specific initiatives to target methane emissions that members have committed to implementing within their organizations, including:•	A program to replace, remove or retrofit high-bleed pneumatic controllers•	A leak detection and repair program for natural gas and oil production facilities•	A program to monitor manual liquids unloading on natural gas wellsIn addition to its programs, The Environmental Partnership provides a platform for the industry to collaborate with stakeholders and share best practices and new technologies.CDPConsistent with our commitment to transparency, EOG participates in the CDP’s climate change and water programs. Our participation in these programs allows investors and the public to better understand the climate change-related aspects of our business and water stewardship practices. These programs also provide a benchmark of our business and operations, against which we can measure future improvements.WATER INTENSITY RATES0.820.740.680.170.090.25REUSE0.34NON-FRESH0.340.31FRESH0.300.250.18201920182017SOURCES OF WATER13%21%34%REUSE51%42%PERMIAN BASIN41%NON-FRESHFRESH37%36%25%61%REUSE77%201720182019NON-FRESHFRESH30%21%9%2%20182019
IN FOCUSTRIDENTSM – NEXT GENERATION WATER MANAGEMENT Beginning in 2018, members of our information systems and strategic water resources teams partnered to develop Trident, a proprietary application built in-house, to manage the full life cycle of our water resources in real-time.Trident is an interactive tool that brings to life data through map-based visualization of our infrastructure. We capture data in the field using our SCADA systems and existing proprietary software. With Trident, users can track water resources in real-time to manage everything from costs to the amount of water stored in our reuse pits to the chemistry of our produced water.The software provides scenario planning by integrating historical data and trends with existing production and forecasting applications. Scenario planning along with real-time operational control allows the strategic water resources team to prevent bottlenecks, anticipate takeaway needs and minimize trucking of water.Trident enables evaluation of the unique water-related risks and opportunities of each operating area. Using data-driven, location-specific analysis and insight, Trident provides a more direct and efficient path to reduce fresh water use and increase reuse across the company by anticipating the amount and location of our water needs and modeling cost-effective investments in new infrastructure. A Permian Basin Example of How Trident Optimizes Water Management1 Controls the complex and extensive network of water pipelines and reuse facilities from a single tool 2 Monitors and controls flow and volume to assist leak detection 3 Captures produced water data and trends, including flow rates, volumes and chemistry 4 Identifies and tracks water sources 5 Models future water sourcing based on need, chemistry and cost 6 Integrates current production forecasts and flowback plans for new wells 7 Models future water takeaway needs to minimize trucking and disposal SPILL PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENTEOG’s goal is to proactively minimize, and seek to eliminate, risks posed to the community, environment and our employees and contractors from the handling of waste and hazardous materials. EOG conducts regular inspections and preventative maintenance on our equipment and facilities and uses multiple other methods to minimize the risk of spills, such as:•	secondary containment on tanks •	“nearly full” tank alarms •	control room monitoring equipment with the ability to shut-in facilities remotelyEOG also has pipeline leak detection systems that are monitored by EOG personnel to minimize response time in the event of an incident. If a spill does occur, our spill prevention and management plans are designed to quickly contain the spill and implement recovery efforts to minimize the environmental impact. Spill prevention and management plans are prepared and maintained by EOG staff across our operating areas. These plans include site-specific information and cover spill prevention, spill control, spill countermeasures, waste management and flowline integrity. Additionally, training is regularly conducted to review the requirements of the plans and personnel responsibilities. This training includes incident command system training focused on responding to emergencies. 2019 OIL SPILL RATE & RECOVERYEOG tracks and documents the volume and frequency of oil spills from our U.S. operations, as well as the volumes of oil we recover from those spills. We also consider our oil spill rate performance in our executive compensation program.EOG utilizes spills greater than five barrels as our reporting threshold because it is the most common regulatory spill reporting threshold for our primary operating areas. For more information regarding this spill rate metric, including the relevant definitions and the regulatory spill reporting requirements (i.e., volume thresholds) for our primary operating areas, please see the Appendix to this report.Our oil spill rate of 0.009 in 2019 continued a downward trend from recent years, excluding 2018, when the rate was higher due to a mechanical issue at a single well facility. Our unrecovered oil rate for 2019 decreased by 
67 percent from 2018, and our oil recovery 
rate for oil spills in 2019 was 75 percent.BIODIVERSITY EOG is committed to conserving biodiversity by integrating habitat and wildlife conservation in the planning and management of our exploration and production activities. We proactively work with stakeholders in our communities to collaborate on conservation initiatives and focus on the unique biodiversity features specific to each operating area. In addition, by downsizing and centralizing our drilling and production facilities, and using directional and horizontal drilling technology with longer laterals, we are able to reduce our overall surface footprint. For discussion of our land reclamation and restoration efforts, see the IN FOCUS “Reclaiming and Restoring Land” on page 8.Supporting Raptor Populations in the Wyoming Powder River BasinIn the Powder River Basin, EOG goes beyond the environmental impact statements and environmental assessments that are part of our pre-development planning process by studying Ferruginous Hawks. Since 2014, we have led a study to better understand the territory and nesting patterns of these birds. Through a proposal approved by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Wyoming Game & Fish Department, EOG fitted 16 Ferruginous Hawks with GPS transmitters to provide year-round GPS locations and specific details on their breeding locations. The data EOG has gathered has allowed us to better manage our operations to support the breeding of Ferruginous Hawks and has provided the BLM with better data with which to study this species and protect its population.	Creating Owl Towns and Nesting Perches in the Permian Basin EOG has also led initiatives to improve nesting conditions for raptors and Burrowing Owls in the Permian Basin. Beginning in 2019, EOG’s land team partnered with a local biologist to install 13 raptor nesting platforms. This installation was completed in early 2020. We also created two “owl towns,” with each consisting of 10 artificial burrows and a perch. Wildlife cameras near the owl towns will allow us to monitor how the Burrowing Owls are responding, so we can modify and improve existing equipment and designs in the future. Restoring Native Texas GrasslandsSince 2015, EOG has supported Texan by Nature, a collaborative partnership between natural resource users and conservation experts to promote conservation efforts to sustain Texas’s working lands, water supplies and wildlife. In the Eagle Ford, EOG partners with Texan by Nature and private land owners to reseed well pads and pipeline rights-of-way with native grasses. These grasses can provide high-protein forage and food plots, which maintain and improve habitat conditions for the Monarch butterfly and numerous other species in this migratory corridor. Additionally, these grasses are lower maintenance and more drought-tolerant than non-native grasses.