OVERSIGHT AND PRACTICESEOG’s strong corporate governance practices enhance board and management accountability to our shareholders and other stakeholders and enhance our risk oversight and management efforts.Board of DirectorsCurrently, our Board of Directors (Board) is comprised of seven non-employee, independent directors and our Chief Executive Officer, who serves as the Chairman of the Board. As announced on September 23, 2020, Mike Kerr will join our Board as a non-employee, independent director effective October 5, 2020.All directors are elected annually under a majority vote standard, which provides our stockholders with a meaningful voice in the annual director election process. Our Board committees – the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee – are each solely composed of independent directors.The independent directors regularly meet in executive sessions, led by the independent presiding director who is elected annually by the independent directors of our Board. The independent presiding director plays a valuable role in the overall leadership of the Board and serves as a liaison between the Chairman of the Board and our other executive officers and the independent directors.Director Diversity, Skills and Experience The directors serving on our Board possess diverse professional experiences, skills and backgrounds. Our directors also have high standards of personal and professional ethics, proven records of success in their respective fields and valuable knowledge of our business and of the oil and gas industry. Below are descriptions of certain key skills and areas of experience that we believe are relevant to our business, along with a matrix setting forth the number of our current directors that possess each skill and area of experience. 	DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE1NON-INDEPENDENTINDEPENDENT7	GENDER DIVERSITY OF DIRECTORS2FEMALEDIRECTORSMALEDIRECTORS6
One of the roles of the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee is to identify prospective qualified candidates to fill vacancies on the Board. In the event of a Board vacancy, our Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee will look to identify prospective qualified candidates. If we engage a search firm to assist in identifying candidates for the Board, our policy is to instruct the search firm to seek out and present qualified women and minority candidates for consideration.Board Oversight of ESG MattersOur Board has primary responsibility for risk oversight, including risks related to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters. To ensure that our Board has a comprehensive view of EOG’s overall risk exposure, the Board regularly reviews our long-term strategic plans. Principal issues and risks that we may face executing those plans, including regulatory, legal, market, reputational and ESG-related risks, are evaluated along with the processes we employ to identify, manage and mitigate such risks. The Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee has primary responsibility for oversight and guidance of ESG-related matters. As part of this responsibility, the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee reviews potential ESG-related impacts to the company and makes recommendations to the Board, our Audit and Compensation Committees and our management, 
as appropriate. While all of our current directors have experience with environmental and safety matters, to assist the Board with their risk oversight function, members of our senior management present and discuss emerging ESG-related risks and other matters – including risks associated with climate change – with the Board throughout the year. Further discussion regarding our senior management’s role in ESG management is below.In addition, at least once per year, members of senior management report to our Board on EOG’s safety and environmental performance and peer benchmarking, in addition to reviewing trends and other industry information.Also, as part of its risk oversight responsibility, our Board, together with the Compensation Committee, oversees matters relating to our human capital management. 
Our Board and Compensation Committee receive regular reports from, and have regular discussions with, our Chief Human Resources Officer and other members of our senior management on human capital management topics, including employee recruiting, compensation, retention and training and the composition and diversity of EOG’s workforce. Our Chief Human Resources Officer and other members of senior management also review human capital management peer benchmarking data and trends with the Board and Compensation Committee. Role of Management in Assessing and Managing 
ESG MattersOur senior management team works with personnel across the company to assess and manage risks related to ESG matters. Ideas for improvement are generated by multi-disciplinary teams at every level of the organization, with our Chief Operating Officer (COO) providing overall leadership for management of these matters. As part of our integrated approach to management of these matters, our Director of Sustainability, who reports to our COO, our Vice President, Safety and Environmental and our Manager of Sustainable Power regularly brief senior management on these matters.In addition, our environmental-related efforts and performance, including management of environmental risks related to climate change, are managed and measured by the S&E function within EOG. Our S&E group works collaboratively with our operations group on initiatives related to our technologies and practices to manage ESG matters and with other departments with respect to environmental policy and regulatory matters.The S&E function’s senior leadership is centralized at EOG’s Houston headquarters and includes our Vice President, Safety and Environmental, our Water Resources Manager, our Manager of Environmental and our Director of Safety. Field-level management of the S&E function is performed by S&E personnel that work in our operating area offices and live in the local communities.To facilitate a consistent team effort in assessing and managing ESG risks across the company, EOG has established the following groups:•	The S&E Leadership Council – An internal, multi-disciplinary leadership team comprised of senior management and representatives from our S&E and 
legal functions. •	The S&E Leadership Team – Membership is comprised of the S&E leaders across all of our operating area offices and S&E personnel at our Houston headquarters.  These groups have specific roles in assessing and managing ESG risks for EOG:•	Strategic Goals – The S&E Leadership Team, in consultation with the S&E Leadership Council and executive management, is responsible for setting our safety and environmental strategic goals.•	Policies – The S&E Leadership Team regularly meets throughout the year to discuss our safety and environmental policies, best practices and related risks, to provide consistency across the company.•	Performance – The S&E Leadership Team also periodically updates our executive management regarding our progress towards our safety and environmental strategic goals and any related risks. EOG has also implemented a number of practical mechanisms as part of our efforts to identify, assess and manage ESG matters and facilitate continuous improvement and consistency throughout our 
decentralized operations:•	Regular reports to our executive management from senior leadership in each of our operating regions on their region’s safety and environmental performance and related matters•	In-person S&E conferences attended by the S&E teams from each operating region and senior executives•	Leadership meetings and conferences among EOG’s S&E personnel, for the sharing of information, best practices and goals•	Regular S&E training, available to employees, contractors and vendors•	Discussion of ESG matters at EOG’s in-house technical conferences, to increase engagement by our drilling, completion, production and facilities operations personnel •	Environmental staff dedicated to GHG emissions data collection and analysisExecutive CompensationEOG’s executive compensation program is designed to attract and retain a highly qualified and motivated management team and reward individual executive officers for their contributions to the achievement of our key short-term and long-term goals. EOG’s executive officers are eligible to receive annual bonuses based on the achievement of operational, financial, and strategic goals established by the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Committee believes that setting specific performance goals helps establish important benchmarks and communicates EOG’s top priorities to our executive officers and employees. Our ESG-related performance goals have historically included improving our strong S&E record, including reducing our recordable incident and oil spill rates. In 2019, the Compensation Committee expanded the ESG-related performance goals to include the reduction of EOG’s GHG emissions intensity rate and methane emissions intensity rate, in each case for 2019 compared to 2018. Based on its review of our compensation program and shareholder feedback, the Compensation Committee has established a separately weighted ESG-related goal for our 2020 performance – specifically, the reduction of our GHG, methane and flaring emissions intensity rates, recordable incident rate and oil spill rates for 2020 below 2019 levels.ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICESEOG is committed to conducting our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with the laws of all countries where we operate and to ensuring that all employees and business partners are treated fairly and with respect. To reinforce this commitment, EOG maintains a Compliance Program. The program includes strong non-retaliation provisions intended to ensure that EOG’s business is conducted with high ethical standards and in compliance with the letter and spirit of the law. The program includes review and enforcement of EOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics and other policies related to legal compliance and ethics, in addition to employee communications, education, training and compliance monitoring, including the investigation and resolution of complaints and inquiries.The Audit Committee of the Board oversees EOG’s Compliance Program and we have a standing Compliance Committee that is responsible for implementing EOG’s Compliance Program and providing regular reports to the Audit Committee. The standing members of the Compliance Committee are our General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer and Vice President, 
Internal Audit. Codes of Business Conduct and EthicsEOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics detail our expectations with respect to business conduct as well as our legal and ethical responsibilities and standards for our officers, directors and employees as well as our contractors and vendors. •	Directors, Officers and Employees – EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees includes sections on workplace safety, security, protection of the environment and fair treatment and mutual respect of workers. In addition to the requirements in this policy statement, specific objectives and activities are spelled out in EOG’s Safety and Environmental Policy. All employees are required to acknowledge receipt of EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees 
when hired.•	Contractors and Vendors – Our contractors and vendors must agree to abide by EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Vendors and Contractors. The policy obligates our contractors and vendors to provide their services in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety matters.In addition, we maintain a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, to which our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and controllers are subject. These codes can be found in the “Board of Directors” section of the “Company” page of our corporate website at www.eogresources.com.EOG also requires our directors, officers, employees, contractors and vendors to comply with related policies, including policies related to anti-corruption compliance. Our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics and the related policies are reviewed annually, including with our Audit Committee, and updated as necessary or appropriate. Training and Reporting MechanismsTo promote our commitment to ethical business practices, EOG maintains an active global compliance training program. Training is provided to employees upon joining the company and then periodically thereafter. EOG also encourages employees, contractors and business partners to report any violations of the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics or other conduct relating to EOG’s business that they suspect may be unethical or in violation of applicable laws and regulations. EOG provides several confidential options for reporting actual and suspected misconduct, including speaking with a supervisor or contact at EOG, an EOG human resources representative or a member of EOG’s Legal Department or Compliance Committee. In addition, employees, contractors, suppliers, business partners (including joint venture partners), shareholders and other external stakeholders may report actual or suspected misconduct anonymously through EOG’s confidential 24-hour Compliance and Ethics Hotline or by submitting a confidential report online. EOG’s hotline and online reporting system are hosted by a third party to maintain anonymity. The hotline and online reporting system are available worldwide and information on how to access both resources is publicly available in the “Board of Directors” section of the “Company” page of EOG’s corporate website at www.eogresources.com. All complaints received are immediately forwarded to the Chief Compliance Officer and the Audit Committee receives regular reports regarding matters reported through the hotline or online reporting system. EOG’s third-party hotline and online reporting system include the ability to arrange a callback time to hear the status of EOG’s response to a report and to answer any follow-up questions anonymously. EOG does not tolerate retaliation for raising an ethical or legal concern or asking questions in good faith. PUBLIC ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTEOG does not contribute corporate funds to any federal, state or local political candidate, party, organization or campaign. In addition, EOG does not sponsor or administer a political action committee.We respect and support the right of our directors, 
officers and employees to support political parties and candidates with their personal time and money. However, use of EOG company resources for such purposes, including employee time, company funds and company supplies, is prohibited without the express approval of EOG’s Chief Executive Officer.EOG engages with regulators and elected officials to educate them on issues affecting our company and industry, changing technologies and best practices. In addition, EOG employees are active participants in industry coalitions and working groups, including those focused on safety, water reuse and reducing emissions, to share information and promote best practices.EOG pays membership dues to certain trade associations and benefits from the time these trade associations spend engaged in efforts to educate lawmakers and voters on issues relevant to the oil and gas industry. While we strive to promote policies and practices that we support through our membership and participation in trade associations, trade associations represent their collective membership, not individual member companies, and may take positions on a wide variety of matters which are not necessarily supported by EOG. Our Government Relations group reviews and oversees our participation in trade associations and, at least once a year, the Board’s Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee reviews EOG’s contributions to trade associations, including any amounts related to political activities and lobbying expenses.
EOG BOARDOF DIRECTORSJANET CLARKDIRECTOR SINCE 2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRCHARLIE CRISPDIRECTOR SINCE 2002BOB DANIELSDIRECTOR SINCE 2017
COMPENSATION
COMMITTEE CHAIRJIM DAYDIRECTOR SINCE 2008CRIS GAUTDIRECTOR SINCE 2017DON TEXTORDIRECTOR SINCE 2001
2019 PRESIDING DIRECTORBILL THOMASDIRECTOR SINCE 2013
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDJULIE ROBERTSONDIRECTOR SINCE 2019
NOMINATING, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIREXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCEFINANCIAL REPORTING, ACCOUNTING & FINANCEENERGY INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE (UPSTREAM EXPLORATION)ENERGY INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE (MARKETING & MIDSTREAM)ENERGY INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE (OILFIELD SERVICES)CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENTINTERNATIONALGOVERNMENTAL/REGULATORYPUBLIC COMPANY BOARD SERVICEENVIRONMENTAL & SAFETYHUMAN RESOURCES & COMPENSATIONCIVIC, COMMUNITY & CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONSTECHNICAL, GEOLOGIC & ENGINEERINGINFORMATION TECHNOLOGY123405678NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
IN FOCUSINTEGRATED APPROACH TO ESG MANAGEMENTESG management is integrated into EOG’s culture throughout our organization. Our employees improve the company’s ESG performance in the same way and at the same time they create value across all our operations – from the bottom up, across our decentralized organization, in which multi-disciplinary teams use data to innovate new and creative technology solutions to ESG risks and opportunities.•	Transparent, Real-Time Data: EOG’s Information Systems team has developed over 100 desktop and mobile applications in-house. These applications provide real-time data capture, including real-time reporting of water reuse and flaring metrics, and mobility of data access, which drives transparency throughout the organization and allows for better, faster, well-informed decisions.•	Decentralized, Multi-Disciplinary Teams: The majority of EOG’s Safety and Environmental (S&E) staff are based in our operating area offices and are integrated with EOG’s operations in order to effectively manage day-to-day safety and environmental matters. Our S&E professionals collaborate with our engineers, technicians and geologists to develop and implement ESG-related approaches that take into account the unique operating conditions of each region.•	Centralized Oversight: While our S&E team supports our operations, they report directly to our company-wide Vice President, Safety and Environmental. In addition, each operating area office reports to our executive management on environmental and safety matters and performance throughout the year. This enables us to develop both local and overall company focus areas and initiatives that are developed and communicated by both our operations and S&E teams.•	Innovative, Fit-for-Purpose Solutions: The combination of real-time data and multi-disciplinary team collaboration drives innovation and creative solutions. An example of this is the development of our sophisticated water management infrastructure system, which resulted from our strategic water resources team working with our production, drilling and completions engineers. Our Information Systems team was also central in this success by developing our TridentSM application to help manage our water resources in real time across our complex infrastructure system. See page 21 for further discussion of our Trident application.