Letter to StakeholdersDear Stakeholder,EOG is a resilient company with a commitment to being an innovative leader in sustainability. As we respond to the historic oil price collapse caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe we will demonstrate just how resilient, innovative and committed to sustainability we are. Like every other downturn, we are confident EOG will emerge a stronger global competitor, uniquely positioned with our sustainable business model that will continue to create value for our shareholders.What drives our confidence is the EOG culture – our number one competitive advantage. Core to our culture is a collaborative work environment where employees’ ideas are valued and shared across the company. Our focus during the pandemic has been to preserve that aspect of our culture by ensuring employees remained connected to each other while working from home. We worked quickly to provide structure, support and resources to maintain EOG’s sense of community and collaboration within and between our local operating areas and corporate-wide teams.  We had a head start. For more than a decade, we have built a vast information technology infrastructure to capture and control our data from creation in the field to delivery to the end user. We designed proprietary end-user applications, built in-house, that prioritize usability and transparency. Over the last several years, our end-user applications have become increasingly mobile and real-time, enabling remote work for functions employees had historically performed in the office. Beyond the pandemic, 2020 has also challenged us to evaluate and further our commitment to fostering diversity and inclusiveness. We have long valued diversity of thought and background to drive collaborative, cross-functional teamwork. In the spirit of continuous improvement that defines how EOG operates, we know we can do even better. EOG will seek to bolster our collaborative work environment by fostering more inclusiveness and diversity in our workforce.  As an initial step, we are establishing a working group to engage employees at the grass-roots level to generate ideas. We are also taking a fresh look at our college recruiting program to ensure that we partner with universities and programs to produce the most talented and diverse pool of candidates. We will look for opportunities to expand our support of STEM education overall and to programs that target under-served communities similar to our current work with the IPAA/PESA Energy Education Foundation and the work-study program with Cristo Rey Jesuit college preparatory school. Over time, we are confident that these efforts will help improve on what we believe is already the best culture in the business.I am incredibly proud of our employees’ focus on execution this year during an unprecedented level of uncertainty. However, I don’t want it to overshadow the great work accomplished last year. In 2019, we once again improved our ESG performance: •	GHG Emissions Intensity Rate – We reduced our GHG intensity rate 16 percent. •	Emissions Efficiency – We reduced our emissions intensity rates across all significant GHG sources - combustion, flaring and pneumatics. •	Water Intensity Rate and Fresh Water Use – We decreased our water intensity rate and, more importantly, decreased our fresh water use by nearly 
30 percent.•	Methane Emissions Intensity Rate – Our ongoing program to retrofit or remove pneumatics continues to significantly reduce methane emissions. These efforts resulted in another year-over-year reduction in our methane emissions intensity rate, achieving our 2019 qualitative reduction target.•	Safety – We decreased our total recordable incident rate by almost 30 percent and our total lost time incident rate by 24 percent. •	ESG Tied to Executive Compensation – We added the reduction of our GHG and methane emissions intensity rates to the operational performance goals that determine our executives’ annual bonuses. For 2020, we have established a separately weighted, ESG-specific performance goal that includes the reduction of our GHG, methane and flaring emissions intensity rates, recordable incident rate and oil spill rates.Looking forward, we expanded our efforts to be a leader in returns-focused GHG reduction by establishing the EOG Sustainable Power Group to drive a new strategic initiative to identify and implement low-emissions electricity generation to power our field-level operations. The Sustainable Power Group will bring forward new ideas quickly and cost effectively in support of a goal to reduce our carbon footprint with favorable economics. We are excited to learn more from the group’s first pilot project – an eight-megawatt solar and natural gas hybrid electric power station which was initiated in 2019 and became operational in the third quarter 2020.  EOG has a long history of adapting to changing industry conditions and using technology to improve the company. We are confident that our sustainable power initiative will be another area in which EOG will lead the way in finding better methods to generate power, while reducing our impact on the environment and generating a healthy rate of return.In addition to our ESG performance improvements last year, I also want to highlight a number of expanded ESG commitments and disclosures new to this report which were developed based on our discussions with stakeholders:•	Quantitative Methane Emissions Target – We established a longer-term, quantitative methane reduction target. Our goal is to reduce our methane emissions percentage to 0.06 by 2025.•	Quantitative GHG Emissions Target – We further expanded our commitment to reducing emissions by also establishing a target to reduce our GHG emissions intensity rate to 13.5 by 2025.    •	Water Sources Disclosure – We expanded our water use disclosures by categorizing our intensity rates into fresh, non-fresh and reuse going back to 2017, to provide stakeholders a more complete picture of our water management practices. •	Community Safety and Security – We enhanced our disclosures on our community safety and security initiatives, including our efforts to raise awareness 
and conduct training regarding the prevention of 
human trafficking.        •	New Topics – We added and expanded discussions on 
a number of new topics, including flaring, biodiversity and land reclamation, as well as our director skills and experience matrix.•	SASB and TCFD – We provided a reference index of our SASB and TCFD-related disclosures. Finally, our employees who live and work in our operating areas continued to develop innovative ways to engage with local organizations on charitable and environmental projects. We donated money and time to help build a new aquatic center in Artesia, New Mexico. In Wyoming, we partnered with University of Wyoming students to plant nearly 2,000 sagebrush seedlings to accelerate the restoration of native grasslands. In addition, we converted a reclaimed wellsite in New Mexico’s Permian Basin to a campsite, providing easy road access to two national parks. This is just a sample of the In Focus highlights in this year’s report.Looking ahead, we believe oil and gas will be critical to the future of global energy supply. Responsible oil and gas production can and should be part of the long-term solution to address emissions while also providing reliable, affordable energy to a growing global population. Our employees have embraced the company’s emissions reduction efforts and I’m excited to see how EOG’s culture of innovation and technology will continue to drive creative solutions. Our goal is to be part of the long-term global energy solution while generating strong returns for 
our shareholders.Sincerely,“What drives our confidence is the EOG culture - our number one competitive advantage.”Letter to Stakeholders1 U.S. Operations. 2 The metrics in this table and elsewhere in this report have been calculated using the best available information at the time of preparation of this report. The data utilized in calculating such metrics is subject to certain reporting rules, regulatory reviews, definitions, calculation methodologies, adjustments and other factors. As a result, these metrics are subject to change if updated data or other information becomes available. Accordingly, certain metrics in this table and elsewhere in this report in respect of prior years may be revised from previous Sustainability Reports to reflect updated data and other information. Any updates to the metrics in this table, prior to our next Sustainability Report, will be set forth in the data tear sheet posted to the “Sustainability” section of the EOG website. Further, certain of the total amounts in this table and presented elsewhere in this report may not equal the sum of their components due to rounding.3 Our 2017 air emissions metrics have been updated based on a review and resubmittal of emissions data to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. OUR PRACTICESEOG Resources’ leadership in environmental stewardship can be largely attributed to the same decentralized structure that drives our leadership in the exploration and development of unconventional oil and gas plays. No two unconventional oil and gas plays are alike. Each is unique and therefore requires unique techniques and technology to develop. EOG’s decentralized structure fosters play-specific innovation to optimally develop and maximize the value of any given play. Each of our operating area offices is continually testing various technologies and innovations that are most suitable for its operating area’s unique geology and surface area environment. In many cases, technology can be transferred and shared across the company.The same is true for our efforts to minimize our environmental footprint, improve the energy efficiency of our field operations, reduce overall fuel usage and drive down emissions. We essentially have independent teams in each of our operating areas all testing, innovating and eventually sharing the best environmental stewardship innovations, approaches and technologies. We are committed to protecting the environment throughout our exploration and development operations – from our initial exploration efforts, through the life of a well’s production, to our reclamation and restoration of a well site. The following are just a few of the efforts EOG undertakes: Drilling•	Limiting our overall surface footprint by:--Using directional and horizontal drilling technologies--Drilling multiple wells from a single well pad--Reducing drilling days •	Limiting disposal of drilling fluids through reuse 
and recycling Completions•	Reducing fresh water usage by:--Increasing recycling and reuse of produced water 
from our oil and gas wells --Prioritizing the use of non-fresh water sources •	Using electric completion spreads to reduce diesel fuel combustion emissions•	Minimizing the use of chemical additives through innovative completion technologies•	Utilizing “green completions,” which are reduced emissions completion systemsProduction and Facilities•	Recycling produced water for reuse in operations•	Real-time, remote facility monitoring using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems•	Reducing or eliminating emissions by:--Capturing emissions and reducing flaring using vapor recovery units that direct tank vapors into a natural gas sales line--Having removed or retrofitted all high-bleed pneumatic controllers used in our operations--Converting pneumatic pumps to electric or solar power--Installing instrument air systems on facility controllers and pumps--Identifying, repairing and monitoring fugitive emissions at EOG facilities through a company-wide leak detection and repair (LDAR) program•	Designing and implementing improved spill containment infrastructure for our facilities•	Reducing our emissions and surface footprint through centralized production and compression facilitiesInfrastructure and Land Use•	Installing water pipeline infrastructure to reduce the number of trucks needed, road congestion and 
truck emissions•	Installing natural gas gathering infrastructure early in the development of a play to reduce flaring and vented emissions, including the installation of 100 miles of natural gas gathering lines in 2019 •	Building out oil gathering systems and pipelines to reduce truck traffic and emissions•	Establishing multiple takeaway options for our production and optimizing takeaway capabilities with “real time” control of the flow of natural gas•	Downsizing drilling sites for production operations•	Minimizing our surface footprint by re-vegetating unused acreage during reclamation and restoration of a well siteOther Energy Efficiency and Conservation Measures•	Designing and utilizing multi-well pads, thus removing the need for multiple separators, tanks and flares and reducing trucking•	Using electric pumps and compressors•	Houston offices are in a building with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) “Green Building” certificationPlanning for Weather Events and Related Physical RisksAs part of the evaluation and planning of our operations, EOG considers how to mitigate relevant physical risks from weather changes and extreme weather events, such as floods, hurricanes and intense heat and cold. We operate a diversified portfolio of assets across multiple regions that each have unique environmental and weather-related considerations. Our decentralized structure enables us to apply our localized knowledge so that we are prepared for the weather-related physical risks specific to each of our operating areas. For instance, in areas prone to flooding, we have built drainage systems and protective structures to help prevent flooding of our facilities. Companywide, including in areas prone to water scarcity, EOG is focused on reducing the use of fresh water. In areas prone to extreme heat, we take measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and contractors, including using cooling trailers. EOG also operates three central control rooms in North America, initially built to manage our operations in our three largest plays, the Eagle Ford, the Permian Basin and the Bakken. In the event of severe weather, EOG has plans in place to utilitze one of our central control rooms for an impacted operating area and to remotely monitor production and infrastructure and, if needed, safely shut down operations. .ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMSAt EOG, we are guided by the fundamental elements of our Safety & Environmental Policy, which commits to safeguarding people and the environment by making environmental performance the responsibility of every 
EOG employee.•	Environmental protection – We are committed to reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.  •	Compliance – Our policy is to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations and to apply responsible standards where such laws or regulations do not exist. •	Continuous improvement – We strive to continuously improve our safety and environmental performance and enhance our processes.Our company-wide environmental management systems (EMS) are key to integrating our proactive approach to environmental stewardship into our planning, development and decision-making. Our EMS provide a framework to manage our environmental processes and performance. Our EMS also provide transparency and help us identify and manage environmental risks, leverage opportunities and drive continuous improvement.Environmental Management Applications – As part of our EMS, we use a combination of internal and third-party systems to organize large quantities of data into a database structure so it can easily be reviewed, used, monitored and maintained in our day-to-day operations. In addition, data in our EMS is used to track regulatory monitoring and reporting schedules, environmental incidents and process changes that are being implemented. Performance Goals – Our EMS also support our efforts to set environmental goals, review progress and track our performance. We set environmental goals on an annual basis and the data from our EMS allows management to assess performance in a systematic way. EOG’s environmental performance is considered in evaluating employee performance and compensation throughout the organization, including executive compensation.Management Oversight – EOG’s Safety and Environmental Leadership Council, an internal leadership team consisting of senior management and legal and safety and environmental personnel, reviews EOG’s performance and oversees development of strategies to improve our processes. This review system further serves to identify trends to develop the overall safety and environmental strategy for our organization. See “Role of Management in Assessing and Managing ESG Matters” on page 36 for further discussion. Training – Regular environmental training is critical to consistent performance. We provide initial, periodic and refresher environmental training for employees, contractors and other personnel who work at EOG’s facilities, including:•	Environmental stewardship training•	Optical gas imaging (OGI) training for EOG’s LDAR program•	Audio, visual and olfactory (AVO) training to proactively identify and manage emissions on a regular basis•	Spill prevention control and countermeasure training Contractor and Vendor Management – We work closely with our contractors and vendors to review performance, audit compliance, and track our environmental goals.  MANAGING EMISSIONSMethane and Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets and Environmental MetricsReducing emissions from our operations is important to EOG for environmental, operational and economic reasons. In 2019, we achieved our qualitative goal to reduce our methane emissions intensity rate below our 2018 rate. This year we expanded our commitment to sustainability and reducing emissions from our operations by establishing two longer-term quantitative emissions reduction targets.Our GHG emissions reduction target represents an almost 9 percent reduction from our 2019 rate and a 21 percent reduction compared to our 2017 rate.  Our methane emissions reduction target represents a 50 percent reduction from our 2019 percentage and an 85 percent reduction compared to our 2017 percentage.  2017 provides an important base year for comparing our performance and indicating the progress we have made because it was the first full year the large number of facilities we acquired in the Yates Petroleum merger were part of our operations.Our methane emissions reduction target represents our methane emissions from our U.S. operations as a percentage of our gross operated U.S. natural gas production. Our GHG emissions reduction target represents our GHG emissions from our U.S. operations divided by our gross operated U.S. oil and natural gas production. Both targets include all Scope 1 emissions from our gross operated U.S. oil and natural gas production, including exploratory wells. For more information regarding the methodology used to calculate our emissions metrics, including the formulas and definitions, please see pages 15-17 and the Appendix to this report.Setting these targets encourages innovation in our practices and application of technology to increase efficiency and reduce emissions. Our practices and processes to pursue these targets and the quantitative metrics we use to measure our progress are described in this report, which allow our shareholders and other stakeholders to gauge our year-over-year performance and also benchmark our environmental performance against that of our peer companies.Our progress toward achieving these goals will be regularly reviewed by executive management and our Board of Directors, and we intend to report our progress toward each of the targets annually.Operating PracticesAs discussed in the “Our Practices” section above, EOG’s normal operating practices are designed to minimize emissions. To reduce or eliminate flaring, we install natural gas gathering pipelines early in the life of a play and contract sufficient pipeline takeaway capacity to provide flow assurance. The use of multi-well pads and green completions also reduce overall emissions. Other equipment we use to minimize the emissions from our operations include low-bleed controllers, instrument air systems, compressors equipped with emissions control technology, and electric and solar-powered pumps.Our facilities are also designed to minimize emissions and maximize the recovery of vapors and our facilities are periodically reviewed to optimize equipment. Where operationally appropriate, we install specialized control equipment, such as vapor recovery units and towers, vapor balance systems, high-efficiency combustion devices, and multi stage separators. In certain operating areas, we install electricity infrastructure to permit the use of electric-powered (versus fuel-powered) equipment. In addition, we use the latest technology, such as OGI, to identify and manage emissions.Flaring Reduction Initiatives Minimizing flaring is a priority for EOG. Infrastructure planning and takeaway optionality are two of the most important tools we use to reduce flaring. We have also developed innovative solutions in-house to further 
reduce flaring and we implement targeted initiatives to reduce or eliminate flaring throughout our operations: •	We anticipate and develop gathering and takeaway infrastructure needs to transport our production when formulating our development plans for a play not only 
to minimize flaring, but also to lower costs and 
maximize efficiencies.•	We install natural gas gathering infrastructure early 
in the development of a play so that gas associated with the production of oil can be gathered, processed and sold, including the installation of 100 miles of natural gas gathering lines in 2019. •	Our marketing group secures the ability to sell to multiple markets, to provide takeaway options for our gas production and mitigate the effects of downstream market interruptions.•	Control centers in our busiest divisions are built to control the flow of our natural gas in real time and are instrumental in avoiding interruptions and executing our takeaway plans. •	When new wells are completed, we capture natural gas produced rather than flaring such natural gas, a procedure known as “green completions.” •	We capture oil tank gas vapors with vapor recovery units and towers and vapor balance systems. In addition, beginning in 2019, to further capture tank gas vapors and reduce the need for flaring, we implemented technology designed to exclude or remove oxygen from tank gas vapors. Tank gas vapors are liquids-rich and therefore highly valuable, but tank gas vapors with oxygen will corrode pipelines, so they cannot be sold and may need to be flared. •	To minimize flaring at our facilities caused by downstream market interruptions, we recently conducted a pilot test of closed-loop gas capture, an automated process developed in-house to re-route natural gas back into existing wells when a downstream interruption occurs. Results of this pilot test were successful and indicate that our closed-loop gas process has the potential to both reduce flaring and return a majority of the captured gas from the well back to production. Pneumatic Controller ProgramHigh-bleed pneumatic controllers were identified as the largest contributor of methane emissions in EOG’s operations. In 2019, EOG completed a program implemented in 2017 to retrofit or remove all of our high-bleed pneumatic controllers. Where electrical infrastructure is available, we are installing instrument air systems, which use compressed air to operate controllers rather than natural gas, thereby eliminating methane emissions. The retrofitting or removal of high-bleed controllers and use of instrument air systems has significantly reduced methane emissions from EOG’s operations. EOG also uses pneumatic pumps on production locations, which make up a significant source of our methane emissions. Where feasible, we are converting these pumps to operate using instrument air systems or solar power to eliminate methane emissions.Leak Detection and Repair ProgramIn 2019, EOG continued to build upon the success of our voluntary, company-wide leak detection and repair program by conducting LDAR inspections across the company, which consisted of OGI inspections and/or AVO inspections. While certain EOG production locations are subject to LDAR programs mandated by state and/or federal regulations, our voluntary program goes further and provides operational procedures for detecting and repairing emissions leaks at facilities not covered by state or federal requirements. Additionally, EOG utilizes our own information technology system applications to capture LDAR data electronically, including a mobile application to capture data directly from our field locations. These applications improve the accuracy of our data, identify trends, eliminate paper processes and allow timely repairs throughout our 
LDAR program.EOG’s program consists of:•	Monitoring components – We monitor emissions from components such as connectors, pressure relief valves, controllers and tank thief hatches•	Monitoring-frequency guidelines – These guidelines take into account activity levels at our facilities and other factors that may affect emissions•	Identification and repair of leaks – We have protocols for the identification and timely repair of detected leaks and the re-inspection of repaired components at specified time periods•	OGI technology – A substantial part of the monitoring under our LDAR program is conducted through the use of infrared cameras and other thermal imaging technology•	AVO inspections – We also utilize audio, visual and olfactory inspections to identify and manage emissions as part of field and facility visits•	Documentation, review and retention – Our LDAR program includes requirements with respect to record maintenance and retentionOur LDAR program, which is reviewed on an annual basis, has been instrumental in minimizing fugitive emissions at EOG facilities. In 2019, our fugitive emissions remained more than 70 percent lower than they were in 2016, primarily because of the implementation and increased capabilities of our LDAR program. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONSIn assessing its emissions, EOG measures our GHG intensity rate in total and broken out by constituent gases and sources. Intensity rates are a measure of emissions per unit of economic activity and are typically based on aggregate output or production when measured at an industry or individual company level. Emissions intensity rates are used to compare the environmental impact of different fuels or activities across multiple industries. EOG’s GHG emissions are primarily composed of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). The GHG emissions from our 2019 operations were comprised of these three gases in the following percentages:EOG’s GHG emissions related to our U.S. oil and gas operations are reported to the EPA and include emissions from all sources — combustion, flaring, pneumatics, fugitives, venting and other minor sources. For purposes of the intensity rate metrics disclosed in this section, the emissions data we report to the EPA have been converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) – the conversion to CO2e accounts for the higher global warming potential of methane and nitrous oxide compared to carbon dioxide.For information regarding the methodology used to calculate the emissions metrics in this section, including the formulas and definitions, please see the Appendix to this report.Methane Emissions and Year-Over-Year VarianceIn 2019, EOG continued our concerted efforts to reduce the sources of methane emissions across our operations. These efforts resulted in a second consecutive year-over-year reduction of 45 percent in our methane emissions intensity rate. These reductions were primarily achieved by retrofitting or removing our high-bleed pneumatic controllers and converting pneumatic pumps to instrument air systems or solar power. See pages 12 and 14 of this report for further discussion.The methane emissions intensity rate is measured in metric tons of CO2e per thousand barrels of crude oil equivalent (MBoe) of EOG's gross operated U.S. production.The methane emissions percentage measures our methane emissions as a percentage of the natural gas produced from our U.S. oil and gas operations, using units of thousand cubic feet of (Mcf) methane emissions per Mcf of EOG’s gross operated U.S. natural gas production.GHG Emissions, Sources and 
Year-Over-Year VariancesEOG’s emissions are predominantly from three sources: combustion, flaring and pneumatics. In 2019, our absolute GHG emissions stayed relatively flat, decreasing slightly from our 2018 levels as a result of significant reductions in our flaring and pneumatic emissions. We reduced our absolute emissions despite an overall increase in our gross oil and natural gas production in 2019. Accordingly, our GHG intensity rate decreased by 16 percent from our rate in 2018. Measuring and evaluating changes in our GHG intensity rate by source enhances our ability to manage our emissions. 
Below are year-over-year variance explanations by GHG source. COMBUSTION SOURCESAlthough increased production led to greater use of compression equipment, our combustion emissions intensity rate decreased in 2019 due to continued efficiency gains and improved measurement of fuel use. In addition, we expanded our use of electric hydraulic fracturing fleets (e-fracs), which decreased our use of diesel fuel to power equipment.

In 2020, we have continued to review our production process to identify additional opportunities for emissions reductions from combustion, including bringing online our solar project that we initiated in the fall 2019. See page 14 for further discussion of our solar project. FLARING SOURCESWe reduced our absolute GHG emissions from flaring sources in 2019, resulting in a substantial decrease in our flaring emissions intensity rate. This was achieved primarily through our focus on advanced planning, establishment of multiple takeaway markets and continued natural gas gathering infrastructure build-out. Control rooms in our busiest operating area offices, which are able to make real-time changes to marketing outlets when downstream interruptions and curtailments arise, also helped minimize flaring. In addition, we continue to invest in and utilize new technologies and initiatives, which we believe can further minimize flaring emissions, including tank vapor capture and closed-loop gas capture. See pages 12-13 for further discussion.PNEUMATICS SOURCESOur GHG intensity rate from pneumatic sources continued to decline in 2019 due primarily to the continuation of our program to retrofit or remove 
high-bleed pneumatic controllers and convert pneumatic pumps used in our operations to solar 
power or instrument air. In 2019, EOG completed the removal and/or retrofit of all high-bleed pneumatic controllers across its operations. See pages 12 and 14 for further discussion.OTHER SOURCESOur GHG emissions from other sources are minor and include fugitives and venting. Our GHG intensity rate from other sources remained relatively flat in 2019 due to our ongoing LDAR program throughout our operations. In 2020, we have continued our LDAR program and further assessed opportunities to minimize emissions through centralizing facilities and utilizing new technologies. See pages 12 and 15 for further discussion.HYDRAULIC FRACTURINGHydraulic fracturing is part of a well's "completion" process, in which pressurized fluid is pumped into underground formations to create tiny fractures or spaces that allow crude oil and natural gas to flow more easily from the reservoir into the well so that it can be brought to the surface. It enables EOG to produce crude oil and natural gas from formations that would otherwise not be recovered.Hydraulic fracturing technology has been safely used by the oil and gas industry for decades. More than one million wells have been hydraulically fractured and the technique is constantly being refined to improve the stimulation of a well and maximize reserve recovery. Studies conducted by respected regulators and 
authorities — including the EPA, the Ground Water Protection Council, and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission — have verified that hydraulic fracturing is safe and non-threatening to human health and poses little or no risk to underground sources of drinking water.EOG takes numerous steps to conduct our hydraulic fracturing operations safely and responsibly, including:Baseline Groundwater TestingA key component of EOG’s water management practices is the performance of baseline water sampling prior to drilling a well in a new area. When testing in areas where regulatory requirements have not been established, we use an internal sampling program based on best practices developed by state and local authorities. Samples are sent to certified third-party laboratories for independent testing. Wellbore IntegrityPrior to drilling any well, EOG also performs site-specific analysis to determine the design and techniques that will be implemented to maintain the integrity of the wellbore throughout the geologic formations the well will intersect. To maintain wellbore integrity, we use cement isolation of casing string, which are lengths of steel pipe. Other standard practices include surface casing tests and annular pressure monitoring. •	Surface casing is the primary steel pipe to be set in the vertical wellbore. This section of casing can run several thousand feet deep and performs many functions including the protection of shallow water aquifers, if present. The integrity of the surface casing is tested prior to flowing the well as a further measure of protection. •	Annular pressure is the pressure that exists in the space between the well casing and internal production tubing. To protect wellbore casing, we establish a maximum allowable annular pressure for each well we operate and monitor this pressure through the life of the well.We actively work with industry groups to ensure that state regulations for wellbore integrity remain up-to-date and incorporate evolving technology and best practices. Minimizing Chemical AdditivesWhile chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing fluid are typically less than one percent of the fluids used, one of EOG’s ongoing goals is to further minimize the amount of chemicals used to complete our wells.TransparencyEOG publicly discloses the fracturing fluids used for 100 percent of our well completions on the industry website FracFocus.org (hosted by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission).WATER MANAGEMENTResponsibly managing the water used, produced, treated, stored and disposed of during our operations in a cost-effective and environmentally sustainable manner is essential to EOG’s success. Every oil and gas producing region has unique risks and opportunities regarding water, from identifying sources and reuse options to determining the best methods for water transportation and disposal. We address these risks and opportunities in a number of ways:•	We use an integrated, cross-functional approach, evaluating the full life cycle of water used in our operations, from acquisition through transportation, storage, production, treatment, reuse and disposal.•	We engage with stakeholders in the communities where we operate to better understand the unique characteristics of the region and to discuss and collaborate on our water management plans.•	We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of available sources of water in each of our operating areas, including water reuse and conservation options that are available to be implemented in the area. •	We leverage our strategic water resources team to accelerate the implementation of best practices throughout the company.EOG’s strategic water resources team is led by our company-wide manager of water resources and includes representatives from each of our operating area offices. The team collaborates with multiple disciplines to determine water quality and quantity needs, develop multiple water source options and scenarios and maximize recycling and reuse options with the goal of also minimizing disposal. The team also focuses on water transportation infrastructure to maximize water moved on pipelines in order to reduce truck traffic. Notably, in the Permian Basin, we transported 99 percent of our water by pipeline in 2019. See this section’s IN FOCUS on page 21 for details on an initiative by our water resources and information systems teams to create TridentSM, a water management tool integrated into our company-wide operations database and suite of applications, all built in-house and proprietary to EOG.Water Intensity RateEOG measures our water use as an intensity rate. The water intensity rate measures the number of barrels of water used for each barrel of oil equivalent produced from our U.S. operations. We further categorize the sources of water used in our operations, and the associated intensity rates, into fresh, non-fresh and reuse. For information regarding the methodology used for the water metrics in this section, including the formulas and definitions, please see the Appendix to this report. See below for a complete description of each water source.Notably, in 2019, our fresh water intensity rate decreased by approximately 40 percent as a result of our increased focus on reducing fresh water use and increasing reuse. Our overall water intensity rate also decreased in 2019 by approximately 10 percent. Sources of WaterEOG uses various sources of water including surface water, fresh and non-fresh water aquifers and produced water that is recycled and reused. We also evaluate alternatives to traditional non-fresh sources, such as the use of discharge water from industrial or municipal wastewater treatment plants.Alternatives for water sources can vary significantly based on a number of factors, including geography, drilling and completion activity levels, production levels and available infrastructure. Therefore, our approach to water management will differ in each of our operating areas. However, when sourcing water, our consistent focus is to reduce fresh water use and implement or expand reuse where feasible. In 2019, 75 percent of the water we sourced companywide was from reuse or non-fresh water sources, reducing our total fresh water use to 25 percent.In the Permian Basin, 98 percent of the water we sourced was from reuse or non-fresh water sources, reducing our fresh water use in the Permian Basin to two percent. Non-Fresh WaterEOG is committed to conserving water resources in the communities where we operate. We take steps to minimize overall fresh water usage in the drilling and completion of wells, particularly where our usage competes with public drinking water use.In our most active operating areas in the United States, where our water needs are the highest, EOG is using non-fresh water from aquifers that are not utilized as public drinking water sources.The availability of non-fresh water differs regionally and we continue to evaluate water sourcing options through our strategic water resources team, our local water management teams and third-party analytical tools and studies.Water ReuseIn 2019, we both expanded our existing water reuse facilities and installed new water reuse facilities. Nearly all our operating areas now have some level of reuse capability. We increased the amount of water we sourced from reuse in 2019 by 76 percent, resulting in 34 percent of our water being sourced from reuse. In the Permian Basin, we increased the amount of water sourced from reuse in 2019 by 64 percent, resulting in 77 percent of our water in the Permian Basin being sourced from reuse.The percentage of reuse water sourced for our operations has steadily increased over the past three years and we believe that this percentage will continue to increase 
in 2020.
IN FOCUSRECLAIMING AND RESTORING LANDWe are committed to environmental stewardship throughout the life cycle of our operations. Once all production activities are complete on a location, reclamation and restoration begin. Beyond our legal, regulatory and contractual obligations, we partner with land owners and state and federal regulators 
to restore land in a manner that is responsive to the specific interests of the local communities. Sunset Reef CampsiteIn 2019, EOG began working with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to restore land from a reclaimed well site in New Mexico for use as a public campsite. Due to the area’s flat topography and easy road access to both Carlsbad Caverns National Park and Guadalupe Mountains National Park, the former well site accommodates campers interested in visiting either of these two parks. EOG partnered with the BLM to convert the land into a campsite, and also provided funding to purchase picnic tables, fire rings, sun shelters, and solar-powered lights to be used by campers. The campsite opened in September 2020.Sagebrush Reseeding to Accelerate ReclamationIn 2019, EOG collaborated with Wyoming regulators and local community members to reclaim land previously used as water reservoirs for drilling and production activities. This reclamation project involved EOG employees partnering with University of Wyoming students to plant nearly 2,000 sagebrush seedlings to reestablish vegetation and accelerate the restoration of native grasslands and scrublands. EOG intends to continue this collaboration by restoring unused access roads and drilling pads 
in other locations.EOG employees and University of Wyoming students plant sagebrush seedlings.CLIMATE-RELATED RISK, LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND SCENARIO ANALYSISGlobal supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas may be affected by changes in carbon-related regulations and policy initiatives, the availability of alternative energy sources, and consumer behavior. The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) 2019 World Energy Outlook (WEO) attempts to model these factors to provide estimates of future supply, demand and prices for oil and natural gas under three scenarios. The Sustainable Development Scenario is based on the main energy- related components of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, including the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting the increase in global average temperatures to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Under this scenario, which is the 2019 WEO’s most carbon-constrained scenario, demand for oil and natural gas is projected to decrease by 2040, however oil and gas remain a key part of meeting future energy demand during the same time period. There is not just one approach to meeting future energy demand within the constraints of a 2 degree scenario.  Uncertainty about specific climate-related efforts, including the timing and scale of those efforts, makes predicting the impact on future supply, demand and commodity prices a challenge. However, exposure to commodity prices determined by supply and demand factors that are outside our control, such as the business cycle and complex geopolitical relationships, is a risk we are long-accustomed to managing as an oil and gas company. We believe the best strategy to remain profitable in a commodity business exposed to volatile prices and the risks that drive price volatility, is to be a returns-focused, low-cost producer, supported by a conservative financial structure. Therefore, we allocate capital based on our “premium well” strategy, described in more detail below, then evaluate our plans under various commodity price scenarios. We also manage regulatory, legal and reputational risks by, among other things, developing and investing in technologies that reduce both costs and emissions, setting targets for emissions reductions and actively managing our portfolio of diverse oil and gas assets to provide future investment-optionality.TCFD and SASBWe recognize the increasing interest of shareholders and other stakeholders in the potential impacts of climate change on EOG’s operations and how we are assessing and managing that risk. In response, we continue to engage with shareholders and other stakeholders on these matters and have integrated certain recommended disclosure components from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into our annual sustainability reporting. In addition, we have further expanded our reporting this year by consulting the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board’s (SASB)standards for oil and gas exploration and production companies. Please refer to the SASB and TCFD Index beginning on page 45 for a map to our TCFD- and SASB-related disclosures.Resilience of Long-Term “Premium Well” Strategy EOG is a rate-of-return focused company at every level of the organization and has been since our founding. During the last downturn of 2015 and 2016, we were faced with the possibility of an extended period of low oil prices. In response, we implemented a rigorous new investment hurdle rate that we named the “premium well” investment standard. A premium well delivers a minimum of 30 percent direct after-tax rate of return using a commodity price deck of $40 per barrel of oil and $2.50 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas. A minimum return of 30 percent on a direct basis would translate to a healthy, all-in return that includes indirect costs such as overhead.In the three years that followed, 2017 through 2019, EOG reinvested slightly less than 80 percent of our discretionary cash flow, generated an average 14 percent return on capital employed, increased the dividend 72 percent to $1.15 per share, generated $4.6 billion of free cash flow, reduced our net debt by $2.2 billion and increased proved reserves 55 percent (See “Appendix—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” beginning on page 50 for reconciliation schedules and related discussion). Our performance under the premium well standard was as good or better than our performance in the three years prior to the downturn (2012-2014) when oil prices averaged $95 per barrel. Such is the power of premium.Furthermore, we have replaced our premium locations at least two times faster than our pace of drilling since establishing the hurdle rate in 2016. As of year-end 2019, we had identified 10,500 premium well locations, more than three times as many locations as when we started. EOG’s unique premium well strategy positions the company to be one of the lowest-cost oil and natural gas producers worldwide, capable of earning competitive returns throughout commodity price cycles.Scenario AnalysisComplex macro-economic factors, including changes in carbon-related regulations and policy initiatives, the availability of alternative energy sources, and consumer behavior may affect global supply, demand and pricing for crude oil and natural gas. Our long-term strategic planning process includes analysis of these and other market forces that present risks and opportunities to our business plans and strategy. As part of this analysis, we assess risks and opportunities related to global climate change policy by evaluating the resilience of our portfolio under a carbon-constrained scenario. To evaluate the resilience of our portfolio, we referenced the 2019 WEO, and specifically the Sustainable Development Scenario described above, which is widely used to assess portfolio resilience within the oil and natural gas industry. We started with a reference case model running to 2040 that consisted of our premium well inventory of 10,500 locations. For conservatism, we did not assume any additions to our current premium inventory; rather, we assumed development of our non-premium inventory for the remainder of the model’s time frame, year 2035 to year 2040. Other assumptions and optimization criteria used to develop our reference case model included the following:•	A commodity price outlook determined by the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario, which averaged $61 Brent per barrel of oil ($56 WTI equivalent per barrel of oil) and $3.25 per million Btu of natural gas over the life of the scenario.•	Carbon pricing costs defined by the Sustainable Development Scenario for carbon dioxide taxes in the U.S. of $100 per metric ton beginning in 2030 and growing to $140 per metric ton by 2040. The reference case model also assumed EOG’s current GHG emissions intensity metrics. These assumptions resulted in additional costs of approximately $1.50 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2030, growing to $2.10 per barrel of oil equivalent by 2040.•	Realistic production and dividend growth, and an internal requirement to generate free cash flow every year. Evaluating our reference case model under the 2019 WEO's Sustainable Development Scenario assumptions resulted in significant positive net present value of future cash flows using a 10 percent discount rate (NPV10).In addition, the reference case model was further stress tested using a flat commodity price of $50 per barrel of oil and $2.75 per Mcf of natural gas. Using the same carbon pricing costs, production growth and dividend growth assumptions, the more conservative commodity price scenario still yielded significant free cash flow and generated positive NPV10. EOG’s premium well strategy, disciplined capital allocation and distinctive culture is driving long-term, sustainable shareholder and stakeholder value. The analysis confirmed the resiliency of EOG’s current well inventory and our sustainable business model against various changes in commodity pricing and market demands, including those related to global climate change.Four Core Elements of Climate-Related Financial DisclosuresGovernanceStrategyRisk 
ManagementMetrics
& TargetsReprinted from "Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures" (June 2017).COVID-19 Tests EOG’s ResiliencyAs 2019 drew to a close, the early indicators of the novel coronavirus pandemic, and what developed into a real-life stress test of our business, were beginning to emerge. The pandemic compounded what started as an oil price war among OPEC+ heavyweights, which drove oil prices to levels we have not seen in more than 20 years. The severity of the COVID-19 crisis’ impact on the oil and gas market has been remarkable, and EOG’s ability to quickly respond is a testament to the EOG culture and demonstrates the strength of our premium well strategy in a lower-demand and price environment. We entered this unprecedented downturn in a position of operational and financial strength due to our consistent approach to the fundamentals of our business: return-focused capital allocation supported by a strong balance sheet. Our immediate response to COVID-19 has been anchored by those fundamentals now and will be throughout the duration of this crisis. Our goal in 2020 has been to emerge a stronger company and maintain our leverage to the upcycle as demand recovers. To achieve this goal, we have focused on, among other things, exercising operational flexibility to quickly cut costs and accelerating technical innovation to identify step change efficiencies and geo-technical advancements. Our ability to reposition the company in a few short weeks is a testament to EOG’s strong culture and decentralized organization and, most of all, our fast-acting, innovative employees.“In 2019, we achieved our qualitative goal to reduce our methane emissions intensity 
rate below our 2018 rate.”METHANE EMISSIONS REDUCTION TARGET 
Reduce our methane emissions 
percentage to 0.06 percent by 2025GHG EMISSIONS 
REDUCTION TARGET  
Reduce our GHG emissions 
intensity rate to 13.5 by 2025“In 2019, EOG completed a 
program implemented in 2017 
to retrofit or remove all of our 
high-bleed pneumatic controllers.”
IN FOCUSCAPTURING WELLHEAD GAS TO MINIMIZE FLARINGWhat is a wellhead and what is wellhead gas? A wellhead is an assembly of steel valves and pipe that sits on top of the well to safely control well pressure. The wellhead also connects the well with surface pipelines and facilities so that oil and natural gas can be produced. Every oil and gas reservoir will typically have a mix of both oil and natural gas at different ratios. When drilling for oil, it is common to also produce “associated” natural gas that is often called wellhead gas. We view wellhead gas from our oil wells as a valuable commodity rather than a byproduct of oil production. Our focus is to maximize our economic return through responsible management of wellhead gas. Why is wellhead gas sometimes flared?In the early stages of development of an oil field, it may not be feasible to attach gas gathering and processing infrastructure to an initial or exploratory well. The productivity, economic feasibility and 
gas quality of the well must first be determined. Without infrastructure to gather and process 
the wellhead gas, it is commonly flared. Other conditions that result in wellhead gas flaring include undersized pipelines to natural gas processing facilities, downstream market interruptions and lack of natural 
gas capture during completions 
operations for new wells.How does EOG minimize flaring of wellhead gas?EOG minimizes wellhead gas flaring by effective planning and infrastructure investment early in the lifecycle of our oil fields. When new wells are completed, we utilize green completions to capture natural gas rather than flaring the natural gas. We also install company-owned and operated natural gas gathering infrastructure early in the exploration and development process so our gas can be gathered and sent to market. Further, investment in gas processing and compression stations allows our marketing team to establish multiple gas takeaway options to minimize impacts from downstream market interruptions due to shutdowns of facilities and pipelines for maintenance and repair. We also have control centers in our busiest divisions that are designed to manage the flow of our natural gas in real time so we can avoid flaring. How effective are EOG’s initiatives at minimizing wellhead gas flaring? We increased our company-wide wellhead gas capture rate from 98.4 percent in 2018 to 98.8 percent in 2019, including a wellhead gas capture rate of over 99 percent in the Permian Basin. As indicated by a recent report from the Texas Railroad Commission, our wellhead gas capture rate is among the best in the industry. EOG AMONG INDUSTRY LEADERS IN 
CAPTURING PRODUCED GASTEXAS FLARING INTENSITY1EOGINDUSTRY1Wellhead flared gas volumes (Mcf/d) 
per Mbo/d of gross Texas oil production, 
November 2018 – October 2019. Operators 
with gross Texas oil production of more 
than 50,000 barrels of oil per day. Source: Texas Railroad Commission
IN FOCUSENERGY, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATIONEOG has a history of innovation in developing technologies to improve our operations, generate healthy rates of return and minimize emissions. To further enhance our efforts to be a leader in returns-focused GHG reduction, we recently formed the Sustainable Power Group as a new strategic initiative within EOG to identify and implement low-emissions power generation. The Sustainable Power Group is operations focused and aligned with our decentralized business model and we believe it will provide leadership and support for our innovative culture, working across the company to bring forward returns-focused, low-emissions technology and projects quickly. For example, in 2019, we initiated a pilot project in Red Hills, New Mexico to combine solar and natural gas to power electric motor-driven compressors. Compressors, which are used to compress natural gas with enough pressure to move it through pipeline infrastructure, typically rely on natural gas engines to operate and are our primary source of stationary combustion emissions. For safe and efficient operations, compression is needed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Since solar power is only available during the day, we designed a hybrid power plant to supplement day time solar power generation with reliable natural gas generation at night. During the day, more than 24,000 single axis tracking solar panels on 70 acres of land are expected to produce 8 megawatts of power with no combustion emissions. Compared to traditional natural gas-powered compression, we believe our hybrid-power compression will result in lower operating expenses and a meaningful reduction in emissions. The facility became operational
in the third quarter 2020. Looking forward, our 
Sustainable Power Group will continue to focus on reducing 
our emissions by making 
sound economic decisions 
to continually improve 
our operations. 