EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportClimate-Related Risks, Long-Term Strategy, and Scenario AnalysisGlobal supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas may be affected by several factors, including the availability of alternative energy sources, consumer demand and behavior, and carbon-related regulations and policy initiatives. Countries across the globe continue to implement policies and actions designed to reduce global GHG emissions as part of the broader framework of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to well below 2°C compared to preindustrial levels. At the same time, efforts to provide reliable and affordable energy are needed to provide energy security and support economic development and opportunity for a growing 
global population.  Forecasts of how to meet global energy demand in the future are wide ranging. The timing and scale of specific climate-related efforts bring unique challenges to predicting the impact on future supply, demand, and commodity prices. However, exposure to commodity prices determined by supply and demand factors outside our control, such as the business cycle, geopolitical conditions, and regulatory changes, is a risk we are long accustomed to managing as an oil and natural gas company.We believe oil and natural gas will remain an essential source of long-term global energy supply with demand gravitating toward the most efficient producers — the most efficient from a capital perspective and the most efficient from an emissions perspective. EOG is focused on playing a significant role in the long-term future of energy by being among the lowest-cost, highest-return, and lowest-emissions producers of oil and natural gas. We believe this is the best strategy for a sustainable business model in a commodity business exposed to volatile prices and the risks that drive price volatility, including climate-related risks. To support this strategy, we follow a conservative financial structure and our capital allocation is guided by our “premium well” strategy focused on low-cost, high-return wells. (See page 16 for more.)Our strategy is also supported by a strong focus on addressing emissions from our operations. Our approach includes adopting practices that minimize and/or eliminate emissions, developing and investing in technologies that reduce both costs and emissions intensity, and setting near- and long-term emissions targets and ambitions. (See page 18 for more.)We seek to further manage climate-related regulatory, legal, and reputational risks by, among other things, actively managing our portfolio of diverse oil and natural gas assets to provide future investment optionality, actively engaging with our shareholders and other stakeholders on climate-related matters, and evaluating the resilience of our portfolio to climate-related scenarios. We also monitor and assess any climate-change-related developments that could impact EOG and the oil and natural gas industry to determine the impact on our business and operations, and take actions where appropriate.Our Board retains primary responsibility for risk oversight, including climate-related risks. To assist the Board in carrying out its oversight responsibilities, members of our senior management discuss climate change and environment-related matters with our Board throughout the year. Senior management also reviews with the Board our environmental performance as well as trends and industry comparisons at least annually. (See Board Risk Oversight of ESG Matters on page 59 for more information on risk management.)See page 17 for a description of our long-term premium well strategy and the climate scenario analysis undertaken to evaluate the potential future implications for oil and natural gas supply and demand, as related to the long-term resilience of our portfolio against various climate-related conditions and policy changes through 2040.CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS, LONG-TERM STRATEGY, AND SCENARIO ANALYSISMANAGEMENT OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS The table below sets out certain aspects of our operations and other activities that support our management of climate-related risks.Governance Framework•	Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee has primary responsibility for oversight and guidance with respect to ESG-related matters. •	Executive and employee compensation are linked to ESG performance, including intensity reductions for GHG, methane, and flaring.•	Executives review analyses of climate-related strategies and opportunities and guide related goals and ambitions.Ambition, Targets, and Performance•	Set ambition to achieve net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2040.•	Set near-term target to reduce GHG intensity rate to 13.5 for U.S. operations by 2025.•	Set near-term target to reduce methane emissions percentage to 0.06% for U.S. operations by 2025.•	Set goal to achieve zero routine flaring for companywide operations by 2025. •	Disclose Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.Management Approach•	Follow a low-cost, high-returns premium 
well strategy.•	Monitor and assess climate-related developments that could impact EOG and the oil and gas industry to determine the impact on our business and operations and take actions where appropriate.•	Sustainable Power Group (SPG) to identify and implement reduction initiatives.•	Improve operational efficiencies and decrease emissions intensity across operations by identifying and implementing technological and operational innovations.•	Develop and invest in technological innovations to capture operational emissions.•	Evaluate renewable energy credits (RECs) and other mechanisms for Scope 2 emissions.•	Conduct scenario analysis and review results, including resilience of portfolio. •	Engage with shareholders and other stakeholders.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportCLIMATE-RELATED RISKS, LONG-TERM STRATEGY, AND SCENARIO ANALYSISRESILIENCE OF EOG’S LONG-TERM PREMIUM WELL STRATEGYEOG is a returns-focused company at every level of the organization and has been since our founding. During the downturn of 2015 and 2016, we were faced with the possibility of an extended period of low oil prices. In response, we implemented a rigorous new investment hurdle rate named the premium well investment standard. A premium well delivers a minimum of 30% direct after-tax rate of return using a fixed commodity price deck of $40 per barrel of oil and $2.50 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas for the life of the well. In the three years that followed, 2017 through 2019, the premium well standard drove a step change in our capital efficiency and resulting financial performance. The standard proved successful and became a permanent investment hurdle rate designed to shield our future financial performance against commodity price cycles. In 2020, a year of unprecedented oil volatility and prices that averaged just $39 per barrel, our premium well strategy proved resilient and enabled EOG to generate positive adjusted net income and free cash flow.In 2021, we raised the bar by doubling the investment hurdle rate to a 60% direct after-tax rate of return using the same flat $40 oil and $2.50 natural gas prices. The double-premium well standard drove another step change in EOG’s financial performance as evidenced by our record-setting performance in 2021.PREMIUM WELL STANDARD PERFORMANCEOur annual financial results demonstrate the success of the premium well standard.* EOG’s unique premium well strategy positions the company to be one of the lowest-cost oil and natural gas producers worldwide, capable of earning competitive returns throughout commodity price cycles.2017–2021 Cumulative free cash flow:$11.9 billionRegular dividend per share growth: more than quadrupled* See Non-GAAP Financial Measures in the Appendix starting on page 76 for reconciliation schedules.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportCLIMATE-RELATED RISKS, LONG-TERM STRATEGY, AND SCENARIO ANALYSISWe believe that this investment standard will strengthen EOG’s ability to continue delivering higher returns, lower declines, and more free cash flow potential. Our double-premium inventory now accounts for over 6,000 of the 11,500 total premium locations in our inventory, representing more than 
11 years of drilling at the current pace.EOG’s unique premium well strategy positions the company to be one of the lowest-cost oil and natural gas producers worldwide, capable of earning competitive returns throughout commodity 
price cycles.SCENARIO ANALYSISTo evaluate the resilience of our portfolio under different climate-related scenarios, we considered the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) in the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) World Energy Outlook (WEO) 2021. The WEO uses a model to estimate the future supply, demand, and prices for oil and natural gas under various hypothetical scenarios. The SDS is based on the main energy-related components of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, including the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting the increase in global average temperatures to well below 2°C above preindustrial levels. The SDS is widely recognized and used to assess portfolio resilience within the oil and natural gas industry under a carbon-constrained scenario. Under the SDS, demand for oil and natural gas is projected to decrease by 2040, however oil and gas remains a key part of meeting the future energy demand during the same time period.Our analysis used a reference case model for our U.S. operations running through 2040. To be conservative, we did not assume that successful exploration will add to our current premium inventory. We assumed development of only our existing non-premium inventory after our premium inventory was drilled. Other assumptions used to develop our reference case model included the following:•	A commodity price outlook determined by the SDS pricing assumptions beginning in 2030 and based on strip pricing in earlier years, which averaged $65 Brent per barrel of oil ($61 West Texas Intermediate equivalent per barrel of oil) and $3.09 per million Btu of natural gas over the life of the scenario. •	Carbon pricing costs defined by the SDS for carbon dioxide taxes in advanced economies of $100 per metric ton beginning in 2030 and growing to $140 per metric ton by 2040. The reference case model used projections for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions that, for conservatism, assumed no meaningful emissions reduction improvements. These assumptions resulted in additional costs that grow to approximately $1.85 per barrel of oil equivalent by 2040.•	Realistic production growth and steady, consistent regular dividend growth through 2040, supported by an internal requirement to generate free cash flow every year.Evaluating our reference case model under the SDS assumptions (noted to the left) resulted in significant profitability and free cash flow.We further stress-tested our reference case model using a flat commodity price of $50 per barrel of oil and $2.00 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas. Using the same carbon pricing costs, production growth, and dividend growth assumptions, the more conservative commodity price scenario still yielded significant profitability and free cash flow.The scenarios we evaluated are not predictions of the future. Rather they test the resilience of our portfolio over time under various possible climate-related scenarios. We believe the results of the analysis confirm the resiliency of EOG’s premium well inventory against climate-related risks to long-term commodity pricing and demand. This analysis also supports our ongoing efforts to identify and manage climate-related risks, including those related to changes in the global energy demand and supply mix, and global climate 
change policy.We believe that our culture of disciplined capital allocation, premium well strategy, and high-return, 
low-cost oil and natural gas production, supported 
by a conservative financial structure and focus on addressing emissions from our operations, will 
drive long-term, sustainable shareholder and stakeholder value. Managing EmissionsContinuing to improve our emissions performance is important for environmental, operational, and economic reasons. We know that to be part of the long-term energy solution we not only have to be a low-cost producer, but we have to do it with a responsible environmental footprint.EOG proactively manages and minimizes emissions of methane and other greenhouse gases from our existing operations through responsible operating practices, such as advance infrastructure planning, and through the use of proven in-field and information systems technology.Our approach to reducing emissions from our future operations remains operationally focused. We are investing in and piloting new technologies and processes to reduce, monitor, and manage emissions. These investments are paying off in two ways: they can lower our emissions and can also provide learning mechanisms to drive future innovations that contribute to our sustainable business model. We also use our near-term emissions targets and long-term net zero ambition to drive continued improvement in our emissions performance and innovation in our practices. We believe the practices and processes described in this report, coupled with continued investment in innovation and the application of future technologies, will help us achieve our near-term targets and net zero ambition. Our progress toward targets is regularly reviewed by executive management and our Board of Directors, and we will continue to report our progress annually.LONG TERM: NET ZERO AMBITIONIn 2021, we announced our ambition to reach net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2040. Our net zero ambition helps set the long-term direction for our efforts to address emissions from our operations across three primary categories: reduce, capture, 
and offset.Reducing emissions intensity from our operations is an immediate and direct path to reducing our carbon footprint. With that focus, we have made significant progress, achieving a number of technical innovations and operational advancements that have enabled us to generate significant reductions in methane intensity and overall Scope 1 GHG intensity rates over the past several years. We are also exploring technology to capture carbon emissions from our operations, which includes a pilot carbon capture and storage project. For Scope 2 emissions we are evaluating RECs and other mechanisms to support our pathway to net zero. Beyond reducing and capturing emissions, we expect to evaluate options to offset GHG emissions.To assist both our current emissions intensity reduction efforts and long-term, net zero ambition, 
we are developing and implementing technology 
to measure and calculate more detailed, real-time data for our facilities. Having a more accurate picture of our emissions also helps identify where we need to focus our efforts for the most immediate and impactful result and encourages innovation 
and development of unique solutions to achieve 
our net zero ambition. (See page 24 for more.)NEAR TERM: EMISSIONS TARGETSEOG recognizes the need for near-term targets on emissions in addition to our net zero ambition for 2040.These targets function as more than just steps toward our net zero ambition; they also serve as incubators to help us learn and build expertise through the application of existing technology and pilots of new technology. We have made significant progress on our targets, including meeting our methane percentage target in 2021. (See page 27 for more.)Going forward, we will work to maintain continued strong methane performance and evaluate further reduction and target setting opportunities. We will also continue to drive GHG emissions reductions across our operations, with a focus on combustion operations, the largest contributor to our total GHG emissions.Our emissions intensity performance is considered 
in evaluating executive compensation. For 2021, 
year-over-year reductions in our GHG, methane, and flaring intensity rates, as well as wellhead gas capture rate, were included as part of a separately weighted, ESG-specific performance goal considered when determining our executives’ annual bonuses. Similarly, for our 2022 executive compensation, our separately weighted ESG goal will include achieving GHG, methane, and flaring emissions intensity rates below 2021 levels and maintaining a wellhead gas capture 
rate of 99.8% or higher. (See page 61 for more.)EMISSIONS REDUCTION PATHWAYSWe are taking actions or planning to address emissions from our operations through three primary categories: reduce, capture, and offset. Examples of our efforts include the following: Reduce•	Expanding closed loop gas capture•	Eliminating routine flaring•	Implementing continuous leak detection•	Testing leaner fuels to reduce combustion-
related emissions	See In Focus — Production Facility Innovation on page 20 for more information.Capture•	Launching carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
pilot project•	Prioritizing concentrated CO2 emissions locations for CCS•	Evaluating additional CCS locationsOffset•	Evaluating projects and other options to offset remaining GHG emissionsEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportMANAGING EMISSIONSReducing emissions intensity from our operations is an immediate and direct path to reducing our carbon footprint. With that focus, we have made significant progress, achieving a number of technical innovations and operational advancements that have enabled us to generate significant reductions in methane intensity and overall Scope 1 GHG intensity rates over the past several years.EMISSIONS TARGETS AND AMBITIONSNet zeroambition for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 204013.5 GHG intensity rate by 20250.06 methane emissions percentage by 2025Zero routine flaring by 202599.8% wellhead gas capture rate in 2021Our targets are based on our current operating footprint, and we expect to reassess our targets as changes to our asset base and operations warrant.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportIN FOCUSProduction Facility InnovationEOG proactively manages and minimizes greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by using innovative technology and practices, advance infrastructure planning, and efficient facility design. We continuously look for ways to improve the design of our facilities to minimize emissions and maximize the recovery of resources. Our facilities are also periodically reviewed to optimize equipment and implement new technologies. Where operationally appropriate, we install specialized control equipment. In addition, we develop and implement proprietary applications to optimize equipment efficiency and reduce emissions from our operations.In addition to our focused efforts to optimize specific facility equipment components, we also apply facility-level technologies and practices. These include Closed Loop Gas Capture (CLGC) that minimizes flaring during downstream interruptions, advanced planning of facility design and take away optionality, our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program, and continuous methane monitoring. Many of the practices and technologies used by EOG are only possible because we operate significant portions of our own gathering and boosting infrastructure. This increased operational control and footprint allows us to further optimize how we manage our operations to drive emissions reductions across a larger scope of the value chain.The diagram below highlights targeted practices, in-field equipment, and in-house technologies and solutions we implement to reduce emissions at our facilities.	See In Focus — iSenseSM Continuous Leak Detection System on page 24 for more information on continuous methane monitoring.Equipment-Specific Technologies and Practices*Capturing Gas VaporsOptimizing Equipment and OperationsVapor Recovery Towers (VRTs) •	Capture gas vapors before tanksIntermediate Low-Pressure Separators•	Capture gas vapors upstream of tanks and reduce vapor compression horsepower needsTanks
•	Maintain thief hatches•	Collect gas vapors from tanks and 
send to sales, 
where feasibleCompressor Engines
•	Testing leaner fuels to reduce combustion-related emissions•	Reduce compression required for gas lift operations and sales using in-house proprietary applications to increase efficiencyFlare
•	Control gas vapors from tanks•	Monitor, analyze, and control production equipment to minimize gas flaring using an in-house proprietary applicationPneumatics
•	Replace, retrofit, or remove high-bleed natural-gas-powered pneumatic controllers •	Install instrument air to operate pneumatic controllers and pumpsVapor Recovery Units •	Recover gas vapors from intermediate low-pressure separators, 
tanks, or VRTs* The diagram is intended to share information on the various technologies and practices in use at facilities across our U.S. operations. It is not 
representative of a specific facility; each of our operating areas and facilities are unique and may use any combination of these techniques.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportMANAGING EMISSIONSTODAY: OPERATING PRACTICES EOG’s approach is to proactively manage and minimize emissions of greenhouse gases from our operations through advance infrastructure planning, efficient facility design, and the use of innovative, 
in-field technology. We are developing and implementing technologies to better understand and monitor emissions. This helps us focus our efforts towards immediate and impactful results and encourages innovation and development of unique solutions. (See page 24 for more.)We plan for and install natural gas gathering pipelines early in the life of a play to minimize flaring and other sources of emissions. This is particularly important for the development of oil plays that produce large quantities of associated gas. We also contract for sufficient pipeline takeaway capacity and, where possible, multiple takeaway options to provide production flow assurance. (See page 22 for more.)We continuously look for ways to improve the design of our facilities to minimize emissions and maximize the recovery of resources. Our facilities are periodically reviewed to optimize equipment and implement new technologies. Using centralized facilities, including multi-well pads and centralized 
gas lift, allows for sharing equipment and eliminates the need for multiple separators and tanks, which reduces emissions.In addition, our in-house, proprietary applications have allowed us to automate and optimize artificial lift, a process used to enhance oil recovery from wells. This increases the efficiency of our artificial lift process, reducing gas lift volumes and the overall compression needed to inject gas, which helps minimize emissions from combustion and flaring.Other tactics we use in the field to minimize emissions from our operations include low-bleed and no-bleed controllers, instrument air systems, engines equipped with emissions control technology, electric- and solar-powered pumps, and automation. Where feasible, we install specialized control equipment, such as vapor recovery units and towers, vapor balance systems, high-efficiency combustion devices, and multistage separators. In addition, in certain operating areas, we install electricity infrastructure to permit the use of electric-powered (versus fuel-powered) equipment.In early 2020, we established a Sustainable Power Group (SPG) to bring even greater emphasis to improving our environmental performance and creating long-term value for the company. Working directly with employees in each of our operating areas, this team of engineers and other specialists is dedicated to identifying and implementing emissions reduction initiatives. The SPG provides leadership and supports our culture of innovation to develop and apply technologies and other solutions to achieve our emissions targets and net zero ambition. FlaringMinimizing flaring is a priority for EOG, as it not only reduces our emissions footprint, it also increases the amount of natural gas we are able to process and sell. We continually review all processes where flaring can occur — such as at the wellhead, storage tanks, and during completions — to maximize gas capture and improve our performance. Our approach includes active management oversight of our operations aided by information technology, advance infrastructure planning, and in-field technology innovation.Daily operations are actively managed to minimize flaring through use of proprietary desktop and mobile applications built in-house that provide real-time data capture and reporting of our flaring metrics. Management and field personnel are able to analyze the causes and conditions of flaring daily and are able to take actions in the field to minimize or even eliminate the need for flaring. The result is better, faster, well-informed decisions. Data access through our information systems drives transparency throughout the company and helps us meet our flaring and wellhead gas capture goals.  Advance Infrastructure Planning We install infrastructure and plan for takeaway optionality early in the life of a play to minimize flaring. These efforts include: •	Planning for the gathering and takeaway infrastructure needed to transport our production when formulating our development plans for a play. •	Planning for the regulatory permitting process well in advance of the need for infrastructure construction to begin. •	Installing natural gas gathering infrastructure early in the development of a play so that natural gas associated with the production of oil can be gathered, processed, and sold. •	Securing the ability to sell to multiple markets to provide takeaway options for our natural gas production and mitigate the effects of downstream market interruptions.•	Establishing control centers for our most active areas to control the flow of our natural gas in real time and avoid interruptions in executing our takeaway plans. In-Field Practices and TechnologiesWe further reduce or eliminate flaring in our operations through the use of targeted practices, in-field technology, and internally developed solutions including:•	Seeking to route the natural gas to on-site separators during completion operations early in the process rather than flaring. •	Capturing tank vapors from storage tanks and routing them back to the sales line through vapor recovery equipment.•	Implementing new practices and technologies to improve the efficiency of our recovery systems to capture gas vapors. •	Employing CLGC, a process that uses automation to reroute natural gas back into existing wells when a downstream interruption occurs. After piloting this technology in 2020, we have installed additional systems in the Permian Basin and continue to evaluate opportunities for further expansion in our operations.  •	Applying our proprietary applications to monitor operational conditions and lower the potential for flaring. Pneumatics ProgramOver the past five years, EOG has implemented a comprehensive program focused on reducing emissions from — and refining emissions data used for calculations associated with — pneumatic controllers and pumps. We have retrofitted, replaced, or removed all of the high-bleed natural-gas-powered pneumatic controllers in our operations. Additionally, we have converted to or installed pneumatic pumps and controllers that use instrument air systems (i.e., compressed air) rather than natural gas. We have also converted to or installed pneumatic pumps that utilize solar power. In other instances, we route pneumatic controller and pump exhaust gas to a control device, which reduces methane emissions.Leak Detection and Repair ProgramEach of EOG’s operating areas has an ongoing LDAR program in place. While LDAR is required for certain EOG locations by state regulations, federal regulations, or both, EOG has also implemented a voluntary LDAR program across our U.S. operations. Our proactive, voluntary LDAR program detects and repairs leaks at our facilities, including in central tank batteries, compressor stations, and production facilities, that are not otherwise subject to regulatory LDAR requirements, resulting in lower methane emissions.  EOG’s LDAR program includes:•	Component-level monitoring — We monitor emissions from components such as connectors, pressure relief valves, controllers, and tank 
thief hatches. •	AVO inspections — We integrate audio, visual, and olfactory (AVO) inspections to identify and manage emissions as part of other field and 
facility visits.•	OGI technology — A substantial part of the monitoring under our LDAR program is conducted through the use of optical gas imaging, such as infrared cameras and other thermal imaging technology. •	Proprietary automated LDAR systems — We use proprietary information technology system applications to capture LDAR data electronically, including a mobile application to record data directly in the field. These applications facilitate survey scheduling and timely repairs, as well as monitoring and verification throughout our LDAR program. These applications also improve the accuracy of our data, help identify trends, and eliminate paper-based processes. •	Monitoring-frequency guidelines — In 2021, we enhanced our LDAR program by increasing the frequency of surveys, visiting 95% of facilities at least twice during the year with leak detection equipment. The other 5% of facilities were monitored in accordance with our past practice 
of visiting every facility at least once a year. In 2022, we are continuing to enhance our program.  •	Timely repair and resurvey — Once a leak is identified, we follow time-based protocols for the repair and the resurvey of repaired components that are supported with software and automation.  •	Documentation, review, and retention — Our LDAR program includes requirements for record maintenance and retention.•	Ongoing review and improvement — Our LDAR program is reviewed on an annual basis for trends and opportunities for improvement and has been instrumental in minimizing fugitive emissions at EOG facilities.We take a comprehensive approach to minimizing emissions across our operations from early planning stages through ongoing production.MANAGING EMISSIONSREDUCING OR ELIMINATING FLARINGEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportMANAGING EMISSIONSEOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportIN FOCUSiSenseSM Continuous Leak Detection System Over the last several years, our leak detection and repair program, or LDAR, has advanced from audio-visual-olfactory (sound-sight-smell) surveys to surveys using more accurate optical gas imaging to today’s deployment of scalable solutions of the latest technology — continuous methane monitoring. This technology detects potential leaks and provides real-time alerts to help accelerate repairs and will provide data and trend analysis to potentially prevent future methane releases.We have been evaluating continuous methane monitoring technology for the past few years. There are several third-party systems available to monitor and detect potential methane leaks, using either intermittent or continuous monitoring technology. About 18 months ago, we began a pilot project using a solution we built in-house, named iSense, which is a monitoring solution that uses methane sensing technology to continuously monitor facilities and provide real-time alerts of potential leaks to a control center. We tested iSense against other monitoring solutions in use and available on the market today and confirmed that our sensor detected methane release events consistent with these third-party systems. The results from these tests confirmed that iSense is the most effective solution for EOG to use to detect leaks and accelerate repairs while also being scalable and economic.Like so many of our innovations, this technology has been spearheaded by our employees across the company. Since the pilot, our employees are rapidly deploying iSense in the field, prioritizing areas of highest potential impact. The initial installations are focused in the Delaware Basin and currently cover about 60% of our production.* We expect that most of the remaining Delaware Basin production will be monitored by iSense by year-end. We plan to continue to roll out iSense in other operating areas 
next year.Using our proprietary system allows us to own the data creation, flow, and storage, which is a priority with all our information systems. Owning the iSense data and retaining direct control of its collection provides invaluable flexibility to improve both data quality as well as the tools to analyze and integrate iSense data with existing operational data from our production facilities. This data, along with our ability to monitor our operations from any one of our four control centers, will enhance the 24/7 capability to continuously identify, prioritize, and repair leaks. In the future, when data from iSense is paired with other real-time production and facilities data, we expect to be able to make improvements in the design of facilities to minimize releases. We are also optimistic that we will be able to more readily determine the source of a methane release and assess its likely size.The development and testing of continuous methane monitoring technologies and systems is an example of how EOG’s decentralized structure fosters innovation and drives performance improvements. Our iSense system is the product of EOG employees working on multidisciplinary teams to identify opportunities to improve and being empowered to develop, test, and pilot a solution. (See In Focus — Decentralized Structure Fosters Innovation on page 51 for additional details on EOG’s culture.) Leveraging technology to enhance our methane leak detection and repair program 
is another great example of EOG’s culture of continuous improvement throughout 
our operations. * Based on percentage of gross oil production handled at central tank batteries covered by iSense. EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability ReportMANAGING EMISSIONSSCOPE 1 EMISSIONSFor the metrics disclosed in this section, EOG uses Scope 1 GHG emissions as reported to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by EOG pursuant to the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program. We also include emissions that are subject to the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program but are below the EPA’s basin reporting threshold and would otherwise go unreported. We measure our emissions intensity in total and broken out by constituent gases and sources to help us track the effectiveness of our emissions reduction efforts. Our intensity rates are a measure of emissions per unit 
of production. For more detailed descriptions of the metrics in this section and information regarding the methodology used to calculate them, including formulas and CO2e conversion factors, see the Appendix starting on 
page 65.Constituent GasesEOG’s GHG emissions are primarily composed of carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide. The Scope 1 GHG emissions from our 2021 operations comprised these three gases in the following percentages:Year-Over-Year Variances by SourceOur GHG intensity rate in 2021 increased by 3% 
year over year driven by increased activity compared to 2020. Due to the oil price war followed by the COVID-19 pandemic, 2020 was an anomalous year for the oil and natural gas industry during which EOG chose to reduce production by deferring new activity and shutting in existing production. In 2021, our operational activities returned to a more normal level, resulting in an increase in the combustion emissions intensity and an overall intensity rate increase. We continue to focus on responsibly managing 
our emissions.Measuring and evaluating changes in our GHG intensity rate by source enhances our ability to manage our emissions and identify areas 
for improvement. Year-over-year variances in emissions intensities can be driven by both changes in operational practices and technologies as well as refining emissions calculations. Our focus is on identifying and implementing operational improvements, which include process refinements, equipment changes, and/or efficiency improvements. We also work to continuously improve emissions calculations to increase the accuracy of emissions data.MANAGING EMISSIONSMANAGING EMISSIONSCombustionOur combustion GHG intensity rate increased slightly in 2021 due to increased operational activity compared with 2020. In 2021, there was increased drilling, well completion, and production activity, which increased emissions ahead of oil and gas being produced.As combustion is the largest source of our Scope 1 
GHG emissions, EOG is focused on identifying opportunities to optimize compression operations. 
For example, as we expand the use of centralized 
gas lift compressors, we are able to replace 
many small combustion engines with larger, more efficient engines serving the same number of well sites while also improving run time. Additionally, we are working to optimize gas lift volumes, which reduces combustion. FlaringOur flaring GHG intensity rate performance remained flat in 2021. High-pressure flaring continued to decline 
as a result of operational efforts and targeted process 
improvements, including active management and employee oversight and control center supervision. In addition to operational improvements in the field, we refined calculations relating to flaring emissions to increase accuracy. As a result of more detailed facility modeling, reductions in high-pressure flaring were offset by an increase in emissions reported for low-pressure flaring. (See page 22 for more.)PneumaticsOur pneumatics GHG intensity rate continued to decline in 2021 due to operational improvements to capture or control pneumatic pumps emissions and emissions calculation refinements that included improving the accuracy of input factors for our pneumatic inventory.Our program to retrofit pneumatic pumps to use solar power or instrument air at existing facilities, along with our use of solar power and instrument air for pneumatic pumps and controllers, as applicable, at new facilities, also contributed to reductions in our GHG intensity rate from pneumatic sources in 2021.(See page 23 for more.)Other SourcesOur other sources GHG intensity rate remained relatively flat in 2021. We reduced fugitive emissions as a result of the ongoing success of our LDAR program and increased the frequency of leak detection surveys. We also continued to focus on reducing other emissions sources in this category.EOG Resources 2021 Sustainability Report