GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS For information regarding the methodology used for the emissions metrics in this section, including the relevant formulas and definitions, please see the Appendix to this report. GHGs are primarily composed of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). The GHGs from our 2018 operations were comprised of these three gases in the following percentages: EOG'S 2018 GREENHOUSE GASES <0.07% METHANE NITROUS OXIDE CARBON DIOXIDE EOGÕs GHG emissions related to our U.S. oil and gas operations are reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and include emissions from all sources, including combustion, flaring, pneumatics, fugitives, venting and other minor sources. For purposes of the intensity rate charts included in this section, the emissions data we report to the EPA have been converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) - the conversion to CO2e accounts for the higher potency of methane and nitrous oxide compared to carbon dioxide. Emissions Intensity Rates Intensity rates are a measure of emissions per unit of economic activity and are typically based on aggregate output or production when measured at an industry or individual company level. Emissions intensity is used to compare the environmental impact of different fuels or activities across multiple industries. Please see the next section for discussion regarding our methane intensity rate, our methane emissions percentage, our total GHG intensity rate, which includes methane, and our GHG intensity rates by emissions source. Methane Intensity Rate The chart below plots our methane intensity rate for 2016, 2017 and 2018, in metric tons of CO2e per thousand barrels of crude oil equivalent (MBoe) produced (gross) from our U.S.operations. METHANE INTENSITY RATE 4.0 2016 2017 2018 Methane Emissions Percentage We are introducing in this report a new metric that measures our methane emissions as a percentage of the natural gas produced from our U.S. operations. Below are our methane emissions percentages for 2016, 2017 and 2018, in thousand cubic feet of methane emissions per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of EOGÕs gross operated U.S. natural gas production. METHANE EMISSIONS PERCENTAGE 0.42% 0.40% 0.22% 2016 2017 2018 Year-over-Year Methane Emissions Variances We successfully reduced our methane intensity rate and our methane emissions as a percentage of our natural gas produced in 2018 by 46 percent and 45 percent, respectively. These reductions were a result of our high-bleed pneumatic controller retrofit/removal program and our LDAR program. See pages 9 and 10 of this report, respectively, for further discussion. Emissions Reduction Targets As part of our commitment to sustainability, EOG set a qualitative goal for 2019 to reduce our methane emissions intensity rate below 2018 levels.  EOG is also in the process of developing a quantitative reduction target for our methane emissions. We will develop and report on this quantitative reduction target in our 2019 Sustainability Report to be published in 2020. GHG Intensity Rate and Sources of GHG Emissions EOGÕs emissions are predominantly from three sources: combustion, flaring and pneumatics. The following chart indicates our total GHG intensity rate along with the intensity rate attributable to each of these emissions sources for 2016, 2017 and 2018, in metric tons of CO2e per thousand barrels of crude oil equivalent (MBoe) produced (gross) from our U.S. operations. GHG INTENSITY RATE Ñ OVERALL AND BY SOURCE 19.3 OTHER PNEUMATICS FLARING COMBUSTION 2016 2017 2018 Year-over-Year GHG Emissions Variance In 2018, our GHG intensity rate slightly increased by 1 percent, primarily due to increased operational activity and an increase in our emissions intensity associated with combustion sources. Below are variance explanations by GHG source. Combustion Sources Our GHG intensity rate from combustion sources increased in 2018 primarily due to an increase in the number of wells drilled and completed and an increase in our use of compression equipment. EOG continues to review our production process to identify emissions reduction opportunities. To address our growing use of compression equipment and the resulting emissions, we plan to initiate a pilot project in the second half of 2019 that will combine solar and natural gas to generate electricity to power compression equipment. In addition, we expect to expand our use of electric hydraulic fracturing fleets (e-fracs). We believe e-fracs and the solar project have the potential to significantly reduce our combustion emissions intensity rate in the future. Flaring Sources Our GHG intensity rate from flaring sources remained relatively flat in 2018 despite some significant periods of natural gas infrastructure bottlenecks throughout the year, particularly in the West Texas Permian Basin. EOGÕs marketing and midstream infrastructure planning, done well in advance of an expected increase in activity and production growth, helped to minimize flaring. Pneumatics Sources Our GHG intensity rate from pneumatic sources decreased in 2018 primarily as a result of our program, which began in 2017, to retrofit or, where feasible, remove the high-bleed pneumatic controllers used in our operations. See the In-Focus highlight on page 9 for further discussion. Other Sources Our GHG emissions from other sources are minor and include fugitives and venting. While our GHG intensity rate from other sources was relatively flat in 2018, we have reduced it by 59 percent since 2016 primarily because of the expansion and increased capabilities of our LDAR program. See page 10 for further discussion. WATER MANAGEMENT EOGÕs focus is to responsibly manage the water used, handled, produced and disposed of during our operations. Every oil and gas producing region has unique risks, needs, challenges and opportunities when it comes to identifying sources of water, the ability to reuse produced water, and methods for water transportation and disposal. Looking ahead, EOG seeks to address these risks, needs, challenges and opportunities with our efforts in water management, which include the testing and implementation of water reuse technologies and the evaluation of available sources of water in each of our operating areas. Water Resources Team To accelerate implementation of best practices in water management, EOG has formed a strategic water resources team with representatives from each of our operating area offices. This team evaluates the full life cycle of water used in our operations, from acquisition through transportation, storage, production, treatment, reuse and disposal. The focus of the team is to determine water quality needs, develop multiple alternative water source options and maximize recycling and reuse options. The team also focuses on water transportation infrastructure to maximize water moved on pipelines in order to reduce truck traffic. In the Permian Basin, we transported 99 percent of our water by pipeline in 2018. In addition, EOG utilizes in-house proprietary software to monitor and manage water sourcing for our operations, which allows for real-time, cost-effective, environmentally-focused decision making. Water Intensity Rate To provide stakeholders a more useful metric to compare EOGÕs water use within the industry, EOG has changed how we calculate our water intensity rate. The new water intensity rate measures barrels of water used for each barrel of oil equivalent produced from EOGÕs U.S. operations. This metric allows for better comparability of EOGÕs water use disclosure with peers in the oil and gas production industry. Our water intensity rate increased from 2017 to 2018 primarily due to the timing of our well completions in 2018 - specifically, an increase in well completions in the fourth quarter of 2018. While the total barrels of water used in completing such new wells were included in the calculation of our 2018 water intensity rate, only the volumes produced from such wells prior to year-end 2018 were included in the calculation of our 2018 water intensity rate. Our water intensity rates for 2016, 2017 and 2018 were 0.53, 0.68 and 0.82, respectively. Sources of Water EOG uses various sources of water depending on the location of the oil and gas producing basin. Sources include surface water, fresh and non-fresh water aquifers and produced water that is recycled and reused. We also evaluate alternatives to traditional non-fresh sources, such as the use of discharge water from industrial or municipal wastewater treatment plants. Non-Fresh Water EOG is committed to conserving water resources in the communities where we operate. We take steps to minimize overall fresh water usage in the drilling and completion of wells, particularly where it competes with public drinking water sources. In our most active operating areas in the United States, where our water needs are the highest, EOG is using non-fresh water from aquifers that do not compete as public drinking water sources. The availability of non-fresh water differs regionally and we continue to evaluate water sourcing options through our strategic water resources team, our local water management teams and third-party analytical tools and studies. WATER REUSE PERCENTAGE 21%  13%  6%  2016 2017 2018 For information regarding the methodology used for the water metrics in this section, including the relevant definitions, please see the Appendix to this report. Water Reuse Sourcing from our water reuse facilities has been expanded on, or newly installed in, our existing production areas as well as in our new operating areas. The percentage of reuse water sourced for our operations has steadily increased over the past three years and we believe that this percentage will continue to increase in 2019. SPILL PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT EOG continuously works to manage the handling of waste and hazardous materials and the associated risks. Our goal is to proactively eliminate risks posed to the community, environment, and EOG employees and contractors. EOG uses multiple methods to minimize spills, including secondary containment on tanks and pipeline leak detection systems that are monitored by EOG personnel to minimize response time in the event of an incident. In addition, spill prevention and management plans are prepared and maintained by EOG staff across our operating areas. These plans include site-specific response measures and cover spill prevention, spill control, spill countermeasures, waste management and flowline integrity. Additionally, training is conducted to review the requirements of the plan and personnel responsibilities. EOG tracks and documents the volume and frequency of oil spills from our U.S. operations involving greater than five barrels, as well as the volumes of oil we recover from those spills. CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Consistent with our commitment to transparency, EOG participates in the Carbon Disclosure ProjectÕs climate change and water programs. EOGÕs participation in these programs allows investors and the public to better understand the climate change-related aspects of EOGÕs business and EOGÕs water stewardship practices. These programs also allow EOG to benchmark our business and operations, which allows for improvement in the future. API ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP EOG is a member of the API Environmental Partnership, a landmark partnership of companies within the energy industry intended to accelerate improvements to environmental performance in operations across the country. One of the partnershipÕs goals is to accelerate emissions reductions. To accomplish this, it has developed three specific initiatives that members have committed to implementing within their organizations, including: ¥ A program to monitor manual liquids unloading for natural gas production sources ¥ A program to replace, remove or retrofit high-bleed pneumatic controllers ¥ A leak detection program for natural gas and oil production sources In addition to its programs, the API Environmental Partnership provides a platform for the industry to collaborate with stakeholders and share best management practices. 