U.S. Employee Age U.S. Employee Tenure OUR PEOPLE years years 3%EOGÕs culture is key to our sustainable 10% 25+success. Driven from the bottom up 11%60+ 38% <30 2%by our innovative and highly engaged <514% 5%20Ð24 50Ð59 15Ð19employees, EOG is a collaborative orga.40% 30Ð39nization where employees continuously 25% 18% 34% 10Ð14 5Ð940Ð49learn from one another. By providing employees with a quality environment in which to work, and by maintaining a consistent college recruiting and EOGÕs strong culture is also reflected As our industry and our communi.in our low voluntary turnover rate ties faced unprecedented challenges internship program, EOG is able to for employees, which was 1.5 percent last year, we continued to prioritize attract and retain some of the indus.our employees because we believe in 2020.tryÕs best and brightest Ð individuals maintaining a motivated and engaged workplace is critical to emerging from who will embrace the companyÕs cul-EMPLOYEES ture and our commitment to sustain.ability and corporate responsibility. the downturn as an even stronger As of December 31, 2020, EOG had company. In 2020, we did not cut sala.2,776 employees working in the United Because of the importance placed ries, cut benefits or conduct employee States. Our non-U.S.-based employees layoffs. We also moved our recruiting made up less than 5 percent of our on attracting and retaining talent, we offer competitive salaries, bonuses program to a virtual format and wel.workforce. As indicated in the charts and a subsidized, comprehensive comed interns to our summer program above, EOG has a well-balanced redesigned for COVID-19 protocols. composition relative to employee benefits package. EOG also offers a comprehensive wellness program, EOG continues to be recognized as tenure and age, which helps ensure a tuition reimbursement program, a a Top Workplace by Energage based a sustainable organization. matching gifts program and a flexible work schedule. In addition, with new on an annual survey of employees EOG is an Equal Employment across EOGÕs operations. Based on Opportunity and Affirmative Action hire stock grants, an annual stock the 2020 survey, EOGÕs offices in employer. All employment decisions grant program and an employee stock Artesia, Denver, Fort Worth, Houston, are made without regard to factors purchase plan, every employee has the Oklahoma City and San Antonio were such as sex, race, color, age, religion, opportunity to be a shareholder and a each recognized as a Top Workplace, national origin, physical or mental dis-participant in the companyÕs success. reflecting the companyÕs positive ability, pregnancy, protected Veteran culture and work environment. status, genetic information, sexual ori-Additionally, EOGÕs former CEO, Bill entation, gender identity or any other  Thomas, was recognized by Energage characteristic protected by law. with a special award for leadership of a large company in Houston. U.S.Female and Minority* Employees as of December 31 Female Representation 36.6%36.1% 36.0% 32.9% 29.5% 30.0% 30.3% 30.6% 31.4% 17.6% 18.0% 18.3% 16.4% 8.8% 8.8% Total  Executive and  First- and  Professional*  All Other  Senior-Level  Mid-Level Managers*  Managers*  ÷ 2018 ÷ 2019 ÷ 2020 Minority* Representation 28.8%27.8% 28.3% 27.7%26.5%25.9%25.0%23.2% 23.4% 18.8% 16.3% 17.5% 11.8% 11.8% 8.8% Total Executive and First- and Professional* All Other Senior-Level Mid-Level Managers* Managers*  ÷ 2018 * As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. For additional information on our minority representation, ÷ 2019 see the Data Tear Sheet. ÷ 2020  DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The percentage of female executive and senior-level managers doubled from 2019 to 2020. EOG takes a collective responsibility to create a workplace where every-multiple disciplines across our operat-TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT one feels included and respected. ing areas. Their focus is to engage We believe gender, racial, ethnic and employees at the grass-roots level to EOG provides training in leadership, cultural diversity, and diversity in support diversity and inclusion efforts management skills, communication, background and experience, leads to at EOG. team effectiveness, technical skills diversity of thought, which is valued and use of EOG systems and appli.by EOG. We focus on developing our employees cations. Our leadership training, in for meaningful career opportunities, particular, is focused on providing including promotion into supervisory As part of our effort to build and continuity of leadership at EOG by maintain a diverse and inclusive and management positions and further developing skills needed to workplace, we focus on creating a enhanced compensation and benefit lead a multi-disciplined, diverse and collaborative culture that fosters opportunities. To provide more context decentralized workforce. inclusion and reflects the diversity of around our demographics across vary-thought of our employees. For exam.ing levels of the company, this year we Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, some ple, we work to share ideas and best of our in-person, interactive train-are presenting expanded workforce practices across our decentralized metrics. Historically, we presented ing was deferred in 2020, but nearly organization by bringing together diversity metrics for our supervisors one-quarter of our employees con-multiple disciplines from our different and managers and professionals. For tinued to receive professional devel.operating areas for regular internal 2020, we have expanded our disclo.opment in team effectiveness and conferences and planning sessions. sures to include separate reporting communications in a virtual format. This allows employees across the metrics for executive and senior-We also used this opportunity to review organization to be involved and engaged level managers, first- and mid-level and enhance our leadership training in company decision-making. managers, professionals and all other program, including further building We also take steps to raise employee out components focused on emotional awareness, provide leadership support employees. We are also including intelligence, unconscious bias and and offer training to help advance additional information on our minority diversity and inclusion. diversity and inclusion within EOG. representation in the Data Tear Sheet. In addition to our leadership and In 2020, all employees completed professional development training harassment prevention training. In programs, EOG also holds several addition, we established a Diversity internal technical conferences each and Inclusion Working Group. The year designed to share best practices working group is sponsored by an and technical advances across the executive-level steering committee company. These conferences, which and is comprised of employees from were held virtually in 2020, cover explo.ration, drilling, completions, reservoir engineering, production, facilities, and safety and environmental topics. EOG is a member of the RPS Nautilus Training Alliance, the premier mem.bership-based training curriculum for the oil and gas industry. Technical personnel are encouraged to attend this training annually. EOGÕs Tuition Reimbursement Program provides 90 percent reimbursement for post-secondary education that either better qualifies an employee for present duties or prepares the employee for future placement within the company. The policy also provides 100 percent reimbursement for pro.fessional certification tests, such as Professional Engineer, CPA, Certified Internal Auditor, bar examinations and Certified Professional Secretary. WELLNESS Benefits Program Our benefits program is designed to support a holistic approach to employee wellness. We provide U.S. employees with medical, prescription drug, vision and dental cover.age. These benefits are also available to our employeesÕ legally recognized spouses and eligible dependents. We provide both short- and long-term disability protection and basic life and AD&D coverage. Our benefits program also includes: ¥ Savings and Retirement Plan: EOG matches employee contributions up to six per.cent and makes annual retirement contributions ranging from three to nine percent. ¥ Family Care Pay: Four weeks of paid time off for the birth, adoption or foster care of a child, or serious health condition of an employeeÕs spouse, child or parent. This pay is in addition to paid leave available to mothers following the birth of a child. ¥ Sick Pay: 56 hours of paid time for an employeeÕs or eligible family memberÕs ill.ness or injury and routine and preventative medical, dental and vision appointments, in addition to short-term disability protection. ¥ Health Savings Account with Company Contributions: Allows employees to save pre-tax dollars to pay for qualified medical, dental and vision expenses. EOG con.tributes up to $1,000 annually to the accounts of participating employees. ¥ Employee Assistance Program: A comprehensive, confidential support program to provide employees and their eligible family members with counseling services to support mental well-being. In 2020, this benefit was enhanced to include 16 free sessions with a therapist. ¥ Adoption Assistance: $5,000 in reimbursement to help offset costs associated with adoption. ¥ Volunteer Pay: Eight hours of paid volunteer time for a company-sponsored event or any volunteer activity for which hours are documented. ¥ Flexible Work Hours: Early Friday schedules allow most employees a reduced workday on Friday. We are committed to the health and wellness of our employees. Wellness at EOG encompasses more than just physical health Ð it includes finan.cial health, social health, community engagement and a sense of purpose. It is important to us that our programs and benefits help our employees find success both at work and at home. Energize You Wellness Program Our proactive, companywide integration of and Health Fairs proprietary in-house applications and other tools to enable remote work prior to the onset of the We maintain our Energize You wellness pandemic were key to keeping our employees and program, through which employees their families safe. have the opportunity to earn points that can be used to receive cash, to make donations to charities or to purchase Helping Employees Build companywide rollout of an online merchandise from an online store. for the Future collaborative work platform and video Employees earn points by tracking conferencing prior to the onset of the Helping our employees plan and save daily activities such as steps, calorie pandemic. With these tools, our for their future is important to EOG. intake and sleep, participating in employees have been able to not only We offer many different ways for health coaching, volunteering in the work safely and productively from the employees to build wealth and be community, attending safety meetings, office or at home, but also have rewarded for their hard work. We making charitable donations, donating remained engaged and connected maintain a savings and retirement plan blood, taking part in team challenges across the company. In addition, in with matching and retirement contri.and more. our offices and at our work sites, we butions and employees are eligible to have instituted additional practices receive annual stock grants and an EOG also holds annual health fairs, and protocols, including those related annual bonus. In addition, we maintain which were done virtually in 2020, to to social distancing, mask wearing an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, encourage awareness, education and and symptom screening. which allows employees to purchase Wellness Ambassadors across the prevention, and has over 120 active our stock at a 15 percent discount to Our benefits during 2020 were also company who volunteer to plan well-the closing price as of certain dates, enhanced to provide support to our ness-themed activities for employees with no commissions or fees. employees and their families during in their respective locations. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic. All cost Response to COVID-19 Pandemic activities sponsored by our wellness sharing for medically-necessary ambassadors included virtual workout testing and treatment of COVID-19 and In response to the COVID-19 pan-challenges, virtual cooking classes for telehealth visits with in-network demic, we have focused on keeping and donation drives for food, clothing providers was waived. Our wellness our employees and their families safe, and school supplies. program provided guidance on topics including by providing technology and such as preventing COVID-19, stay-support to work from home. Keys to ing productive and connected while effectively making this transition were working from home, mental health the ability of our employees to access while social distancing and financial our proprietary in-house applications resilience during the pandemic. from their phones, tablets and home and office computers, and the SAFETY EOG believes that leadership, com.mitment and communication are key characteristics of safe operations. We also emphasize the importance of our employees and contractors taking personal responsibility to conduct operations in a safe manner. To help promote safe operations, we seek to: ¥ Communicate a vision for safe operations that is both visible and consistent. ¥ Empower all personnel to use their stop work authority and be proactive for safe operations. ¥ Take measures to continuously improve the safety of our operations. ¥ Support our contractorsÕ safety programs. SAFETY MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT Our safety management processes provide a framework within which we can assess safety performance in a systematic way. EOGÕs safety perfor.mance is also considered in evaluating employee performance and compensa.tion, including executive compensation. safe work practices, emergency and PROACTIVE AND INTEGRATED PROMOTING SAFETY THROUGH incident response procedures and more. Examples include: We strive to achieve strong, consistent SAFETY PRACTICES CONTRACTOR ENGAGEMENT To help promote a culture of safety safety performance across our oper.¥ A Safe Practices manual is provided ations. To support this performance, throughout our workforce, we engage to employees and contractors and is our safety practices focus on: with our contractors on safety matters. available online for easy reference. the safety practices and performance This engagement includes reviewing ¥ Basic, mandatory safety training ¥ Providing initial, periodic and of contractors with master service courses for EOG employees and refresher safety training. agreements to perform work on our contractors who work at EOGÕs locations. In addition, we assess the ¥ Collecting incident data and facilities and a number of additional conducting trend analysis. safety performance of contractors and safety and operational courses the programs they have in place while available online to employees working on location for EOG, monitor ¥ Identifying and reporting potential and contractors. performance, and provide various hazards and near-misses. ¥ Team building training on safety ¥ Utilizing work methods that training opportunities for our contrac.matters for contract crews. manage the level of risk. tors as discussed in more detail below. ¥ A leadership training program, as necessary. ¥ Taking corrective actions providing in-depth application of To enhance our review of contractor safety procedures, with a focus on performance, beginning in late 2019 Recognizing that each of our operat.how incidents can be prevented. we engaged a third-party vendor to ing areas have unique challenges ¥ Engagement with local first assist in contractor safety program and opportunities, in certain circum.responders and regulatory agencies review and data collection. This new stances, we also develop and imple.on safety matters. program provides better access to data ment targeted safety programs and and will allow for more efficient reviews ¥ Control centers for our most active initiatives in our operating areas and auditing of contractor safety pro-areas operated 24 hours per day. through collaboration among opera-grams and performance. tional disciplines. PREPAREDNESS AND To support sharing of ideas and SAFETY TRAINING best practices across our operating areas, EOG has a Safety Support Team, Knowing what to do and how to do it comprised of safety representatives is critical to strong, consistent perfor.from all operating areas. This team mance. We provide initial, periodic and holds monthly conference calls and refresher safety training to employees, periodic meetings to share area-contractors, visitors and other per-specific safety concerns and projects. sonnel who may work at or visit EOGÕs The team also shares resources and facilities. These safety training pro-collaborates on developing and grams address operating procedures, improving safety-focused projects. Total Recordable Incident Rate Lost Time Incident Rate incidents per 200,000 hours worked incidents per 200,000 hours worked 0.89 0.87 0.67 0.61 0.56 0.450.42 0.26 0.250.20 0.21 0.190.14 0.13 0.13 0.130.10 2018  2019  2020  2018  2019  2020  ÷ Employee ÷ Contractor ÷ Workforce  ÷ Employee ÷ Contractor ÷ Workforce  total recordable incident rate increased Each emergency response plan MONITORING PERFORMANCE Ð in 2020 from 2019, trends indicate con-includes a tiered response level for INCIDENT RATES tinued improvement in recent years, activation of the plan based on the type EOG utilizes the standard measure-including a reduction of over 20 percent of incident and the response required. ment used in the industry of incidents since 2018. Training regarding the plan is provided (injuries) per 200,000 hours worked in to relevant field and office personnel, See the Appendix for the related calculating the total recordable inci.including contractors. These plans are formulas and definitions and the Data dent rate and lost time incident rate. periodically reviewed and updated, and Tear Sheet for expanded safety met-We work closely with our contractors periodic drills, including incident rics, including work-related fatalities. to capture the hours worked by their command system training and table-employees and subcontractors. top drills, are conducted so that EOG EMERGENCY RESPONSE employees and contractors are In 2020, the combined employee-prepared to respond appropriately Each of EOGÕs operating areas devel.contractor total recordable incident to incidents. ops and maintains a written plan that rate continued to improve, decreasing provides a framework for rapid and 26 percent from 2019 and almost effective response to emergency sit.50 percent since 2018. We believe uations to protect local communities, the reductions in our workforce total our employees and contractors and recordable incident rate reflect a the environment. These plans support, number of factors, including the and are components of, EOGÕs corpo.increased availability of safety data rate Crisis Management Plan, which and our enhanced engagement with details our overall corporate response contractors. While our employee should an emergency occur. 