OVERSIGHT AND PRACTICES EOG’s strong corporate governance practices enhance board and management accountability to our shareholders and other stakeholders and enhance our risk oversight and management efforts. Board of Directors Our Board of Directors (Board) is comprised of seven non-employee, independent directors and our Chief Executive Officer, who serves as the Chairman of the Board. All directors are elected annually under a majority vote standard, which provides our stockholders with a meaningful voice in the annual director election process. Our Board committees – the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee – are each comprised solely of independent directors. DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE NON-INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT The independent directors also regularly meet in executive sessions, led by the independent presiding director who is elected annually by the independent directors of our Board. The independent presiding director plays a valuable role in the overall leadership of the Board and serves as a liaison between the Chairman of the Board and our other executive officers and the independent directors. Diversity of thought and background is important at all levels of EOG’s organization, including the Board of Directors. The directors serving on our Board possess diverse professional experiences, skills and backgrounds. Our directors also have high standards of personal and professional ethics, proven records of success in their respective fields and valuable knowledge of our business and of the oil and gas industry. One of the roles of the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee is to identify prospective qualified candidates to fill vacancies on the Board. In the event of board vacancies, our Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee will look to identify prospective qualified candidates and, as part of that process, may engage a search firm to assist in identifying candidates for the Board. In such an instance, our policy is to instruct the search firm to seek out and present qualified women and minority candidates for consideration. GENDER DIVERSITY OF DIRECTORS FEMALE DIRECTORS MALE DIRECTORS Board Oversight of ESG Matters Our Board has primary responsibility for risk oversight, including risks related to ESG matters. To ensure that our Board has a comprehensive view of EOG’s overall risk exposure, the Board regularly reviews our long-term strategic plans. Principal issues and risks that we may face executing those plans are evaluated along with the processes we employ to identify, manage and mitigate such risks. For ESG risk-related matters in particular, the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee has primary responsibility for oversight and guidance, in consultation with the Board and each of the Board committees. To assist the Board, members of our senior and executive management present and discuss ESG matters – including environmental risks related to climate change – with the Board throughout the year. Members of senior management also annually report to the Board on EOG’s safety and environmental performance and peer benchmarking, in addition to reviewing trends and other industry information. Role of Management in Assessing and Managing ESG Matters Our senior management team works with personnel across our eight North American offices and two international offices to assess and manage risks related to ESG matters. The bulk of our ESG-related efforts and performance, including management of environmental risks related to climate change, is managed and measured by the Safety and Environmental (S&E) function within EOG. The S&E function’s senior leadership, including our Vice President, Safety & Environmental, is centralized at EOG’s Houston headquarters. Field-level management of the S&E function is performed by S&E personnel that live in the local communities and work in our operating area offices. To facilitate a consistent team effort in assessing and managing ESG risks across the company, EOG has established the following groups: • The S&E Leadership Council – An internal, cross-functional leadership team comprised of senior management and representatives from our S&E, operations and legal functions • The S&E Leadership Team – Membership is comprised of the S&E leaders across all of our operating area offices The S&E Leadership Council and the S&E Leadership Team have specific roles in assessing and managing ESG risks for EOG. • Strategic Goals – Our S&E Leadership Team, in consultation with the S&E Leadership Council and executive management, is responsible for setting our safety and environmental strategic goals • Policies – Our S&E Leadership Team regularly meets throughout the year to discuss our safety and environmental policies, best practices, and related risks, to ensure consistency across the company • Performance – Regular review of EOG’s S&E performance and development of strategies for improvement -The S&E Leadership Team periodically updates our executive management regarding our progress towards our safety and environmental strategic goals and any related risks. In addition, each of our operating areas reports to our executive management on the operating area's environmental performance and related issues throughout the year. EOG has also implemented a number of practical mechanisms as part of our efforts to identify, assess and manage ESG matters and facilitate continuous improvement and consistency throughout our decentralized operations: • In-person S&E conferences attended by the S&E teams from each operating area and senior executives • Leadership meetings and conferences among EOG’s S&E personnel, for the sharing of information, best practices and goals as a group • Regular safety and environmental training, available to employees, contractors and vendors • Discussion of ESG matters at EOG’s in-house technical conference, to increase engagement by our drilling, completion and production operations leadership • Environmental staff dedicated to greenhouse gas data collection and analysis Executive Compensation Our executive compensation program is designed to attract and retain a highly qualified and motivated management team and appropriately reward individual executive officers for their contributions to the achievement of our key short-term and long-term goals. As part of our compensation program, EOG’s executive officers are eligible to receive annual bonuses under an annual bonus plan based on the achievement of operational, financial, and strategic goals established by the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Compensation Committee believes that setting specific performance goals helps establish important benchmarks and communicates EOG’s top priorities to our executive officers and employees. The performance goals have historically included ESG-related goals focused on improving our strong S&E record. Based on the Compensation Committee’s review of our compensation program and shareholder feedback, the Compensation Committee expanded the ESG-related performance goals to include the reduction of EOG’s methane emissions intensity rate in 2019 compared to 2018 as a goal for purposes of determining annual bonuses for 2019. CORPORATE POLICIES The policies described below can be found in the “Board of Directors” section of the “Company” page of EOG’s corporate website at www.eogresources.com. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics EOG conducts all business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with the laws of all countries where we operate. EOG treats all employees fairly and with respect. Directors, Officers and Employees – EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees includes a section on Workplace Safety, Security and Protection of the Environment. In addition to the requirements in this policy statement, specific objectives and activities are spelled out in EOG’s Safety and Environmental Policy. All employees are required to acknowledge receipt of EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees when hired. Contractors and Suppliers – When contracting with EOG, contractors agree to abide by EOG’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Vendors and Contractors. The policy obligates EOG’s contractors and suppliers to provide their services to EOG in a safe manner and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety matters. Political Contributions and Trade Associations EOG does not utilize corporate funds to make contributions to any federal, state or local political candidate, party, organization or campaign. In addition, EOG does not sponsor or administer a political action committee. EOG respects and supports the rights of our directors, officers and employees to support political parties and candidates with their personal time and money; however, use of EOG company resources for such purposes, including employee time, company funds and company supplies, is prohibited without the express approval of EOG’s Chief Executive Officer. EOG pays membership dues to certain trade associations and benefits from the time these trade associations spend engaged in efforts to educate lawmakers and voters on issues relevant to the oil and gas industry. Trade associations represent their collective membership, not individual member companies, and may take positions on a wide variety of matters which are not necessarily supported by EOG. The Board’s Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee reviews, at least annually, EOG’s contributions to trade associations, including any amounts related to political activities and lobbying expenses. POLICY COMPLIANCE EOG’s Compliance Program, which includes strong non-retaliation provisions, is intended to ensure that EOG’s business is conducted with high ethical standards and in compliance with the letter and spirit of the law. The program includes review and enforcement of EOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics; Safety and Environmental Policy; Political Contributions and Activities policy; and other policies related to legal compliance and ethics, in addition to employee communications, education, training and compliance monitoring, including the investigation and resolution of complaints and inquiries. EOG has a standing Compliance Committee that is responsible for implementing EOG’s Compliance Program and providing regular reports to the Audit Committee of the Board. The standing members of the Compliance Committee are the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; the Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer; and the Vice President, Audit. 