SOCIALEOG employees actively look for opportunities to strengthen the communities 
where we work.OUR COMMUNITIESEOG understands the importance of community engagement. Since most of our operations in North America are in rural areas, much of our community interaction is with landowners, mineral interest owners and surface owners who have rights to the land or minerals on which EOG operates. In addition to these groups and individuals, we also recognize the importance of proactively engaging others in the community, including civic leaders, elected officials and community groups.RESPECT FOR CULTURES, TRADITIONS ANDINDIGENOUS PEOPLESEOG strives to respect human rights, native lands and culture, and to honor the cultural, social and religious beliefs, and traditions of others. We work to comply with local, tribal, state and federal laws that apply to our operations.EOG has active operations on Native American lands, most notably at the Fort Berthold Reservation in North Dakota and at the Uintah and Ouray Reservation in Utah. EOG values its operations on the Native American lands in North Dakota and Utah, and partners with Native American tribes. For example, various tribal members are employees of EOG, and we utilize Native American service providers in our operations.SOCIALCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTEOG employees actively look for opportunities to strengthen the communities where we are active. Through these activities, EOG supports infrastructure and service projects to improve the lives of local citizens. Recent examples include: EOG is a founder of Texan By Nature, a collaborative partnership between natural resource users and conservation experts to promote conservation efforts to sustain Texas’s working lands, water supplies and wildlife. EOG also provided funding for the new Weiss Energy Hall at the Houston Museum of Natural Science.In 2017, EOG helped establish the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), which brings together leading Permian Basin energy companies in order to build a shared understanding of the enormous opportunity for the region and to work in partnership with leaders across the region’s communities to address current and future challenges to the responsible development of the vast oil and natural gas resources of the Permian Basin. The PSP seeks to improve the long-term quality of place for Permian Basin residents by partnering with local leaders to develop and implement strategic plans to foster superior education, workforce development, safe roads and more accessible healthcare.EOG also partners with local school districts, colleges and universities, and industry organizations to fund scholarships, training and education initiatives to enhance employment opportunities for community residents.	Funding equipment purchases and training
for multiple volunteer fire departments	Organizing resources and volunteers from
EOG and other industry companies operating in the area to rebuild and replant a community public park 	Constructing a training pad and providing water tanks for a new fire department training facility 	Maintaining roads near operations by using road graders and snowplows 	Providing financial support for roadside
trash pickup programs through a variety of industry initiatives in various counties in
which EOG operatesEOG supports infrastructure and service projects to improve the lives of local citizens.23  2017 EOG RESOURCES              SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOCIALCHARITABLE DONATIONSAND VOLUNTEERISM EOG gives back to the communities in which it operates. In 2017, EOG contributed more than $3.4 million to these communities. In addition, employees contributed nearly $1.5 million under the company’s matching gifts program and United Way campaigns, and more than $330,000 to Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts, making the company’s total 2017 contributions more than $5.2 million. EOG and EOG employees also provided nearly 
$1 million to fellow employees who were impacted 
by Hurricane Harvey.Employee donations to charitable organizations are matched by EOG as part of the company’s matching gifts program. To encourage employees to be generous, EOG matches their donations, dollar for dollar, up to $75,000 per employee, per calendar year.At EOG, the spirit of giving is matched by a tradition of participation. Employees in every EOG location generously donate their time to a wide range of charitable and community organizations and causes, such as Habitat for Humanity, Bike MS, adopt-a-highway programs, food drives, school supply drives, toy drives, summer reading camps and mentoring. Volunteerism is also encouraged within EOG — each employee is allotted paid leave time that can be used for volunteer service — and employees enjoy the opportunity to work together on different community projects. Employees help others, not because of a feeling of obligation, but because of a desire to make 
a difference in their communities.$5.2M total 2017 contributions$1.5M under the company’s matching gifts program and United Way campaigns $1M to fellow employees who were 
impacted by Hurricane Harvey$75,000 dollar-for-dollar match per employee per year offered by EOG.24  2017 EOG RESOURCES              SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR PEOPLEBy providing employees with a quality culture and environment in which to work, and by maintaining a consistent college recruiting program, EOG is able to attract and retain some of the industry’s best and brightest — people who will embrace the company’s commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility as the organization continues to grow.EOG is a highly collaborative organization where employees come first and continuously learn from one another. Driven from the bottom up, employees understand that the company is, and has always been, a returns-focused, organic-growth organization. As a technology leader, EOG places a heavy emphasis on participation so that employees’ ideas and contributions are heard, appreciated and valued. This ensures that the entire organization is involved and engaged in company decision-making.Because employee retention and engagement are very important, EOG offers competitive salaries, bonuses and a subsidized, comprehensive benefits package. With new hire stock grants and an annual stock grant program, every employee is a shareholder and a participant in the company’s success.EOG continues to be recognized as a Top Workplace by Energage based on its survey of employees across EOG’s operations. In the fall of 2017, EOG’s offices in Houston, San Antonio and Oklahoma City were each recognized as a Top Workplace, providing a clear reflection of the company’s positive culture and work environment. Another measure of EOG’s strong culture is a low voluntary turnover rate, consistently running around 5 percent annually.EOG is an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer and subscribes to a drug-free and smoke-free workplace. All employment decisions are made without regard to factors such as race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, marital status, pregnancy, disability, genetic information, veteran status, status as an alien authorized to work in the United States, or any other characteristic protected by law.EMPLOYEE TENURE (AS OF 12/31/17)EMPLOYEESAs of December 31, 2017, EOG had 2,541 employees working in the U.S. Our non-U.S. employees make up less than 5 percent of the company’s population. EOG has a well-balanced composition relative to tenure and age, which ensures a sustainable organization.EOG considers the diversity of its employees to be a tremendous asset, and it has strived for and embraced diversity throughout the company, as evidenced by a gender-diverse workforce representing a variety of racial, ethnic and cultural backgrounds. Females and minorities are well represented throughout EOG, including in professional and management positions. EOG will continue its commitments to inclusiveness and diversity at all levels; to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment; and to hiring, evaluating and promoting employees based on skills and performance.10-1415%5-930%15-195%20-242% <544%25+4%EMPLOYEE AGE(AS OF 12/31/17)40-4921%30-3937%50-5919%<3014%60+9%WOMEN AND MINORITIES* (AS OF 12/31/17)34.9%EOG has a well-balanced composition relative to tenure and age, which ensures a sustainable organization.29.7%26.8%22.2%18.2%14.7%TotalSupervisors and ManagementProfessional (Non-management) WomenMinority* As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity CommissionTRAINING AND DEVELOPMENTEOG’s Tuition Reimbursement Policy provides 90 percent reimbursement for post-secondary education, which either better qualifies an employee for present duties or prepares the employee for future placement within the company. The policy also provides 100 percent reimbursement for professional certification tests, such as Professional Engineer, CPA, bar examinations and Certified Professional Secretary.EOG also participates in the Nautilus Geoscience Training Alliance and Engineering Training Alliance, the premier membership-based training curriculum for the oil and gas industry. Technical personnel are expected to attend training annually.In addition, EOG provides internally developed management training to supervisory personnel. Topics include administering policies, performance management, supervisory responsibilities, skill-building in communication, conflict resolution, delegation and coaching for improved performance. EOG also holds several internal technical conferences each year designed to share best practices and technical advances across the company. The conferences cover exploration, drilling, completions, reservoir engineering, production, facilities, and safety and environmental topics.90% REIMBURSEMENT for post-secondary education100% REIMBURSEMENT for professional 
certification testsSAFETYAcross the company, EOG has implemented programs and business processes for managing safety matters with a focus on the assignment of responsibilities, sound risk management and decision-making, efficient and cost-effective planning and operations, legal compliance, and continuous improvement of programs and practices.Our safety management processes are based on a performance-based philosophy, and we set safety expectations and provide a framework within which management can achieve and assess safety performance in a systematic way. Our safety performance is also considered in evaluating employee performance and managing employee compensation.TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE* (U.S. employees and contractors)1.091.091.051.040.872013 201420152016 2017*EOG utilizes the industry-standard measurement of incidents (injuries) per 200,000 man-hours worked in calculating its Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR). The increase between 2016 and 2017 is primarily attributable to new entrants to the workforce (i.e., new and inexperienced contractors).LOST TIME INCIDENT RATE*(U.S. employees and contractors)0.34EOG sets safety expectations and provides a framework within which management can achieve and assess safety performance.0.300.270.260.252013 201420152016 2017*EOG utilizes the industry-standard measurement of incidents (injuries) per 200,000 man-hours worked in calculating its Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR).PREPAREDNESS At EOG, knowing what to do and how to do it is critical to strong, consistent performance. That’s why the company provides initial, periodic and refresher safety training to employees, contractors, visitors, vendors and other personnel who may work at or visit EOG’s facilities. These training programs address operating procedures, safe work practices, emergency and incident response procedures, and more. Examples include:Each of EOG’s operating areas develops and maintains a written plan that provides a framework for rapid and effective response to emergency situations to protect the public, EOG employees and contractors, and the environment. These plans support and are components of EOG’s corporate Crisis Management Plan, which addresses EOG’s overall corporate response. Each plan includes a tiered response level for activation of the plan based on the type of incident and the response required. Training is provided to relevant field and office personnel. These plans are periodically reviewed and updated, and periodic drills are conducted to verify that EOG personnel are prepared to respond appropriately to any incidents which might occur.	A Safe Practices Manual is available to all employees and contractors.	Basic, mandatory safety training courses and a number of additional safety and operational courses are available online to all EOG employees and to the contractors who work at EOG’s facilities.	EOG provides safety team building training for contract crews across its operations.	A leadership training program for EOG supervisors, as well as consultants and contractor supervisors, provides in-depth application of safety procedures, with a focus on how accidents can be prevented. 	EOG monitors contractor performance and verifies that contractors have appropriate safety programs in place.	EOG trains with local first responders and regulatory agencies.Periodic drills are conducted to verify that EOG personnel are prepared to respond appropriately 
to any incidents which might occur.