OIL AND PRODUCED WATER SPILLS & RECOVERY EOG tracks and documents the volume and frequency of oil and produced water spills from our U.S. operations, as well as the volumes of oil and produced water we recover from those spills. We also consider our oil spill rate performance in our executive compensation program. EOG has historically reported oil spills greater than five barrels, because it is the most common regulatory spill reporting threshold for our primary operating areas. While we continue that practice, for 2020, we are also dis.closing oil and produced water spills greater than one barrel to be more consistent with industry peer reporting. For more information regarding our spill metrics, including the relevant definitions and the regulatory oil spill reporting requirements (i.e., volume thresholds) for our primary operating areas, see the Appendix and the Data Tear Sheet. Our oil spill rate for spills greater than five barrels was 0.006 in 2020, decreasing by 33 percent from 2019. For 2020, we recovered 66 percent of oil from spills over five barrels and 64 percent of oil from spills over one barrel. We also recovered 62 percent of the total volume of our produced water spills over one barrel. Oil Spill Rates and Recovery 0.047 0.041 0.009 0.0080.006 0.006 0.007 0.004 0.005 0.002 0.002 0.003 2018* 2019 2020 2020 Spills Over Five Barrels Spills Over One Barrel # Oil Spill Rate (Bbls Spilled per Mboe Produced) ˜ Recovered Oil Rate (Spilled Bbls Recovered per Mboe Produced) ˜ Unrecovered Oil Rate (Spilled Bbls Not Recovered per Mboe Produced) * Higher rate resulted from a spill caused by a mechanical issue at a single well facility In Focus Automating Spill Prevention and Management To support our efforts to prevent and minimize oil and pro.duced water spills in our operations, EOG has developed a proprietary leak detection software that we call iDetectSM. We began implementing iDetect in our operations in 2019 and continue to roll it out where technically feasible. iDetect uses sensors to detect leaks in real time on flow lines, gathering systems and lay flat lines for temporary water transfers, including reuse water systems. If a potential leak is detected, iDetect sends a notification through an alarm system linked directly to the mobile devices of our field personnel, which includes a full description and quantification of the potential leak. We have integrated iDetect with our automation systems in our control rooms allowing Spill Prevention and Management Technology for remote interventions in our most active areas and shut downs if a leak is detected. Data provided by iDetect also helps with spill prevention by allowing us to evaluate the origins of leaks and better plan our operations, including facility and pipeline designs. By building iDetect in-house, we are able to regularly deploy new features and data enhancements. We are also able to inte.grate iDetect with our other applications, including our water management application TridentSM and our automated control systems, providing an efficient and comprehensive system for water and spill management that is adaptable to the unique conditions of our operating areas. Annual movement for the Ferruginous Hawk based on 2020 data from radio collars a raptor species that nests throughout the basin. Through a proposal devel.oped with and approved by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Wyoming Game & Fish Department, EOG has fitted 16 of these birds with GPS transmitters over the last seven years to provide real-time, year-round information on their movements and specific details on their breeding locations and migration patterns. This program has allowed us to better plan and manage our oper.ations and support the breeding and nesting of Ferruginous Hawks. BIODIVERSITY AND LAND STEWARDSHIP EOG is committed to environmental stewardship throughout the lifecycle of our operations, including by inte.grating habitat and wildlife conser.vation in the planning, management and restoration of our exploration and production activities. We work to avoid or minimize impacts to wildlife and abide by applicable laws and regulations related to biodiversity. By downsizing and centralizing our drilling and production facilities, and using directional and horizontal drilling technology with longer laterals, we are able to reduce our overall surface footprint. In addition, as part of our pre-development review process, we evaluate locations for environmental and related concerns, including protected species and critical habitats, waters of the U.S., and hydrology, and also evaluate for archaeological resources. We also partner with local stake.holders, including community groups, government agencies and academic institutions, at various stages of project development and operation to help conserve local habitat and wildlife. RECLAIMING AND RESTORING LAND Once all production activities are complete on a location, reclamation and restoration begin. Beyond our legal, regulatory and contractual obligations, we work in partnership with landowners and state and federal regulators to restore land in a manner that is responsive to the specific inter.ests of the local communities. Sagebrush Reseeding to Accelerate Reclamation In Wyoming, EOG has collaborated with local stakeholders to reclaim land previously used as water reser.voirs for drilling and production activities. Reclamation projects have involved EOG working with Wyoming regulators and University of Wyoming students to plant sagebrush seedlings to reestablish vegetation and accelerate the restoration of native grasslands and scrublands. Based on the growth rates of these sage.brush seedlings, we are identifying future planning sites and evaluating how to enhance planting practices. Sunset Reef Campsite In 2019, EOG began working with the BLM to restore land from a reclaimed well site in New Mexico for use as a public campsite. Due to the area’s flat topography and easy road access to both Carlsbad Caverns National Park and Guadalupe Mountains National Park, the former well site accommodates campers interested in visiting either of these two parks. EOG partnered with the BLM to convert the land into a campsite, and also provided funding to purchase picnic tables, fire rings, sun shelters and solar-powered lights to be used by campers. The campsite opened in September 2020. Restoring Native Texas Grasslands Since 2015, EOG has supported Texan by Nature, a collaborative partnership between natural resource users and conservation experts to promote conservation efforts to sustain Texas’s working lands, water supplies and wildlife. In the Eagle Ford, EOG is working in partnership with Texan by Nature and private landowners to create over 350 acres of native pollinator habitat by reseeding well pads and pipeline rights-of-way with native grasses and nectar-producing plants. These grasses and plants can provide high-protein forage and food plots, which maintain and improve habitat conditions for the Monarch butterfly and numerous other species in this migratory corridor. Additionally, the native grasses are lower maintenance and more drought-tolerant than non-native grasses. SOCIAL Stakeholder Engagement Approach OUR Our typical approach includes: COMMUNITIES • Preparation Identifying local stakeholders and potential community interests Understanding community needs and • Outreach responding to concerns is key to cre-Establishing relationships and lines of communication with ating shared value in the communities local stakeholders, including through individual or larger where we live and work. As a decen.community meetings tralized company, EOG benefits from • Partnership the perspective of the large number of Building strong relationships with stakeholders through our employees and their families who collaborative efforts live in the local communities where we operate. Each of our operating areas is unique and we proactively engage with EOG supports numerous efforts to help community stakeholders, including improve quality-of-life aspects in our property owners, civic leaders, elected local communities by adding direct and officials, first responders, non-profits indirect support to the local and state tax and local community groups, to iden.revenue generated from our operations. tify and address specific community needs and concerns. Stakeholder engagement is integral to building and preserving relation-ENGAGING IN OUR COMMUNITIES: ships. In keeping with EOG’s culture, BUILDING AND PRESERVING our stakeholder outreach efforts are OUR RELATIONSHIPS decentralized. Local area offices are empowered to develop and maintain EOG develops and maintains mutually close working relationships with local beneficial relationships in the commu.stakeholders, actively communicate on nities where we live and work in many a regular basis, and be responsive. ways. The largest and most direct way is by providing diverse career oppor-Our ongoing stakeholder engagement tunities, a large percentage of which covers a wide range of activities – EOG fills with local candidates. meeting neighbors and permitting authorities to discuss specific projects, interacting with community leaders and civic organizations, supporting local philanthropic efforts and more. This includes the land personnel in each of our operating areas working closely with surface and mineral In response to the sudden needs resulting owners to communicate plans and from the COVID-19 pandemic, we donated more address questions and concerns. In than 3,400 masks, as well as shoe coverings, addition, our land administration call hand sanitizer and safety glasses to health care center is dedicated to addressing workers across our operating areas. questions from interest owners, including inquiries related to land Road Safety primary trucking vendors to imple.and royalty ownership. ment the Truckers Against Trafficking EOG works to keep the roads in and training for their workforce. The around our operating areas safe, COMMUNITY SAFETY program was included in the vendor’s including through: AND SECURITY annual training for its existing work-EOG recognizes the importance of force and has been integrated into • Awareness – Our Safe Practices helping make the communities in the vendor’s onboarding process. Manual provided to EOG employees which we live and work more safe and contractors contains vehicle EOG is also an active member in safety guidance. and secure. industry groups working to raise Human Trafficking Prevention awareness of, and prevent, human • Training – Safe driving practices trafficking. As a member of the Oil & are a common focus in our field EOG has taken steps – including in Gas Trafficking Awareness Group, safety meetings. We also offer safety meetings for employees and EOG engages with other oil and gas specific hands-on, decision-basedcontractors – to raise awareness companies to discuss the role compa.driving training. and conduct training regarding the nies can play in these efforts. In • GPS Monitoring – EOG equipsidentification and prevention of addition, an EOG representative serves its vehicles with GPS-based vehicle human trafficking. on the Board of Directors of the monitoring systems that provide data Energy Security Council, an organiza.for driver feedback that increases EOG is a corporate sponsor of tion that brings together members driver awareness and allows for Truckers Against Trafficking, a of the energy industry and law focused driver skills training. non-profit organization that was enforcement to collaborate and share • Route Planning – In our operating formed to educate, equip, empower best practices on different issues, and mobilize members of the trucking, areas, we thoughtfully plan our including human trafficking. travel logistics to route truck traffic human trafficking. Human trafficking bus and energy industries to combat onto secondary roads and time our prevention educational materials activities outside of local high-traffic created specifically for energy compa.times, where possible. nies by Truckers Against Trafficking are available to company personnel. In 2020, EOG worked with one of its Partnering with First Responders EOG regularly meets with first responders in our operating areas to discuss the scope of EOG’s operations and to collaborate on emergency preparedness. In addition, we have donated equipment to, and funded equipment and training for, local fire and police departments. In response to the sudden needs resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we donated more than 3,400 masks, as well as shoe coverings, hand sanitizer and safety glasses to health care workers across our operating areas. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT EOG employees take pride in their communities and EOG encourages and supports investing in and giving back to those communities in a variety of ways, including financial and in-kind giving and volunteerism. Charitable Donations and Community Giving In 2020, EOG, its U.S. employees and its directors contributed $4.7 million to support charitable and community needs. This amount included $1.7 mil.lion in matching gift donations by EOG. Our community giving and volunteer philosophy reflects our decentralized structure. Our operating area offices and employees are empowered to focus on issues and causes that are relevant to their local communities. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic led to a significant increase in demand for food banks. In response, EOG and its employees donated to more than 40 different food banks across our U.S. operating areas, raising a total of approximately $780,000 in the U.S. In addition, we donated over 2,000 meals to homeless families through the Star of Hope Mission as part of our Houston United Way campaign. We also donated more than 3,400 masks, other personal protective equipment and meals to health care workers across our operating areas, and contributed financially to a local brewery to make hand sanitizer for first responders in North Dakota. Our ability to respond to immediate needs across our operating areas at a local level reflects not only the strength of our decentralized culture, but also the collective spirit of giving at EOG. 40 FOOD BANKS +As a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, EOG and its employees donated to more than 40 different food banks across our U.S. operating areas, raising a total of approximately $780,000 in the U.S. in connection with a $2-for-$1 company-matching program. Health Community & Wellness STEM Education Vitality & Quality of Life & Job Training • Sponsoring a Bike MS team for the 20th consecutive year and raising over $165,000 in 2020. • Providing financial support to the Carl McCain Memorial Foundation to help individuals and families who have worked in the energy industry cover expenses when they are finan.cially burdened by medical expenses. • Supporting organizations such as the Texas Children’s Hospital, Texas Children’s Hospital Cancer Center and Snow Drop Foundation, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Pink the Basin to increase access for mammograms in the Permian Basin region, and Hunt for the Cure to provide children with cancer opportu.nities for outdoor experiences. • Sponsoring students from Cristo Rey Jesuit college preparatory school in Houston through a unique corporate work-study program, which allows students of limited economic resources to gain work experience and earn up to 50 percent of the cost of their annual tuition. For the 2020-2021 school year, we continued to participate in the work-study program, which was redesigned in a virtual format due to COVID-19, by providing funding and weekly training sessions and oversight for student projects on leadership and job training topics. • Supporting the IPAA Energy Workforce Education Center’s energy education outreach efforts through funding of the Exploring Energy Program for high school students and providing virtual career counseling content. • Partnering with the Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation by providing funding for two STEM centers in elementary schools in Southeast New Mexico. The contribution goes towards the installation of technology equipment, delivery of a structured curriculum, and ongoing training for teachers. • Working with Habitat for Humanity to build homes in metro Denver, where there is a lack of affordable housing. • Contributing funds to plant over 20 acres of native grasses in the green spaces of the Escondido Creek Parkway, a park and recreation area in Kenedy, TX, developed in part.nership with the San Antonio River Authority Foundation. • Supporting the Barbara Bush Houston Literacy Foundation to help Houstonians achieve individual, family and community success through the power of literacy. • Donating power generators, food, water and other critical response supplies to southern Louisiana communities to help them recover from Hurricane Laura. The spirit of giving is matched by a tradition of participation at EOG. Employees in every location generously donate their time to a wide range of charitable and community organizations and causes that benefit local communities. Volunteerism The spirit of giving is matched by a tradition of participation at EOG. Employees in every location generously donate their time to a wide range of charitable and community organiza.tions and causes that benefit local communities. To encourage volunteer.ism, EOG provides eight hours of paid volunteer time per year to employees. Despite an unprecedented year, EOG employees still found time to safely donate their time and effort to organi.zations, including packing and distrib.uting food, home restoration for those in need, trash collection and cleanup of parks and river ways, and participating in Habitat for Humanity projects. Despite the pandemic forcing many in-person community engagement events to be cancelled or scaled back, EOG employees still responded strongly to many of our annual initiatives. For example, our employees committed the highest amount to our campaign for United Way San Antonio since 2017 and the highest amount for our cam.paign for United Way of Houston since 2016, both of which were matched by EOG. Matching Gifts Program EOG has one of the largest matching gifts programs in the industry. In 2020, employee and director contributions to qualified charitable organizations were matched dollar-for-dollar, up to $75,000 per employee and director. To encourage more giving during a year of great need, EOG instituted a $2-for-$1 match program for donations to food banks from March through June 2020. EOG also matches any contributions made under our annual United Way campaign, which do not count against the matching gifts pro.gram limit. Permian Strategic Partnership Our approach to human rights is informed by the following international EOG is a founding member of the standards and frameworks: Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP). The PSP, which was formed by oil • United Nations Guiding Principles • A partnership with the National and gas companies operating in the on Business and Human Rights Board for Professional Teaching Permian Basin region, collaborates • Universal Declaration of Standards that will allow more with citizens, community organiza-Human Rightsthan 700 area teachers to get tions, private foundations, civic leaders board-certified. • International Labor Organization’s and government officials to develop Declaration on Fundamental • The creation of a rural grant-writing solutions to strengthen local com-Principles and Rights at Work, program to help local communities munities in West Texas and South-including those regarding freedom apply for state, federal and private east New Mexico. Since its inception of association and prohibitions grants. in 2018 through 2020, the PSP has on child labor, forced labor and • A campaign to promote participation committed over $48 million to com-discrimination in the workplace. in the U.S. Census counting process, munity-oriented investments in road which directly impacts the amount improvements, quality schools, afford-To formalize our commitment and of federal funding that the Permian able housing, improved health care reflect our practices, in 2021 we Basin will receive. and workforce development. adopted a companywide Human Rights Policy and added a human rights EOG will continue to collaborate with In 2020, the PSP committed funds to provision to our Code of Business the PSP in identifying opportunitiessupport the following projects: Conduct and Ethics for Directors, to address the quality of life in the Officers and Employees and our Code Permian Basin region, and to lend its • An expansion of the Physician of Business Conduct and Ethics for expertise, resources and leadership Assistant program at Texas Tech Vendors and Contractors. Our Codes to the PSP as it seeks to develop University Health Sciences Center of Conduct also provide guidance on solutions in partnership with civic (TTUHSC). issues such as non-discrimination, leaders, government officials and • A partnership with Ector County anti-harassment, workplace safety local communities. Independent School District and and equal employment opportunities. SpaceX to provide broadband RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS Internet service to students in need, the first school district in EOG is committed to conducting our the nation to do this. business in a manner that respects • A partnership with the Permian the dignity and human rights of all Road Safety Coalition to provide individuals. We also encourage and life-saving equipment to first expect our contractors and vendors to responders in 22 counties across adhere to this same commitment. West Texas and New Mexico. To help implement our human rights commitment, we now provide guid.ance on the importance of respecting human rights and identifying potential human rights issues as part of our global compliance training program. Respect for Cultures, Traditions and Indigenous Peoples EOG respects the rights and local traditions of stakeholders where we operate. We seek to contribute to economic growth, social develop.ment, and the overall welfare of the community, and to tailor our actions to each community’s particular culture. We also recognize the impor.tance of internationally recognized principles regarding the rights of Indigenous Peoples, such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. In addition, as part of our commit.ment to respect tribal heritage resources, we proactively engage federal, state and local land manage.ment agencies in multiple jurisdictions to create cooperative cultural review and assessment protocols. Our goal in these efforts is to address site-specific concerns based on stakeholder input, local knowledge and cultural preser.vation best practices. Reporting Mechanisms EOG provides its personnel and stakeholders with multiple channels to submit claims of human rights-based grievances that may be associated with our operations. These include: feedback to company representatives at work locations; contacting repre.sentatives of Human Resources, the Land Department, the Legal Department, or the Compliance Com.mittee; and a 24-hour Compliance and Ethics hotline and online reporting system, through which concerns can be shared confidentially and anony.mously. See Oversight and Practices – Ethical Business Practices in the Governance section for further discus.sion of our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics and Compliance and Ethics Hotline and online reporting system. EOG respects the rights and local traditions of stake.holders where we operate. We seek to contribute to economic growth, social development, and the overall welfare of the community, and to tailor our actions to each community’s particular culture. 