Fulfilling Our Corporate Purpose The Cost of Energy Industrialization, fueled by the energy industry, has played a vital role in pulling billions of people out of poverty. But now there is wide recognition that future growth needs a cleaner mix of energy sources to avoid the destruction of the environment and our health. However, the move to cleaner energy at scale poses several challenges, with energy security and reliability being the most important. Widespread intermittency is unacceptable at a time when the world needs more reliability in powering growth, not less. Decarbonization, therefore, cannot come at the cost of deindustrialization. Resiliency and reliability of critical infrastructure, including power, have been tested within American borders as Texas experienced power outages after a snowstorm and California battled a series of wildfires that knocked down transmission lines. Renewable sources like solar and wind have helped keep environmental costs down, but they are intermittent sources of energy and don’t work everywhere we need them or will need them in the future. By themselves, they cannot scale to meet today’s demand. Current and future growth in wind and solar are beset with challenges, such as land availability, overextraction of raw materials, and aesthetic preferences of people who live near the installations. Our technology plays a key role in answering this multi-dimensional energy challenge. 1 The Brookings Institution 2 The World Economic Forum The Journey to Carbon Zero Low-to-zero carbon power Green or blue hydrogen The FuelCell Energy Difference We believe we have the only technology that can • Capture CO2 while producing power • Produce H2, power, and water simultaneously Carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases,while generating power Working to commercialize a solution targeted atscaling renewablesby converting excesspower to hydrogen – then convert the hydrogenback to power when it's needed • Provide a number of value streams, including: electricity, heat, CO2, H2, and water at the same time Low-cost green hydrogen via highefficiency electrolysis technology Fulfilling Our Corporate Purpose Our Value Proposition and the Evolving Grid We Enable the Greening of the Grid Through Adaption and Mitigation Electricity generation from coal, oil, and natural gas represented 60% of all power generated worldwide in 2021, down from 67% in 20101.That is likely to drop to 42% to 48% by 2030, depending on how aggressively countries move toward renewables. Hydrogen has been identified as critical for the energy industry of the future. We believe that the rising demand for reliable energy globally and the urgency of slowing and reversing its negative environmental impacts have brought us to a tipping point where hydrogen’s importance in the energy mix is beyond question. We believe hydrogen’s sustainability credentials are superior to mineral-based storage. Conventional battery storage is reliant on mined minerals, such as lithium and cobalt, both of which have supply constraints for broad adoption, require extensive , and present long-term disposal challenges post-use. Our current technologies and those in development have advantages over others that make us well suited for diverse use cases. In addition, we leverage these strengths by effectively partnering with others to make the grid cleaner, more efficient, and accessible. to adapt to the grid and mitigate its negative impacts. 1 IHS Markit Unique Technologies • The only platform that can capture carbon while producing power and hydrogen • The only platform that can produce hydrogen, power, and water simultaneously • The only platform that provides value streams across every energy segment: power, heat, hydrogen, CO2, and water • Low cost green hydrogen via high efficiency electrolysis technology versus currently available technology ENDUSERS Cities and offices Smart houses Industrial plant Hydrogenfuel The Advantages of Hydrogen • Produced through the electrolysis of water or from reforming of methane • Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from consumption • Clean energy carrier • The infrastructure used to transport fossil fuels have the capacity to transport hydrogen, thus avoiding the need to build new infrastructure Combined heat /coolingand power Carbon captureandpower Hydrogenandpower Fulfilling Our Corporate Purpose Improving the Effectiveness of Renewables According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), a 300% increase in the installed power production capacity for onshore wind and a 1,000% increase in offshore wind will be necessary in the next decade to stay within the 2-degree global warming objective by 2050. Without wider use of and improvements in energy storage technologies, such a substantial build-out of renewables would be impossible. The intermittency of power supply could even destabilize existing power supply grids, which are built for predictable methods of generation. Our technologies, both current and in development, help solve this problem by providing clean power to compensate for undersupply and store power during oversupply using hydrogen. Our energy storage system will utilize solid oxide electrolysis cells (SOEC) to convert power efficiently into hydrogen, an energy carrier. The stored energy is compressed and can be transported for use elsewhere. So, the intermittent energy from sources like wind and solar are available for consumption anytime, anywhere. The hydrogen produced from SOEC can be stored and used for grid power during periods of high demand or supplied to hydrogen fueling stations or industry as an alternative to natural gas. When power is needed, the hydrogen will be cleanly and efficiently converted back into power using the same solid oxide system in fuel cell power generation mode. Unlike mineral-based storage technologies, such as batteries, hydrogen is regenerative, produced locally, and does not require mining. As utilities adjust to manage increased levels of intermittent renewable power generation supplying the electric grid, the value of our solution rises. Hydrogen vs. Batteries While batteries might be efficient, the capacity of a battery pack is limited. Hydrogen can store larger amounts of energy, often at much lower cost than batteries, making it a good potential storage solution for wind-turbine parks or grid applications. In several use cases, our technology makes for a compelling substitute to batteries for storage from wind and solar, without the environmental and social problems associated with mining. Land Use: While wind and solar produce clean energy, the land use in both generation and transmission can create environmental and social problems, such as loss of biodiversity and the opportunity cost of not using the land for parks, homes, or other uses beneficial to society. The land use per MW produced on our platform is approximately 0.2% of the land needed for solar. Costs of Transportation: Wind and solar energy are often produced far away from where they are consumed. Our technology turns the power from solar and wind into hydrogen, which can then be transported to where it’s needed, making it more useable. Since the transportation involves economic and ecological costs, locating our platform where the power is needed removes the need for long distance high voltage transmission or transportation. Fulfilling Our Corporate Purpose The Big Cleanup About 35 billion tons of CO2 are emitted globally per year. No storage solution will significantly reduce carbon emissions if power generation continues to rely heavily on coal and other fossil fuels without carbon capture. We believe better storage will boost a broad-based roll-out of renewables, but global reliance on coal and gas will continue for the foreseeable future as large emerging economies like India and China grow their economies and lift people out of poverty. This means mitigating the impact of the use of fossil fuels is also critical and an absolute necessity to achieve the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius from pre-industrial levels by 2100. Our technology is well positioned to contribute by: • Capturing emissions from existing coal or gas-fired power platforms while destroying up to 70% of the plant’s smog-producing pollutants, and cleanly generating power at the same time • Capturing methane leaks from oil and gas production. Methane is a far worse greenhouse gas than CO2 and these leaks are the second largest source of methane emissions after agriculture globally • Producing clean baseload power with lower emissions than the grid Microgrid Reliability Recent natural calamities have demonstrated the vulnerability of the grid in the United States. The natural pairing of two of our technologies, fuel cells and microgrids, allow us to meet the demand for reliable, distributed energy. Important customers, such as hospitals and military bases, value the reliability we offer. As virtually pollutant-free and quiet sources of energy, our microgrids come with community-friendly siting advantages. Flexibility Our platform can use biogas, onsite or directed, and is the preferred method of powering systems for most use cases. But our platforms also use natural gas, a necessary transition fuel that cannot be ignored in the battle against energy poverty, unreliability, and the critical need for continuous power. In addition to its abundant availability, natural gas emits 50% less CO2 than coal. Valuable Byproducts Increase Efficiency     Depending on the configuration, our power platforms produce useable byproducts that result in higher efficiency, including high quality thermal energy suitable for heating facilities or water, or steam for industrial processes or for absorption cooling. The higher efficiency means lesser need to draw resources like power and water from the supply of local communities, driving better economics and environmental stewardship and supporting both social responsibility goals and public policy objectives. Fulfilling Our Corporate Purpose Diverse Use Cases and Benefits Our current and emerging technologies' numerous features mean we have a wide array of users, ranging from global conglomerates to a local high school. Operational MW in the U.S.  Industry  MW  Commercial/Hospitality  5.6  Education/Healthcare  7.0  Gas Transmission  2.8  Government  3.6  Industrial/Process  2.6  Utilities/Independent Power Producers  25.6  Wastewater Treatment  14.25  Grand Total  61.45  Driving economic value while conserving natural resources Our platform being constructed for Toyota at the Port of Long Beach, California will deliver multiple value streams to Toyota and will have a positive impact on the local community. The carbon neutral 2.3 MW plant will completely power the facilities, significantly aiding the fight against air pollution at the port, and will export the balance of the electricity to the Southern California grid. The hydrogen generated from the plant will be used to power Toyota’s zero-emission class 8 fuel cell trucks and passenger vehicles, which is expected to improve air quality in the community and lower transportation emissions. Long Beach is in severe drought conditions, and our platform will generate water as a byproduct, which is expected to decrease Toyota’s water usage in that area, and greatly reduced the water burden at its port operations. Rebirth and reuse of contaminated land Since 2014, the Bridgeport FuelCell Park in Connecticut has been cleanly, quietly and efficiently supplying enough power to the electric grid to power about 15,000 homes. We helped convert this previously contaminated brownfield land into a valuable resource for the local community that is also the highest property taxpayer for the City of Bridgeport on a per square foot basis. Capturing carbon on a large scale Our joint development agreement with ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company is focused on research to develop carbonate fuel cell technology for industrial-scale carbon capture. Our proprietary technology is the only CO2 capture technology potentially capable of simultaneously capturing carbon dioxide from an external source, producing power and hydrogen, and delivering cost and scale advantages. Empowering an entire local community A 2.2 MW fuel cell heats the Amity Regional High School and powers a microgrid serving the school, the local Town Hall, library, senior center, police headquarters, fire department, and public works department in Woodbridge, CT. Keeping the power on is why our microgrid solutions help keep communities safe and essential services up and running during grid power outages. Powering the lab that developed Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine Pfizer’s largest R&D facility globally is in Groton, CT. The facility has a storied past of developing blockbuster pharmaceuticals, such as Zoloft, which treats anxiety, and Zithromax, which kills bacteria. Last year, about 200 scientists and staff produced arguably the most important breakthrough, arguably the most important breakthrough, the COVID-19 vaccine. We are proud that our 5.6 MW plant at the facility generated continuous power while capturing heat to produce steam for the research that went into making the breakthrough vaccines, as well as for the research in developing the experimental COVID-19 treatment drug Paxlovid. 