This Is FuelCell Energy, Inc. (FCEL) CEO Statement I am pleased to share with you our first sustainability report. FuelCell Energy’s board, executive leadership team, and team members are all committed to reporting on our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) programs and initiatives in a comprehensive way. Although much of our work isn’t new, we are proud to establish a solid ESG reporting baseline with this report. We intend to improve both our performance and disclosure in the coming years. Imagine waking up one morning and hitting the light switch, only to be stuck in utter darkness because there is no power and your lights don’t work. Or even worse, imagine a life without a reliable power source, all while existing in the throes of poverty. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), more than 1 billionpeople in the world suffer from energy poverty or lack of energy. Further, more than 4 million people die each year because they lack access to power and are forced to cook food with wood chips, cow dung and other toxic materials. The question is: Is it possible to produce scalable clean energy from many different sources? With our platform, the answer is yes. Each customer's carbon zero energy journey is unique. We help organizations around the world reimagine their specific energy needs while remaining authentic to their sustainability commitments. The climate crisis is an urgent health emergency. The World Health Organization estimates that bringing air pollution to guideline levels would reduce global deaths from air pollution by 80% and dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions that fuel climate change. — Jason Few We believe in a world where we can: 1. Produce scalable energy 2. Create and maintain energy when and where it’s needed 3. Enable the transition to a cleaner, hydrogen-based energy infrastructure 4. Create value from energy byproducts while generating power at the same time We want to empower a safe, secure and practical journey to carbon zero, and our platform delivers on this in two ways by: — James England Our ESG strategy and initiatives have the full support of and participation from the board of directors. The Environmental, Social, Governance, and Nominating Committee has responsibilities for ESG oversight, creating and implementing ESG best practices, and contributing to the development of overall ESG strategy. The Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, provides quarterly updates to the board on the company’s ESG efforts and progress A Statement from the Decarbonizing power • Produce low to zero carbon power • Capture carbon and greenhouse gases while generating power at the same time • Negligible nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions Producing hydrogen • Supply green hydrogen power (using electrolysis of water) or blue hydrogen power (using natural gas) • Store: Working to commercialize a solution that scales renewables by converting excess power to hydrogen – then converting hydrogen back to power when needed Since there is no one-size-fits-all answer for the world’s complex energy problems, we are well positioned to chart a path to a carbon zero world in a more realisticand achievable way, by delivering new ways to enhance carbon utilization. We are confident FuelCell Energy will help shape the future of reliable clean energy and assist in mitigating climate change, improving air quality, and transforming the global energy landscape. This Is FuelCell Energy, Inc. (FCEL) About This Report This inaugural sustainability report is meant to describe how we fulfill our corporate purpose by managing environmental, social, and governance risks and opportunities material to our business and stakeholders. In fulfilling our corporate purpose, we find ourselves in the enviable position of helping customers achieve their own sustainability goals and better the communities in which they operate. We conducted an initial materiality assessment to identify the sustainability issues that impact our business. The assessment underlined the material importance of certain topics to multiple stakeholders. We also will discuss how our commitment to sustainability fully extends into operations and the management of related resources that support execution of our sustainability plan. While we have many patents and innovative technologies, our people are our most important asset. Through this report, we aim to inform and inspire current and future colleagues. Our purpose:Enable the world to be empowered byclean energy Our executive leadership's and board’s commitment to sustainability is demonstrated through the ways they support and supervise the operationalization of our ambitions, goals, and practices. The disclosures in this report are aligned with the reporting standards of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (UN SDG). SASB Standards include topics that are financially material to the Fuel Cells & Industrial Batteries businesses, and therefore relevant to us. The alignment with UN SDG links us to the betterment of societies around the world. This sustainability report discusses our alignment with Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations for governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. Look for the UN SDG icons at the top of pages that discuss our relevant sustainability goals. About Us We Are Committed to Net Zero We know that time is running out to avoid the catastrophic impacts of climate change. At Fuel Cell Energy, we're doing our part by developing a plan to reduce our carbon emissions to net zero by 2050. This year, we are: • Calculating our organizational carbon footprint baseline • Conducting product life cycle assessments (LCAs) to understand emissions throughout the value chain • Setting short term goals (2030) and long-term goals (2050) aligned with science-based targets • Developing a roadmap to net zero emissions to guide our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reduction goals • Engaging employees on our net zero journey Our next zero commitment is supported by a cross-functional team of strategic and operational leaders across the company and sponsored by our Chief Financial Officer. Oversight of the project is provided by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, which oversees our ESG initiatives. This Is FuelCell Energy, Inc. (FCEL) An Energy Platform Based on Fuel Cell Technology PRODUCE: Low-to-negative carbon power from a flexible array of inputs – from biogas to natural gas to hydrogen in the future • Grid reliance on coal power • Air pollution • Increasing volume of weather interruptions • Fuel flexible to support your energy transition • Low-to-negative carbon power generation; negligible particulate matter (PM), NOx or SOx emissions • Resilient distributed power CAPTURE: Carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases, while generating power BEFORE • CO2, NOx and SOx emissions • CO2 for manufacturing needs to be purchased and delivered by diesel trucks • Grid-dependent power AFTER • Capture CO2 for on-site use or sequestration • Capture CO2, convert to industrial or beverage grade • Produce power and capture CO2 for the facility at the same time; able to produce hydrogen if needed SUPPLY: Hydrogen, including green and blue hydrogen • Hydrogen produced in central facilities with high carbon footprint • Central hydrogen production relies on truck distribution across long distances, adding cost and emissions • Low-to-negative carbon hydrogen from Trigeneration platform • Renewable hydrogen and power when using biogas • Simultaneously produce power, water, and hydrogen • High efficiency hydrogen from power with solid oxide electrolysis STORE: Scale renewables by converting excess power to hydrogen – then convert hydrogen back to power when it’s needed BEFORE • Renewable intermittency lowers availability • Fossil fuel platforms must be on call, and these platforms are the biggest polluters • Backup reliance prolongs life of fossil fuel platforms This Is FuelCell Energy, Inc. (FCEL) Wins for our Customers are Wins for Society In creating economic value for our customers, we help support their own sustainability goals and benefit the communities in which they operate. Quiet Operation and Aesthetic Appeal Our platforms are noise-and vibration-free Normal FuelCell Vacuum Lawn RacingConversation Module Cleaner Mower Car Improving Air Quality while Generating Power Our platforms generate power through electro.chemical reactions, rather than combustion. Virtually no pollutants are emitted as a result, making it safe to be amidst population centers. Our platforms not only generate clean power, but also help clean dirty sources of power generation, thus improving air quality. Our platforms are designated as “Ultra-Clean” under California Air Resources Board (CARB) standards. Projects Support Local Economies Situating our platforms on brownfield land helps reclaim valuable land and raise local tax revenue while enhancing local power reliability. More Land for Community Use One acre of land supports a fuel cell plant capable of generating 10 MW of power, a fraction of the land needed by a solar farm to generate the same output. A typical solar farm needs ~450 times the space required for the same annual Megawatt-hours (MWh) output. This means more land for parks, schools, or other productive and sustainable uses. The platform can be situated on polluted properties where the project pays for remediation, returning the property to city tax rolls. Waste Management The use of biogas as a fuel to the system means converting a waste product into something valuable: ultra-clean electricity and heat. Our platform’s adaptability to use biogas means that we will be able to scale this benefit with greater availability of biogas. Additionally, the productive use of anaerobic digester gas or biogas promotes the reduction of landfills, increasing sustainability. Less Energy Wasted The electrical efficiency of our carbonate fuel cell solutions ranges from approximately 47% to 60% upon initial operations of our platforms, depending on the configuration. When configured for combined heat and power (CHP), our system efficiencies can potentially reach up to 90%, depending on the application. This compares favorably to average efficiency of the U.S. electrical grid of about 40%. Our solutions are designed to deliver high electrical efficiency where the power is used, avoiding transmission. Transmission line losses average about 5% for the U.S. grid, which represents inefficiency, results in additional emissions, and is a hidden cost to ratepayers. In addition, overhead transmission lines have contributed to the ignition of wildfires in certain geographies. Sustainable Competitive Advantages A global leader in fuel cell technology innovation1 143U.S. patents patents in other covering our fuel jurisdictions covering cell technology our fuel cell technology307 U.S. patents patents pending in pending other jurisdictions50 108 • Intellectual property that we believe makes new entry to the market challenging • Technology platforms that are attractive based on market economics, not government mandates • Products characterized by sustainability over their full lifecycles compared to other technologies, such as wind turbines, solar panels and batteries for which recycling is neither economical nor practical, and that often rely on limited supply minerals, disruptive mining, and geopolitical risk • Technical expertise through a high level of employee engagement with a tenured, highly skilled workforce, operating complex processes to deliver our platform solutions • Operational excellence programs and lean resource management aim to maximize cost-reduction opportunities while improving safety and product quality • Lean management which drives proprietary manufacturing processes that increase speed to market and cost competitiveness • Strategic innovation and development relationships with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company (EMRE) provide funding and encourage technology development 1 Patents are for FuelCell Energy, Inc., including our subsidiary Versa Power Systems, Inc. FuelCell Energy has multiple patented technologies including: carbon capture, electrolysis, fuel cell efficiency 