Managing Resources for Success Operations Our commitment to sustainability extends to the resources we use to support our corporate purpose. It Begins with the Design We utilize Design for Environment (DfE) principles in the design, manufacturing, installation, and servicing of our power platforms. DfE principles aim to reduce the overall negative human health and environmental impact of a product, process, or service, when such impacts are considered across the product’s lifecycle. Our power platforms typically are designed to have operating lives of 25 to 30 years, at which time metals such as steel and copper are reclaimed for scrap value. By weight, ~93% of the entire power plant can be re-used or recycled at the end of its useful life. Longevity The power plant is designed for a life of 25-30 years. Our current generation of fuel cell modules have a targeted design life of 7 years, and we continue to work on extending the life of the fuel cell module. Repairability Power platforms are designed to be accessible for servicing and maintenance of equipment that needs periodic care. Fuel cell modules have ports for entry to perform repairs and upgrades. We have a global service center to perform repairs on fuel cell modules if needed. Upgradability We conduct R&D work on power plant and module components. Upgrades are periodically made and implemented to improve performance and life of both the balance of plant equipment and fuel cell modules. Recyclability Many of the fuel cell power plant's metallic components can be recycled, including the fuel cell module. Fuel cell modules are designed to be restacked reusing most of the hardware after refurbishment. We are committed to manufacturing efficiency. Among our key performance indicators are two that track yields and scrap in the manufacturing process. Certified Environmentally Friendly Business Processes From our production throughend-of-life management, we use environmentally friendly business processes and practices, certified to ISO 14001:2015. Our main manufacturing facility in Torrington, our corporate and R&D operations in Danbury, and our German operations are all certified to this high standard. The certification requires annual internal and external compliance audits and an effective Environmental Management System (EMS) and can be used by companies of any size in any industry. Compliance, and eventual certification, serves as proof to current and potential customers, suppliers, and stakeholders that the impact the company has on the environment (no matter how small) is being consistently measured and improved upon. We maintain a chain of custody and responsibility of our products throughout the product life cycle and strive for “cradle-to-cradle” sustainable business practices, incorporating sustainability in our corporate culture. In keeping with our commitment to ISO 14001:2015, some of our operational initiatives include: • Routing excess heat from production Waste Management While our DfE principles minimize waste generation in manufacturing, we have well-established processes in place to manage the waste that is generated. Our waste management includes: • Recovery of metals via recycling • Energy recovery through the conversion of non-recyclable waste materials into usable heat, electricity, or fuel • Dirty water is converted into clean water and contaminants are sequestered After the above processes, in FY2021 our global operations generated 14.57 metric tons of hazardous waste, 48.2% of which is being recycled, including energy metals recovery and wastewater treatment. The choice and audit of the vendors who manage our waste includes site visits to all appropriate downstream facilities. We had no reportable spills in FY2021. We are aiming for a 10% reduction in hazardous waste per MW manufactured in FY2022. Energy Use and Intensity (FY2021) Electricity:processes throughout the facility • Used in Operations - 43,212to reduce both heating costs and gigajoules (11.7% from associated emissions renewables)• The installation of high efficiency • Intensity - 172 MWh/m inlighting U.S. dollar revenue• Partially powering the corporate offices with power generated by the various Natural Gas:fuel cell configurations undergoing • Used in Operations - 55,784development in the research area. gigajoules• Utilizing cross-functional teams to • Intensity - 223 MWh/m inevaluate additional areas for continual U.S. dollar revenueimprovement Managing Resources for Success Choosing Our Suppliers with Care We use various commercially available raw materials and components to construct a fuel cell module, including nickel and stainless steel, which are key inputs in our manufacturing process. Our fuel cell power plants utilize very minimal amounts of 3TG minerals (tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold) that are classified as conflict minerals. In FY2020, only 0.00048% of the total shipment weight represented 3TG minerals. See our latest conflict minerals disclosure filed with the SEC here. Our fuel cell stack raw materials are sourced from multiple vendors and are not considered precious metals. We have a global integrated supply chain with qualified sources of supply, many of which are located in the regions in which we have established manufacturing and service operations, including Europe and Asia. We conduct an annual review of each supplier's conflict mineral content. Despite a somewhat volatile nickel market and increased pricing pressure on stainless steel direct materials, our strategic inventory purchases and negotiated fixed-price supply contracts helped mitigate the impact on our product costs. Primarily driven by the consequential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are also seeing extended shipping lead times and pricing pressure on transportation and logistics. We have implemented several initiatives to mitigate the effect of these impacts by optimizing domestic supplier shipping volumes, leveraging competition across multiple qualified freight forwarders, establishing selective direct relationships with steamship lines, and aggregating shipments with qualified suppliers. While we manufacture the fuel cells in our Torrington facility, the electrical and mechanical balance of plant (BoP) are assembled by and procured from several suppliers. All of our suppliers must undergo a stringent and rigorous qualification process. We continually evaluate and qualify new suppliers as we diversify our supplier base in our pursuit of lower costs and consistent quality. We purchase mechanical and electrical BOP components from third party vendors, based on our own proprietary designs. Overall, as we continue to grow our business, we remain focused on improving quality, increasing the competitive supply landscape, maintaining existing supplier relationships, as well as building strong new key supplier relationships to expand our supply chain options. Disclosure of environmental policies, health and safety programs, management system certifications, and compliance programs is mandatory for all suppliers. We conduct an annual review of each suppliers’ conflict mineral content. Compliance to labor laws is checked through both supplier questionnaires and on-site supplier audits. Going forward, our carbon mitigation plans may influence supplier and procurement considerations. In 2020, 81% of our direct material spend was based in the U.S., 7% in Europe, 9% in Asia, and 4% in China. Yes, in My Backyard (#YIMBY) The clean and quiet operation our customers value can also be seen at our North American manufacturing facility in Torrington, CT. Here, within a couple of miles of a church and a high school, our plant manufactures products that provide clean energy to support our manufacturing process -all the while situated in the most populated municipality and only city in Litchfield County, Connecticut. Our team members and customers will soon be able to power their hydrogen-fueled vehicles and trucks onsite. Though we fully operate and service our platforms, customers are provided product safety sheets to improve their safety awareness. We are proud of our safety record. In the 15 years of shipping commercial products, we had zero on site safety incidents which further reassures municipalities that our platforms can safely be situated near population centers. Managing Resources for Success Human Capital Introducing the Chief People Officer Andrea brings her talents to FuelCell Energy at an important moment. Now, perhaps more than ever before, organizations Today we have a unique opportunity to of all types and sizes – from all industries and reimagine how we lead in our industry, sectors – are recognizing just how valuable of an especially as we help businesses aroundasset their team members are. At FuelCell Energy, the world decarbonize. Andrea will play we agree that our people are our most important an essential role in helping us recruit,asset. In 2021, we reinforced their importance to develop, retain and direct our humanour company by creating a Chief People Officer role that reports directly to our CEO. To fill that role, we capital resources toward our biggest global brought in Andrea Jones, an experienced HR leader opportunities. The diversity of our team who has a strong track record of spearheading and our team members’ ideas drive the change management and transformation initiatives innovation that permeates everything wein the manufacturing industry. Andrea’s progressive do, from our current suite of products andapproaches have helped shape organizations’talent advanced technologies to the developmentstrategies while ensuring that the culture, practices of industry-leading, future-focused powerand operations are aligned with the strategic organizational priorities. platform solutions. — Jason Few, August 2021 A Note from Andrea People are the most important resource in our business. HR is at the heart of helping the leadership team form a positive employee and customer-oriented workplace. With so much responsibility and so much potential impact coming from the senior leadership team, there is no better choice for the steward of our employees than to have HR at the table. Conversely, decisions about the business are made with a full understanding of how it will impact our teammates, the culture, and the work environment. We are growing at a very fast pace, so staffing a full team is essential right now, in addition to outlining our diversity and inclusion framework. At FuelCell Energy, we believe diversity and inclusion is a mindset that is required for us to realize our full potential. We leverage diversity and inclusion to better understand global markets and how to create a company that attracts exceptional talent, where amazing talent wants to build their careers and contribute to enabling the world to live a life empowered by clean energy. Having these ideals at the foundation of our culture is what will help us win. I get up every morning, looking forward to what I will learn next, and how I can be part of building a legacy.  Our People at FuelCell Energy As part of our efforts to recruit and retain the best talent, we reimagined our mission and vision for human capital management and created the following mission statement: Delivering clean innovative solutions one employee at a time by enabling a work environment that stimulates passion, collaboration, engagement, and speed, to ensure a performance-based culture built upon a total rewards program with three main goals: • Attracting and retaining talented and diverse • Winning as a team – as a company, and with team members our broad ecosystem of customers, partners, suppliers, and the communities in which we• Alignment of employee and shareholders' mutual operatepurpose Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We view diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace as a business asset. The modern workforce wants to be a part of organizations that embrace these values. Our corporate purpose attracts highly qualified candidates who want to make a career among colleagues that embrace our purpose, that value our rich heritage of innovation and deep knowledge of clean energy technology. Current Diversity Stats U.S. Only1 U.S. Only Connecticut Labor2 78% Male Team Members 22% Female Team members 77.03% White 65.90% 5.23% Black & African American 12.20% 6.69% Asian 5.00% 6.98% Hispanic 16.90% 0.29% American Indian/Alaska Native 0.60% 1 U.S.-based team members 3.78% Two or more races 2.50%2 U.S. Census Bureau QuickFacts: Connecticut Managing Resources for Success Health and Safety At FuelCell Energy, we are committed to conducting business in a safe and environmentally sound manner by promoting a culture of shared responsibility throughout the organization. We integrate environmental, occupational health, and safety management practices in all aspects of our business and strive towards the prevention of pollution and minimization of waste. Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EH&S) systems and related performance targets promote continual improvement, the prevention of injuries and incidents, and compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations. As an essential employer, we never stopped operations, implemented safety protocols, and developed a COVID management plan based on the guidance provided by the CDC, OSHA, Connecticut, and California. Projects, R&D, and power plant servicing continued, and remote work was ongoing. For three months, we closed our manufacturing locations while we secured the necessary personal protective equipment and revamped our workspace and processes to keep our team safe. During the three months when our factory team members could not work, they received full pay and benefits. Not a single job was lost during the period. We take EH&S very seriously and we have an expert at the helm: Joe Ulevicus, our Senior Director, EH&S, Plant Engineering and Operational Excellence. Joe has been with us for 15 years and has over 30 years of EH&S experience in construction, remediation, R&D, and manufacturing. He also has a Masters in Occupational Health & Safety with a concentration in Environmental Management. Joe leads the team effort to protect the safety and health of personnel and the environment by: • Providing the tools, training, information, and support necessary, in accordance with all applicable local, state, and federal requirements • Fostering and maintaining an excellent relationship with our staff to advance our program and culture • Maintaining ISO 45001:2018 certification regarding occupational health and safety management Training and Development We offer opportunities for our team members to continue to learn and develop new skills through on-the-job training programs and continuing education classes; this is how we believe we will attract, recruit, hire, and retain the best talent. opportunities 70/20/10 Development/Training Model 70%is learned on the job 20%throughmentorship 10%throughformal training Looking to the future: We currently have a rewards and recognition program in place, and we’re in the process of creating/enhancing: • Wellness program • Recruitment efforts within the community/ efforts to keep talent in Connecticut • DE&I commitment statement • ESG raters and reporting standards inputs • Expanded employee stock ownership plan in 2022 Employee Spotlight Marcos De Los Santos Associate Instrumentation & Controls Engineer "Biogas is something that every community has whenever there's a wastewater treatment plant. Biogas is just part of the byproducts that are normally burned off, contributing to air pollution. That's where FuelCell is able to play a part. We can take that biogas and use it to produce energy instead of it going off into the atmosphere wastefully. We can use it to make energy and have it right in the power plant next to communities with no impact to their health. FuelCell has a unique role to play in the future of the green energy grid." Laine Blummer Associate Mechanical Engineer "What I think everybody can agree with is that of course we should switch to green energy: solar power or wind power, hydropower… whatever it may be. But it's really difficult to do that just at the drop of a hat. Making these big changes and shifts to green energy really takes a lot of time and dedication. I think fuel cell technology is the perfect transition between the infrastructure that we already have and a greener future." Tony LeoExecutive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer "The new thing coming along is our hydrogen generation technologies, and I think they have the potential to be a game-changer in either finding a way to use curtailed wind and solar power to make something valuable (hydrogen), or making hydrogen where hydrogen is needed, like in vehicle fuels. Drivers will have another alternative for zero carbon vehicle fuel with a longer range and faster filling up compared to battery vehicles, for example. We think we can do it cleaner than current ways of making hydrogen more efficiently. But as we put more and more wind and solar on the grid, we have to find a way to store that energy when it makes too much so that we can deliver it back when it's not making enough. What the average person would enjoy from that is a lower and lower carbon footprint of the power that they’re using." 