Responsible Supply Chain ManagementSCREENING
All new suppliers undergo a rigorous qualification process using a balanced scorecard which focuses on Quality, Cost, Flexibility, Service, Technology and Sustainability. We regularly map our supply base and conduct an annual risk assessment to identify potential high-risk suppliers. In 2021, we leveraged third-party tools and indexes on global slavery, forced labor and other environmental, social, governance (ESG) aspects to identify 
high-risk suppliers based on industry, geography and spend.CERTIFICATION
First Solar’s supplier agreements require compliance with applicable laws and regulations in addition to First Solar requirements, which may exceed local legal requirements. Under the terms of First Solar’s supplier agreements, suppliers must commit to comply with the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct and require their suppliers to do the same. Suppliers must also represent, warrant and covenant that they will not use child, slave, prisoner or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment in the supply of goods or provision of services. Violation of any labor standards may result in the termination of First Solar’s business relationship with such party.REPORTINGFirst Solar has established a third-party operated Ethics Hotline to provide an anonymous and confidential solution to communicate serious legal, financial, ethical or human rights concerns. No human rights concerns were reported in 2021. The Ethics Hotline ensures that serious concerns are heard and are acted upon immediately. Any associate, employee of First Solar, supplier and other external stakeholder can report concerns toll-free via our Ethics Hotline.152At First Solar, we take a comprehensive approach to responsible sourcing- from our policy, supplier contracts, screening, mapping and auditing, to training and reporting.43TRAININGIn 2021, we provided Transparency across Supply Chain training to all First Solar associates involved in procurement and achieved a 100% completion rate. The training includes the following objectives: recognizing and communicating awareness of human trafficking risks relevant to First Solar’s business; ensuring compliance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657) and global human rights regulations; and identifying and avoiding trafficked labor in each specific business unit at First Solar.AUDITS First Solar audits new and high risk suppliers on quality as well as environmental management, health and safety, labor, human rights, and ethics by leveraging the RBA Code as a framework. In 2021, First Solar became a member of the RBA which gives us access to their advanced due diligence tools and programs, and enables us to conduct third-party audits of potential high-risk suppliers by leveraging their Validated Assessment Program (VAP) — a leading standard for onsite compliance verification and effective, shareable audits. We work with suppliers to drive improvements and to remedy adverse impacts through Corrective Action Plans. In 2022, we completed our first RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audit at our manufacturing facilities in Ohio and achieved platinum status, the highest possible rating.First Solar Sustainability Report 202230Supply Chain OverviewOur thin film module manufacturing process uses approximately 30 types of raw materials and components to produce a solar module. Critical raw materials and components in our manufacturing process include CdTe, front glass coated with transparent conductive oxide, organics such as photo resist, tempered back glass, frames, packaging components such as interlayer, cord plate/cord plate cap, cables and solar connectors. As part of our sourcing strategy, we are enabling suppliers that are near to our manufacturing locations, thereby reducing the transportation costs, environmental footprint as well as the lead times for such materials.First Solar has a global set of specifications for the materials used in our products which results in a tightly controlled supply chain, superior traceability and quality products. We also own and operate the facilities which manufacture our modules- turning a sheet of glass into a completed module all under one roof. In contrast, many traditional tier one crystalline silicon PV manufacturers have multiple products, processes and bill of materials with a sprawling supply chain, which includes multiple process steps (polysilicon/ingots/wafers/cells/modules) often across multiple continents, resulting in increased risks relating to variability, quality, reliability and traceability. In 2021, First Solar spent more than $3.1 billion on our global supply chain. Our data includes our manufacturing bill of materials, project spend, capital spend and indirect expenses. The data is based on the region to which purchase orders are issued. 29% of our global spend was spent on local suppliers in the U.S. to support our module manufacturing operations in 2021. In total, we estimate we have created over 42,000 direct, indirect and induced jobs across the supply chain worldwide. Approximately $53 million was awarded to women-, minority-, and disabled veteran-business enterprises (WMDVBE) in 2021, based on actual spend.2021 Supplier Spendby Region (%)21%49%30%AmericasEMEAAPACFirst Solar Sustainability Report 202231GRI Indicator Title 2021
Disclosure Social impacts Used for Screening 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteria  100% Suppliers are screened on the following social criteria:• Clean and safe facilities • Minimum wages • Working hours (allowing at least one day off per week) • Health and safety practices • Non discrimination • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Humane treatment and prevention of harassment 
or abuse • Prohibition of child labor • Prohibition of forced or compulsory labor • Collective bargaining • Business ethics (including corruption, extortion, embezzlement, conflict of interest, bribery, excessive gift giving, disclosure of information, intellectual property, fair business advertising and competition, privacy and non-retaliation.) • Conflict minerals 414-2 Negative impacts on social impacts in supply chain and actions taken 5 In 2021, First Solar conducted six audits which included environmental and social criteria based on the RBA Code of Conduct and one supplier completed a third-party VAP audit. Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions in 2021, most of the audits were conducted virtually. There were zero priority non-conformances and only one (or 14%) of the suppliers were identified as having significant actual or potential negative social impacts. Five major non-conformances were identified in the areas of labor, health and safety. Corrective action plans were put in place for the supplier in Malaysia to ensure workers get at least one day off every seven days, improve emergency response programs, First Aid kit maintenance and PPE inventory log, establish cafeteria food handling procedure and religious accommodation policies. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 100% Suppliers are screened on the following environmental criteria:• Environmental management systems• Pollution prevention and resource reduction • Solid waste management • Hazardous substances management • Environmental permits • Air emissions monitoring and management • Water management • Energy consumption and GHG emissions 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken  2 In 2021, First Solar conducted six audits which included environmental and social criteria based on the RBA Code of Conduct and one supplier completed a third-party VAP audit. Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions in 2021, most of the audits were conducted virtually. There were zero priority non-conformances and only one (or 14%) of the suppliers were identified as having significant actual or potential negative environmental impacts. Two major environmental non-conformances were identified. Corrective action plans were put in place for the supplier in Malaysia to conduct scheduled waste vendor assessments and revise its environmental discharge management procedure. Responsible Supply Chain ManagementHuman Rights Standards and PracticesFirst Solar is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking and slavery across our operations and supply chain. As part of this commitment, we stand against all forms of modern slavery and have zero tolerance for forced labor, human trafficking and child labor. Our 2021 Transparency in Supply Chains and Modern Slavery Statement describes our efforts to address the risks of modern slavery across our operations and supply chain. The statement was published in accordance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) and the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, and is publicly available on our website.Our Labor and Human Rights Policy, which references international human rights declarations and due diligence guidelines, applies to everyone at First Solar and its affiliates, including all associates, officers, and directors. As a member of the Responsible Business Alliance, we implement the RBA Code of Conduct within our operations and our supply chain. Under the terms of First Solar’s supplier agreements, suppliers must commit to comply with the RBA Code of Conduct and require their suppliers to do the same. Suppliers must also represent, warrant and covenant that they will not use child, slave, prisoner or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment in the supply of goods or provision of services. Our Chief Compliance Officer manages First Solar’s Global Compliance Organization which oversees our ethics and compliance program. The goal of this organization is to implement policies, processes, training, monitoring and general awareness programs to promote ethics and compliance with applicable legal and regulatory standards. Subject to the requirements of local law, and after due diligence and full and fair investigation, any employee found to have directly engaged in or knowingly engaged suppliers engaged in slave labor or human trafficking will be subject to immediate termination of employment.Conflict MineralsFirst Solar is committed to operating a supply chain free of conflict minerals, which include gold, tin, tantalum, and tungsten and their derivatives (or any other mineral or its derivative determined by the Secretary of State) whose extraction and trade are financing conflict in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country (together, the “covered countries”). To the extent we source minerals from the covered countries, we are dedicated to protecting and respecting human rights by responsibly sourcing such minerals. We have a long-standing commitment to conducting our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and condemn human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transport, or trade of minerals. Similarly, we have a no-tolerance policy with respect to corruption, money laundering, and/or bribery. We require all direct suppliers to agree to follow such principles. First Solar’s  Conflict Mineral Policy is communicated to our suppliers and is publicly available on our website. We have an operating, cross-functional internal governance team with representatives from our supply chain, compliance, and legal departments to ensure policy statements and control processes are followed.We support sourcing from the covered countries when performed in accordance with accepted international standards, specifically within the guidance from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”). Suppliers with minerals not found to be conflict free in their sourcing will be given a reasonable amount of time to begin sourcing minerals responsibly and in a manner consistent with the principles of responsible sourcing from conflict-affected areas. First Solar reserves the right to take appropriate actions up to and including identifying an alternate source of supply or discontinuing purchases from a supplier should a supplier’s efforts to comply with this policy be deficient.As we do not source directly from smelter or refiner processing facilities, we rely on the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Program (RMAP), previously known as Conflict-Free Smelter Program, to oversee and coordinate third-party audits of these facilities. The RMAP audit protocols and procedures require the smelters or refiners to engage specially trained third-party auditors to independently verify that these smelters and refiners can be considered conflict free. Our conflict minerals risk mitigation plan defines supplier-risk management strategies, including (i) continued procurement, (ii) assistance in identifying alternate sources of supply, and (iii) disengagement, the severity of which is at the discretion of our executive management. We aim to advance the effectiveness of our due diligence efforts and further enhance our compliance processes by, among other things, encouraging non-RMAP validated processing facilities to become validated either through the RMAP or a RMAP-recognized third-party audit program.First Solar is committed to complying with the reporting obligations required under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act and the SEC’s rules on conflict minerals, including the requirement to conduct inquiries and, if necessary, due diligence into the source and chain of custody of any conflict minerals included in our products. First Solar’s Specialized Disclosure and Conflict Minerals reports are available on our public website (see “Specialized Disclosure” tab in SEC Filings).