Message from the CEOOver the past two years, the global demand for solar photovoltaics (PV) continued to soar, with nearly 200 gigawatts (GW) installed worldwide. With cumulative global PV deployment now nearing half a terawatt, the transition to a low carbon economy is well on its way. By manufacturing the industry’s most eco-efficient PV modules and developing some of the world’s largest and most successful PV power plants, First Solar is reshaping the world’s energy future and creating enduring value for generations to come. At First Solar, our vision is to lead the world’s sustainable energy future through operational excellence, industry leadership, and by driving innovation across the solar value chain. Our differentiated thin film PV technology provides a sustainable solution to some of the world’s most pressing challenges including climate change, energy security, water scarcity, and the unsustainable growing consumption of natural resources.  As we continue to scale globally, we are contributing to a healthier planet while creating shared value for local communities. In 2018, we began high-volume manufacturing of our Series 6 module technology and broke ground on our 1.2GW PV manufacturing facility in Perrysburg, Ohio- the largest and most high-tech solar manufacturing facility and excellence center in the U.S. The $400 million expansion is expected to create 500 new jobs in northwestern Ohio, while, in Vietnam, we invested approximately $830 million to retrofit a legacy factory and build an additional facility, creating over 1,000 jobs locally. We have also incorporated energy and water efficiency measures into new buildings and tool designs for Series 6 manufacturing. Our commitment to sustainability is also extended to the utility-scale solar power plants that we engineer and construct. For instance, during construction of the 280 megawatt (MW) California Flats solar project, we significantly reduced trenching and ground disturbances by housing electrical cables above ground- an innovation to minimize potential impacts on cultural resources and the environment. Beyond our products and projects, we remain committed to help manage the growing penetration of renewables. First Solar is driving industry thought leadership on grid integration and storage solutions that will make solar more dispatchable and enable greater carbon emissions reductions by minimizing curtailment. Additionally, as part of our efforts to empower the next generation, First Solar partners with universities to promote Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) programs and inspire students from diverse backgrounds to pursue a career in solar. We had almost 600 interns at our global sites between 2017 and 2018. First Solar is further improving the quality of life in communities where we operate and build projects, by aligning our Global Charitable Giving Program with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2017, First Solar donated nearly $800,000 in cash and in-kind contributions to support charities and non-profits that promote green education and economic inclusion, ensure access to clean energy and water, and contribute to a circular economy. In addition to our external sustainability initiatives, we are committed to reducing our operational impact. In 2018, we made significant strides in advancing our internal sustainability efforts by rolling out our Global Sustainability Ambassador program and implementing our sustainability mission to lead by example and empower the next generation. In line with our commitment to environmental stewardship and corporate social responsibility, we have continued to minimize the environmental impacts and enhance the socioeconomic benefits of our products and projects across their lifecycle. With every PV module we manufacture and solar project we develop, we are transforming our energy future and making a difference in local communities around the world. Thank you for your interest in this Sustainability Report, and in First Solar’s vision to lead the world’s sustainable energy future. Mark WidmarChief Executive Officer2 ABOUT FIRST SOLARFIRST SOLAR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2.About First SolarFirst Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive PV solar energy solutions with over 17GW installed in more than 35 countries. We design, manufacture and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology and we develop, design, construct, and sell PV power plants that primarily use the solar modules we manufacture. We provide operations and maintenance (O&M) services to plant owners that use solar modules manufactured by us or by other third-party manufacturers. Our power plant offerings diversify the global energy portfolio and reduce the impact of fuel-price volatility while delivering an economically attractive and environmentally friendly alternative or complement to fossil fuel electricity generation. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, First Solar’s solar PV modules and systems protect and enhance the environment.First Solar’s 17GW of installed capacity produces enough electricity to power more than 8 million average homes and displace nearly 12 million metric tons of CO2 per year, based on worldwide averages. This amounts to over $460 million in avoided costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions and over $323 million in avoided air pollutants per year, assuming a social cost of $0.02/kWh for carbon and $0.014 for other power sector emissions.1PV ModulesOur mission is to provide cost-advantaged solar technology through innovation, customer engagement, industry leadership and operational excellence. PV Power Plant1 Wiser et al., The environmental and public health benefits of achieving high penetrations of solar energy in the United States, Energy 113 (2016) 472-486.Our Operations~6,400 
ASSOCIATESOfficesManufacturing First Solar is headquartered in Tempe, Arizona with regional offices around the world and manufacturing facilities in Perrysburg, Ohio; Kulim, Malaysia; and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Our annual manufacturing capacity has grown from 25 megawatts (MW) in 2005 to more than 2,280 MW in 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 6,400 associates (our term for full and part-time employees) compared to approximately 4,100 in 2017. More than 70 percent of our associates work in manufacturing and approximately 10 percent work in our systems business. The remainder of our associates are in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative positions.Associates by Region in 2017Associates by Function in 20170.2%13%6%10%33%66%71%1%ManufacturingEMEAAPACEPC and Operations
& MaintenanceR&DSales, General & AdministrativeNorth AmericaLatin AmericaCSR Awards and Recognitions 2017-20182018 - Forbes and JUST Capital’s JUST 100 - America’s Best Corporate Citizens- Ranked #71 out of 890 
U.S. companies - First Solar, Inc.2018 - Indeed’s Best Places to Work in Phoenix - Ranked #1 - First Solar, Inc.2018 - Human Resources Minister Awards - Grand Winner for Large Manufacturing Sector - First Solar Malaysia 2018 - Malaysia International HR Awards - Grand Winner and Gold Award for Employer of Choice - First Solar Malaysia 2018 - HR Excellence Awards - Excellence in HR Change Management Bronze Award - First Solar Malaysia2018 - Golden Globe Tiger Awards - Solar Energy Leadership Award and Best Change Management Program - 
First Solar Malaysia 2018 - International Federation of Training & Development Organizations Global HRD - Certificate of Merit 
in Best HRD Practice - First Solar Malaysia 2018 - International SOS Foundation Duty of Care Awards - Honorable Mention (third place) for Sustainability - 
First Solar Malaysia 2017 - Thomson Reuters 2017 Top 100 Global Energy Leaders - Top 25 renewable energy subsector honoree - 
First Solar, Inc.2017 - Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies - Ranked #55 out of 1,000 of the largest U.S. companies - 
First Solar, Inc.2017 - Forbes and JUST Capital’s JUST 100 - America’s Best Corporate Citizens- Ranked #91 out 
of 877 U.S. companies - First Solar, Inc.2017 - Golden Globe Tiger Awards - Organization with Innovative HR Practices and Best Leadership 
Development Program for Workers - First Solar Malaysia2017 - Malaysian Institute of Human Resource Management (MIHRM) International HR Awards - 
HR Best Practices Gold Award - First Solar Malaysia2017 - HR Excellence Awards - Excellence in Workplace Wellbeing Bronze Award - First Solar Malaysia2017 - ISS-Oekom Corporate “Prime” Rating - Demonstrating best-in-class environmental, social, 
governance performance - First Solar, Inc.PMHAPRIME MINISTER’SHIBISCUS AWARD5 | About First SolarSustainability At First SolarAt First Solar we define sustainability as our “capacity to endure and scale.” Our sustainability approach enables us to achieve long-term growth while following environmentally and socially responsible practices. First Solar’s sustainability program drives the company’s commitment to the triple bottom line of “people, planet and profit” through our approach to responsible life cycle management, environmental footprint analysis, greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction, waste management, global charitable giving, operational cost reduction, and industry best practices such as responsible land use and our global PV module recycling services. We are committed to minimizing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle, from raw material sourcing through product end-of-life. First Solar’s Corporate Sustainability Policy is available on our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/Resources/Sustainability-Documents?ty=Policies&re=&lnSOCIAL• Creating jobs in local communities• Ensuring a safe and 
engaging workplace• Promoting diversity, development and 
education programs• Partnering with responsible suppliers for a sustainable supply chainECONOMIC• Enabling affordable access 
to clean electricity globally• Producing more energy 
with a lower levelized cost 
of electricity• Eliminating fuel price 
volatility and hedging costs• Delivering the most 
bankable PV solutions in 
the industryENVIRONMENTAL• Providing the leading eco-efficient PV technology• Operating world-class manufacturing facilities• Applying responsible PV construction practices• Offering globally available recycling servicesAs part of our efforts to “think globally and act locally”, we rolled out a global internal Sustainability Ambassadors Program in 2018 which enables First Solar associates at various sites to identify and implement local sustainability initiatives.As part of a company-wide “Reduce-Reuse-Recycle” campaign starting in 2019, First Solar’s sustainability ambassadors devised a strategy to eliminate Styrofoam, straws and single-use plastic utensils from our cafeteria in Ohio. In Malaysia, the local team developed a solution to turn food waste from our cafeteria into organic fertilizer.Economic SustainabilityEconomic sustainability for First Solar is about balancing our business model across growth, liquidity and profitability. We are creating enduring economic value by implementing a long-term roadmap to achieve our technology and cost leadership goals while operating as efficiently as we can in each environment where we do business. As part of our long-term strategic plans, we are focusing on opportunities in which our PV solar energy solutions can compete directly with fossil fuel offerings on an LCOE or similar basis, or complement such fossil fuel electricity offerings. Our corporate strategy focuses on providing utility-scale PV solar energy solutions using our modules to key geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass-scale PV electricity, including markets throughout the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region, the Middle East, Europe, and Africa.Competing in a dynamic industry requires us to be nimble and operate as efficiently as possible. We are prioritizing market opportunities worldwide relative to our core strengths and are allocating resources around the globe accordingly. First Solar has dedicated, and intends to continue to dedicate, significant capital and human resources to reduce the total installed cost of PV solar energy, to optimize the design and logistics around our PV solar energy solutions, and to ensure that our solutions integrate well into the overall electricity ecosystem of each specific market. We expect that, over time, an increasing portion of our consolidated net sales, operating income and cash flows may come from solar offerings in the key geographic markets described above as we execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan.We are providing PV solar energy solutions using our modules to key geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass-scale PV electricityDriving Down the Cost of SolarOver the years, First Solar’s utility-scale power plants have led the way in driving down the cost and ensuring the reliability of solar electricity, enabling the global transition to renewables. Solar has become a valued component of the global generation portfolio, able to hold its own with other energy sources in terms of cost competitiveness and energy yield. First Solar provides PV energy solutions that diversify the energy portfolio and reduce the risk of fuel-price volatility, while delivering a levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) that is cost competitive with fossil fuels today. On a LCOE basis, we currently provide electricity costs of between $0.03-$0.06/kWh depending on the region and other factors.Unsubsidized levelized cost of solar electricity compared to conventional energy sources.22017 Financial HighlightsIn November 2016, we announced plans for the introduction of our Series 6 technology- a larger, more efficient and still recyclable PV module. To enable this transition, we started ramping down production of our Series 4 modules. As a result, we produced 2.3 GW of solar modules in 2017, which represented a 26 percent decrease from 2016. This temporary reduction in production capacity allowed us to use our existing manufacturing infrastructure to more quickly and cost effectively deploy our Series 6 module technology to best position us for long-term competitiveness and growth. During 2017, we ran our manufacturing facilities at approximately 99 percent capacity utilization, which represented a 2 percent increase from 2016. 2  Lazard, Levelized Cost of Energy Analysis (Version 11), 2017. First Solar global LCOE range is based on internal data. Our net sales totaled $2.9 billion in 2017, which was consistent with net sales in 2016. Despite uncertainty around global demand strength and pressure on module pricing in 2017, we generated record operating cash flows of $1.3 billion in 2017, which contributed to our ending cash and marketable security balance of $3 billion.We provide a detailed account of 
our risks and opportunities related to climate change in our 2018 Carbon Disclosure Response.The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the 
year ended 31 December 2017:Consolidated Financial Statement 31 December 2017 (in thousands) % of net sales Net Sales $ 2,941,324 100% Cost of Sales 2,392,377 81.3% Gross Profit  548,947 18.7% Operating Expenses Research & Development 88,573 3.0% Selling, General and Administrative 202,699 6.9% Production Start-Up 42,643 1.4% Restructuring and asset impairments 37,181 1.3% Operating Income Operating (loss) Income 177,851 6% Foreign Currency Loss, Net (9,640) (0.3)% Interest Income 35,704 1.2% Interest Expense, Net (25,765) (0.9)% Other Income, Net 23,965 0.8% Income Tax Expense (371,996) (12.6)% Equity in Earnings, Net of Tax 4,266 0.1% Net Loss (165,615) (5.6)% Corporate GovernanceBoard of DirectorsFirst Solar’s business is conducted under the oversight of our board of directors. The primary responsibility of the board is to oversee and review senior management’s performance of First Solar’s business operations. For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipExecutive ManagementFirst Solar’s CEO and executive management team are responsible for managing the Company’s day-to-day business operations, including the preparation of financial statements and short- and long-term strategic planning. For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipSustainability GovernanceFirst Solar’s Chief Operating Officer has the highest level of direct responsibility for sustainability within the company. Leveraging sustainability as a business enabler is one of the COO’s executive goals. First Solar’s Senior Vice President of Global Technical Services reports into the COO and is in charge of overseeing the company’s global technical services and programs including Environmental Health and Safety (EHS), Sustainability, Recycling, Quality and Reliability, as well as Post-Sales and Warranty Support. The SVP of Global Technical Services provides regular sustainability updates to the executive leadership team and the Board. The SVP of Global Technical Services also leads the company’s Sustainability Council which is composed of senior leaders from Supply Chain, Government Affairs, EHS, Sustainability, Business Development, Technology & Product Development, Legal, Human Resources, Finance, as well as the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and the Chief Information Officer. The Sustainability Council promotes the implementation of cross-functional sustainability strategies and drives the company’s sustainability goals, initiatives and programs with a focus on resource efficiency, supply chain risk management, transparency, and utilizing sustainability as a lever for growth. Ethical Business ConductFirst Solar holds ethical business conduct as a core principle and is committed to operating at the highest ethical standards in every area of our business, at all times. First Solar’s Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics Policy demonstrates our commitment to this principle and guides the company’s business conduct. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all directors and associates, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other executive officers on a global basis. We have a long-standing commitment to conducting our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This commitment, along with our culture of agility, collaboration and accountability, defines our accepted behaviors and enables us to advance our mission to provide cost-advantaged solar technology through rigorous safety practices, innovation, customer engagement, industry leadership and operational excellence.Our Culture At First Solar, we believe that innovative and passionate people, working ethically and safely, form the foundation of our success. We generate results by fostering a culture based on agility, collaboration and accountability. Our formal internal Vision, Mission and Culture structure includes a collection of acceptable behaviors that support safety first, mutual respect for all associates, empowered collaboration between functions and individuals, and personal ownership of decisions, performance and results.Collective Bargaining and Freedom of AssociationFirst Solar recognizes that in the locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or not bargain collectively in accordance with local laws. First Solar respects those rights and is committed to creating an environment of open communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, concerns or problems, and work together to address workplace issues.Anti-Corruption First Solar performs risk assessments that consider the possibility of fraud and related indicators. We currently operate in, and may expand into, many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. First Solar’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy requires all associates to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and all other applicable local anti-corruption laws. The Global Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits bribery, kickbacks, and the giving of other improper payments to obtain or retain business and covers any person engaged to perform work on behalf of First Solar including freelancers, independent contractors, temporary contractors, independent professionals, agents and consultants. We communicate our anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies in our technical service contracts. All First Solar associates are required to participate in periodic anti-corruption training. Advanced FCPA training is provided to associates in higher risk profile jobs and tailored according to the region. First Solar has implemented processes and procedures to help ensure compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. These processes and procedures are monitored and audited on an ongoing basis.AgilityCollaborationAccountabilityWe are creative and resilient.We help each other succeed.We own the results of our actions.