8.First Solar Workforce First Solar is committed to creating an engaging and rewarding work environment for our associates. We strongly promote ongoing training and career progression opportunities, as well as an open communication environment that encourages diverse ideas, creative problem-solving and innovation.In 2017, First Solar Malaysia received a Golden Globe Tiger Award for “Organization with Innovative HR Practices and Best Leadership Development Program for Workers” as well as the HR Excellence bronze award for “Excellence in Workplace Wellbeing.” First Solar Malaysia was recognized for its “Wellness for Life” program which promotes a healthier working environment through weekly Zumba and aerobics sessions, healthy eating campaigns, Solarthon fun runs and Cyclethons, quarterly blood donation campaigns, and a Wellness rewards program that allows associates who participate in wellness events to collect points that can be redeemed for prizes.First Solar Malaysia’s Wellness for Life Committee organized the first “Solarthon” for Kulim associates in 2017.As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 4,100 associates. The 24 percent reduction in our workforce was due to ramping down production of our Series 4 modules in order to enable the transition to our Series 6 module technology.Workforce Breakdown by Gender18%19%2016201782%81%MaleFemale5,358 ASSOCIATES4,130 ASSOCIATESWorkforce Gender Breakdown by Region in 201717%19%22%10%Latin AmericaNorth AmericaAPACEMEA81%83%78%90%FemaleMaleNew Associate Hires by Age, Gender and Region in 2017* MaleFemaleAPACEMEA0.31%Under 30Under 300.36%0%0.5%0.26%30-5030-500.03%0.02%Over 50Over 500.02%0.02%0.01%0.02%0.03%0.20%0.04%0.06%0.00%0.10%0.30%0.40%0.50%0.60%0.70%0.80%0.05%0.00%NORTH AMERICAUnder 300.57%0.24%0.35%0.73%30-500.03%Over 500.12%1.20%1.00%0.80%0.60%0.40%0.20%0.00%*The new hire rate is calculated as a percent of the total workforce. There were no new hires in Latin America in 2016.Associate Turnover Rate by Age, Gender and Region in 2017*FemaleMale8.49%1.7%APACEMEANorth AmericaLatin AmericaAPACEMEANorth AmericaLatin AmericaAPACEMEANorth AmericaLatin AmericaAPACEMEA0.02%0.03%Under 300.35%1.44%0%7.82%2.85%0.02%0.16%30-503.84%1.04%0.05%0.02%0.24%0.02%0.02%Over 500.36%1.89%0.2% (male)0.03%Unknown0.02%0%11%9%8%7%10%6%5%4%1%3%2%*The turnover rate is calculated as a percent of the total workforce (as of December 31, 2016). Includes voluntary and involuntary turnover. Total involuntary turnover amounts to approximately 7%.DiversityFirst Solar is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE) that values and respects the importance of a diverse and inclusive workforce. As a company we prohibit biases based on race, color, gender, sexual preference, age, religion, national origin, disability, military status, genetic information or any other protected classifications. At First Solar, we hire, pay and promote based on an individual’s qualifications, skills, ability to do the required work, merit and overall potential. First Solar’s entry-level wages are above the minimum wage in all jurisdictions we manufacture in. First Solar has an Affirmative Action Policy (AAP), which consistently looks at women and minorities in the organization as a whole, including leadership. First Solar makes good faith efforts to improve year over year its representation in those areas. First Solar’s EOE policy is available online: http://www.firstsolar.com/en-EMEA/-/media/First-Solar/Documents/Careers/FirstSolar_EEO_Statement.ashx?la=en. First Solar monitors ethnicity and gender diversification on an annual basis through our Affirmative Action Plan reports and takes action as appropriate. In addition, our Talent Acquisition team annually evaluates the breakdown of applicants and hires based on gender and ethnicity. First Solar ensures that all our candidate pools include a diverse candidate by sending job postings to diversity and minority sites for targeted recruitment. We perform annual audits on our Performance Review Process to ensure that the process does not negatively impact our female and diverse populations.Gender diversity is a priority in selecting managers for our leadership development programs. We strive for a participant mix of 20 percent female managers. Over the last two years, 24 percent of female leaders (director level and above) have been or are in the process of being executive coached by a First Solar Sponsored Coach (compared to 8.5 percent of male leaders). Partnering with an executive coach can help a leader focus on using their strengths and building key competencies needed to achieve strategic business objectives. These leaders are encouraged to have development plans in place to support their career development. First Solar’s minority networking groups and women’s affinity groups such as Tempe’s Curie Club, Perrysburg’s Women’s Networking Group, and Kulim’s Women@FirstSolar, contribute to both formal and informal efforts to promote diversity and inclusion across the company. In 2017, six diversity trainings were sent out to the organization under our monthly Organizational Development & Training email. First Solar continues to develop programs and policies such as alternative work schedules to enable women to work part-time while transitioning back into the workforce.Training and Education All of First Solar’s current, full-time employees receive regular performance and career development reviews. First Solar associates and managers can access training on-demand. Associates are offered access to a video library that contains micro learning, in-depth video courses, and eLearning. We also support training to meet specific learning needs. Total training hours in 2017 amounted to 35,752 hours. This excludes training related to Manufacturing, IT, EPC, O&M, HR, and other functional groups as well as on-demand training available through our video library (Biz Library). First Solar’s Associate Educational Assistance Program (AEAP) provides financial support for US associates seeking to pursue higher education at certificate, diploma, degree and doctorate level. The AEAP encourages associates to improve their skills and knowledge to prepare them for new opportunities within the company.Training Hours by Gender in 201798MaleFemalePerformance ManagementFirst Solar’s Performance Management process is designed to support associates in achieving their highest performance and potential levels. Objectives include aligning individual and team goals to First Solar goals; establishing accountability; and fostering ongoing and meaningful conversations. Discussions about alignment and development are expected to be regular, at least each quarter in the form of a Check-In meeting. These quarterly meetings are used to discuss goals, development plans, feedback, and recognition. One-on-one meetings with managers are conducted weekly or bi-weekly with the objective of addressing operational tasks and day-to-day work.First Solar facilitates a ‘Balanced Review’ to ensure well-rounded feedback by including the following components: • Goals: Associates’ goals are set early in the year, cascaded from the top, focused; and then discussed during quarterly check-ins.• Feedback: Both associates and managers may request formal feedback in our HR system at any time.• Development: Every associate in a professional role is asked to have a Development Plan (a unique plan for professional growth) logged in our HR system.• Self-Summary: Before the annual manager evaluation launches, associates are invited to share summaries of their annual accomplishments.• Manager Review: In addition to providing informal feedback on a quarterly basis, managers are required to provide a formal evaluation at the end of each year, taking into consideration the ‘Balanced Review’ inputs.Career Development and Leadership ProgramsFirst Solar offers short-term programs and long-term career development opportunities for individuals at various levels in the company. Our leadership programs provide a broad range of executive, managerial and leadership training, plus continuing opportunities for professional development. First Solar WayIn 2018, First Solar partnered with the highly recognized Arizona State University to offer First Solar Way to senior leaders across the company. First Solar Way provides classroom lectures by internal executives and external experts, experiential learning, strategic project work, leadership assessments, and career planning over a three-month period. First Solar’s executive staff selects participants during talent review based on job performance, potential, and functional area of expertise. During the program, participants worked with high performing peers from other business functions to gain the skills to be outstanding contributors to our success.Leadership EssentialsFirst Solar Leadership Essentials is a two-part learning experience program designed for mid-level managers, nominated by a Director or Vice President, to develop their leadership skills. The program provides First Solar executive insights on leadership and has multiple learning objectives including communication and conflict management, emotional intelligence, cross-functional team development, business and financial acumen, and personal coaching and development planning.Management FoundationsThe newest program offering in leadership development is Management Foundations. This two and a half day program is aimed at helping new people managers build skills to effectively lead people and teams. This includes having meaningful one-on-one discussions, setting goals and expectations, coaching, delegation and recognizing associates. The program highlights the various roles that a manager occupies as a learner, coach, team builder, motivator and communicator. The program experience includes action planning and development plans to support continuous manager and associate development.EXECUTIVE 
DEVELOPMENTLEADERSHIP
DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATE
DEVELOPMENTTEAM
DEVELOPMENTEmployee Recognition ProgramFirst Solar’s company-wide reward and recognition program – YOUshine – regularly recognizes associates for their great work and contribution to the company. YOUshine is a social recognition program used by all global associates to give and receive recognition. Additionally, the tool recognizes associate milestone anniversaries, inviting peers to share congratulations. Points are awarded for various levels of achievement and may be redeemed for gift cards and merchandise. Over the last three years, since the program launch in April 2015, First Solar associates enjoyed over 37,842 recognition moments. 75 percent of our workforce received at least one award annually. Excellence in Action AwardsThe Excellence in Action Awards (formerly CEO Awards) are the highest YOUshine rewards and recognition levels at First Solar. Via a nomination process, the executive leadership team selects associates and/or teams who went above and beyond while also demonstrating the company’s culture attributes— Agility, Collaboration, and Accountability. In 2017, we received 126 nominations and recognized four initiatives and 48 associates. In 2018, we received 70 nominations and will recognize 13 initiatives and 121 associates. Long-Term Incentive Stock AwardsFirst Solar provides Exceptional Long-Term Incentive (ELTI) Stock Awards to recognize and retain First Solar’s exceptional performers at the manager level and below through stock ownership in the company, vested over four years. Exempt associates below Director-level are eligible for the ELTI program. All First Solar Directors and above receive Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Stock Awards.Associate Engagement SurveyFirst Solar’s Voice of the Organization engagement survey is an opportunity for our global associates to give feedback on our company and our culture. At First Solar, we value every voice, and ask for honest and candid feedback semi-annually. The current survey strategy launched in 2018, evolved from survey solutions executed in 2012, 2015, and 2017. The 2018 surveys achieved 85% and 87% response rates: 3,783 responded in April 2018 and 4,641 responded in October 2018. Overall, our associates remain engaged, proud and committed to First Solar. The latest engagement score was 86%, meaning that 86% of associates scored questions in this category favorably. Other high scoring areas included Clarity of Direction, Agility, Sustainability Programs, and Manager Relationships. We continue to build on these strength areas and address opportunity areas. High-level results are shared transparently in global webcasts, manager resources, and on our intranet. Action plans to address the feedback are folded into our corporate goals and objectives. Feedback is also used to pinpoint focus areas for the next survey; open-ended questions are altered for each survey in order to gain new and different insights. “Making an impact to 
the environment.”“The Startup culture”“Having a front row seat to the Energy Revolution.”“Being able to reach 
out to most of leadership when I need to.”“The People"