Responsible Supply Chain  |  29GRI Indicator Title 2019
Disclosure Social and Environmental impacts used for screening 414-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using
social criteria 100% Suppliers are screened on the following social criteria:• Clean and safe facilities • Minimum wages• Working hours (allowing at least one day off per week)• Health and safety practices• Non discrimination• Freedom of association and collective bargaining• Humane treatment and prevention of 
harassment or abuse• Prohibition of child labor • Prohibition of forced or compulsory labor• Collective bargaining• Business ethics (including corruption, extortion, embezzlement, conflict of interest, bribery, excessive gift giving, disclosure of information, intellectual property, fair business advertising and competition, privacy and non-retaliation.)• Conflict minerals 414-2 Negative impacts on social impacts in supply chain 
and actions taken 0 Of the 5 suppliers assessed for potential negative social impacts in 2019, no suppliers were identified as having potential negative impacts based on their EHS audit score. First Solar is working to drive supplier improvement in Quality and EHS with suppliers. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria 100% Suppliers are screened on the following 
environmental criteria:• Environmental management systems• Pollution prevention and resource reduction• Solid waste management• Hazardous substances management• Environmental permits• Air emissions monitoring and management• Water management• Energy consumption and GHG emissions 308-2 Negative environmental 
impacts in the supply chain 
and actions taken 0 Of the 5 suppliers assessed for potential negative environmental impacts in 2019, no suppliers were identified as having potential negative impacts based on their EHS audit score. First Solar is working to drive supplier improvement in Quality and EHS with suppliers. Supply Chain Spend and Job CreationIn 2019, First Solar spent approximately $3.3 billion on its global supply chain. Our data includes our manufacturing bill of materials, project spend, capital spend and indirect expenses. The data is based on where a purchase order is placed, not necessarily where the work is performed. Approximately 50% was spent on local suppliers in the U.S. to support our module manufacturing operations and solar project development. More than $13 million was awarded to women-, minority-, and disabled veteran-business enterprises (WMDVBE) in 2019. In total, we estimate we are creating over 45,000 direct, indirect and induced jobs across the supply chain worldwide.* * The estimated supply chain jobs are based on calculations provided by the University of Massachusetts Department of Economics and Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) in The Economic Benefits of Investing in Clean Energy. Direct jobs= 5.4 jobs/$1M spend; Indirect Jobs= 4.4 jobs/$1M spend; Induced jobs= .4 jobs (Direct + Indirect).Human Rights Standards and Practices First Solar is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices and addressing the 
potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking and slavery across our operations and supply chain. First Solar recognizes the principles set forth in the International Labour Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and is committed to complying with the laws established to protect human rights in each country in which we operate. To this end, First Solar requires direct suppliers to comply with all fair labor standard laws. Under the terms of First Solar’s supplier agreements, suppliers must certify in writing that neither they nor any of their subcontractors will utilize 
child, slave, prisoner or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment 
in the supply of goods or provisions of services. First Solar’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Policies establish minimum requirements for our associates and suppliers in the areas of environmental, health and safety (EHS), labor standards, human rights and business ethics. First Solar endeavors to ensure that its suppliers acknowledge these policies to ensure a safe working environment that respects and values each employee. In addition, First Solar supports the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) Solar Industry Commitment to Environmental & Social Responsibility and 
RBA Code of Conduct as part of our commitment to continuous progress of environmental and social responsibility in the solar industry.In compliance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657), First Solar is committed to addressing the potential risks of human trafficking, forced labor and slavery in our supply chain by: 1. Verifying our suppliers’ adherence to quality, sustainability and social responsibility through supplier contractual agreements, scheduled visits and audits of their facilities. Violation of any Labor Standards may result in the termination of First Solar’s business relationship with the supplier.2. Requiring direct suppliers to certify that materials supplied to First Solar and incorporated into 
First Solar’s products (i) comply with all applicable laws, and (ii) are manufactured in full compliance 
with applicable laws, which includes laws enforcing fair labor standards and prohibiting slavery and human trafficking. 3. Ensuring internal accountability standards by requiring all First Solar directors, officers and 
employees to act ethically and in compliance with First Solar’s Associate Handbook and Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics. First Solar’s Global Compliance Organization manages the company’s ethics and compliance program. The goal of this organization is to implement policies, processes, training, monitoring and general awareness programs to promote ethics and compliance with applicable legal and regulatory standards. Subject to the requirements of local law, and after due diligence and full and fair investigation, any employee found to have directly engaged in or knowingly engaged suppliers engaged in slave labor or human trafficking will be subject to immediate termination of employment. First Solar provides training on SB 657 and other Federal and International anti-human trafficking regulations to all First Solar employees that engage in procurement activities with third parties, including suppliers. First Solar’s Avoiding Trafficked Labor training includes the following objectives: recognizing and communicating awareness of human trafficking risks relevant to First Solar’s business; ensuring compliance with trafficking-related statutes and regulations; and formulating plans to identify and avoid trafficked labor in each specific business unit at First Solar.Conflict MineralsFirst Solar is committed to responsible sourcing and operating a supply chain free of conflict minerals. We comply with and support the goals established under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd- Frank Act”) on conflict minerals and condemn human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transport or trade of minerals and any direct or indirect support to non-state armed groups or security forces that illegally control or tax mine sites, transport routes, trade points or any upstream actors in the supply chain. First Solar’s Conflict Mineral Policy is published on our website, communicated to our suppliers, and incorporated into supplier contracts. We require all our direct suppliers to agree to and follow these principles. We have an operating, cross-functional internal governance team with representatives from our supply chain, compliance and legal departments to ensure policy statements and control processes are followed. As we do not source directly from smelter or refiner processing facilities, we rely on the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Program (RMAP), previously known as Conflict-Free Smelter Program, to oversee and coordinate third-party audits of these facilities. The RMAP audit protocols and procedures require the smelters or refiners to engage specially trained third-party auditors to independently verify that these smelters and refiners can be considered conflict free. Our conflict minerals risk mitigation plan defines supplier-risk management strategies, including (i) continued procurement, (ii) assistance in identifying alternate sources of supply, and (iii) disengagement, the severity of which is at the discretion of our executive management. We aim to advance the effectiveness of our due diligence efforts and further enhance our compliance processes by, among other things, encouraging non-RMAP validated processing facilities to become validated either through the RMAP or a RMAP-recognized third-party audit program. First Solar’s Specialized Disclosure and Conflict Minerals reports are available on our public website (see “Specialized Disclosure” tab in SEC Filings).