3. Responsible Life Cycle ManagementFirst Solar is committed to minimizing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle, from raw material sourcing through product end-of-life. Our semiconductor material is sustainably sourced from byproducts of the zinc and copper industries. Cadmium (Cd), a waste byproduct of zinc refining, and tellurium (Te), a byproduct of copper refining, are converted into a stable CdTe compound. Once encapsulated in First Solar modules, CdTe produces clean, affordable electricity throughout the modules’ 25+ year lifetime. We are further reducing our life cycle impacts and increasing the eco-efficiency of our technology through our global recycling services.Leading Eco-Efficient PV TechnologyFirst Solar’s advanced thin film PV solutions are the industry’s leading eco-efficient technology due to their superior energy yield, competitive cost and smallest life cycle environmental impacts.3 We provide the highest efficiency thin film modules suited to utility scale applications with a proven real-world energy yield advantage and a Tier one bankability profile.4 With our Series 6 technology, we aim to deliver even higher value, higher efficiency and lower costs. First Solar PV modules consist of a thin layer of semiconductor - approximately a fraction the thickness of a human hair strand - encapsulated between two sheets of glass and sealed with an industrial laminate material. Since CdTe is more efficient at absorbing light than indirect bandgap semiconductors such as silicon, First Solar modules use 98-99 percent less semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon modules. First Solar has identified multiple device improvements that could further reduce semiconductor intensity and increase these advantages compared to crystalline silicon modules. Our glass-glass design is more robust and durable than glass-backsheet designs, resulting in a strongly bonded monolithic structure. As a result, First Solar thin film PV modules produce no emissions to soil, air or water under normal operating conditions.The CdTe semiconductor layer in First Solar modules is optimal for absorbing and converting sunlight into useful electricity and has a proven performance advantage over conventional crystalline silicon modules in harsh operating environments. While module efficiency identifies the power produced by a module in standard test conditions (STC), the Specific Annual Energy Yield metric provides a more useful picture of the energy produced by the modules in a power plant in a year under real world conditions. In addition to having a low temperature coefficient which reduces power losses at higher temperatures, our semiconductor material’s narrower spectral response is less susceptible to dips in power that occur due to light absorption of water vapor in the atmosphere. While partial shading can dramatically impact a conventional crystalline silicon module, the unique cell design of First Solar modules minimizes power loss from shading, contributing a 1 percent energy yield advantage. Due to their low temperature coefficient and superior spectral and shading response, First Solar thin film modules with tracker mounting systems provide up to 7.5 percent greater specific annual energy yield in high temperature and high humidity climates compared to conventional crystalline silicon modules.3 M. Seitz, M. Kroban, T. Pitschke, S. Kriebe, 2013, Eco-Efficiency Analysis of Photovoltaic Modules, Bavarian State Ministry of Environment and Health.4 Green, M. A., Emery, K., Hishikawa, Y., Warta, W., Dunlop, E. D., Levi, D. H., and Ho-Baillie, A. W. Y. (2017) Solar cell efficiency tables (version 49). Prog. Photovolt: Res. Appl., 25: 3–13. doi: 10.1002/pip.2855.First Solar’s Module Advantage | Specific Annual Energy Yield vs. mc-Si PanelsFirst Solar Specific Annual Energy Yield Advantage in Different Regions of the WorldWhen evaluating a solar power plant’s return on investment (ROI), energy yield has one of the biggest impacts on the overall Levelized Cost of Electricity (LCOE). One of the biggest factors influencing the specific energy yield is spectral response; however standard PV simulation tools often do not adequately take it into account. In most cases, standard reference conditions (ASTM G173 spectrum, air mass of 1.5) do not match real world conditions. By applying a spectral correction, First Solar’s PlantPredict software provides more accurate and sophisticated energy estimates for utility scale PV applications. Third-party test sites operated by Fraunhofer ISE have validated our energy model by quantifying the climatic effect on the specific energy yield. First Solar’s high efficiency thin film modules are proven to deliver more usable energy per nameplate watt than conventional silicon-based modules.5 This means that for an equivalently designed and installed power plant priced at the same $/Watt, a First Solar plant will produce more energy, resulting in a lower LCOE ($/MWh).5 D. Dirnberger et al., “On the impact of solar spectral irradiance on the yield of different PV technologies,” in Solar Energy Materials & Solar Cells, vol. 132 pp. 431–442, 2015.Smallest Environmental FootprintIn addition to delivering competitive and reliable solar electricity globally, First Solar energy solutions provide an ecologically leading solution to climate change, energy security and water scarcity. Our advanced thin film PV modules are manufactured using less energy, water and semiconductor material, resulting in the best environmental profile in the industry. As a result, the carbon footprint of First Solar PV modules is up to six times lower than conventional crystalline silicon modules and a fraction of the carbon footprint of conventional energy sources. While climate change has been an important driver for renewable energy adoption, water security provides an additional driver. The energy-water nexus associated with traditional energy sources is a growing concern particularly in water-stressed regions. Unlike thermal electric power plants and concentrated solar power (CSP), solar PV does not require any water to generate electricity during operation and is therefore ideally suited to meet the growing energy and water needs of arid, water-limited regions. On a life cycle basis, First Solar’s Series 6 modules use up to 400 times less water per kWh than conventional energy and up to 24 times less water than other PV technologies.Decoupling Business Growth from Negative ImpactsFirst Solar PV enables customers to decouple their business growth from emissions, water use and waste generation.The concept of “decoupling” is about breaking the link between economic growth and resource consumption along with its environmental impacts. Energy accounts for approximately two-thirds of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, 10 percent of global water withdrawals and is the leading cause of air pollution, which the World Health Organization (WHO) considers the world’s single largest environmental health risk. By generating clean electricity with no emissions, water use, or waste generation, First Solar PV solutions enable customers to decouple their own business growth from environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity generation and consumption.6  M. de Wild-Scholten, Energy Payback Time and Carbon Footprint of Commercial Photovoltaic Systems, Solar Energy Materials & Solar Cells 119, 296-305, 2013. Assumes rooftop installation in Southern Europe (1700 kWh/m2/yr irradiation). Literature values were updated based on relative PV efficiency gains. Thermal power plants data: Fthenakis and Kim, V. Fthenakis, H.C. Kim, Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Life Cycle of CdTe Photovoltaics, 20067  Fthenakis and Kim. Life cycle uses of water in U.S. electricity generation. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews vol. 14, pp. 2039–2048, 2010. Sinha, Meader and de Wild-Scholten, Life Cycle Water Usage in CdTe Photovoltaics, IEEE, Journal of Photovoltaics, 2012. Updated to reflect S6 water footprint based on Sinha and Wade, Addressing Hot Spots in the Product Environmental Footprint of CdTe Photovoltaics, IEEE PVSC, 20178  P. Sinha, M. de Wild-Scholten, A. Wade, C. Breyer, Total Cost Electricity Pricing of Photovoltaics, SmartGreenScans, First Solar, and Renoir Lemoine Institute, 2013.First Solar Annual Carbon Impact(MT of CO2 Emitted vs. Displaced in 2017)Net Beneficial Carbon ImpactFirst Solar’s eco-efficient PV modules and power plants are displacing twelve times the amount of greenhouse gas emissions we emit through our global operations and supply chain. In 2017, First Solar’s total scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions amounted to approximately 1 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent.9  With over 17GW of modules installed worldwide, First Solar PV solutions are displacing more than 12 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent per year resulting in a net beneficial carbon impact of approximately 11 million metrics tons CO2e per year, assuming average worldwide irradiance and grid electricity emissions. Further information on the worldwide average solar carbon displacement methodology is provided in our technical report.First Solar’s scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions are externally verified on a triennial basis in accordance with the International Standard ISO 14064 Part 3 (ISO 14064-3) as well as the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. Scope 3 emissions represent more than two-thirds of the company’s total greenhouse gas emissions and are estimated in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol.9  Scope 1 includes direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned by the company e.g. emissions from fossil fuels burned on-site or emissions from company-owned vehicles. Scope 2 includes indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated offsite but purchased by the company e.g. purchased grid electricity. Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions that occur in the company’s value chain, i.e. from sources not owned by the company.All PV Technologies Are Not Created EqualWhere and how a PV module and its components are manufactured significantly impacts its environmental profile. Manufacturing PV modules using a fully integrated and resource-efficient process in countries with a less carbon intensive grid, not only results in the smallest environmental footprint but also the fastest energy payback time10 of any PV technology on a life cycle basis. In less than six months under high irradiation conditions, First Solar PV power plants produce more energy than was required to create them. This corresponds to a 50-fold energy return on investment (EROI) over a 25-year project lifetime, providing an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid. Industry-Leading Carbon Footprint and Energy Payback Time11A fast energy payback time enables the rapid expansion of PV while achieving faster carbon reductions.A recent study evaluated the environmental footprint of five different PV technologies (CdTe, CIS, micro-morphous silicon, multi-crystalline silicon, mono-crystalline silicon) in accordance with the European Commission’s Product Environmental Footprint Guidance. On average, characterized impacts of a First Solar PV system are about two-thirds lower than the average PV system.12 10  Energy payback time is the amount of time a system must operate to recover the energy required to produce it.11  M. de Wild-Scholten, Energy Payback Time and Carbon Footprint of Commercial Photovoltaic Systems, Solar Energy Materials & Solar Cells 119, (2013), 296-305. Assumes rooftop installation in Southern Europe (1700 kWh/m2/yr irradiation). Literature values were updated based on relative PV efficiency gains.12  First Solar, “First Solar Series 4 PV System Product Environmental Footprint,” 2016. The environmental performance of the electricity produced with an average PV system is based on the market mix of PV panels in 2012 (45.2% multi c-Si, 40.5% mono c-Si, 6.3% CdTe, 3.5% CIS, 4.5% micromorph Si). Source: P. Stolz, R. Frischknecht, F. Wyss, and M. de Wild-Scholten, “PEF screening report of electricity from photovoltaic panels in the context of the EU Product Environmental Footprint Category Rules (PEFCR) Pilots, v. 2.0,” treeze Ltd. and SmartGreenScans, 2016.Environmental Impacts of First Solar PV Compared to Average PV System10Our sustainability advantage is set to increase with our Series 6 technology due to its larger form factor, higher anticipated efficiency of 17.5 percent and lower glass usage per m2. By transitioning to our larger, more efficient and still recyclable Series 6 modules, the environmental footprint of our thin film PV technology is expected to be four times lower than the average PV module.13 Over the past few years, we have been participating in the development of the PV industry’s first sustainability leadership standard (NSF 457) which provides a standardized set of performance objectives and focuses on addressing hotspots across the PV value chain.14Total Weighted Environmental Impact Results of 1 kWh of DC Electricity 
Produced with a 3 kWp Mounted Installation1213 P. Sinha and A. Wade, Addressing Hot Spots in the Product Environmental Footprint of CdTe Photovoltaics, IEEE JPV. DOI: 10.1109/JPHOTOV.2018.2802786, 2018.14 A. Wade, P. Sinha, K. Drozdiak, D. Mulvaney, J. Slomka, Ecodesign, Ecolabeling and Green Procurement Policies – enabling more Sustainable Photovoltaics? 7th World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion - 45th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2018.Continuous ImprovementOver the past ten years, First Solar has invested more in research and development (R&D) than any of our competitors.15 Our R&D efforts are focused on achieving the goals established in our cost and efficiency roadmaps to make solar a valued component of the global energy generation portfolio and increase our customer’s financial savings. As a result, our module efficiency has improved on average more than half a percent every year since 2006. In 2017, we decreased our R&D spend to approximately $88.5 million compared to $124 million in 2016, in order to focus on our transition to Series 6. Despite the decrease in our R&D spend, we successfully increased the fleet average efficiency of our Series 4 module to 17 percent and lowered the module cost per watt by 14 percent as compared to the prior year. We currently hold two world records for CdTe PV efficiency, achieving an independently certified research cell efficiency of 22.1 percent and an aperture area efficiency of 18.6%, which corresponds to a full area module efficiency of 18.2 percent. Our research cell efficiency is a leading indicator of where our technology can ultimately go. By executing our watts per module roadmap, First Solar is simultaneously driving down emissions and the cost of solar electricity. Change Management SystemFirst Solar implements a robust Change Management System (CMS) to ensure product changes do not negatively impact product safety, reliability, environmental footprint or recyclability. Process changes and module design improvements undergo several test and validation runs before receiving final approval and being implemented across manufacturing facilities. Life cycle analysis is performed for significant product and manufacturing process modifications to assess environmental, health and safety impacts before any changes are implemented. 15 PV Tech, 10 years of R&D spending analysis of 12 key PV module manufacturers, 2017. https://www.pv-tech.org/editors-blog/10-years-of-rd-spending-analysis-of-12-key-pv-module-manufacturers Industry-Leading Quality, Reliability And Safety First Solar is committed to providing PV modules with world-class quality and reliability that deliver a predictable energy yield throughout the lifetime of a PV plant. Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) is core to our innovation and enables First Solar to select the most robust and reliable materials and components. First Solar goes beyond industry testing standards and implements a continuous Product Reliability Monitoring (“PRM”) program to ensure product reliability is maintained globally during high-volume manufacturing, giving customers project-specific reliability assurance without increasing the cost of supply. Our PRM process involves random sampling of manufacturing volume and testing for durability and power performance. The program is designed to complement existing third-party tests and demonstrate reliability assurance continuously on every manufacturing line every week.First Solar’s unique and extensive infrastructure to ensure product quality and reliabilityFirst Solar modules and PV power plants are certified to globally recognized standards for safety, quality, reliability and environmental sustainability to provide the most bankable PV solutions in the industry. Our modules are additionally certified to regional standards including UL for North America, Golden Sun for China, InMetro for Brazil, MCS for the U.K. and JET for Japan. First Solar PV modules meet rigorous performance testing standards, demonstrating their durability and reliability in real-world environments. The performance of our modules and PV power plants are monitored through world-class outdoor test sites to provide high-level field validation. In 2018, First Solar’s Series 6 thin film PV module technology completed CSA/ANSI C450 PV Module Testing Protocol for Quality Assurance, administered by CSA Group’s PV test lab CFV Solar Test Laboratory in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The test results provide confidence in the long term performance and durability of Series 6 modules in harsh climates. CSA/ANSI C450 replicates actual field failure experiences through a series of extended environmental tests including temperature cycling, damp heat exposure, mechanical load testing, UV exposure and PID (Potential Induced Degradation) testing. As the first publicly available standard to address extended stress testing of PV modules beyond that required for safety certification and qualification, CSA/ANSI C450 provides project developers, independent engineers and investors with a more transparent, consistent and comparable method for evaluating PV module reliability.•	1st PV company to receive globally recognized IECRE certification for quality in PV product  design, manufacturing processes, and the selection and control of materials (IEC TS 62941)Test Description Results IEC 61215/IEC 61730
Certification Basic industry market entry certifications PASS1500V certification level Thresher Test Multiplies basic IEC 61730/61215 test cycles 
and durations 2X to 4X PASS<5% Power Output drop Long-Term 
Sequential Test 6-month accelerated protocol to evaluate 
long-term harsh climate durability where same modules experience critical serial stresses  PASS1st thin film module to pass IEC 62804
PID-Resistant Certification Demonstrates high resistance to potential induced degradation at extreme ± 1500V voltages at most extreme 85C/85% RH test levels, enabling confident floating and grounded applications PASS1500V IEC 60068 Desert Sand Resistance Certification Demonstrates minimal power loss and package integrity resistant to wind-blown particulates PASS IEC 61701 Salt Mist Corrosion Certification Demonstrates resistance against salt mist corrosion PASS IEC TS 62941 (IECRE) Sets the global industry benchmark for 
PV module product design, development, 
product certification, process control, 
raw material control and procurement, as well 
as product testing and monitoring. PASS1st certificate issued under IECRE conformity assessment system   More than 40 researchers from leading international institutions have confirmed the benefits and safety of First Solar PV technology over its entire life cycle; during normal operation as well as foreseeable accidents such as fire or module breakage and through end-of-life recycling and disposal. First Solar modules are tested for safety during breakage, fire, flooding and hail storms to ensure their durability in the field. First Solar has extensive reliability testing capabilities with the ability to test more than 80,000 modules per year for light-induced degradation, resilience to wind, snow and ice loads, fire resistance under reverse current fault conditions, material adhesiveness, breakage resistance to hail impact and performance in the event of soiling or shading. With more than 17,000MW installed worldwide, First Solar modules have a proven record of safe and reliable performance.40+ Researchers Have Confirmed the Safety and Benefits of CdTe PVFirst Solar Recycling ProgramFirst Solar has a long-standing leadership position in PV recycling. We established the industry’s first voluntary global prefunded module recycling program in 2005 and have over a decade of experience in operating high-value PV recycling facilities on a global and industrial scale. Our unrivalled in-house recycling expertise and infrastructure has enabled us to consistently drive down recycling costs for our customers. First Solar’s industry-leading recycling services enable PV power plant and module owners to meet their module end-of-life obligations simply, cost-effectively and responsibly. Our state-of-the-art recycling facilities are operational in the U.S., Germany, Malaysia and Vietnam, and have a scalable capacity to accommodate high volume recycling as more modules reach the end of their 25+ year life.First Solar PV Module Recycling ProcessOur high-value recycling process recovers approximately 90 percent of the glass for reuse in new glass products and over 90 percent of the semiconductor material for reuse in new modules. During the recycling process, First Solar modules are crushed and shredded to break the lamination bond. The crushed modules are chemically treated to recover semiconductor material from the glass. The unrefined semiconductor material is then sent externally for further processing. Once rinsed and cleaned, the glass is packaged so it can be reused in new glass products. In Malaysia, our laminate material is now being recycled for reuse in rubber mats, bicycle handles and shoe soles, thereby further closing the loop on our products’ life cycle. The remainder of the recycled module scrap (approximately 5 to 10 percent) which cannot be used in secondary raw materials is handled using other responsible waste treatment and disposal techniques. Due to the shredding, crushing and heating typically involved in recycling processes, material losses are inevitable, and the recovery ratio is always less than 100 percent.1616 McKinney, Schoch, and Yonavjak, Mineral Resources, Environmental Science Systems and Solutions, Jones & Bartlett Learning, 2013.Continuously Improving Our PV Recycling TechnologyFirst Solar is proactively investing in recycling technology improvements and is implementing a cost reduction roadmap to drive down recycling prices. In 2015, we launched our third-generation recycling technology which achieves superior glass and semiconductor purity and requires 30 percent less capital, chemicals, waste and labor. The continuous flow process improves our recycling efficiency and throughput, increasing our daily recycling capacity from 30 tons to 150 tons. We aim to develop modular recycling facilities for smaller markets to enable in-country recycling and reduce transportation costs.VERSION 1 (2005)• Based on the mining industry• Batch process• Moving glass and liquid from process to process• Volume output – 10 MT/day• Capital investment - $5MVERSION 2 (2011)• Based on the chemical industry• Batch process• Keeping the glass fixed and moving the liquids 
through the material• Volume output –  30 MT/day• Capital investment - $7MVERSION 3 (2015)• Continuous process• Efficient 7/24 operations• Compact plant • Volume output -150 MT/day • 30% less capital, chemicals, waste and labor • Superior glass and semiconductor purityRaw Material AvailabilityFirst Solar’s semiconductor material is manufactured from byproducts of zinc and copper refining. Cadmium is generated in substantial quantities regardless of its use in PV, primarily as an unavoidable by-product of zinc production which is needed to produce steel products. A future oversupply of Cd is projected as current demand for Cd decreases and zinc production increases. Thin film PV systems provide a sustainable use for Cd which would otherwise be stored or disposed of.17 Te is largely supplied from the byproducts of copper production, which have been growing at a rate of approximately 1-3 percent per year.18,19 Tellurium (Te) is managed through both demand and supply side strategies, see figure below.20 On the supply side, production could be expanded by improving Te recovery from copper anode slimes and beginning to recover Te from non-traditional byproduct streams. On the demand side, progress in PV module conversion efficiency and manufacturing will continue to reduce the demand for Te per Watt produced. First Solar is actively pursuing multiple technical programs, such as bandgap engineering, to achieve step change improvements in tellurium requirements. First Solar maintains a strategic reserve of tellurium products to decrease exposure to tellurium supply or price volatility.In the longer term, end-of-life recycling is expected to be an important additional source of Te supply. In 2016, approximately 8 percent of our semiconductor material came from recycled input materials. As more First Solar modules reach the end of their useful life, this percentage is likely to increase. Researchers from independent institutions have concluded that a combination of improvements in PV module Te intensity, Te recovery from copper ores and recycling could lead to annual production of CdTe PV on the order of 100GW per year by mid-century at reasonable cost, which would enable terawatt-scale deployment on the order of a decade.21,22,23Demand and Supply-Side Tellurium Management Strategies