Message From the CEOAs the fight against climate change accelerates and companies and governments commit to going Net Zero to limit global warming to 
1.5 degrees Celsius, the need for a responsible approach to solar manufacturing and deployment has never been more urgent.MARK WIDMAR  
Chief Executive OfficerIt is a misconception that policymakers have to choose between fighting climate change and nurturing responsible, lower-carbon solar supply chains. It is also a misconception that responsible solar and competitiveness are not compatible with each other. The contents of this report refute the idea of “solar-at-any-cost.” By putting Responsible Solar at the heart of our business and investing in innovation and scale, First Solar is an example of how solar can be competitive without compromising on principles and purpose. First Solar is also an example of how solar technologies can be sustainably scaled without people and the planet paying a high price. In the context of the fight against climate change, it is important to recognize that not all solar panels are created equal - how and where they are manufactured determines how many greenhouse gas emissions they will be able to avoid and displace. Thin film CdTe solar modules manufactured in the U.S. have a carbon footprint that is 2.5 times lower than conventional crystalline silicon modules manufactured in China. According to a recent study by the U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, continuing to rely on silicon solar modules produced in coal-intensive grids, such as those in China, could consume as much as 14% of the remaining carbon budget that can be emitted before exceeding the 1.5 degrees Celsius limit.The choice of solar technologies that will power the clean energy transition directly influences whether the transition is just and sustainable. However, ensuring a just and sustainable clean energy transition requires collective action to minimize the environmental life cycle impacts and embodied carbon of solar, to invest in high-value recycling solutions which maximize resource recovery, and to respect human rights and reject the use of forced labor. A transition that fails to the address these environmental and social impacts risks not only being seen as unjust, it also undermines the solar industry’s social license. Our commitment to ‘Responsible Solar’ is underpinned by the belief that solar should never come at the price of people or the planet and drives our company’s environmental, social, governance (ESG) strategy and differentiation. Our approach to Responsible Solar is interwoven into every aspect of our business and product life cycle- from raw material sourcing to end-of-life recycling. Since allegations of forced labor in the Chinese solar supply chain emerged two years ago, customers increasingly value our comprehensive approach to responsible sourcing and supply chain due diligence- from our supplier screening process to our ethics hotline.  Our integrated manufacturing process and tightly controlled supply chain helps eliminate risks associated with outsourcing and the multiple supply tiers of conventional crystalline silicon solar manufacturing. Through our Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) membership, we are committed to leveraging credible third-party social auditing frameworks to verify conformance to fair labor practices, human rights and ethics across our operations and supply chain. Earlier this year, we completed our first RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audit at our manufacturing facilities in Ohio, achieving platinum status- the highest possible rating- and providing further validation to our customers that they are working with a responsible partner.  We continue to set the industry benchmark for environmentally leading products with our Series 6 and Series 6 Plus modules being the first and only solar modules included in EPEAT, a globally recognized and independently validated ecolabel for sustainable electronics. We have a unique and long-standing leadership position in solar photovoltaic (PV) recycling as the only solar manufacturer with global in-house module recycling capabilities. We continue to invest in PV recycling technology improvements to increase recycling efficiency and drive down recycling prices for our customers. In the coming months, we plan to launch our fourth generation recycling technology which will enable higher leaching efficiency with reduced chemical consumption.In 2021, we made progress on global diversity and inclusion (D&I) across the company with 4% more women in management compared to 2020. We are proud to be recognized as a “3+ company” by 50/50 Women on Boards for having at least three women serve on our Board. Today, First Solar’s Board of Directors is 33% diverse and each Board committee has at least one diverse representative. As part of our commitment to increasing transparency around diversity and inclusion at First Solar, we are publicly disclosing our Employer Information Report (EEO-1) data for the first time.  At First Solar, we view D&I as a transformation, rather than a program or an initiative, and we are committed to making progress year over year in our journey to lead the world’s sustainable energy future and enable a transition that is both just and sustainable.First Solar Sustainability Report 2022Message from the CEOMark WidmarChief Executive OfficerFirst Solar Sustainability Report 202252021 Highlights7.9GW8%13%. Lower GHG 
Emissions IntensityLower Manufacturing Energy IntensityProduced+4%9%..32%Lower ManufacturingWaste IntensityWomen 
In Management Lower Manufacturing Water IntensityAA1stPrimeEPEAT-Rated 
PV Products ISS ESG RatingMSCI ESG RATING6First Solar is a leading American solar technology company and global provider of responsibly-produced eco-efficient solar modules advancing the fight against climate change. We are unique among the world’s ten largest solar manufacturers for being the only US-headquartered company and for not using a crystalline silicon (c-Si) semiconductor. Developed at R&D labs in California and Ohio, First Solar’s advanced thin film photovoltaic (PV) modules represent the next generation of solar technologies, providing a competitive, high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional c-Si PV panels. From raw material sourcing and manufacturing through end-of-life module recycling, First Solar’s approach to technology embodies sustainability and a responsibility towards people and the planet.First Solar is headquartered in Tempe, Arizona, with regional offices around the world and manufacturing facilities in Perrysburg and Lake Township, Ohio; Kulim, Malaysia; and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Our annual manufacturing capacity has grown from 25 megawatts (MW) in 2005 to 7.9 gigawatts (GW) as of December 31, 2021. We set the foundation to reach approximately 16 GW of capacity in 2024 with the announced plans for new factories in Ohio and India to produce our next generation of solar panels, which we are calling Series 7. The two Series 7 factories are expected to come online in 2023.  Our Ohio manufacturing footprint makes us the largest solar manufacturer in the United States and the Western Hemisphere.Frankfurt am MainFrankfurt (Oder) Ho Chi Minh CityBrusselsSanta ClaraTokyoPerrysburgTempeNew Delhi KulimMexico CityTamil Nadu São Paulo SingaporeManufacturingR&DOfficeRecycling CenterResponsible SolarAt First Solar, we have long understood that we have a responsibility towards our planet, our communities, and our customers. This responsibility drives our sense of purpose — “the why” that inspires every one of our thousands of employees worldwide who have committed themselves to our journey to lead the world’s sustainable energy future. Since the beginning, we have placed sustainability at the heart of everything we do, focused not on meeting industry standards, but exceeding them and setting new ones. This is why we have a long history of establishing benchmarks in recycling, health and safety, responsible supply chain management, transparency, resource-efficient manufacturing and the carbon and water footprint of our technology.ENVIRONMENTALGOVERNANCESOCIAL• Lowest environmental 
footprint in the industry • Resource-efficient and 
RE100-committed operations• Industry leading high-value 
PV recycling services• Promote a safe, inclusive 
and diverse workplace• Engage in local 
communities and contribute 
to a just transition• Responsible sourcing with 
zero tolerance for forced labor• ESG oversight at Board level• Transparent reporting 
and disclosure• EPEAT Silver Rated• Member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)Our approach to Responsible Solar is underpinned by the belief that solar should never come at the price of people or the planet. It’s a focus that is interwoven into every aspect of our business and product life cycle, from raw material sourcing to end-of-life recycling:•	Operating a responsible supply chain with zero tolerance for forced labor•	Manufacturing using less energy, water and semiconductor•	Enabling faster decarbonization through lower embodied carbon•	Maximizing resource recovery to enhance circularityRESPONSIBLESOURCINGHIGH-VALUERECYCLINGRESOURCE-EFFICIENTMANUFACTURINGLOW CARBONSOLAREnsuring a just and sustainable 
clean energy transitionIndustry-Leading Environmental ProfileAll PV technologies are not created equal. Where and how a PV module and its components are manufactured significantly impacts its environmental profile. First Solar’s advanced thin film modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow operation under one roof, using less energy, water and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon PV manufacturing. In less than 4.5 hours, a sheet of glass is transformed into a complete PV module — flash tested, packaged and ready for shipment. Due to our resource-efficient manufacturing process, First Solar modules have a carbon footprint that is up to 2.5 times lower, a water footprint that is up to three times lower and an energy payback time that is up to two times faster than conventional crystalline silicon solar panels on a life cycle basis . In just four months under high irradiation conditions, First Solar PV modules produce more energy than was required to create them. This corresponds to a 90-fold energy return on investment (EROI) over a 30-year project lifetime, providing an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid.LOWEST 
CARBON FOOTPRINTLOWEST 
WATER FOOTPRINTFASTEST 
ENERGY PAYBACK TIME(gCO2eq/Wp)(Liters/Wp)(Months)229785430075100.3Mono c-Si(China)Mono c-SiMono c-SiFirst SolarFirst SolarFirst Solar2.5X LOWER2X FASTER3X LOWER1R. Frischknecht, P. Stolz, L. Krebs, M. de Wild-Scholten, P. Sinha, V. Fthenakis, H. C. Kim, M. Raugei, M. Stucki. (2020). Life Cycle Inventories and Life Cycle Assessment of Photovoltaic Systems. International Energy Agency (IEA) PVPS Task 12, Report T12-19:2020.With the smallest carbon footprint, fastest energy payback time and lowest life cycle water use in the industry, First Solar modules generate cleaner solar electricity than conventionally manufactured solar panels. This enables our customers to decouple their business growth from environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity generation and consumption. We are continuously working to drive down the environmental footprint of our modules. In 2020, we committed to going 100% renewable across our global operations by 2028, which will enable us to reduce the carbon footprint of our modules by 40%.Assuming average worldwide irradiance and grid electricity emissions, 40 gigawatts (GW) of our products are being used to displace 26 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent per year during their 30+ year lifetime. This is equivalent to powering more than 20 million average homes, planting over 430 million trees and saving over 75 billion liters of water (or 30,000 Olympic swimming pools) per year based on worldwide averages. Every year, First Solar products are displacing more than 10 times the amount of greenhouse gas emissions we emit through our global operations and supply chain.As of December 31, 2021, First Solar Series 6 and Series 6 Plus modules are the first and only PV products to be included in the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics. EPEAT is a globally recognized and independently validated ecolabel that allows for the easy identification of environmentally preferable products from socially responsible companies. EPEAT addresses the full product life cycle, including managing substances in the product, manufacturing energy and water use, product packaging, end-of-life recycling, corporate responsibility and human rights. Our Series 6 and Series 6 Plus products were awarded an EPEAT Silver rating, certifying that they exceeded the basic but stringent environmental and social criteria of a Bronze rating.12First Solar Sustainability Report 2022EUROPENORTH AMERICAASIAMIDDLE EASTAFRICASOUTH AMERICAMore than 50 researchers from leading international institutions have confirmed the environmental benefits and safety of First Solar’s thin film PV technology over its entire life cycle; during normal operation, foreseeable accidents such as fire or breakage, and through end-of-life recycling and disposal. First Solar’s Quality and Reliability labs are over 64,000 ft2 (6000m2) in size globally and test approximately 16,000 PV modules per year for light-induced degradation, resilience to extreme weather, wind, snow and ice loads, fire resistance under reverse current fault conditions, material adhesion, and long-term field performance. First Solar modules are the only module in the industry warranted against cell cracking and micro-cracking, which can be caused by excessive thermal and mechanical stress. First Solar modules are tested for safety during breakage, fire, flooding and hailstorms to ensure their durability in the field. With more than 45GW sold worldwide, First Solar modules have a proven record of safe and reliable performance. First Solar implements a robust change management system (CMS) to ensure product changes do not negatively impact product safety, reliability, environmental footprint or recyclability. Process changes and module design improvements undergo several test and validation runs before receiving final approval and being implemented across manufacturing facilities. Life cycle analysis is performed for significant product and manufacturing process modifications to assess environmental, health and safety impacts before any changes are implemented. First Solar Series 6 and Series 6 Plus PV modules consist of four articles: glass module, junction box, cable, and frame. These articles do not contain substances on the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) as defined by EU REACH regulation (revision date: June 25, 2020) above 0.1% by weight per article.Powering a Circular Economy First Solar is contributing to a circular economy by converting mining byproducts into a leading eco-efficient PV technology that can be manufactured using less energy, water and semiconductor material than other commercially available PV technologies. First Solar modules are designed for high-value recycling to maximize material recovery at end-of-life and recover more than 90% of module materials for reuse, providing high quality secondary resources for new solar panels, glass, rubber and aluminum products.PRODUCT DESIGNPRODUCT USEFaster CO2 reductions and greater return on energy investedDesigned for 
high-value recyclingCOLLECTION & RECYCLINGMATERIAL SOURCINGMANUFACTURINGManufacturing with less energy, water and GHG emissionsRecovering over 
90% of material at 
end-of-life for new 
PV modulesConverting mining byproducts into a stable semiconductorFirst Solar has a unique and long-standing leadership position in PV recycling as the only solar manufacturer with global in-house PV recycling capabilities. We have more than 15 years of experience operating high-value PV recycling facilities on a global and industrial scale. Recognizing the importance of responsible product life cycle management, First Solar voluntarily established the industry’s first global PV module recycling program in 2005 and we have been investing in PV recycling technology improvements ever since to increase recycling efficiency and drive down recycling prices for our customers.  To learn more about First Solar’s global recycling services, please see our recycling brochure and datasheet.PLSFirst Solar Module Recycling Process OverviewWhile most PV recycling processes focus only on recovering high-mass fraction materials such as glass and frames (i.e. bulk recycling), First Solar’s high-value recycling process goes further by recovering more than 90% of the semiconductor material for reuse in new First Solar modules and 90% of the glass for use in new glass container products. The module frame is removed and recycled for reuse in aluminum products. In Malaysia, the recovered laminate material is reused in rubber products. The remainder of the recycled module scrap (approximately 5 -10%) consists of glass fines which cannot be used in secondary raw materials and are handled using other responsible waste treatment techniques. Due to the shredding and crushing involved in the recycling process, material losses are inevitable, and the recovery ratio is always less than 100%.Did you know?One kilogram of First Solar’s semiconductor material can be recycled 41 times over, which translates into a use time of more than 1,200 years.Since 2018, First Solar’s routinely operated recycling plants generate zero wastewater discharge. We installed evaporators at all our recycling facilities in order to recycle wastewater and convert it into freshwater for reuse in the recycling process. In addition to recycling water, the evaporators generate sodium sulfate crystals which can be used in glass manufacturing. We are in the process of identifying glass outlets that can reuse the sodium sulfate crystals from our recycling process to further close the loop on our product’s life cycle. First Solar is among 380 companies to sign the America Recycles pledge, which aims to address the challenges facing the nation's recycling system and create a more resilient materials economy while protecting the environment.