Message From the CEOIn 2019, we celebrated our 20th anniversary as a company and reached a significant milestone of 25 gigawatts (GW)DC of cumulative modules shipped. This achievement is a reflection of our resilience, financial discipline, and the value of our differentiated thin film photovoltaic (PV) technology, powered by our CdTe semiconductor. MARK WIDMAR  
Chief Executive OfficerWe continued to ramp our Series 6 manufacturing capacity and produced 5.7 GWDC of modules in 2019, representing a total production output increase of 111% compared to 2018. The increased production capacity and throughput, along with the incorporation of resource efficiency measures into our Series 6 tool designs and processes, successfully reduced the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy and water intensity of our manufacturing operations by over 30%. Our resource-efficient manufacturing process results in First Solar modules having the smallest carbon footprint, fastest energy payback time, and lowest lifecycle water footprint among any commercially available PV products today. The eco-efficiencies of our modules are widely acknowledged and recognized. In 2019, First Solar was honored as a joint winner of PV Magazine’s inaugural Sustainability Award in recognition of our Series 6 modules’ industry-leading environmental profile. We also received an A- from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in recognition of the company’s disclosure and management of climate change risks and GHG emissions. At our core, we are a solar technology manufacturing company driven by our vision to lead the world’s sustainable energy future. We do this by providing a sustainable solution to climate change, energy security, water scarcity, and the unsustainable consumption of natural resources. From the beginning, we have placed sustainability alongside innovation at the heart of our business. We have long recognized our shared responsibility for environmental stewardship, and despite leading the industry in sustainability, we will not rest on our achievements. This is why we have elected to join RE100, a global initiative led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP, and to make a promise that we will power our operations with 100 percent renewable energy by 2028. In addition to further lowering the carbon footprint of our modules, we hope that our participation will support the effort to accelerate the shift to zero-carbon grids, while also aligning our goals with our customers’ decarbonization commitments. And we do not plan to stop there. As part of our efforts to support our customers’ efforts to decouple their business growth from adverse environmental impacts, we continue to drive thought leadership with the Renewable Energy Buyers Association (REBA), where we serve on the Board of Directors. We are also in the process of registering our Series 6 modules in the EPEAT registry for green electronics. Through conformance with the industry’s 
first sustainability leadership standard (NSF 457), the EPEAT registry will enable public and private purchasers 
to identify environmentally preferable PV products.    These are just some of the ways that we are making the most of the day so that our customers and stakeholders can make the most of solar energy. The past several months have been marked by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and protests over racial injustice, which has led us to reflect internally on our own inclusion and diversity practices. Though we pride ourselves on being an equal opportunity employer and actively seek to increase the racial, gender, and ethnic diversity of our candidate pool, we recognize there is more work to be done. Our people form the foundation of everything we do, and promoting a diverse and inclusive workforce and maintaining a safe workplace remains a priority. As the COVID-19 pandemic swept the globe, we took sweeping measures to help inhibit its spread across our global footprint, while also contributing to efforts to mitigate its impact on the communities we live and work in. At this time, the vast majority of our office-based associates are working from home to minimize large concentrations of people at our sites and facilities. In line with guidance from the World Health Organization, local health authorities and government, we have implemented numerous preventative hygiene and safety measures at our global manufacturing, administrative, and other sites and facilities. We have also donated personal protective equipment (PPE) and other tools to first responders in the United States, Malaysia, Vietnam, and India. Thank you for your interest in this Sustainability Report and our continued journey to lead the world’s sustainable energy future. Mark WidmarChief Executive OfficerMessage from the CEO  |  42019 Highlights37%5.7GW.20Lower GHG 
Emissions IntensityProducedYear Anniversary.46%36%15%..Lower Manufacturing Energy IntensityLower Manufacturing Waste IntensityLower Manufacturing Water IntensityA-+ 90%20%Module Recycling Material Recovery 
RateWomen On The BoardCDP Climate 
Change Score2019 Highlights  |  5About First SolarFirst Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) solar energy solutions with more than 25GW sold worldwide. We are the world’s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and are the only American company among the world’s ten largest PV manufacturers. We design, manufacture, sell and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology and we develop, design, construct, and sell PV power plants that primarily use the solar modules we manufacture. We provide operations and maintenance (O&M) services to system owners. In addressing the overall global demand for electricity, our advanced thin film modules, which leverage our Series 6TM (“Series 6”) module technology, and power plant solutions compete favorably on an economic basis with traditional forms of energy generation and provide low-cost electricity to end users. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, First Solar’s PV modules and systems protect and enhance the environment.Offices	Manufacturing PlantsFirst Solar is headquartered in Tempe, Arizona, with regional offices around the world and manufacturing facilities in Perrysburg, Ohio; Kulim, Malaysia; and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Our annual manufacturing capacity has grown from 25 megawatts (MW) in 2005 to 5.5 gigawatts (GW) of Series 6 capacity at the end of 2019. We recently expanded our production capacity in Ohio, making us the largest solar manufacturer in the U.S. and the Western Hemisphere. 25GW of First Solar modules are generating enough electricity to displace over 17 million metric tons of CO2e per year, power more than 12 million average homes and save 45 billion liters of water (or 18,000 Olympic swimming pools) per year during their 25+ product life, based on worldwide averages.Series 6 Environmental, Health and Safety ProfileAll PV technologies are not created equal. Where and how a PV module and its components 
are manufactured significantly impacts its environmental profile. First Solar’s advanced thin film modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow operation, using less energy, water and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon. In less than 4.5 hours, a sheet of glass is transformed into a complete PV module — flash tested, packaged and ready for shipment. All First Solar manufacturing sites are certified to globally recognized standards: ISO 14001 for Environmental Management, ISO 9001 
for Quality Management, and ISO 45001 for Occupational Health and Safety. We foster a culture where environmental, health and safety (EHS) is an integral part of our associates’ work and require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to our standards and commitments.Due to our resource-efficient manufacturing process, First Solar modules have a carbon footprint that is up to 
6 times lower, a water footprint that is up to 24 times lower and an energy payback time that is up to 4 times
 faster than conventional crystalline silicon solar panels on a life cycle basis (de Wild-Scholten, 2013) (Stolz & Frischknecht, 2017) (Sinha, Meader, & de Wild-Scholten, 2012). In less than six months under high irradiation conditions, First Solar PV modules produce more energy than was required to create them. This corresponds to 
a 50-fold energy return on investment (EROI) over a 25-year project lifetime, providing an abundant net energy 
gain to the electricity grid. LOWEST 
CARBON FOOTPRINTFASTEST 
ENERGY PAYBACK TIMELOWEST 
WATER FOOTPRINT(gCO2/kWh)(Liters/kWh)(Months)21607.214391.95100.3Mono-SiMono-SiMono-SiMulti-SiMulti-SiMulti-SiFirst SolarFirst SolarFirst SolarUp to 
24 TIMES 
LOWERUp to 
4 TIMES 
FASTERUp to
6 TIMES 
LOWERIn 2019, First Solar was selected as joint winner of PV Magazine’s inaugural sustainability award, in recognition of Series 6's industry-leading environmental profile. With the smallest carbon footprint, fastest energy payback time and lowest life cycle water use in the industry, First Solar modules generate cleaner solar electricity than conventionally manufactured solar panels. This enables our customers to decouple their business growth from environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity generation and consumption.More than 50 researchers from leading international institutions have confirmed the environmental benefits and safety of First Solar’s thin film PV technology over its entire life cycle; during normal operation, foreseeable accidents such as fire or breakage, and through end-of-life recycling and disposal. First Solar has extensive reliability testing capabilities with the ability to test approximately 23,000 Series 6 modules per year for light-induced degradation, resilience to wind, snow and ice loads, fire resistance under reverse current fault conditions, material adhesiveness, breakage resistance to hail impact and performance in the event of soiling or shading. First Solar modules are tested for safety during breakage, fire, flooding and hailstorms to ensure their durability in the field. With more than 25GW sold worldwide, First Solar modules have a proven record of safe and reliable performance. EUROPENORTH AMERICAASIAMIDDLE EASTAFRICASOUTH AMERICAFirst Solar implements a robust change management system (CMS) to ensure product changes do not negatively impact product safety, reliability, environmental footprint or recyclability. Process changes and module design improvements undergo several test and validation runs before receiving final approval and being implemented across manufacturing facilities. Life cycle analysis is performed for significant product and manufacturing process modifications to assess environmental, health and safety impacts before any changes are implemented. First Solar Series 6 PV modules consist of four articles: glass module, junction box, cable, and frame. These articles do not contain substances on the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) as defined by EU REACH regulation (revision date: July 16, 2019) above 0.1% by weight per article.Powering a Circular Economy First Solar has a long-standing leadership position in PV recycling with over a decade of experience in operating high-value PV recycling facilities on a global and industrial scale. Recognizing the importance of responsible product life cycle management, First Solar voluntarily established the industry’s first global PV module recycling program in 2005 and we have been investing in PV recycling technology improvements ever since. To learn more about First Solar’s recycling service, please see our recycling brochure and datasheet.Circular Material Flows First Solar has embedded circular material flows for the key components of our thin film PV technology to transform waste into resource - from raw material sourcing, through end-of-life recycling.Converting mining byproducts into a 
stable semiconductorDesigned for 
high-value recyclingManufacturing with less energy, water, and GHG emissionsFaster CO2 reductions and greater return on energy investedRecovering over 90% of materials at end-of-life for new PV modulesWhile most PV recycling processes focus only on recovering high-mass fraction materials such as glass and frames (i.e. bulk recycling), First Solar’s high-value recycling process goes further by also recovering the semiconductor material for reuse. First Solar PV Module Recycling Material Recovery Achievements Glass = 90 mass-% Metals (not including semiconductor materials) ≥ 90 mass-% Semiconductor Materials ≥ 90 mass-% Our high-value recycling process recovers more than 90% of the semiconductor material for reuse in new First Solar modules and 90% of the glass for use in new glass container products. In Malaysia, the recovered laminate material is reused in rubber products. The remainder of the recycled module scrap (approximately 5-10%) which cannot be used in secondary raw materials is handled using other responsible waste treatment and disposal techniques. One kilogram of First Solar’s semiconductor material can be recycled 41 times over, which translates into a use time of more than 1,200 years.  Since 2018, First Solar’s routinely operated recycling plants generate zero wastewater discharge. Instead, the wastewater is recycled and converted into freshwater for reuse in the recycling process. In 2019, First Solar joined over 170 companies in signing the America Recycles pledge, which aims to address 
the challenges facing the nation's recycling system and create a more resilient materials economy while protecting the environment.Sustainability at First SolarAt First Solar we define sustainability as our “capacity to endure and scale.” Our sustainability approach enables us to achieve long-term growth while following environmentally and socially responsible practices. First Solar’s sustainability program drives the company’s commitment to the triple bottom line of “people, planet and profit” through our approach to responsible life cycle management, environmental footprint analysis, greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction, waste management, global charitable giving, operational cost reduction, and industry best practices such as responsible land use and our global PV module recycling services. We are committed to minimizing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. First Solar’s Corporate Sustainability Policy is available on our website.Environmental Economic Social Minimize the environmental life cycle impacts of our products- from raw material sourcing through end-of-life recycling Enable affordable access to clean electricity globally Maintain a safe workplace and promote an inclusive and diverse workforce Operate world-class manufacturing facilities that conserve natural resources and minimize waste Create enduring economic value by implementing a long-term roadmap to achieve our technology and cost leadership goals Be a responsible corporate citizen in the communities where we operate and deploy our products. Contribute to a circular economy by operating an industry-leading module recycling program Decouple our growth and the growth of our customers from negative environmental impacts Partner with customers and suppliers on a responsible value chain Sustainability Ambassadors ProgramAs part of our efforts to “think globally and act locally,” we launched a 
global internal Sustainability Ambassadors program in 2018. The program 
enables First Solar associates at various sites to identify and implement 
local sustainability initiatives. Notable achievements in 2019 included:•	Introducing a global “Reduce-Reuse-Recycle” campaign to enhance 
office recycling initiatives and reduce single-use plastic;•	Raising awareness across the company through Sustainability Town Halls, lunch n’ learns and 
environmental exhibitions;•	Participating global site and community clean ups; •	Achieving a Green Business Certification for our San Francisco office;•	Planting trees for low-income families in Tempe;•	Transforming food waste into organic fertilizer in Malaysia;•	Organizing a blood drive, bringing clean water to local schools, and volunteering at an orphanage to help the local community in Vietnam.
Check out our 2019 Sustainability Ambassador Highlights video.