 GovernanceBoard of Directors First Solar’s business is conducted under the oversight of our Board of Directors. The primary responsibility of the Board is to oversee and review senior management’s performance of First Solar’s business operations. Our Board of Directors is composed of 10 directors, including eight independent directors and two non-independent directors, our Chair of the Board and our CEO. As a reflection of our commitment to diversity on our Board of Directors, we recently revised our Nominating and Governance Committee Charter to underline that we are “actively seeking highly qualified women and minority candidates as part of the search process for new Board members,” and better defined diversity to include background, gender, race and ethnicity. 2020 Women on Boards recognized First Solar as a “Winning ‘W’ Company” for having 20% of its Board of Director seats occupied by women.For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipExecutive Management First Solar’s CEO and executive management team are responsible for managing the Company’s day-to-day business operations, including the preparation of financial statements and short- and long-term strategic planning. For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipEthical Business ConductFirst Solar holds ethical business conduct as a core principle and is committed to operating at the highest ethical standards in every area of our business, everywhere we do business. First Solar’s Code of Conduct, Relentess Integrity: How We Conduct Business Ethically, demonstrates our commitment to this principle and guides the company’s business conduct. Our Code of Conduct applies to everyone, from members of the Board of Directors to our officers, associates and our valued partners. We have a long-standing commitment to conducting our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This commitment, along with our culture of agility, collaboration and accountability, defines our accepted behaviors and enables us to advance our mission to provide cost-advantaged solar technology through rigorous safety practices, innovation, customer engagement, industry leadership and operational excellence. First Solar has an existing records retention process and grievance mechanism for reporting policy violations via our Ethics Hotline.Collective Bargaining and Freedom of AssociationFirst Solar recognizes that in the locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or not bargain collectively in accordance with local laws. First Solar respects those rights and is committed to creating an environment of open communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, concerns or problems, and work together to address workplace issues.Governance  |  27Anti-Corruption First Solar performs risk assessments that consider the possibility of fraud and related indicators. We currently operate in, and may expand into, many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. First Solar’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy requires all associates to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and all other applicable local anti-corruption laws. The Global Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits bribery, kickbacks, and the giving of other improper payments to obtain or retain business and covers any person engaged to perform work on behalf of First Solar including freelancers, independent contractors, temporary contractors, independent professionals, agents and consultants. We communicate our anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies in our technical service contracts. All First Solar associates are required to participate in periodic anti-corruption training. Advanced FCPA training is provided to associates in higher risk profile jobs and tailored according to the region. First Solar has implemented processes and procedures to help ensure compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. These processes and procedures are monitored and audited on an ongoing basis.Governance  |  28Responsible Supply ChainOur thin film module manufacturing process uses approximately 30 types of raw materials and components to produce a solar module. Critical raw materials and components in our manufacturing process include CdTe, front glass coated with transparent conductive oxide, other semiconductor materials, organics such as photo resist, tempered back glass, frames, packaging components such as interlayer, cord plate/cord plate cap, cables and solar connectors. First Solar has one-product architecture controlled by a single set of global specifications for Bill of Materials (BoM) components, which results in a tightly controlled and consistently manufactured quality product. In contrast, many traditional tier one crystalline silicone manufacturers have multiple products, processes and bill of materials with a sprawling supply chain, which includes multiple process steps (polysilicon/ingots/wafers/cells/modules) across multiple continents, resulting in increased variability and quality and reliability risks. Where possible, we attempt to use suppliers that can provide a raw material supply source that is near our manufacturing locations, thereby reducing the transportation cost and impact as well as the lead times for such materials.Supplier Qualification and AssessmentBefore we use these materials and components in our manufacturing process, a supplier must undergo a rigorous qualification process. First Solar evaluates new suppliers using a balanced scorecard which focuses on the areas of Quality, Cost, Flexibility, Service, Technology and Sustainability. First Solar audits new and high-risk direct suppliers for their adherence to quality, environmental, health and safety, among other areas. The EHS section of our supplier audit tool uses the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct as a framework and encompasses topics such as environmental management, health and safety, labor and human rights and ethics. We prioritize our engagement by focusing on our module component suppliers.