Message From the CEOThe solar industry has reached an inflection point. Just a few years ago, 
the biggest obstacle we faced was proving that solar could be reliable and cost-competitive without the need for subsidies. Today, we can proudly state that we have overcome that challenge and utility-scale solar is now cheaper than any other form of new-build power generation in most major markets.MARK WIDMAR  
Chief Executive OfficerWhere once solar was described as “new energy” or “alternative,” solar PV is on a trajectory to become the dominant source of electricity generation in many countries while powering the new alternatives, such as hydrogen.While the solar industry has many achievements that it must be proud of, the journey has not been without its challenges and the focus on solar-at-any-cost has not been without consequences. It is deeply unfortunate, for example, that too many conversations these days include “solar” and “forced labor” in the same sentence. Or that the use of dirty coal electricity to power China’s dominance of polysilicon production is now in full public view, tainting the reputation of an entire industry. Besides shaking up the status quo, the increased public scrutiny of the solar industry appears to be forcing a reckoning that, we hope, will transform the industry into one that is stronger and more accountable, and recognizes the inherent business and reputational risks that inevitably accompany solar-at-any-cost.This is also an inflection point for us at First Solar and, in many ways, marks the next phase in our evolution as a company. For one, we have embraced our position as an industry leader, taking vocal positions on issues that we are passionate about. Why? Because diverse perspectives are important, and we believe that ours, which can sometimes run contrary to the dominant narratives, help bring clarity and insight to conversations about the future, stability, and sustainability of our industry.  This is why we’re doubling down on solar that isn’t simply powered by true innovation but also powered by a sense of responsibility towards people and the planet. It’s an approach that requires us to remember the original promise of solar. To put purpose at the center of everything we do. To do well and to enable the success of our partners and customers by doing good.We call this Responsible Solar. It is solar with an overarching ethical commitment to people and the planet. It is solar that doesn’t pay lip service to sustainability but embodies it. Solar that considers the social and environmental impacts and works hard to make people’s lives healthier. Solar that has no tolerance for the use of forced labor either in its manufacturing or its supply chain. And solar that meaningfully supports the fight against climate change.It represents a meaningful commitment to hold ourselves to a higher standard. As a result, our Series 6 modules received an EPEAT Silver rating and became the first PV product to be included in the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics. This globally recognized and independently validated ecolabel gives customers the confidence they are purchasing an environmentally leading product from a socially responsible company.  We also successfully reduced our GHG emissions-, energy-, and water- intensity due to the greater manufacturing throughput and enhanced energy and water efficiency of our Series 6 manufacturing process. In 2020, we joined RE100 and committed to powering our global operations with 100% renewable energy by 2028 in an effort to further reduce our operational impacts. In 2021, we continued to build on our environmental commitments by setting science-based targets to reduce our absolute GHG emissions by 20% by 2028 and achieve Net Zero emissions by 2050, relative to 2020.To build on our responsible sourcing track record and drive industry best practices, First Solar became a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) - the world’s largest industry coalition dedicated to supporting the rights and well-being of workers and communities in the global supply chain. Our decision to join the RBA was driven by our comprehensive approach to responsible supply chain management and the recognition that not all audits are created equal. As a member, we will not only have access to the RBA’s due diligence tools and programs but also its Validated Assessment Program (VAP), which is a leading standard for onsite compliance verification and effective, shareable audits. Simply put, respect for human rights in our operations and supply chain is non-negotiable.As part of our effort to reduce inequalities and promote a diverse and inclusive workplace, we continue to integrate inclusion, diversity, and belonging measures throughout our global people strategy- from our hiring policies to our benefit programs. Although we recognize there is more work to be done, these measures are already starting to deliver results. Over the past year, we added gender, racial and multicultural diversity into the Executive Leadership team and increased the percentage of women in management and the workforce. As of 2021, approximately 30% of our board seats are occupied by women. Building on the foundation of our Global Women’s Network, GLOW, we successfully launched our Black and African American Network in 2020 and plan to launch our Hispanic and Latin American Network in 2021. We are also putting our treasury dollars to work in ways that reflect our commitment to diversity and inclusion. In 2021, First Solar invested $11 million in efforts to revitalize American communities and bridge racial gaps in health, wealth, and opportunity.These are just some of the ways that we are delivering Responsible Solar to our stakeholders, society, and the planet. Thank you for your interest in this Sustainability Report and our continued journey to lead the world’s sustainable energy futureFirst Solar Sustainability Report 2021Message from the CEOMark WidmarChief Executive OfficerFirst Solar Sustainability Report 202152020 Highlights19%6.1GW31%..Lower GHG 
Emissions IntensityLower Manufacturing Energy IntensityProduced+ 90%+1%.Module Recycling Material Recovery 
RateWomen In Management & Workforce12%Lower Manufacturing Water IntensityA-1stPrimeISS ESG RatingCDP Climate Change And Water ScoreEPEAT-Rated 
PV Product6First Solar is a leading American solar technology company and global provider of responsibly-produced eco-efficient solar modules advancing the fight against climate change. We are unique among the world’s ten largest solar manufacturers for being the only US-headquartered company and for not using a crystalline silicon (c-Si) semiconductor. Developed at R&D labs in California and Ohio, First Solar’s advanced thin film photovoltaic (PV) modules represent the next generation of solar technologies, providing a competitive, high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional c-Si PV panels. From raw material sourcing and manufacturing through end-of-life module recycling, First Solar’s approach to technology embodies sustainability and a responsibility towards people and the planet. Offices	Manufacturing PlantsFirst Solar is headquartered in Tempe, Arizona, with regional offices around the world and manufacturing facilities in Perrysburg and Lake Township, Ohio; Kulim, Malaysia; and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Our annual manufacturing capacity has grown from 25 megawatts (MW) in 2005 to 7.9 gigawatts (GW) as of March 31, 2021, with a path to increase to 13 GW based on our recently announced expansion plan. In 2021, we announced plans to invest $680 million to expand our American solar manufacturing capacity by 3.3 GW. Our Ohio manufacturing footprint makes us the largest solar manufacturer in the United States and the Western Hemisphere. Responsible SolarAt First Solar, we have long understood that we have a responsibility towards our planet, our communities, and our customers. This responsibility drives our sense of purpose — “the why” that inspires every one of our thousands of employees worldwide who have committed themselves to our journey to lead the world’s sustainable energy future. Since the beginning, we have placed sustainability at the heart of everything we do, focused not on meeting industry standards, but exceeding them and setting new ones. This is why we have a long history of establishing benchmarks in recycling, health and safety, responsible supply chain management, transparency, resource-efficient manufacturing and the carbon and water footprint of our technology.ENVIRONMENTALGOVERNANCESOCIAL• Lowest environmental 
footprint in the industry • Resource-efficient and 
RE100-committed operations• Industry leading high-value 
PV recycling services• ESG oversight at Board level• Transparent reporting 
and disclosure• EPEAT Silver Rated• Member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)• Promote a safe, inclusive 
and diverse workplace• Engage in local 
communities and contribute 
to a just transition• Responsible sourcing with 
zero tolerance for forced laborResponsible SolarSolar should never come at the price of people or the planet. SOURCING• Converting mining by-products into the most eco-efficient PV technology• Comprehensive supply chain management: policies, auditing 
and transparent reporting• Respect for human rights is 
non-negotiable Unparalleled transparency 
and traceabilityLIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT• Our high-value recycling 
process recovers more than 90% 
of module materials for reuse• Provides high quality secondary resources for new PV panels 
and products• 1 kg of CdTe semiconductor 
can be recycled 41X, producing electricity for 1,230 yearsProviding circular solutions for 
a resource-constrained worldMANUFACTURING• Integrated and resource-efficient manufacturing under one roof• End-to-end manufacturing in 
4.5 hours vs. up to 3 days 
for c-Si• Up to 50% less air pollutants 
than c-Si manufacturing in ChinaAddressing the 
energy-water-health nexus OPERATION• PV panels can account for up 
to 80% of a PV installation’s environmental impacts.• Our resource-efficient 
manufacturing process results in:    • 2.5X lower carbon footprint    • 3X lower water footprint    • 2X faster energy payback time 
than c-Si panels made in ChinaEnabling faster and 
greater decarbonizationAbout First SolarIndustry-Leading Environmental ProfileAll PV technologies are not created equal. Where and how a PV module and its components are manufactured significantly impacts its environmental profile. First Solar’s advanced thin film modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow operation under one roof, using less energy, water and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon PV manufacturing. In less than 4.5 hours, a sheet of glass is transformed into a complete PV module — flash tested, packaged and ready for shipment. Due to our resource-efficient manufacturing process, First Solar modules have a carbon footprint that is up to 2.5 times lower, a water footprint that is up to three times lower and an energy payback time that is up to two times faster than conventional crystalline silicon solar panels on a life cycle basis1.  In just four months under high irradiation conditions, First Solar PV modules produce more energy than was required to create them. This corresponds to a 90-fold energy return on investment (EROI) over a 30-year project lifetime, providing an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid. LOWEST 
CARBON FOOTPRINTLOWEST 
WATER FOOTPRINTFASTEST 
ENERGY PAYBACK TIME(Liters/Wp)(gCO2eq/Wp)(Months)229785430075100.3Mono c-SiMono c-Si(China)Mono c-SiFirst SolarFirst SolarFirst Solar3X LOWER2X FASTER2.5X LOWER1R. Frischknecht, P. Stolz, L. Krebs, M. de Wild-Scholten, P. Sinha, V. Fthenakis, H. C. Kim, M. Raugei, M. Stucki. (2020). Life Cycle Inventories and Life Cycle Assessment of Photovoltaic Systems. International Energy Agency (IEA) PVPS Task 12, Report T12-19:2020.First Solar Sustainability Report 202112With the smallest carbon footprint, fastest energy payback time and lowest life cycle water use in the industry, First Solar modules generate cleaner solar electricity than conventionally manufactured solar panels. This enables our customers to decouple their business growth from environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity generation and consumption. We are continuously working to drive down the environmental footprint of our modules. In 2020, we committed to going 100% renewable across our global operations by 2028, which will enable us to reduce the carbon footprint of our modules by 40%.Assuming average worldwide irradiance and grid electricity emissions, 30 gigawatts (GW) of our products are being used to displace over 21 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent per year during their 30+ year lifetime. This is equivalent to powering more than 15 million average homes, planting over 350 million trees and saving over 54 billion liters of water (or 21,000 Olympic swimming pools) per year based on worldwide averages. Every year, First Solar products are displacing more than 10 times the amount of greenhouse gas emissions we emit through our global operations and supply chain.In 2020, First Solar Series 6 modules became the first PV product to be included in the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics. EPEAT is a globally recognized and independently validated ecolabel that allows for the easy identification of environmentally preferable products from socially responsible companies. EPEAT addresses the full product life cycle, including managing substances in the product, manufacturing energy and water use, product packaging, end-of-life recycling, corporate responsibility and human rights. Our Series 6 product was awarded an EPEAT Silver rating, certifying that it has exceeded the basic but stringent environmental and social criteria of a Bronze rating.EUROPENORTH AMERICAASIAMIDDLE EASTAFRICASOUTH AMERICAMore than 50 researchers from leading international institutions have confirmed the environmental benefits and safety of First Solar’s thin film 
PV technology over its entire life cycle; during normal operation, foreseeable accidents such as fire or breakage, and through end-of-life recycling and disposal. First Solar’s Quality and Reliability labs are over 64,000 ft2 (6000m2) in size globally and test over 40,000 PV modules per year for light-induced degradation, resilience to wind, snow and ice loads, fire resistance under reverse current fault conditions, material adhesiveness, breakage resistance to hail impact and performance in the event of soiling or shading. First Solar modules are tested for safety during breakage, fire, flooding and hailstorms to ensure their durability in the field. With more than 30GW sold worldwide, First Solar modules have a proven record of safe and reliable performance. First Solar implements a robust change management system (CMS) to ensure product changes do not negatively impact product safety, reliability, environmental footprint or recyclability. Process changes and module design improvements undergo several test and validation runs before receiving final approval and being implemented across manufacturing facilities. Life cycle analysis is performed for significant product and manufacturing process modifications to assess environmental, health and safety impacts before any changes are implemented. First Solar Series 6 PV modules consist of four articles: glass module, junction box, cable, and frame. These articles do not contain substances on the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) as defined by EU REACH regulation (revision date: June 25, 2020) above 0.1% by weight per article.Powering a Circular Economy First Solar has a unique and long-standing leadership position in PV recycling as the only solar manufacturer with global in-house PV recycling capabilities. We have more than 15 years of experience operating high-value PV recycling facilities on a global and industrial scale. Recognizing the importance of responsible product life cycle management, First Solar voluntarily established the industry’s first global PV module recycling program in 2005 and we have been investing in PV recycling technology improvements ever since. To learn more about First Solar’s global recycling services, please see our recycling brochure and datasheet.First Solar is powering a circular economy by transforming waste into resource – from raw material sourcing through end-of-life recycling.Converting mining
by products into a 
stable semiconductorDesigned for high-value recyclingManufacturing with
less energy, water,
and GHG emissionsFaster CO2 reductions 
and greater return on energy invested
Recovering over 90%
of materials at end-of-life
for new PV modulesWhile most PV recycling processes focus only on recovering high-mass fraction materials such as glass and frames (i.e. bulk recycling), First Solar’s high-value recycling process goes further by recovering more than 90% of the semiconductor material for reuse in new First Solar modules and 90% of the glass for use in new glass container products. One kilogram of First Solar’s semiconductor material can be recycled 41 times over, which translates into a use time of more than 1,200 years. The module frame is removed and recycled for reuse in aluminum products. In Malaysia, the recovered laminate material is reused in rubber products. First Solar Module Recycling Process OverviewSince 2018, First Solar’s routinely operated recycling plants generate zero wastewater discharge. We installed evaporators at all our recycling facilities in order to recycle wastewater and convert it into freshwater for reuse in the recycling process. In addition to recycling water, the evaporators generate sodium sulfate crystals which can be used in glass manufacturing.  We are in the process of identifying glass outlets that can reuse the sodium sulfate crystals from our recycling process to further close the loop on our product’s life cycle. The remainder of the recycled module scrap (approximately 5 -10%) consists of glass fines which cannot be used in secondary raw materials and are handled using other responsible waste treatment techniques. Due to the shredding and crushing involved in the recycling process, material losses are inevitable, and the recovery ratio is always less than 100%.First Solar is among more than 370 companies to sign the America Recycles pledge, which aims to address the challenges facing the nation's recycling system and create a more resilient materials economy while protecting the environment.