GovernanceESG Oversight At First SolarAt First Solar we define sustainability as our “capacity to endure and scale.” Our sustainability approach enables us to achieve long-term growth while following environmentally and socially responsible practices. First Solar’s sustainability program drives our commitment to the triple bottom line of “people, planet and profit” through our approach to responsible life cycle management, environmental footprint analysis, resource efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reduction, waste management, global charitable giving, operational cost reduction, responsible sourcing and human rights, as well as our global PV module recycling services. We are committed to minimizing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. First Solar’s Corporate Sustainability Policy is available on our website.First Solar’s Board of Directors’ Nominating and Governance committee has overall oversight of the company’s environmental, social, governance (ESG) strategy and policies, as defined in their charter. First Solar’s ESG Steering Committee, led by our Chief Executive Officer and consisting of our Executive Leadership Team, has the highest level of direct responsibility for ESG matters and reports into the Board of Directors on a biannual or more frequent basis. First Solar's ESG and Sustainability team coordinates the cross-functional taskforce of ESG focus leaders responsible for defining, measuring and reporting on progress to the ESG Steering Committee on a quarterly basis. First Solar’s ESG focus leaders help advance the company’s approach to Responsible Solar by driving progress on key strategic ESG areas including:•	Energy, Emissions & Resource Efficiency•	Circular Economy•	Inclusion, Diversity & Belonging•	Innovative Products•	Public Policy and Public Sentiment•	Reliable Products•	Responsible Sourcing and Human RightsBoard Of Directors First Solar’s business is conducted under the oversight of our Board of Directors. The primary responsibility of the Board is to oversee and review senior management’s performance of First Solar’s business operations. Our Board of Directors is composed of 12 directors, including ten independent directors and two non-independent directors, our Chair of the Board and our CEO. Each of the chairs of our Board committees are held by an independent director. In 2021, the Board of Directors established the position of Lead Independent Director and adopted a Lead Independent Director Charter setting forth the duties and responsibilities of the position. Molly E. Joseph was selected unanimously by the independent directors of the Board to serve as the Company’s first Lead Independent Director. In 2020, we revised our Nominating and Governance Committee Charter to underscore that we are “actively seeking highly qualified women and minority candidates as part of the search process for new Board members,” and better defined diversity to include background, gender, race and ethnicity. In 2021, we further revised our Nominating and Governance Committee Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines to state that “the search process for new Board members… shall include one or more racially or ethnically diverse candidate in each search process for new Board members.” For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipExecutive Management First Solar’s CEO and executive management team are responsible for managing the company’s day-to-day business operations, including the preparation of financial statements and short- and long-term strategic planning. We have added gender, racial and multicultural diversity into the Executive Leadership team as a reflection of our commitment to diversity. For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipEthical Business ConductFirst Solar holds ethical business conduct as a core principle and we are committed to operating at the highest ethical standards in every area of our business, everywhere we do business. First Solar’s Code of Conduct, Relentless Integrity: How We Conduct Business Ethically, demonstrates our commitment to this principle and guides the company’s business conduct. Our Code of Conduct applies to everyone, from members of the Board of Directors to our officers, associates and our valued partners. We have a long-standing commitment to conducting our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This commitment, along with our culture of agility, collaboration and accountability, defines our accepted behaviors and enables us to advance our mission to provide cost-advantaged solar technology through rigorous safety practices, innovation, customer engagement, industry leadership and operational excellence. First Solar has a Chief Compliance Officer, who reports regularly to the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team on the status of our ethical culture and develops processes and procedure to further monitor and advance our ethics and compliance programs. First Solar has an existing mechanism for reporting any misconduct or policy violations via various channels, including our Ethics Hotline. Any First Solar associate, supplier and other external stakeholder can report concerns free of any retaliation, discrimination, or harassments via our third-party operated Ethics Hotline which provides an anonymous and confidential solution to communicate any concerns on conduct.Collective Bargaining And Freedom Of AssociationFirst Solar recognizes that in the locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or not bargain collectively in accordance with local laws. First Solar respects those rights and is committed to creating an environment of open communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, concerns or problems, and work together to address workplace issues.Anti-CorruptionFirst Solar performs risk assessments that consider the possibility of fraud and related indicators. We currently operate in, and may expand into, many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. First Solar’s Global Anti- Corruption Policy requires all associates to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and all other applicable local anti-corruption laws. The Global Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits bribery, kickbacks, and the giving of other improper payments to obtain or retain business and covers any person engaged to perform work on behalf of First Solar including freelancers, independent contractors, temporary contractors, independent professionals, agents and consultants. We communicate our anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies in our customer and service contracts. FCPA training is provided to associates in higher risk profile jobs and tailored according to the region. First Solar has implemented processes and procedures to help ensure compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. These processes and procedures are monitored and audited on an ongoing basis.Data Security And PrivacyFirst Solar is committed to complying with all data protection and privacy laws applicable to our business. First Solar’s global data protection compliance program operates as part of our global compliance program. First Solar’s Global Data Protection Policy establishes minimum standards that First Solar and our subsidiaries must apply to personal data on a company-wide basis. All First Solar associates are required to comply with our Global Data Protection Policy, including by ensuring that they have completed the requisite training to enable them to do so. First Solar conducts periodic and as-needed training regarding the lawful and intended purposes of processing personal data, the need to protect and keep information accurate and up-to-date, and the need to maintain the confidentiality of the data to which associates have access. As needed, First Solar functions, departments or divisions may conduct more specific training related to such functions, departments or divisions processing of Personal Data. In addition, annual Cyber Security training is required for First Solar associates, and a formal cyber communication cadence provides topical awareness on a monthly or more frequent basis. Non-compliance with the policy may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal or contract termination. First Solar adheres to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and conducts annual audits and testing of its information security and data privacy programs, engaging external partners periodically. First Solar has not experienced an information security breach in the last three years.BODESG Steering Committee (ELT)ESG Focus LeadersGovernanceGovernance56ESG Recognition and Awards• 2022: America’s Most Responsible Companies- Newsweek and Statista
Top 10 in the Energy and Utilities industry• 2022: “Low Risk” ESG Rating - Sustainalytics
In recognition of company's strong overall management of material 
ESG issues• 2022: AA (Leader) Rating- MSCI ESG Research
Highest ESG rating in the solar industry• 2021: Fast Company’s World Changing Ideas Award Finalist 
First Solar’s approach to Responsible Solar• 2021: “Prime” Rating - ISS ESG
Demonstrating best-in-class environmental, social, governance performance• 2021: Ohio EPA Encouraging Environmental Excellence PLATINUM Award
Most prestigious environmental recognition in Ohio• 2021: EPEAT Silver Rating
1st PV products in the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics 
(Series 6 and Series 6 Plus)• 2020: Kedah Department of Environment State Environmental 
Excellence Award
In recognition of First Solar Malaysia’s leadership and manufacturing operations• 2020: CDP Climate Change A- rating
For leadership on climate change and disclosure and management of climate-related risks• 2020: CDP Water Security A- rating
For leadership on water stewardship and disclosure and management of water-related risks• 2020: Global Challenges Index
Among 50 companies making pioneering contributions to overcome 
global challenges such as climate change, the provision of clean drinking water, deforestation, biodiversity, population development, poverty and 
global governance• 2019: PV Magazine Sustainability Award
Selected joint winner in recognition of Series 6’s industry leading environmental profileExternal Sustainability Initiatives• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): First Solar has participated in and publicly reported to CDP since 2011.• Climate Leadership Council: As a founding member, First Solar supports the Climate Leadership Council’s mission and carbon dividends plan as a cost-effective, equitable and politically-viable climate solution. The plan calls for a substantial, gradually rising, revenue-neutral carbon tax with the revenue distributed to citizens.• EPEAT: First Solar is a member of the EPEAT Advisory Council, a non-fiduciary body formed to provide input and advice to EPEAT management. EPEAT is a globally recognized Type 1 Ecolabel which enables public and private purchasers to identify environmentally leading products from socially responsible companies. The EPEAT PV modules and inverters category launched in October 2020.• International Energy Agency (IEA) Photovoltaic Power Systems Program Task Committees 12: As a member of Task 12, First Solar promotes international collaboration on PV safety and sustainability.• International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA): First Solar is a founding member of IRENA’s multi-stakeholder Coalition for Action which works to dispel common misperceptions and factual inaccuracies about renewable energy.• NSF 457 Photovoltaic Module Sustainability Leadership Standard (NSF/ANSI 457- 2019): First Solar is part of the Joint Committee which developed NSF 457, the industry’s first Sustainability Leadership Standard for PV modules and inverters. PV modules and inverters conforming to NSF 457 are added to the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics.• RE100: First Solar joined RE100 in 2020 and committed to powering our global operations with 100% renewable energy by 2028. RE100 is a global initiative dedicated to accelerating the shift to zero-carbon grids, led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP.• Responsible Business Alliance (RBA): First Solar joined the RBA in 2021 as a regular member to build on our track record of responsible sourcing. The RBA is the world’s largest industry coalition dedicated to supporting the rights and well-being of workers and communities in the global supply chain. First Solar is the first of the world’s largest top ten PV manufacturers to join the RBA.• Ultra Low-Carbon Solar Alliance (ULCSA): First Solar is a founding member of the ULCSA, an alliance of companies across the solar PV value chain committed to expanding market awareness and deployment of ultra low-carbon PV to accelerate reductions in solar supply chain GHG emissions.