7.Social ResponsibilityGlobal Charitable Giving Program OverviewFirst Solar makes four kinds of donations under its Global Charitable Giving Program: corporate donations (i.e., donations made through the First Solar Corporate Charitable Fund), site donations (i.e., donations made through First Solar local offices and manufacturing sites), project-related donations (i.e., donations associated with a First Solar project), and business development donations (i.e., donations related to First Solar sales activities). In 2017, First Solar donated $791,549 in total cash and in-kind contributions.35 Donations Type $Amount Manufacturing and office site donations Community $178,590 Project-related donations  Community $136,889 Corporate Charitable Fund donations (including module donations) Charitable $476,070 Total $791,549 In line with our environmental, social and economic giving values, First Solar’s Global Charitable Giving Program prioritizes initiatives that support the following UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): • Empowering the next generation through education for sustainable development • Ensuring access to clean energy and water • Promoting economic inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity to reduce inequality • Enabling a circular economy to ensure sustainable and responsible consumption 35 Cash contributions include grants, sponsorships and cash equivalent grants (e.g., check, gift card, gift certificate, debit card, etc.) and in-kind (i.e. non-cash) donations include First Solar modules, PV systems (or components thereof), capital equipment and other goods. Site Donations First Solar implements local community engagement and development programs at locations where our associates live and work. First Solar’s local Contribution Committees approve requests for monetary and “in kind” gifts to assist charities and non-profit organizations that promote health and safety, environmental responsibility, education and community services.Our associates help fulfill the company’s commitment to improving the environment and contributing to local communities.In 2017, First Solar Malaysia donated $62,600 to local initiatives and festivities as part of the site’s community giving program. In conjunction with the Lunar New Year 2017 celebration, First Solar Malaysia organized a charity visit to the Rumah Sejahtera Old Folks Home, a residential shelter for homeless senior citizens. First Solar volunteers also helped spread Christmas cheer at the Sunshine Cottage Welfare Home in Kulim for children, youth, seniors and disabled citizens in need. For the sixth year in a row, First Solar volunteers served free drinks and food to members of the public attending the annual Indian Thaipusam Festival at the Penang Waterfall Temple. First Solar supported Raya Qurban (a religious celebration for Muslims) at the Sungai Kob Mosque. First Solar Malaysia helped support less fortunate children with disabilities by participating in a fundraising program organized by the U.S. Embassy and the American Malaysian Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) for the School of Mentally Retarded Children and the Penang Ru Yi Home.First Solar Malaysia associates at the Rumah Sejahtera Old Folks Home for homeless senior citizens. As part of our commitment to empowering the next generation through education, First Solar sponsored AMCHAM Malaysia’s Young Enterprise Program which gives students an opportunity to learn about business through hands-on experience. First Solar Malaysia hosted an exhibition booth at the Penang International Science Fair 2017 to raise awareness of the importance of green energy for a sustainable future. The fair exposes young minds to science and engineering through a unique, stimulating and innovative experience. First Solar Malaysia showcased the latest advances in the thin film technology at the International Greentech & Eco Products Exhibition & Conference Malaysia (IGEM) which helps to introduce students to solar science and technology. First Solar Malaysia also sponsored the ASEAN Essay Writing Competition and donated IPads for the winners.In 2017, First Solar Perrysburg donated $105,990 to local community and charitable initiatives such as Cocoon Shelter, Walk for Water Toledo, Huron County Human Society, Imagination Station, Toledo Museum of Art and many more. In line with our charitable giving goal to enable a circular economy, First Solar sponsored the Toledo Zoo’s Terracycling program. TerraCycle is an international program that aims to eliminate the idea of waste by recycling the non-recyclable. The program is helping to keep items such as plastic cups, cereal and potato chip bags, energy bar wrappers, food pouches, water filters, beauty and oral care products, ink cartridges, and markers, out of landfill.Every year since 2009, our Perrysburg associates volunteer for a non-profit community organization called Partner for Clean Streams (PCS), which works to improve the water quality of Ohio’s Maumee River by partnering with businesses, governmental agencies, non-profit organizations and local volunteers. In line with our commitment to environmental responsibility, First Solar proudly sponsors PCS and provides volunteers and supplies during the stream cleaning activities. In 2017, 73 associates and their families collected approximately 150 bags of trash (weighing 4,500 pounds) along with 20 tires out of the Maumee River. First Solar retained the title of “Watershed Warrior,” the highest corporate recognition for the most volunteers.In 2017, the Arizona Contribution committee donated $10,000 to local and national non-profits including Act One which provides lower-income school children in Maricopa and Pima counties the opportunity to experience arts performances and exhibitions through field trips to professional theaters and museums, Make a Wish Arizona which helps grant the wishes of more than 400 Arizona children, the Adult Congenital Heart Association’s heart walk, Queen of Peace Elementary School’s Home Economics Start Up Program which helps improve the everyday life of their 242 students that come primarily from low-income families, the Puerto Rico Disaster Direct Relief fund, and Boy Scouts of America’s Taste of Arizona Festival which helped raise funds to enable at-risk youths in low-income and culturally diverse areas to participate in after-school and weekend activities. First Solar associates from our Tempe and Mesa offices led an effort to collect and wrap donations for 12 area families in need to ensure these families would have gifts under their trees and a very merry Christmas.For the fourth year in a row, First Solar associates from our Sydney office volunteered their time to mentor at-risk teens through a charity called Raise. The volunteers met with their mentees from Matraville Sports High School once a week for six months a year and recently celebrated their successful graduation after providing guidance and support through their high school years. First Solar Perrysburg associates and their families participated in the annual “Clean Your Streams” day in Ohio.First Solar Australia associates gave back to the community as mentors to students at Matraville Sports High School in Sydney.Scholarships, Internships And Educational Outreach First Solar is committed to promoting solar technology education and empowering the next generation by providing scholarships and internships, developing solar PV curriculums and supporting local training programs. We donate modules, provide solar equipment and design curriculums for training programs to help local community members pursuing a solar career develop the skills needed to excel in the industry. Solar training programs provide access to stable and fulfilling green jobs to both students about to enter the workforce and experienced workers looking for a career change.Over the past three years, First Solar has donated nearly $50,000 to the Ohio Foundation of Independent Colleges (OFIC). In all, nineteen students received scholarships in the amount of $2,500 each. The students attended Ohio Northern University, Ohio Wesleyan University and Malone University and majored in Mechanical Engineering, Business, Mathematics, Accounting, Nursing and Environmental Studies.First Solar sponsors research on the next generation of solar technology and partners with universities on R&D initiatives to drive cost-effective PV module efficiency gains and long-term durability and performance improvements. In 2018, First Solar rolled out a U.S. internship program in partnership with Arizona State University, Bowling Green State University, Michigan State University, Howard University, New York University, the University of Toledo, and the University of Arizona. First Solar’s internship program aims to help students enrolled in a Bachelor’s, Master’s or PhD program fulfill a graduation requirement. In 2018, we had 59 interns across the U.S, up from 35 in 2017.First Solar Malaysia has partnered with local universities and colleges since 2012 to support our internship program. The program helps to develop future employees and enables students to gain hands-on working experience at First Solar, including internship placements in our industrial training program. First Solar Malaysia provided internships to 269 students in 2017 and 209 students in 2018 for a period of 3 to 9 months. First Solar Malaysia also offers 1-year internships to unemployed graduates through a formal Graduate Employability Program in collaboration with local educational institutions.Under this program, interns participate in customized training modules while doing on-the-job training at First Solar, with the potential opportunity of being hired permanently at the end of the internship period.In 2017, First Solar hosted 16 visiting engineering scholars from Pakistan for a tour of our Operations Center in Tempe, Arizona. The scholars were part of the U.S.-Pakistan Centers for Advanced Studies in Energy (USPCASE) program, an initiative between Arizona State University and two leading Pakistani universities- the National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST) and the University of Engineering and Technology (UET) Peshawar. The USPCASE program focuses on applied research relevant to Pakistan’s energy needs and helps produce skilled graduates in the energy field.  “Scholarships like First Solar Corporation Scholarship allow my family and me 
to breathe easier knowing that I can attend a highly ranked and successful school without the stress of massive student loans when I graduate.”—Advanced Mathematics student at Ohio Northern UniversityProject-Related Donations First Solar is committed to being a good neighbor and responsible partner in local communities throughout the development, construction, and operation of our projects. In 2017, First Solar donated $97,300 to initiatives and charitable funds across the U.S. including Best Buddies International, the Las Vegas Victims’ Fund, the Moapa Band of Paiute Indians, the Rotary Club of Hanford, the Kings Community Action Organization’s Barbara Saville Shelter for victims of domestic violence, the Blythe emergency food pantry for seniors and people with disabilities, the Cuyama Joint Unified School District, Ann Parish Elementary School, and the volunteer fire department in Butler, Georgia.As part of our local corporate social responsibility (CSR) program in India, First Solar donated $38,680 in 2017 for training programs and the construction of two community centers. First Solar hosted skill development workshops in the Indur village of the Vikarabad District near our Tandur project site in Telangana. In line with our charitable giving goal to promote economic inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity to reduce inequality, the workshops aimed to equip undergraduate children with basic Microsoft computer language skills and empower women in the village with the tools and skills to make dresses, toys and bags that can be sold at the market. 100 boys and girls participated in the 30-day computer awareness and training program and 100 women participated in the 30-day tailoring and bag making training program. First Solar also contributed infrastructure, computers, and sewing machine kits. In the Beechiganipalli village adjacent to our Hindupur project site in Andhra Pradesh, First Solar helped construct two community halls which will enable the local community to host social functions such as marriages and cultural events.Corporate DonationsFirst Solar’s Corporate Charitable Fund aims to improve the quality of life in communities around the world by partnering with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to empower the next generation through education for sustainable development, provide access to clean energy and water in underserved areas, enable a circular economy, and promote economic inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity through cash contributions, sponsorships, or module, system and capital equipment donations. We have community giving projects throughout the world including Australia, Chile, India, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Burkina Faso, South Africa, Germany, Nicaragua, Tanzania, Cameroon and the U.S.2017 USA Ohio Foundation of Independent Colleges $10,000 endowment to provide scholarships for students majoring in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM). 2017 USA RE-volv Solar Ambassador Program $10,000 grant for training and mentoring college students to facilitate the installation of solar projects that benefit non-profits in their home communities. 2017 USA National Park Trust 1.1MW module donation (roughly equivalent to $385,000) and $15,000 grant for a solar installation on Santa Rosa Island, part of the Channel Islands National Park. The PV installation generated power to support park staff, partners, researchers and visitors utilizing the island. 2017 USA Ohio State University $25,920 grant to support interactive scientific learning field trips to Stone Lab for up to 240 students and chaperones from the Toledo area. Participants collected environmental and biological data from Lake Erie aboard a research vessel and then studied the specimens at the Gibraltar Island research facility.  2017 USA The American Red Cross The fund contributed $30,150 to support the Hurricane Harvey disaster relief effort. This included matching donations made by First Solar associates. 2016 Global Friends of Cave Creek Canyon  Donated modules and $15,000 to install a well pump that supplies water to Willow Tank pond, an important site for migratory birds and other wildlife in Arizona.  2016 USA Read for Literacy $10,000 grant to launch interactive green education programs at the Claire’s Day event and other back to school events. 2016 USA RE-volv Solar Ambassador Program $10,000 grant to provide training and mentoring to college students on installing solar projects to benefit a nonprofit in their home communities. 2016 USA Toledo Museum of Art  Donated $30,000 to support a public sensory garden project on the museum’s campus in Ohio. 2016 USA Ohio Foundation of Independent Colleges $10,000 endowment to provide scholarships for students majoring in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM). 2016 Global Global Greengrants Donated $50,500 to support green education, access to clean water and energy, and the development of innovative and sustainable technologies in Nigeria and other countries around the world. First Solar donated modules and $15,000 to Friends of Cave Creek Canyon (FoCCC) to help install a well pump that supplies water to Willow Tank pond, an important site for migratory birds and other wildlife in Arizona.In 2015, First Solar provided a $50,000 grant to the Arizona State University Foundation for the USAID Research & Innovation Fellowship Program that was used to support student-led sustainable development projects in Brazil, South Africa, Botswana, Senegal and Panama over a two-year period.The Global Development Research Program’s projects focused on areas including community sustainability, appropriate usage of shared water resources, optimal control of small wind turbines and solar arrays for agricultural activities, and the impacts of climate change on pollinators in Panama. In Brazil, the program supported the village of Rio Claro’s goal of becoming a model sustainable community by 2020 (Rio Claro Sustentavel 2020 program). In 2017, Rio Claro celebrated its first sustainability festival, a half day event that included several presentations and discussions on the goals of the sustainability vision, demonstration of solar energy applications and educational games for children. The event marked the launch of the community’s 2017-2018 implementation plan which involves achieving zero waste to reduce pollution, clean water projects that focus on extracting solid waste from the local river, and reducing energy costs with solar energy and energy efficiency.Demonstration of a low cost solar water heater prototype in Rio Claro, Brazil, as part of Arizona State University’s Global Development Research Program.Children learned about the importance of proper waste separation and disposal in marked bins at Rio Claro’s first sustainability festival in July 2017.Every year, the National Park Trust organizes “Kids to Parks Day”, a national day of outdoor play that encourages children and families to explore the outdoors and build lifelong bonds with their local parks. In 2018, more than one million families participated in over 1,200 park events across the U.S.First Solar has been sponsoring the Kids to Parks Day National School Contest since its inception in 2012 to give underserved schools an opportunity to learn about nature, park stewardship, outdoor recreation, STEM and history by experiencing their local, state and national parks and public lands. First Solar’s $25,000 sponsorship provided scholarships for bus transportation, administration of the program and Buddy Bison award packages that benefitted 1,824 students from 28 states plus Washington D.C. during the 2017/2018 school year. Approximately one-third of the 5,086 students participating in the Kids to Parks Day National School Contest were funded by the First Solar grant. First Solar is committed to empowering the next generation through environmental education and nature conservation as part of our vision of leading the world’s sustainable energy future. Students from the Shafter Youth Center in California hiked through Sequoia National Park and learned about the redwoods and their fire resistance.110 students from Arbor Station Elementary in Georgia visited Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park and toured the visitor center, visited the Ebenezer Baptist Church, viewed the reflecting pool and helped to pick up trash.Students from Chinook Elementary school in Alaska visited the Kenai Fjords National Park to get a first-hand look the glaciers. 50 high school students from South Tech Academy in Florida visited Biscayne National Park to study the effects of plastic waste on the ocean and tour a sea turtle rescue facility.Students from Desert Rose High School in Nevada visited Valley of Fire State Park and explored petroglyphs at Atlatl Rock, identified petrified wood, spotted bighorn sheep and helped to pick up trash.External Sustainability Initiatives and Charters• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): First Solar has participated in and publically reported to CDP since 2011.• Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) Commitment: First Solar and its solar affiliates participate in SEIA’s Commitment to Environmental and Social Responsibility, a voluntary commitment which details a set of solar industry guidelines to promote environmental and social responsibility.• Product Environmental Footprint (PEF): First Solar is a leading member of the Technical Secretariat to develop Life Cycle Assessment-based Product Environmental Footprint Category Rules for PV electricity generation under the European Commission’s Single Market for Green Products Initiative Pilot process on Product Environmental Footprinting.• International Energy Agency Photovoltaic Power Systems Program Task Committees 12: As a member of Task 12, First Solar promotes international collaboration on PV safety and sustainability.• International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA): First Solar is a founding member of IRENA’s multi-stakeholder Coalition for Action which works to dispel common misperceptions and factual inaccuracies about renewable energy.• International Energy Agency Renewable Industry Advisory Board (IEA RIAB): As member of the Renewable Industry Advisory Board, First Solar is providing insight to technology developments and providing advice and feedback to the International Energy Agency on photovoltaics in the global energy markets.• NSF Photovoltaic Module Sustainability Leadership Standard: First Solar is part of the Joint Committee which is developing a Photovoltaic Module Sustainability Leadership Standard under the umbrella of the National Center for Sustainability Standards NSF.• SEIA National PV Recycling Program:  First Solar is partnering with the Solar Energy Industries Association to help make affordable PV recycling solutions more accessible to consumers by establishing a network of cost-effective recyclers that can responsibly manage PV waste. • Climate Leadership Council: As a founding member, First Solar supports the Climate Leadership Council’s mission and carbon dividends plan as a cost-effective, equitable and politically-viable climate solution. The plan calls for a substantial, gradually rising, revenue-neutral carbon tax with the revenue distributed to citizens.