Social ResponsibilityOur CultureAt First Solar, innovative and passionate people, working ethically and safely, form the foundation of our success. We generate results through a culture of agility, collaboration and accountability. Our internal Vision, Mission and Culture includes behaviors that support safety first, mutual respect for all associates, empowered collaboration between functions and individuals, and personal ownership of decisions, performance and results. As a global culture, we value multiple voices and perspectives. This diverse tapestry of different viewpoints, approaches and needs helps us to produce better products and services.Agility
We  are creative 
and resilient.Collaboration
We help each 
other succeed.Accountability
We own the results 
of our actions.In May 2022, we completed our first RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audit at our manufacturing facilities in Ohio and achieved platinum status, the highest possible rating. The audit was conducted by independent third-party auditors specially trained in social and environmental auditing and the VAP audit protocol. It covered the full scope of the VAP, including fair labor practices and human rights, health and safety measures, environmental performance, business integrity, ethics, and supporting management systems. The rating is valid until May 5, 2024."We’re incredibly proud that our Ohio facilities set the benchmark for socially- and environmentally-responsible solar manufacturing, based on an independent, impartial standard used across manufacturing industries. The fact that we achieved Platinum status on our first try is a tribute to the passion and purpose of our people who exemplify First Solar’s commitment to Responsible SolarMark Widmar 
Chief Executive Officer | First SolarWorking At First SolarAs of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 4,800 associates (our term for full and part-time employees) compared to approximately 5,100 in 2020. The change in the number of associates was primarily attributed to the sale of First Solar’s U.S. Project Development and North American O&M businesses which was completed in 2021. Approximately 85% of our associates work in manufacturing and the remainder of our associates are in research and development, and sales, marketing, general and administrative positions. In 2021, eight associates (or approximately 0.2%) were part-time while the rest were full-time.Associates by Region in 2021Associates by Function in 20210.1%9%5%Manufacturing34%APACR&DEMEASales, General 
& AdministrativeNorth America65%South America1%86%As part of our efforts to attract new and diverse talent, First Solar Ohio launched a High School Initiative in 2021 to introduce students to opportunities in production operations. From Fall 2021 through Spring 2022, First Solar hosted 350 high school students from area schools such as the Penta Career Center and the Toledo Public Schools. The students visited our Perrysburg manufacturing plant where they learned about solar energy, First Solar, production careers, and attended a factory tour to witness a high tech manufacturing facility in action. In 2021, First Solar created part-time positions for students to gain production experience while finishing their senior year. Seven students have since become full time associates after graduating. We recently hired our first associate to a new full-time apprenticeship position within maintenance. The position was created for high school graduates of vocational programs that are looking to get a start on their career while furthering their education paid for by First Solar.First Solar’s High School Initiative also seeks to inform local schools of the skills needed for solar manufacturing. We recently hosted a Faculty in the Workplace experience where an instructor from the Toledo Public Schools got to participate in our week-long production onboarding program which includes on-the-job production line training.Inclusion, Diversity & BelongingAt First Solar, inclusion, diversity and belonging is more than a program or an initiative, it is a transformation. We recognize that diversity and inclusion (D&I) is a driving force in the success of our company and believe in creating an environment where different voices are encouraged, heard and valued including, gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, military status, generation, abilities, perspectives, backgrounds and personalities. First Solar has integrated inclusion, diversity and belonging goals and measures throughout, translating our global strategy into local action. We believe in comprehensive actions at every level to drive foundational change in the culture and promote a diverse and inclusive workplace.LEADERSHIP: Over the past year, we’ve increased the gender, racial and ethnic diversity of our Board of Directors.  Today, each Board committee has at least one diverse representative. First Solar’s Board of Directors is 33% diverse, with 25% of seats occupied by women and 17% occupied by ethnic or racially diverse Directors. We are proud to be recognized as a “3+ company” by 50/50 Women on Boards for having at least three women serve on our Board. In 2021, we published a Board of Directors Diversity & Inclusion Transparency Report which highlights our journey and ongoing commitment to enhance diversity at the Board level.  A diverse Board and Executive Leadership Team sets the tone from the top, helping the company drive diversity and inclusion throughout our organization. We are committed to including one or more qualified diverse candidate in each search process for new Board members and new members of the Executive Leadership Team. We are also committed to using a search firm to broaden our Board recruiting pipeline in instances where one or more qualified diverse candidates have not been identified among our Directors’ or Executive Leadership Team’s personal networks. We disclosed the gender and racial composition of our Board in our 2022 proxy statement.TALENT ACQUISITION: At First Solar, we seek to hire outstanding, qualified talent globally to further our mission. Consistent with this, we take a consciously inclusive approach in our hiring practices to build globally diverse, high performing teams. We post our open jobs on more than 25 diversity and veteran-focused recruitment sites and we strive to have every external candidate search include diverse individuals. Our Talent Acquisition team reviews applicant and new hire metrics quarterly, including metrics related to diversity. In addition, we monitor ethnicity and gender diversity on an annual basis, including through our Affirmative Action Policy (AAP) and reports, and take action as appropriate. First Solar is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE), and we prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, veteran status, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. First Solar makes good faith efforts to improve year over year our representation in those areas. First Solar’s EOE policy is available online.PAY AND PROMOTIONS: At First Solar, we have a Global Career Framework for our associates’ growth and development and a Pay-for-Performance model, which rewards our associates for achieving goals and associated metrics. Promotions are managed within our Global Career Framework which provides a common language to describe career pathways, job and skill requirements and facilitates talent movement. Within the Framework, we use a Global Grading System, a rigorous process for job leveling and a consistent and systematic approach to evaluate individual positions in the context of the entire company. We review pay on a regular cadence to check for internal and external equity including minimum wage and living wage assessments across our global operations. In 2021, we raised our minimum hourly wages in line with prevailing wage levels.  We are in the process of completing our gender pay gap assessment and in the future we intend to expand this to formally assess racial equity.  Our 2022 Bonus Plan includes D&I goals and metrics for all associates.BENEFIT PROGRAMS AND POLICIES: First Solar is committed to helping associates face the demands of balancing work, family and life-related issues by offering a number of possible alternative work options. First Solar provides a hybrid virtual working model called FLEX. Through First Solar's FLEX program, associates may work on premises, at home or both depending on current circumstances and the need of the business.  First Solar’s alternative work schedules enable women to work part-time while transitioning back into the workforce. First Solar also offers four-week paid parental leave to all U.S. associates who meet basic employment requirements to enable associates and their families to care for and bond with a newborn child, a newly adopted child, or a newly placed foster child.ENGAGEMENT AND INCLUSION: In 2021, we conducted a global inclusion and engagement survey and incorporated an inclusion index to provide a baseline for future surveys. The global inclusion index for 2021 was 81%, and a number of areas including fair promotions and feeling respected and valued improved compared to our 2019 associate engagement survey. We have just completed our 2022 inclusion and engagement survey and are compiling the results.EXTERNAL PARTNERSHIPS: First Solar is committed to supporting and encouraging girls and women in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields by participating in initiatives such as the University of Toledo College of Engineering’s Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day and contributing to the AmCham Women in Engineering Scholarship (ACWES) in Vietnam. In addition to working with local universities, First Solar is also partnering with external organizations such as Women in Cleantech and Sustainability, to foster an industry network of professionals with a mission to further the roles of women in growing the green economy and making a positive impact on the environment.COMMUNITY IMPACT: In 2021, First Solar invested $11 million in efforts to revitalize American communities and bridge racial gaps in health, wealth, and opportunity. As part of the initiative, First Solar purchased $10 million in Impact Notes, or fixed-income debt securities, issued by the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) which help fund community and economic development projects across 36 cities and 2,100 rural counties in 45 states. First Solar also made a $1 million Transformational Deposit in Mississippi-based HOPE Credit Union to provide business, mortgage, and consumer loans, and other financial services to Black communities across the Southern United States.Social Responsibility41GLOBAL AND REGIONAL DIVERSITY NETWORKS: We continue to establish global and regional diversity networks and affinity groups consistent with First Solar’s culture and philosophy. Sponsored by our CEO and supported by a quarterly Executive Advisory Group, these Networks aim to attract talent, develop future leaders through mentoring, sponsorship, networking, and a collaborative learning culture and enrich our dialogue across the business, forging external partnerships that bring new perspectives.THE GLOBAL WOMEN’S NETWORK (GLOW)Launched in 2019, GLOW’s goals encompass supporting hiring managers and talent acquisition on strategies to find and attract diverse talent by participating in university career fairs, enhancing women’s professional and personal development through inspiring discussions and webinars with thought leaders including the company’s female Board members. We promote an inclusive and supportive work environment by providing valuable insights, feedback and analysis.BLACKS IN RENEWABLES NETWORK (BNR)Launched in 2020, BnR is dedicated to promoting the development of Blacks, African Americans and other minorities as future renewable energy leaders through attracting talent, professional development, associate retention, and community involvement. In 2021, BnR participated in First Solar Talent Acquisition’s University Recruiting Campaign at Arizona State University, Howard University and University of Toledo's National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) chapter.RENEWABLE EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPRenewABLE is a voluntary, employee-led group with a broad representation of abilities and backgrounds. RenewABLE focuses on collaborating, educating, and empowering employees to make First Solar a disability-friendly accessible workplace. RenewABLE’s goal is to provide cultural support to associates who are born with or have acquired a disability, who have child(ren) with special needs, or serve as a caregiver to adults with disabilities. According to the World Health Organization, more than one billion people around the world live with a disability and almost everyone will likely face temporary, situational, or permanent disability at some point in life. In 2021, 26% of our U.S. associates identified as having a disability.Social ResponsibilityFirst Solar’s Chief Manufacturing Operations Officer, Mike Koralewski, meets with GLOW members in Vietnam.First Solar’s women and minority networking and affinity groups such as Tempe’s Curie Club, the Perrysburg Women’s Networking Group, and Kulim’s Women@FirstSolar, contribute to both formal and informal efforts to promote D&I across the company. First Solar champions a culture of belonging for our LGBTQ+ associates every day. We frequently sponsor the pride parades in Tempe, Arizona, and Toledo, Ohio to show our support and be allies for our LGBTQ+ community. Here is what some of our LGBTQ+ associates have to say about why they choose to work at First Solar: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z9I5uSf_2rY"I walked into First Solar the first day and I felt at home. I can dress the way I want to dress, and look the way I want to look, and they accept me. It’s not just my team that accepts me, it’s all of First Solar that accepts me and it’s amazingKelly S. 
IT Technician IIBy the NumbersRace and Ethnicity (U.S.)Race and Ethnicity (U.S.)6.7%6.6%7.8%1.2%Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander77%0.6%American Indian or Alaskan Native0.1%Two or more racesHispanic or LatinoBlack or African AmericanAsianWhiteWomen at First SolarWomen in Workforce26%Women
in U.S. Workforce23%25%Women on the BoardWomen in ManagementWorkforceAssociates with Disabilities (U.S.)Global Workforce by Age26%9%Over 5063%Veterans in Workforce (U.S.)Between 30-5013%28%Under 30EEO-1 Data (U.S. Data Only)As part of our commitment to increasing transparency around diversity and inclusion at First Solar, we are publicly disclosing our Employer Information Report (EEO-1) data for the first time.  The EEO-1 report is submitted to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on an annual basis. Although the EEO-1 data is solely U.S.-focused, our diversity and inclusion initiatives are global. The following table depicts First Solar’s U.S workforce demographics as of December 31, 2021: Job Category Hispanic or Latino Not Hispanic or Latino Male Female Male Female White Black or African American Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Asian American Indian or Alaskan Native Two or more races White Black or African American Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Asian American Indian or Alaskan Native Two or more races Totals Executive/Sr Officials & MGRS 3 0 14 0 0 2 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 23 First/Mid Officials & MGRS  1 3 81 2 0 21 0 0 23 0 0 5 0 0 136 Professionals 9 4 247 4 0 62 0 1 89 4 0 27 2 1 450 Technicans 15 3 186 11 1 6 1 3 39 3 0 2 0 1 271 Sales Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Administrative Support 1 4 9 0 0 0 0 1 12 0 0 2 2 0 31 Craft Workers 7 0 122 5 1 1 1 0 4 1 0 0 0 1 143 Operatives 31 22 257 50 0 0 2 5 128 25 0 0 1 5 526 Laborers & Helpers 3 2 43 2 0 0 1 0 12 3 0 0 0 0 66 Service Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 70 38 959 74 2 92 5 11 310 36 0 36 5 8 1646 PREVIOUS REPORT TOTAL 72 43 1006 81 0 107 5 17 350 44 1 39 6 9 1780 Occupational Health And SafetyAt First Solar, our goal is to achieve an injury-free workplace. Since 2008, our recordable injury rate (RIR) has decreased by 80% (from 2.6) by establishing a strong safety culture throughout the company and ensuring an understanding of First Solar’s Safety Policies and Procedures. Our company-wide recordable injury rate is five times lower than the glass product manufacturing industry average.  First Solar’s RIR includes all manufacturing, R&D, and office locations, calculated per 200,000 hours. An injury is considered recordable if it requires medical attention beyond first aid. First Solar’s manufacturing safety data covers all processes from the beginning of the manufacturing process to the finished module and includes all of the company’s manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Malaysia and Vietnam. We had no high-consequence work-related injuries in 2021. In 2022, First Solar added a safety metric to the Annual Bonus Plan that measures the company’s Good Catch Reporting. A Good Catch is an observation for a safety improvement, either an unsafe act or condition. All associates are encouraged to report Good Catches to enhance our safety culture and provide an opportunity to proactively identify and reduce risk.Recordable Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours)3.002.502.001.501.000.500.00Glass Product
MFG Industry
Standard RIR
2.70.690.520.510.46202020182019202146All First Solar associates receive legally required health and safety training as well as routine refreshers on health and safety topics pertinent to their job requirements. First Solar requires all contractors to work under our safety policies, programs and procedures. 100% of First Solar’s workforce and management team are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Associates from all levels and functions can participate in the cross-functional safety committees which meet on a regular basis to review incidents and implement corrective actions. The site safety committees report to the EHS Steering Committee on a quarterly or more frequent basis.Injuries by Type (2021)Cut/laceration17%Sprain/strain26%Abrasion/scrape3%4%Bruise/contusion4%InhalationBurn8%23%Puncture14%OtherSafety data includes all global manufacturing and offices.First Solar’s safety management system hazard identification and risk assessment process identified the following hazards that have the potential for serious injury or fatality: confined space entry, electrical exposure and arc flash, line of fire, lock out/tag out, machine guards, vehicle collision, working with a suspended load, and working at heights. First Solar has developed EHS Design Requirements for new equipment that includes equipment and machine safety requirements. Training and procedures are in place to identify and control potential hazards.First Solar Sustainability Report 2022COVID-19 Pandemic ResponseIn line with guidance from the World Health Organization, local health authorities and governments, First Solar continued to implement the required measures over the past year as the Pandemic evolved to help inhibit the spread of COVID-19 across our global footprint. We maintained an internal COVID-19 Preparedness and Response Plan along with company policies to implement all necessary safety precautions to protect our associates. Key preventative actions at manufacturing facilities included temperature checks for all associates and visitors, sanitizing of all work stations after each shift, mandatory mask use and social distancing, routine training and communications on best practices, and restricted business travel. We maintained a dedicated intranet page with the latest COVID-19 news and resources, and provided routine updates via an internal newsletter. First Solar provided benefits and new coverage to address multiple scenarios for all associates e.g. expanded telemedicine coverage; back-up child care coverage; paid quarantine; expanded Extraordinary Circumstance Leave. We provided additional vacation time and extra overtime plus incentive pay for those associates who had to work on site throughout the pandemic. At our manufacturing site in Vietnam, we implemented a “Quarantine and Work On-site” program in compliance with local directives for 931 associates and contractors  to work, eat and sleep on-site to safely maintain operations and minimize risk of community transmission.First Solar provided multiple on-site vaccination clinics globally at our manufacturing facilities that resulted in 86% of associates in Ohio, Malaysia and Vietnam being vaccinated for COVID-19.Social ResponsibilitySustainability Ambassadors ProgramAs part of our efforts to “think globally and act locally,” we launched a global internal Sustainability Ambassadors program in 2018. The program enables First Solar associates at various sites to identify and implement local sustainability initiatives such as resource efficiency and reduce-reuse-recycle (3R) projects, educational and awareness-building workshops, site clean-ups, and local community outreach and volunteering. Despite the pandemic and many associates working remotely, our Sustainability Ambassadors helped identify opportunities to save energy and water at our global manufacturing locations, participated in site clean-ups in California and Ohio, volunteered at a local orphanage in Vietnam, implemented 3R projects in Malaysia, and organized green challenges and photo contests for Earth Day in 2021.Social ResponsibilityGlobal Charitable Giving ProgramFirst Solar makes three kinds of donations as part of our Global Charitable Giving Program: corporate donations (i.e., donations made through the First Solar Corporate Charitable Fund), site donations (i.e., donations made through First Solar local offices and manufacturing sites), and business development donations (i.e., donations related to First Solar sales activities). First Solar donated $363,163 in 2021 in total cash and in-kind contributions.Global Charitable Giving Program Type 2020 Manufacturing and Office Site Donations Community $192,590 Business Development Donations Community $110,573 Corporate Charitable Fund Donations Charitable $60,000 Total $363,163 First Solar is a proud sponsor of the Smithsonian Arts + Industries Building FUTURES exhibition. As part of this partnership, First Solar donated biomimicry-inspired and solar-powered energy charging stations and committed to a $250,000 sponsorship which will be paid over three years starting in 2021. The installations incorporate a battery storage system which helps to run a cooling fan and charge electronic devices and electric landscaping equipment used by the Smithsonian horticulturists to maintain and beautify the surrounding Enid A. Haupt garden- contributing to the institution’s goal to reduce its carbon footprint. These installations along with the educational display help teach the general public about solar energy and how it is applicable to everyday use.In 2021, First Solar continued its company-wide efforts to mitigate COVID-19 impacts on communities where we live and work. First Solar Malaysia donated more than $10,000 to support COVID-19 vaccination efforts and help distribute food aid packs to underprivileged residents impacted by the Movement Control Order. First Solar Malaysia also donated more than $2,000 to support the basic needs of flood victims in the town of Guar Chempedak in Yan Kedah and approximately $12,000 for various community outreach and education initiatives.First Solar Vietnam donated more than $9,000 to purchase ventilators and other critical Covid-related medical equipment, along with necessary goods and essential supplies which helped support 40 elders at the Nhan Nghia old-folks house and 50 disabled children at the Thien Phuoc Orphans House.In Ohio, First Solar donated $20,000 to support a Covid-19 vaccination awareness campaign led by VProject. The organization’s goal is to help vaccinate 70% of Toledo and Northwest Ohio. As of June 2022, more than 60% of residents in Ohio had received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.We partner with NGOs to improve the quality of life in communities around the world to:•	Empower the next generation through education for sustainable development•	Ensure access to clean energy and water•	Reduce inequality through economic inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity•	Promote a circular economy through sustainable production and responsible consumptionCorporate Giving Initiatives$20,000 grant to support Toledo’s participation in a regional civic hacking competition designed to develop technology-based water quality solutions.NGO/PARTNERCleveland Water AllianceYEAR2021$5,000 grant to support the First Solar Corporate Scholarship Program which provides awards to eligible scholars from member colleges.NGO/PARTNERThe Ohio Foundation of 
Independent CollegesYEAR2021SDGSDG$15,000 grant to support the Solar Ambassador Fellowship program.NGO/PARTNERRe-VolvYEAR2021$20,000 grant to support northwest Ohio’s COVID-19 vaccine awareness campaign.