6.Benefits of First Solar PV Power PlantsFirst Solar PV power plants provide a meaningful value proposition over conventional energy sources and deliver broad-ranging benefits throughout their construction and operation, including:• Generating clean electricity for 25+ years with no carbon emissions or other air pollutants.• Requiring no water to generate electricity and using less water on a life cycle basis than most alternative sources of energy generation.• Providing reliable and cost competitive solar energy with fixed pricing and low operating costs to reduce the risk of fuel price volatility and eliminate hedging costs. • Creating thousands of jobs and providing millions of dollars benefitting local economies.Construction of a Utility-Scale PV Power Plant First Solar is committed to responsible land use and works to minimize impacts during the construction and operation of our projects. We have worked with NGOs such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to identify best practices for each stage of utility-scale PV power projects– from development, to construction and decommissioning. First Solar contributed to WWF’s report “Solar PV Atlas: Solar Power in Harmony with Nature, Towards 100 percent renewable energy.” The report addresses the common misconception that solar PV requires a lot of land and demonstrates how responsibly developed PV power plants help significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, heavy metal emissions and water usage by displacing conventional grid electricity. We continuously strive to implement best practices in the design and development of our PV projects through an extensive site selection process, community involvement, impact mitigation and biodiversity protection.Site SelectionEach First Solar project begins with an extensive review of potential site locations, and considers the available solar resources, proximity to existing electrical transmission lines, current land uses, site characteristics and environmental sensitivities. We strive to locate our projects in areas with the least conflicts or on previously disturbed land such as drought-stricken farmland or grazing land. For example, from the original study area of over 19,000 acres, we identified approximately 3,800 acres of least-conflict land for our 550MW Desert Sunlight project in California. Our AV Solar Ranch One, Rosamond, Lost Hills and North Star projects were sited on fallow farmland and repurposed to generate clean electricity for 25+ years. First Solar’s 53MW PV power plant in Lieberose, Germany was located on a former military site which was polluted with munitions and waste. The project prompted the environmental cleanup of the area, resulting in the removal of multiple land mines, grenades and other munitions.Community and Stakeholder EngagementStakeholder engagement is an integral part of First Solar’s project development and community outreach activities. First Solar consults with neighbors, community groups, educational institutions, environmental groups, tribal representatives and business organizations to address local concerns and ensure the environmentally responsible design of our solar projects. We work with experts in a range of disciplines with the aim of minimizing the biological, cultural and visual impacts of our projects. As part of our public outreach activities, First Solar conducts site tours for community members, organizations, elected officials, schools and universities. Throughout construction, First Solar provides regular updates to the local communities through project newsletters, websites and town hall meetings or informational sessions.The Desert Sunlight Visitor Center provides an onsite solar learning center for students and the general publicFormer U.S. Secretary of Interior Sally Jewell with First Solar Chief Commercial Officer Georges Antoun at the official commissioning of the 550MW Desert Sunlight Solar Farm  Responsible ConstructionThroughout construction and operation, First Solar works with permitting authorities to minimize the biological, cultural and visual impacts of our projects. Where needed, we employ highly qualified specialists on our projects to study, monitor and help avoid sensitive habitats and protect biological, cultural and paleontological resources. Our engineers work with local jurisdictions to design our projects to minimize effects on nearby sensitive visual receptors such as neighboring residences and lines of sight from highways.Throughout the construction of our Luz del Norte project in Chile, archaeologists closely monitored earth movement 
and excavation activities to ensure that we complied with local governmental requirements. Any archeological resources found during construction were preserved and reported to the National Monuments Council (CMN) so they could be sent to local museums. As part of the project’s environmental management plan, First Solar relocated reptiles to 
a new location outside the project area with similar environmental characteristics and species to minimize impacts 
on biodiversity.Archaeologists carefully sift for artifacts at First Solar’s Luz del Norte projectTo mitigate grading impacts, First Solar implements innovative “light-on-land” soil preparation techniques such as 
disk-and-roll and mowing which maintain the native seed in the soil and increase the likelihood of natural rehabilitation.Disk-and-roll contours the land without changing the macro-level topography and existing drainage patterns. At project sites without hydrological or topographical constraints, we use the mowing technique which is more beneficial to grasses and other species than traditional land grading as it leaves the root structures intact to help prevent erosion. We endeavor to use the least impactful method of site preparation based on site-specific conditions.Waste Generation and Recycling First Solar and its subcontractors are responsible for managing and disposing of waste generated during project construction. Waste is segregated by type and classified as either non-hazardous or hazardous. Common waste types include project refuse (e.g., trash, rubbish, packing materials, spent personal protective equipment), project dunnage (i.e., wooden crating, packing materials, plastic shrink wrap, metal straps) and small volumes (typically <1 percent) of hazardous waste. Approximately 85-95 percent of waste generated is expected to be recycled. For example, waste generated for the AVSR1 project in Los Angeles County, California, included cardboard, wood pallets, aluminum, low-density polyethylene (LDPE), steel, waste wood, wire and project refuse, with a recycling rate of over 95 percent.Water UseFirst Solar modules convert sunlight into electricity without the use of water which provides an additional advantage over conventional energy and concentrated solar power. Water use during solar PV project construction is primarily for site preparation and dust suppression, and varies by location and time of year. After construction, there is typically no water use during PV system operation, with the potential exception of fire protection, minor domestic use and module cleaning. First Solar’s frameless Series 4 and back-frame Series 6 modules do not require cleaning as dust is periodically removed by wind and rainfall. An exception is for humid, dust-prone climates, which can transform dry dust into clustered and sticky dust. For such conditions, First Solar’s Manual Dry Brush Trolley can be used to clean modules without water or electricity. For more information on water usage over the life cycle of First Solar PV systems, see our white paper. First Solar Manual Dry Brush Trolley at the 13MW DEWA solar PV power plant in Seih Al Dahal, United Arab EmiratesBiodiversity ProtectionPrior to being allowed admission to a project site, all workers and visitors are required to receive extensive site safety orientation training, which includes environmental and biological training. Although construction projects always involve some disturbance to existing land and wildlife habitats, responsibly developed PV power plants can create new habitats and help protect endangered animal and plant species by providing refuge from the continuous ground disturbance and predation that often occurs outside the project fences on agricultural properties. PV power plants can provide long-term stable use of land while eliminating soil disturbances such as annual tilling and the use of fertilizers and rodenticides. During the construction and operation of utility-scale PV power plants, vegetation management activities include invasive species control, native plant revegetation and monitoring, and re-planting protected plants. After the short-term construction disturbance period, vegetation within the project fencing can return to its native origins. In fact, studies have found that the PV plant’s shading effect can create varied microclimates, resulting in greater vegetation growth and higher species diversity than surrounding Stewardship Lands and control sites.27 PV projects provide opportunities to study and protect various endangered species such as kit fox, desert tortoise, burrowing owls, California tiger salamander, California red-legged frog, Golden Eagles and Swainson’s hawk. Desert Tortoise protection measures, for example, are extensive and involve securing off-site mitigation lands, conducting pre-construction count and health surveys, translocation planning and monitoring, exclusion fencing, fence monitoring and fence “habitat” to protect any exterior tortoises that might walk the project’s fence line. As a result of implementing industry best practices in responsible land use and PV power plant construction, some of our utility-scale projects are turning into “solar reefs” and providing sanctuaries for fauna and flora to thrive. In addition to on-site mitigation measures, a portion of the mitigation measures for large-scale solar often includes acquiring conservation land to offset project impacts. In 2017, First Solar helped to conserve nearly 9,000 acres of conservation land for our California Flats, Rosamond, and Willow Springs projects, which is equivalent to more than 3 times the size of Central Park in New York City or more than 6,800 American football fields. For these projects, we either acquired or had a third-party acquire control of properties for conservation through purchase, conservation easements or deed restrictions. To date, First Solar has contributed to the conservation of more than 38,700 acres of mitigation land (larger than the size of San Francisco) and provided over $89 million to multi-species habitat funds in North America. In addition, First Solar retired 54,000 acres of grazing rights (larger than the size of the Acadia National Park in Maine) on Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands as part of the mitigation for our Stateline project. BLM grants ranchers the right to graze on certain BLM controlled lands. By paying ranchers to retire their grazing rights and permanently stop grazing, First Solar is helping to minimize potential impacts on sensitive species habitats.As part of our EPC project site restoration activities, First Solar takes steps to proactively restore adjacent habitats, even when we do not cause the impacts ourselves. We use a technique called “Vertical Mulching” where we transplant native plants, brush and debris to revegetate tracks and roadways created by off-road vehicles in areas adjacent to our project sites. By creating a physical barrier, vertical mulch helps to discourage traffic and protect local ecosystems.The first documented short-eared owl nest in Santa Barbara County was discovered on our Cuyama project site. The owl has since fledged and construction was able to continue without threatening the fledgling.Wildlife corridors enable Pronghorn Antelope and other species to pass freely through field arrays.Biologists carefully relocate Northern Pacific rattlesnakes found onsite. Though not endangered, rattlesnakes are important to our ecosystem. 27 P. Sinha, B. Hoffman, J. Sakers, L. Althouse, Best Practices in Responsible Land Use for Improving Biodiversity at a Utility-Scale Solar Facility, Case Studies in the Environment, 2018. DOI: 10.1525/cse.2018.001123Before and after photos of vertical mulching on land adjacent to First Solar’s Stateline project siteOperations and MaintenanceThe sustainable integration of new PV generators into the grid and electricity supply infrastructures requires advanced power plant controls and grid integration solutions. In order to maximize value and mitigate risk for our customers, First Solar operates and maintains PV power plants to optimize their performance and ensure their long-term integrity. First Solar Energy Services offers superior, customized end-to-end operations and maintenance solutions for thin film and silicon PV power plants. Our Energy Services help further reduce the levelized cost of solar electricity and maximize the profitability of our customer’s solar power plants through seamless grid integration, increased reliability, and system availability maximization. By leveraging our extensive experience in plant optimization and advanced diagnostics, we have developed the largest and most advanced Operations and Maintenance (O&M) programs in the industry. With more than 10 GW DC of utility-scale PV plants under our O&M program, we maintain a fleet average system effective availability greater than 99 percent. First Solar is able to remotely track and control the performance of a plant from the company’s operations center in Tempe, Arizona.First Solar’s grid-friendly PV power plants create real value for power plant owners by providing sophisticated ancillary services such as spinning reserves, load following, voltage support, ramping, frequency response and regulation, and power quality, which actively stabilize and improve the reliability of the grid. In 2016, California ISO (CAISO), First Solar, and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) conducted a series of tests on a 300MW First Solar PV plant to demonstrate its operating flexibility. The ground-breaking study found that the solar plant’s frequency response, regulation up and down, voltage control, and active power management were comparable to, or better than, conventional resources.28 In the case of Automated Generation Control (AGC), the study found that the regulation accuracy of the PV plant (87-93 percent) was 24 – 30 percentage points better than the best conventional generation technology, gas turbine, which had an accuracy 63 percent.First Solar Operations Center in Tempe, ArizonaMeasured regulation accuracy of First Solar’s 300 MW PV power plant compared to typical regulation up accuracy of CAISO conventional generation. 	Solar PV	Combined Cycle	Gas Turbine	Hydro	Pump Storage Turbine	~87% - 93%	~47%	~63%	~47%	~45%In recognition of this research, First Solar, CAISO and NREL won the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) award for “Utility Industry Innovative Pilots or Demonstration Projects” in 2017.  First Solar also received the inaugural Smarter E Outstanding Project award at Intersolar Europe in 2018 for the 300MW utility-scale PV demonstration project in grid reliability. The Smarter E review jury called the project “a game-changer 
for large-scale solar plants” that demonstrates how “solar power plants can not only reduce the need for carbon-emitting resources, but can also improve system performance and operate with significantly higher levels of variable generation.” The Smarter E award 
Program recognizes groundbreaking 
work in the energy transition towards a 
low carbon future.”28 Using Renewables to Operate a Low-Carbon Grid: Demonstration of Advanced Reliability Services from a Utility-Scale Solar, NREL, California Independent System Operator (CAISO), and First Solar, 2017.Greater renewable energy penetration is often accompanied by increased curtailment in an effort to avoid oversupply. This grid management strategy however comes at the cost of lost renewable energy production. By leveraging the capabilities of fully flexible solar, grid operators can meet demand while increasing the efficiency at which they operate and cut down on fuel costs by reducing thermal generator commitments. A recent study conducted by Energy + Environmental Economics in cooperation with First Solar and Tampa Electric Company (TECO), explored the economic value of flexible solar by modelling a range of utility-scale solar deployment levels (from 0 percent to 28 percent) under four different solar operating modes (must-take, curtailable, downward dispatch, full flexibility).29 The study found that flexibly scheduling and controlling solar plants helps to reduce solar curtailment which in turn results in greater carbon emissions reductions and lower operating costs associated with fuel and operations and maintenance.Operation cost savings and CO2 emissions as a function of solar deployment and solar operating mode29By delivering essential reliability services traditionally provided by conventional resources, First Solar’s grid-friendly power plants demonstrate how renewables can help support further integration of renewable resources into the grid. Grid-friendly power plants are crucial to enabling greater renewable energy adoption and ensuring the transition to a low carbon economy is both reliable and economically viable.29 Investigating the Economic Value of Flexible Solar Power Plant Operation, Energy and Environmental Economics, First Solar, and Tampa Electric Company, 2018.DecommissioningFirst Solar’s responsibly developed PV projects enable a site to be restored to its original state at the end of a project’s useful life. Over 90 percent of a First Solar PV power plant is recyclable. As part of our commitment to responsible life cycle management, we provide an industry-leading PV module recycling program that enables PV power plant owners to meet their decommissioning and end-of-life requirements simply, cost effectively and responsibly.Solar PV has the lowest decommissioning costs of all energy technologies30The recovery value of a PV system can exceed its decommissioning costs, resulting in the lowest decommissioning costs of all energy technologies. A recent Columbia University study found that recycling modules and the balance of system structure could generate a net revenue of up to $1.58 per module area, primarily from copper, steel and aluminum.31 Monte Carlo analysis by ERM32  indicated up to 95%-100% confidence in a net profit from PV plant decommissioning depending on whether the land value was included and on plant design scenarios such as above-ground cabling, versus below-ground cabling.3330 M.A. Brown, D. D’Arcy, M. V. Lapsa, I. Sharma, L, Yufei, Solid Waste from the Operation and Decommissioning of Power Plants, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, 2017. https://www.osti.gov/scitech/biblio/133936031 V. Fthenakis, Z. Zhang, and J.K. Choi, Cost Optimization of Decommissioning and Recycling CdTe PV Power Plants. Proc. IEEE PVSC. Washington D.C., 2017.32 A. Cates and R. Stifter, “PV Power Plant Net Decommissioning Cost Model Technical Report”,
Environmental Resources Management (ERM), San Francisco, CA., 2017.33 P. Sinha, S. Raju, K. Drozdiak, A. Wade, Life cycle management and recycling of PV systems, Photovoltaics International Technical Briefing, 2018. http://go.firstsolar.com/l/474372/2018-05-22/45c6f.      A. Wade, P. Sinha, K. Drozdiak, E. Brutsch, “Beyond waste – the fate of end-of-life photovoltaic panels from large scale PV installations in the EU - the socio-economic benefits of high value recycling compared to reuse”. In Proceedings 33rd EU PVSEC. Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2017. https://doi.org/10.4229/EUPVSEC20172017-5EO.1.1.Case Study: California Flats Solar Project The 280MW California Flats solar project is located in southeast Monterey County, California, on approximately 2,900 acres of previously dryland farmed, private land owned by the Hearst Corporation. Initial construction began in 2016 and is expected to be completed in December 2018. When fully operational, the project will generate enough clean solar energy to serve the needs of about 100,000 average homes per year, displacing over 109,000 metric tons of CO2 annually based on the PG&E grid—the equivalent of taking approximately 22,000 cars off the road. The project will also displace over 152 million liters (or 40 million gallons) of water consumption annually based on the average California grid. The project site is strategically located to minimize environmental impacts, and is not visible from any public gathering points or major roads.California Flats Solar Project Site Monterey County, CA, USA Size 280MW AC Owner Capital Dynamics PPA Pacific Gas & Electric (150MW)Apple Inc. (130MW) 109,000 tons of 
CO2 displaced annually 100,000 homes powered 22,000 cars removed from the road ~300 construction jobs and 11 ongoing O&M positions Economic BenefitsThe California Flats project supports job creation by generating wages and benefits for approximately 300 construction jobs on average and up to 11 ongoing operation and maintenance positions. Job fairs were held in King City to support the hiring of qualified local residents. The project is expected to generate over $176 million in local economic benefits over the project’s life, including nearly $95 million in direct spending on established Monterey County Businesses. In addition to increasing sales and use tax revenue by approximately $3.8 million in Monterey County, the California Flats project supports local residents, businesses, suppliers and service providers with over $80 million in indirect supply chain and induced spending. The 130MW power purchase agreement (PPA) is one of the largest in the industry to provide clean solar electricity to a commercial end user.Environmental Benefits The California Flats site is located in an area identified by the 
State of California as a Competitive Renewable Energy Zone and was carefully designed to protect species, enhance the environment, and sustain local ranching operations. The California Flats project occupies merely 3 percent of the Jack Ranch and was designed to sit low to the ground in order to minimize visual impacts. The project site is surrounded by tens of thousands of acres of active ranchland and will be compatible with current 
cattle ranching operations. First Solar’s project development team spent over three years surveying the site and working closely with multiple stakeholders to create an environmentally-sensitive project design, carefully avoiding all designated critical habitat areas. Wildlife-friendly fencing was used to allow kit fox, badgers and other small mammals into the project site while excluding coyotes, one of their main predators. The site supports multiple breeding pairs of the endangered San Joaquin Kit Fox. In 2017, there were 10 pups from two pairs and in 2018, there were 13 pups from three pairs. To aid in their survival, the project will be installing dozens of artificial dens for kit fox and burrowing owls.Many other species thrive on the California Flats site, demonstrating how nature and large-scale solar can go hand-in-hand. We had three nesting pairs of Golden Eagles onsite in 2017 and 2018. Eagles are regularly observed by workers feeding on ground squirrels near the project. Vernal pool fairy shrimp, a rare and federally endangered species, hatch seasonally in ephemeral pools at the project site. Fairy shrimp require careful habitat management to ensure their continued existence. Onsite vegetation is maintained through periodic sheep grazing, demonstrating how PV power plants can also accommodate livestock husbandry. The project will result in the permanent preservation of over 6,200 acres of mitigation land to help foster the growth of all species within the surrounding area. As of July 2018, the project successfully implemented the first phase of the habitat management and revegetation plan, reaching target success criteria within year one of the post-construction 
monitoring period.California Flats is one of the first projects to significantly reduce trenching by housing electrical cables above ground. In cooperation with tribal partners, First Solar used cable trays to dramatically reduce excavations and the potential for impacts on cultural resources. The avoidance of trenching also minimizes the potential for disturbing ground-dwelling animals, reduces fugitive dust emissions and water used for dust suppression, avoids emissions from heavy equipment, and reduces risks to workers posed by exposed trenches and soil-dwelling fungal pathogens.34 “Quite frankly we’re doing this because it’s right to do, but you may also 
be interested to know that it’s good financially to do it. We expect to have a very significant savings because we have a fixed price for the renewable energy, and there’s quite a difference between that price and the price of brown energy.” —Tim Cook, CEO of Apple, Inc.© The Hearst Corporation. Good fences make good neighbors: Specially designed fences help small mammals find sanctuary while keeping their natural predators out.© Althouse and Meade, Inc. Two families of 
kit fox puppies mingle at the California 
Flats project site.© Jason Dart. The elusive Vernal Pool
Fairy Shrimp emerged in vernal pools 
during construction.34 P. Sinha, B. Hoffman, J. Sakers, L. Althouse, Best Practices in Responsible Land Use for Improving Biodiversity at a Utility-Scale Solar Facility, Case Studies in the Environment, 2018. DOI: 10.1525/cse.2018.001123Cultural BenefitsThe California Flats solar project is situated in the foothills at the southern end of the Diablo Range near Cholame Valley, on terraces above a perennial stream called Cottonwood Creek. The area is known to have been occupied by prehistoric peoples for thousands of years, supported by populations of large game, oak woodlands, and numerous freshwater springs. The site is uniquely situated between occupied coastal and central valley cultures, and was little studied prior to this project. Teams of archaeologists and tribal members documented prehistoric sites prior to construction and monitored earth work during construction. Artifacts and other data collected have significantly increased the knowledge of 
prehistoric cultures in the area. Community BenefitsFirst Solar is committed to being a good neighbor through our community involvement and has donated over 
$270,000 since 2014 to support local charitable causes and events, including:• $20,280 donation to French Medical Center Foundation, a not-for-profit hospital in San Luis Obispo County.• $78,500 donation to Parkfield Community Library Fund and Parkfield Community Club to help build a library.• $34,000 donation and a 50-module training system to The Offset Project which helps businesses and communities establish sound waste policies and implement best practices in environmental stewardship.• $5,000 donation to the Shandon Unified School District.• $8,000 donation to the San Luis Obispo YMCA.• $3,000 for the San Luis Obispo County Cattlemen’s Association.• $500 donation to Rancho Cielo, a comprehensive learning and social services center for underserved and disconnected youth in Monterey County.In 2017, First Solar partnered with California Flats owner Capital Dynamics and other project partners to raise more than $50,000 for the 14th Best Buddies Challenge: Hearst Castle bike race. Best Buddies International is a nonprofit dedicated to creating opportunities for friendship, employment and leadership development for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD). In 2018, Team California Flats sponsored at the $65,000 level.© Jason Dart. Artifacts discovered at the 
California Flats project site shed light on prehistoric cultures that occupied the site 
for thousands of years.Case Study: Manildra Solar FarmThe 48.5MW Manildra Solar Farm is located on 120 hectares of land approximately 1 km east of Manildra in New South Wales (NSW), Australia. The project is powered by approximately 466,000 First Solar PV modules and produces enough solar energy to serve the needs of approximately 14,000 average NSW homes. This will displace more than 91,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year – equivalent to taking about 24,000 cars off the road. The Manildra Solar Farm provides significant economic and environmental benefits, in addition to creating direct and indirect jobs, developing skills in a growing industry, and supporting local small businesses. Manildra Solar Farm Site Manildra, New South Wales, Australia Size 48.5MW AC Owner New Energy Solar PPA Energy Australia EPC RCR O’Donnell 
Griffin Pty ltd. 91,000 tons of CO2 displaced annually 14,000 homes powered 24,000 cars removed from the road ~ 100 construction jobs As part of its Community Engagement Plan, the Manildra Solar Farm established a community fund to support local initiatives and events that target a range of community needs including environment, education, youth, social, culture, sport, recreation and economic development. An open communications channel with the community is ensured through a 24/7 dedicated phone line, project specific email and website, and through the use of social media. All community and stakeholder interactions are maintained in a database at the First Solar Operations Centre (FSOC). In accordance with the project’s environmental management plan, strategic grazing is to be employed in the spring and winter to manage exotic grasses and forbs and minimize damage to native grasses. Nest boxes were installed on the biodiversity offset site for the rare and endangered Superb Parrot. In addition, our module packaging was converted into mulch for use as a binding agent for organic waste composting, creating a sustainable option for end-of-life packaging materials.In addition to contributing to Australia’s goal of generating 23.5 percent of its energy from renewable resources by 2020 and further establishing New South Wales as a leader in renewable energy, the Manildra Solar Farm is preserving 29.52 hectares (~73 acres) of native grassland in perpetuity to offset project impacts.