Social ResponsibilityOur CultureAt First Solar, innovative and passionate people, working ethically and safely, form the foundation of our success. We generate results through a culture of agility, collaboration and accountability. Our internal Vision, Mission and Culture includes behaviors that support safety first, mutual respect for all associates, empowered collaboration between functions and individuals, and personal ownership of decisions, performance and results. As a global culture, we value multiple voices and perspectives. This diverse tapestry of different viewpoints, approaches and needs helps us to produce better products and services.Agility
We  are creative 
and resilient.Collaboration
We help each 
other succeed.Accountability
We own the results 
of our actions.Working At First SolarAs of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 5,100 associates (our term for full and part-time employees) compared to approximately 6,600 in 2019. The change in the number of associates was attributed to the ramp down of our Series 4 manufacturing lines and the sale of First Solar’s U.S. Project Development and North American O&M businesses which was completed in 2021. Approximately 80% of our associates work in manufacturing and approximately 5% worked in our systems business as of December 31, 2020. The remainder of our associates are in research and development, and sales, marketing, general and administrative positions. In 2020, five associates were part-time while the rest were full-time. Associates by Region in 20200.1%39%APACEMEANorth America60%Latin America1%Associates by Function in 202010%5%Manufacturing5%EPC and Operations & MaintenanceR&DSales, General 
& Administrative80%38Inclusion, Diversity & BelongingAt First Solar, inclusion, diversity and belonging is more than just a program or an initiative, it is a transformation. We recognize that diversity and inclusion (D&I) is a driving force in the success of our company and believe in creating an environment where different voices are encouraged, heard and valued including, gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, military status, generation, abilities, perspectives, backgrounds and personalities. First Solar has integrated inclusion, diversity and belonging goals and measures throughout, translating our global strategy into local action. We believe in comprehensive actions at every level to drive foundational change in the culture and promote a diverse and inclusive workplace.LEADERSHIP: We believe when our most senior leaders own D&I and make themselves a part of the diversity and inclusion process, it sets the tone for the rest of the organization to follow suit. Over the past year, we added gender, racial and multicultural diversity into the Executive Leadership Team and every external candidate search includes diverse individuals in the selection pool. In 2020, we revised our Nominating and Governance Committee Charter to underscore that we are “actively seeking highly qualified women and minority candidates as part of the search process for new Board members,” and better defined diversity to include background, gender, race and ethnicity as a reflection of our commitment to diversity on our Board of Directors. In our 2021 proxy statement, we disclosed the racial composition of our Board of Directors. As of March 2021, approximately 30% of our Board of Director seats are occupied by women, and each of our Board committees have female representation.TALENT ACQUISITION: At First Solar we strive to hire outstanding, qualified talent globally to further our mission. Consistent with this, we take a consciously inclusive approach in our hiring practices and seek to build globally diverse, high performing teams. We post our open jobs on more than 25 diversity and veteran-focused recruitment sites and every external candidate search includes diverse individuals in the selection pool. Our Talent Acquisition team reviews applicant and new hire metrics quarterly, including metrics related to diversity. In addition, we monitor ethnicity and gender diversity on an annual basis through our Affirmative Action Policy (AAP) and reports, and take action as appropriate.PAY AND PROMOTIONS: At First Solar, we follow a Pay-for-Performance model, rewarding our associates for achieving goals and associated metrics. Promotions are managed within our Global Career Framework which provides a common language to describe career pathways, job requirements and facilitates talent movement. Within the Framework, we use a Global Grading System, a rigorous process for job leveling and a consistent and systematic approach to evaluate individual positions in the context of the entire company. We review pay on a regular cadence to check for internal and external equity including minimum wage and living wage assessments across our global operations.GLOBAL AND REGIONAL DIVERSITY NETWORKS: We continue to establish global and regional diversity networks and affinity groups consistent with First Solar’s culture and philosophy. The Global Women’s Network (GLOW) launched in 2019 and our Black and African American Network launched in 2020. In 2021, we plan to launch the Hispanic and Latin American Network. Sponsored by our CEO, these Networks aim to attract talent, develop future leaders through mentoring, sponsorship, networking, and a collaborative learning culture and enrich our dialogue across the business, forging external partnerships that bring new perspectives. First Solar’s women and minority networking and affinity groups such as Tempe’s Curie Club, the Perrysburg Women’s Networking Group, and Kulim’s Women@FirstSolar, contribute to both formal and informal efforts to promote D&I across the company.BENEFIT PROGRAMS AND POLICIES: First Solar continues to develop programs and policies such as alternative work schedules to enable women to work part-time while transitioning back into the workforce. First Solar also offers four-week paid parental leave to all U.S. associates who meet basic employment requirements to enable associates and their families to care for and bond with a newborn child, a newly adopted child, or a newly placed foster child.ENGAGEMENT AND INCLUSION: In 2021, we conducted a global inclusion survey and incorporated an inclusion index to provide a baseline for future surveys. The global inclusion index for 2021 was 81%, and a number of areas including fair promotions and feeling respected and valued improved compared to our 2019 associate engagement survey.   EXTERNAL PARTNERSHIPS: First Solar collaborated with the State of Black Arizona for the launch of our Black and African American network in 2020. Being an inclusive workplace means being aware of who may be excluded. This requires reviewing processes, systems and resources to eliminate potential barriers to associates with disabilities. In 2020, First Solar participated in a  webinar on accessibility advocacy with The Ability Center of Greater Toledo. Our internal accessibility group regularly shares tips on how to leverage technology to make information accessible to all associates.COMMUNITY IMPACT: In 2021, First Solar invested $11 million in efforts to revitalize American communities and bridge racial gaps in health, wealth, and opportunity. As part of the initiative, First Solar purchased $10 million in Impact Notes, or fixed-income debt securities, issued by the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) which help fund community and economic development projects across 36 cities and 2,100 rural counties in 45 states. First Solar also made a $1 million Transformational Deposit in Mississippi-based HOPE Credit Union to provide business, mortgage, and consumer loans, and other financial services to Black communities across the Southern United States.First Solar is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE), and we prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, veteran status, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. First Solar makes good faith efforts to improve year over year our representation in those areas.  First Solar’s EOE policy is available online.40Occupational Health And SafetyAt First Solar, our goal is to achieve an injury-free workplace. Since 2008, our recordable injury rate (RIR) has decreased by approximately 82% (from 2.6) by establishing a strong safety culture throughout the company and ensuring an understanding of First Solar’s Safety Policies and Procedures. Our company-wide recordable injury rate is nearly 10 times lower than the glass manufacturing industry average. In 2020, First Solar’s recordable injury rate decreased by 33% as a result of our strong safety culture. First Solar’s RIR includes all manufacturing, R&D, and office personnel. An injury is considered recordable if it requires medical attention beyond first aid. Recordable Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours)5.004.003.002.001.000.00Glass Product
MFG Industry
Standard RIR
4.50.690.510.460.29202020172018201942Social ResponsibilityAll First Solar associates receive legally required health and safety training as well as routine refreshers on health and safety topics pertinent to their job requirements. First Solar requires all contractors to work under our safety policies, programs and procedures. 100% of First Solar’s workforce and management team are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Associates from all levels and functions can participate in the cross-functional safety committees which meet on a regular basis to review incidents and implement corrective actions. The site safety committees report to the EHS Steering Committee on a quarterly or more frequent basis. Injuries by Type (2020)Cut/laceration      4%4%5%Bruise/contusion27%Sprain/strain13%Abrasion/scrapeOtherBurn14%19%Puncture16%InhalationSafety data includes all global manufacturing and offices.43Covid-19 Pandemic ResponseIn line with guidance from the World Health Organization, local health authorities and governments, First Solar took sweeping measures over the past year to help inhibit the spread of COVID-19 across our global footprint. We established an internal COVID-19 Preparedness and Response Plan along with company policies to implement all necessary safety precautions to protect our associates. Key preventative actions at manufacturing facilities included temperature checks for all associates and visitors, sanitizing of all work stations after each shift, mandatory mask use and social distancing, routine training and communications on best practices, and curtailed travel. We established a dedicated intranet page with the latest COVID-19 news and resources, provided routine updates via an internal newsletter, and established 24/7 answer lines for all associates.First Solar expanded benefits and new coverage to address multiple scenarios for all associates e.g. expanded telemedicine coverage; back-up child care coverage; paid quarantine; expanded Extraordinary Circumstance Leave. We offered fast and reliable COVID-19 testing and set up an onsite vaccination clinic. We provided additional vacation time and extra overtime plus incentive pay for those associates who had to work on site throughout the pandemic. First Solar implemented a FLEX working environment for associates who can work a more flexible schedule ranging from Full-time office (essential workers) to working in an external location such as a home office. First Solar also offered Financial Wellness Seminars and one on one WebEx sessions for all associates, stopped 401(k) Loan deductions through the end of 2020, waived benefit deductions for Hourly/Non Exempt associates working during the Stay at Home Order, and extended Military leave pay by up to 30 work days.During a surprise audit in April 2020, First Solar’s manufacturing site in Vietnam achieved the best safety score out of 15 large manufacturing facilities in the Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) area. Five auditors from the HCMC Cu Chi Center for Disease Control (CDC) visited the site on April 17, spending two and a half hours reviewing the actions taken by First Solar to mitigate COVID-19 transmission risks. The auditors praised First Solar Vietnam’s preventative actions to mitigate COVID-19 transmission risks, including our internal safety protocol communications, temperature scanning, sanitizers, cleaning, and social distancing practices for associates and visitors in the office, manufacturing floor and on the shuttle bus. Sustainability Ambassadors ProgramAs part of our efforts to “think globally and act locally,” we launched a global internal Sustainability Ambassadors program in 2018. The program enables First Solar associates at various sites to identify and implement local sustainability initiatives. Despite the pandemic and many associates working remotely, our Global Sustainability Ambassador Program continued to thrive in 2020 thanks to the passion and creativity of our ambassadors. Notable achievements in 2020 included:•	Diverted more than 4,700 metric tons of waste from landfill as part of our global “Reduce-Reuse-Recycle” initiative by decontaminating hazardous waste, recycling centrifuge sludge, collecting e-waste, and converting coffee into compost •	Switched to paperless maintenance and purchasing practices •	Participated in local clean ups and raised environmental awareness through sustainability workshops•	Contributed to local communities by volunteering and donating personal protective equipment, food, and IT equipment to low-income families disproportionately impacted by the pandemic•	Donated 160 units of blood as part of a blood drive at our Vietnam manufacturing site•	Hosted a virtual Earth Day with associates pledging to take 
part in 200+ environmental actionsSocial ResponsibilityGlobal Charitable Giving OverviewFirst Solar makes four kinds of donations as part of our Global Charitable Giving Program: corporate donations (i.e., donations made through the First Solar Corporate Charitable Fund), site donations (i.e., donations made through First Solar local offices and manufacturing sites), project-related donations (i.e., donations associated with a First Solar project), and business development donations (i.e., donations related to First Solar sales activities). First Solar donated more than $473,000 in 2020 in total cash and in-kind contributions.Global Charitable Giving Program Type 2019 2020 Manufacturing and Office Site Donations Community $186,538 $306,543 Project-Related/Business Development Donations Community $247,305 $84,500 Corporate Charitable Fund Donations Charitable $77,000 $82,000 Total $510,843 $473,043 First Solar Vietnam sponsored the Automation Competition at Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology and Education in October 2020 with the aim of giving the students the opportunity to gain training on the automation industry. The Automation Competition 2020 is a public-private partnership between USAID, Arizona State University, Rockwell Automation, First Solar and other private companies and university partners. Two talented graduates won a First Solar internship which provides opportunities for hands-on learning and professional development. First Solar Vietnam also donated $5,000 to the AmCham Women in Engineering Scholarship (ACWES) to support and encourage female students to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields and pursue careers in Vietnam.Social ResponsibilityFirst Solar Vietnam donated 286 Series 6 solar modules which will supply up to 70% demand of the International Centre for Interdisciplinary Science and Education in Quy Nhon city in central Vietnam. The ICISE center is a non-profit organization that aims to promote interaction, collaboration and friendship among scientists. The Centre has organized over 60 international conferences and other events, welcoming over 5,500 international professors, doctors, and scientists including Nobel Laureates from all over the world.Across the company, First Solar contributed to efforts to mitigate the impacts of Covid-19 on the communities we live and work in. First Solar Malaysia contributed more than $75,000 as part of our Covid-19 pandemic drive to support the government and local community from March to December 2020. First Solar Malaysia donated personal protective equipment, face masks, gloves and hand sanitizers to local hospitals, frontline workers, agencies and impacted residents in the Movement Control Order area. First Solar Malaysia also partnered with the Kulim Industrial Tenants Association (KITA) to organize a food drive and distribute food supplies to residents in the Baling and Kulim area.  First Solar Vietnam donated $25,000 in partnership with Amcham Vietnam to provide critical equipment and support the Ho Chi Minh Center for Disease Control's response in managing COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. First Solar Perrysburg donated 42,000 gloves and hundreds of masks to three Toledo-area hospitals: Promedica, Mercy Health and St. Luke's.  First Solar’s Santa Clara office donated 210 N95 respirators and 20,000 gloves to Valley Medical Foundation.First Solar’s Mesa and Tempe offices donated more than 1,000 N-95 and N-100 masks as well as used computer equipment to low-income families so students can stay connected to their classes.48We partner with NGOs to improve the quality of life in communities around the world to:•	Empower the next generation through education for sustainable development•	Ensure access to clean energy and water•	Reduce inequality through economic inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity•	Promote a circular economy through sustainable production and responsible consumptionCharitable Giving Initiatives$15,000 grant to support direct assistance Covid-19 programs in Tempe, Arizona.NGO/PARTNERTempe Community 
CouncilYEAR2020$10,000 grant to support the operation costs of an agency in Toledo, Ohio that provides a storytelling, solutions-oriented research “thinkhub” focused on inspiring youths and young adults in post-industrial cities to exchange ideas and envision the future of their region.NGO/PARTNERMidstoryYEAR2020SDGSDG$10,000 endowment to support the First Solar Corporate Scholarship Program, benefitting 10 students majoring in subjects ranging from Finance to Environmental Studies and Mechanical Engineering. NGO/PARTNEROhio Foundation of 
Independent CollegesYEAR2020$25,000 grant to support the 2020 Kids to Parks Day Program which gives underserved schools in all 50 states and US territories an opportunity to learn about nature, park stewardship, outdoor recreation, STEM and history by experiencing their local, state and national parks and public lands.NGO/PARTNERNational Park TrustYEAR2020SDGSDG$12,000 grant to support the launch of a green education initiative and purchase recycling equipment for residents with intellectual disabilities in Holland, Ohio.NGO/PARTNERAnne Grady ServicesYEAR2020$10,000 grant to support the college solar ambassadors that will assist nonprofits seek solar project funding.