Social ResponsibilityOur CultureAt First Solar, we believe that innovative and passionate people, working ethically and safely, form the foundation of our success. We generate results by fostering a culture based on agility, collaboration and accountability. Our formal internal Vision, Mission and Culture structure includes a collection of acceptable behaviors that support safety first, mutual respect for all associates, empowered collaboration between functions and individuals, and personal ownership of decisions, performance and results.Agility
We  are creative 
and resilient.Collaboration
We help each 
other succeed.Accountability
We own the results 
of our actions.Working At First SolarAs of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 6,600 associates (our term for full and part-time employees) compared to approximately 6,400 in 2018. Approximately 80% of our associates work in manufacturing and approximately 7% work in our systems business (EPC, project development and O&M). The remainder of our associates are in research and development (R&D), sales and marketing, and general and administrative 
(SG&A) positions.Associates by Function in 2019Associates by Region in 20190.1%4%10%32%APACManufacturing7%MENASystemsNorth AmericaSG&A67%Latin AmericaR&D1%79%Social Responsibility  |  20Inclusion, Diversity & BelongingAt First Solar, we recognize that global diversity and inclusion is a driving force in the success of our company. We believe that our vision for diversity and inclusion must encompass and embrace the global reach and cultural differences inherent in doing business both in and among multiple countries. We recognize that we become increasingly more competitive and innovative throughout the world by fostering diversity and inclusion globally and locally. Here, at First Solar we are one global community serving a common purpose of leading the world’s sustainable energy future. We continue to establish both global and local region networks and affinity groups consistent with First Solar’s culture and philosophy. The Global Women’s Network (GLOW), launched in 2019, aims to develop future leaders through mentoring and sponsorship, networking and a collaborative learning culture.  GLOW is the blueprint to launch more networks  including the African American Network and Hispanic/Latino Network. First Solar’s women and minority networking and affinity groups in the United States, such as Tempe’s Curie Club, the Perrysburg Women’s Networking Group, and in Malaysia, Kulim’s Women@FirstSolar, contribute to both formal and informal efforts to promote diversity and inclusion across the company.First Solar's Global Women's Network kick-off brought women across the company together and featured an inspiring interview with Sha.ron Allen, former U.S. Chairwoman of Deloitte LLP and First Solar Board Member.First Solar is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE), and we prohibit discrimination based on race, color, gender, sexual preference, age, religion, national origin, disability, military status, genetic information or any other protected classifications. At First Solar, we hire, pay and promote based on an individual’s qualifications, skills, ability to do the required work, merit and overall potential. First Solar’s entry-level wages are above the minimum wage in all jurisdictions where we operate. First Solar has an Affirmative Action Policy (AAP), which consistently looks at women and minorities in the organization as a whole, including leadership. First Solar makes good faith efforts to improve year over year its representation in those areas. First Solar’s EOE policy is available online.First Solar monitors ethnicity and gender diversification on an annual basis through our Affirmative Action Plan reports and takes action as appropriate. In addition, our Talent Acquisition team annually evaluates the breakdown of applicants and hires based on gender and ethnicity. First Solar ensures that all candidate pools include a diverse candidate by sending job postings to diversity and minority sites for targeted recruitment. We perform annual audits on our Performance Review process to ensure that the process does not negatively impact our female and diverse populations. First Solar continues to develop programs and policies such as alternative work schedules to enable women to work part-time while transitioning back into the workforce. First Solar also offers four weeks of paid parental leave to all U.S. associates who meet basic employment requirements to enable associates and their families to care for and bond with a newborn child, a newly adopted child, or a newly placed foster child.Occupational Health and SafetyAt First Solar, our goal is to achieve an injury-free workplace. Since 2008, First Solar has reduced its recordable injury rate by approximately 73% (from 2.6) by establishing a strong safety culture throughout the company and ensuring an understanding of First Solar’s Safety Policies and Procedures. First Solar’s Environmental, Health and Safety Policy is available on our website. The policy is communicated to all associates through internal communication channels, associate meetings and notice boards throughout the facilities. All First Solar associates receive legally required health and safety training as well as routine refreshers on health and safety topics pertinent to their job requirements. First Solar requires all contractors to work under our safety policies, programs and procedures. First Solar has established an environmental health and safety management system, in accordance with ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, which covers the activities and supporting processes associated with the design and manufacture of solar modules using advanced thin film technology. 100% of First Solar’s workforce and management team are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Associates from all levels and functions can participate in the cross-functional safety committees which meet on a regular basis to review incidents and implement corrective actions. The site safety committees report to the EHS Steering Committee on a quarterly or more frequent basis. In line with guidance from the World Health Organization, local health authorities and governments, First Solar has taken sweeping measures to help inhibit the spread of COVID-19 across our global footprint. During a surprise audit in April 2020, First Solar’s manufacturing site in Vietnam achieved the best safety score out of 15 large manufacturing facilities in the Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) area. Five auditors from the HCMC Cu Chi Center for Disease Control (CDC) visited the site on April 17, spending two and a half hours reviewing the actions taken by First Solar to mitigate COVID-19 transmission risks. The auditors praised First Solar Vietnam’s preventative actions to mitigate COVID-19 transmission risks, including its internal safety protocol communications, temperature scanning, sanitizers, cleaning, and social distancing practices for associates and visitors in the office, manufacturing floor and on the shuttle bus. The practices and programs implemented in HCMC are in lockstep with our global pandemic mitigation plan which has been implemented at all First Solar facilities.Recordable Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours)5.004.003.002.001.000.00Glass Product
MFG Industry
Standard RIR
4.50.690.510.440.292017201820192016First Solar’s company-wide recordable injury rate (RIR) is 6 times lower than the glass manufacturing industry average. First Solar’s RIR includes all manufacturing, R&D, and office personnel. As of 2018, First Solar’s global RIR was expanded to include Energy Services associates and the data has been adjusted accordingly. An injury is considered recordable if it requires medical attention beyond first aid. First Solar’s recordable injury rate rose slightly in 2019, however, the majority of these injuries were not serious. Injuries by Type (2019)Bruise/contusion7%3%4%Sprain/strain27%4%Cut/laceration      Abrasion/scrape15%InhalationPunctureBurn24%16%OtherSafety data includes all global manufacturing and offices.First Solar’s EPC contractor and O&M site recordable injury rates in 2019 were 0.96 and 1.92, respectively. Three O&M recordable injuries were due to bug bites, which brought our RIR above 1.00.Global Charitable Giving OverviewFirst Solar makes four kinds of donations under its Global Charitable Giving Program: corporate donations (i.e., donations made through the First Solar Corporate Charitable Fund), site donations (i.e., donations made through First Solar local offices and manufacturing sites), project-related donations (i.e., donations associated with a First Solar project), and business development donations (i.e., donations related to First Solar sales activities). First Solar donated more than $421,000 in 2018 and more than $510,000 in 2019 in total cash and in-kind contributions.Global Charitable Giving Program Type 2018 2019 Manufacturing and Office Site Donations Community $241,250 $186,538 Project-Related/Business Development Donations Community $28,500 $247,305 Corporate Charitable Fund Donations Charitable $151,836 $77,000 Total $421,586 $510,843 As part of First Solar Arizona's Science, Technology, Engineering, 
Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) outreach efforts, 
we donated Series 4 
modules to QESST Youth Scholars in 2019 to enable them to build a solar pavilion for the Alhambra School District in Phoenix. The 
students have since assembled a team of vendors, developed an engineering design and 
are working to secure funding for the installation.First Solar Vietnam donated $25,000 to the non-profit Vietnam Health, Education and Literature Projects (VNHelp) to support the Safe Drinking Water for Schools project. The donation supported the installation of 10 water filtration systems to provide access to safe drinking water in the rural areas of the Thanh Hoa province. VNHelp estimates that 5,187 residents will benefit from the systems, including 4,971 students and 216 staff.  First Solar Vietnam and Rockwell Automation partnered to develop a Tailored Training Program which provides a hands-on learning opportunity for students of electricity, electronics and automation. The three-month training program enables students to develop skills in the Rockwell Automation Technology that is being used at First Solar and build a talent pipeline. A graduation ceremony was held for 14 graduates at the University of Education and Technology Ho Chi Minh City (HCMUTE) in November 2019.In 2018 and 2019, First Solar provided funding to Arizona State University’s Global Development Research Program (GDR) to support student-led sustainable development projects. These included enabling access to clean energy and water in underserved areas like Brazil, developing green education initiatives in South Africa, and furthering the development of innovative and sustainable technologies and healthcare education in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Thailand. First Solar Malaysia showcases solar technology and promotes sustainable development education in the community by participating in public conferences and exhibitions such as the Penang International Science Fair, International Green Tech and Eco Products Exhibition and Conference Malaysia (IGEM) and the 18th International Conference on Sustainable Energy Technologies (SET). First Solar Malaysia also provides coaching and guidance on business and entrepreneurship to secondary students through our participation in the Young Enterprise (YE) Community Program organized by the American Chamber of Commerce.We partner with NGOs to improve the quality of life in communities around the world to:•	Empower the next generation through education for sustainable development•	Ensure access to clean energy and water•	Reduce inequality through economic inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity•	Promote a circular economy through sustainable production and responsible consumptionYear NGO/Partner Charitable Giving Initiatives 2019 Ohio Foundation of 
Independent Colleges $10,000 endowment to support the First Solar Corporation Scholarship Program, benefitting 10 students majoring in subjects ranging from Finance to Environmental Studies to Mechanical Engineering. Since 2015, First Solar has helped provide 40 scholarships to 23 individuals.   2019 The Nature Conservancy $120,000 grant to restore wild bird habitats in the Amargosa Valley in South-Central Nevada. The habitat improvements play a critical role in maintaining and growing the populations of rare or special-status bird species in the region. 2019 National Park Trust $25,000 grant to support the 2019 National Kids to Parks Day School Contest which gives underserved schools an opportunity to learn about nature, park stewardship, outdoor recreation, STEM and history by experiencing their local, state and national parks and public lands. 2019 ProMedica Foundation $25,000 grant to support the ProMedica workforce 
training program in partnership with the Goodwill Job Connection Center. 2019 California Community Foundation $17,000 grant to support wildfire relief efforts in California.   2018 California Community Foundation $10,000 grant to support wildfire relief efforts in California.   2018 REACH Inc.  $2,500 grant to REACH (Georgia) to provide scholarships and support for low-income students in Twiggs County.