4.First Solar Supply Chain OverviewOur thin film module manufacturing process uses approximately 30 types of raw materials and components to construct a complete solar module. Critical raw materials and components in our manufacturing process include cadmium telluride, front glass coated with transparent conductive oxide, photo resist, laminate material, tempered back glass, junction boxes, cables and solar connectors. First Solar has one product, one process and one Bill of Materials resulting in a tightly controlled and consistently manufactured quality product in contrast to many traditional tier one crystalline silicone manufacturers who have multiple products, processes and Bill of Materials with a sprawling supply chain resulting in increased variability and quality and reliability risks.In 2017, First Solar spent approximately $1.95 billion on its global supply chain. Our data includes our manufacturing bill of materials, project spend, capital spend and indirect expenses. The data includes all credit memos. Approximately $917 million or 47 percent was spent on local suppliers in the U.S. to support our module manufacturing operations and solar project development. In total, we estimate we are creating over 30,000 direct, indirect and induced jobs across the supply chain worldwide.24At First Solar, we recognize that diversity and inclusion is a driving force in the success of our company. Our commitment to diversity is about building projects that support the growth and success of the small and disadvantaged contracting community. In 2017, approximately $17 million was awarded to women-, minority-, and disabled veteran-business enterprises (WMDVBE). We are actively pursuing ways to increase our spending with diverse business enterprises (DBEs). We are in the process of building lasting business relationships through the continuous development and engagement of DBEs as partners.Global Supply Chain Spend by Region*47%53%InternationalU.S.* Data is based on where a purchase order is placed, 
not necessarily where work is performed. 24  The estimated job creation includes actual First Solar associate jobs and estimated supply chain jobs based on calculations provided by the University of Massachusetts Department of Economics and Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) in The Economic Benefits of Investing in Clean Energy. Direct jobs= 5.4 jobs/$1M spend; Indirect Jobs= 4.4 jobs/$1M spend; Induced jobs= .4 jobs (Direct + Indirect). Total First Solar annual spend was more than $1.95 billion in 2017. Supplier Qualification and AssessmentFirst Solar utilizes a supplier selection scorecard process to identify the right supplier partners who can meet our technical, quality and commercial needs. Before any materials are used in our manufacturing process, a supplier must undergo a rigorous qualification process. First Solar’s Supplier Qualification process is linked to our Change Management System and is used to qualify any new suppliers and materials. First Solar inspects over 1,000 material qualities per day and issues over 6,000 certificates of analysis per year. When possible we attempt to use suppliers that can provide a raw material supply source that is near our manufacturing locations, thereby reducing the transportation cost and impact as well as the lead times for such materials. First Solar performs periodic cross-functional team reviews of our critical suppliers’ performance using a balanced scorecard which focuses on the areas of Quality, Cost, Flexibility, Service, Technology and Sustainability. During these business reviews we communicate First Solar’s state of the business and work in partnership with our supply base to develop the best course of action for them to support our dynamic needs. First Solar continues to validate supplier quality through periodic audits and weekly meetings with key suppliers. We prioritize our engagement by focusing on our module and system component suppliers. In 2017, we focused on assessing suppliers with a potential of being high risk based on California’s Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657). In total, we assessed ~14% of our suppliers in 2017, representing 22% of our supply chain spend. Our supplier scorecards provide a rating system which is used to evaluate the supplier performance and track any year over year change. First Solar’s Supplier Quality group trends and monitors on a monthly basis the number of non-conformances and drives the supplier to provide permanent corrective actions to prevent any reoccurrence of issues. Human Rights Standards and Practices First Solar is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking and slavery across our operations and supply chain. First Solar recognizes the principles set forth in the International Labour Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and is committed to complying with the laws established to protect human rights in each country in which we operate. To this end, First Solar requires direct suppliers to comply with all fair labor standard laws. Under the terms of First Solar’s supplier agreements, suppliers must certify in writing that neither they nor any of their subcontractors will utilize child, slave, prisoner or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment in the supply of goods or provisions of services.First Solar’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Policies establish minimum requirements for our associates and suppliers in the areas of environmental, health and safety (EH&S), labor standards, human rights, and business ethics. First Solar endeavors to ensure that its suppliers acknowledge these policies to ensure a safe working environment that respects and values each employee. In addition, First Solar supports the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) Solar Industry Commitment to Environmental & Social Responsibility (“Solar Commitment”) as well as the EICC Code of Conduct as part of our commitment to continuous progress of environmental and social responsibility in the solar industry.25 In compliance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657), First Solar is committed to addressing the potential risks of human trafficking, forced labor and slavery in our supply chain by:1. Verifying our suppliers’ adherence to quality, sustainability and social responsibility through supplier contractual agreements, scheduled visits and audits of their facilities. Violation of any Labor Standards may result in the termination of First Solar’s business relationship with the supplier.2. Requiring direct suppliers to certify that materials supplied to First Solar and incorporated into First Solar’s products (i) comply with all applicable laws, and (ii) are manufactured in full compliance with applicable laws, which includes laws enforcing fair labor standards and prohibiting slavery and human trafficking.3. Ensuring internal accountability standards by requiring all First Solar directors, officers and employees to act ethically and in compliance with First Solar’s Associate Handbook and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
which is available on our website.First Solar’s Global Compliance Organization manages the company’s ethics and compliance program. The goal of this organization is to implement policies, processes, training, monitoring and general awareness programs to promote ethics and compliance with applicable legal and regulatory standards. Subject to the requirements of local law, and after due diligence and full and fair investigation, any employee found to have directly engaged in or knowingly engaged suppliers engaged in slave labor or human trafficking will be subject to immediate termination of employment. Providing training on SB 657 and other Federal and International anti-human trafficking regulations to all First Solar employees that engage in procurement activities with third parties, including suppliers. First Solar’s Avoiding Trafficked Labor training includes the following objectives: Recognizing and communicating awareness of human trafficking risks relevant to First Solar’s business; assuring compliance with trafficking-related statutes and regulations; and formulating plans to identify and avoid trafficked labor in each specific business unit at First Solar.25 The EICC Code of Conduct and SEIA Commitment are informed by many international instruments including the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, the Ten Principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations, and certain ILO Conventions.Conflict MineralsFirst Solar is committed to responsible sourcing and operating a supply chain free of conflict minerals.26 We support the goals established under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd- Frank Act”) on conflict minerals and condemn human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transport or trade of minerals and any direct or indirect support to non-state armed groups or security forces that illegally control or tax mine sites, transport routes, trade points or any upstream actors in the supply chain. First Solar’s Conflict Mineral Policy is published on our website, communicated to our suppliers, and incorporated into supplier contracts. We require all our direct suppliers to agree to and follow these principles. We have an operating cross-functional internal governance team with representatives from our supply chain, legal, sustainability, and finance departments to ensure policy statements and control processes are followed. First Solar has an existing records retention process and grievance mechanism for reporting policy violations via our Ethics Hotline.26 Conflict Minerals include cassiterite, columbite-tantalite (colton), gold and wolframite and their derivatives, tin, tantalum, and tungsten (or any other mineral or its derivative determined by the Secretary of State) which are sourced from the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) or an adjoining country (together, the “Conflict Region”) whose extraction and trade are financing conflict in the Conflict Region.First Solar is committed to complying with the reporting obligations required under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules on conflict minerals, including the requirement to conduct inquiries and, if necessary, due diligence into the source and chain of custody of any conflict minerals included in our products. In accordance with SEC rules, we conducted a materials content analysis to identify whether any products we have manufactured and contracted to manufacture contain certain conflict minerals and implemented a Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiries (RCOI) process to determine whether any of the conflict minerals originated, or may have originated, in the covered countries and whether such conflict minerals originated from recycled or scrap sources. Our direct suppliers performed similar RCOI procedures to identify the chain of custody from their suppliers back to the smelter and origin. As we do not source directly from smelter or refiner processing facilities, we rely on the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Program (RMAP), previously known as Conflict-Free Smelter Program, to oversee and coordinate third-party audits of these facilities. The RMAP audit protocols and procedures require the smelters or refiners to engage specially trained third-party auditors to independently verify that these smelters and refiners can be considered conflict free. Our conflict minerals risk mitigation plan defines supplier-risk management strategies, including (i) continued procurement, (ii) assistance in identifying alternate sources of supply, and (iii) disengagement, the severity of which is at the discretion of our conflict minerals steering committee and executive management. We aim to advance the effectiveness of our due diligence efforts and further enhance our compliance processes by, among other things, encouraging non-RMAP validated processing facilities to become validated either through the RMAP or a RMAP-recognized third-party audit program. First Solar’s Specialized Disclosure and Conflict Minerals reports are available on our public website.5 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCEFIRST SOLAR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT5.World-Class ManufacturingFirst Solar is minimizing the company’s operational impact and driving continuous improvement through increased module and manufacturing throughput efficiency, conservation projects and on-site PV installations. All First Solar manufacturing sites are certified to globally recognized standards: ISO 14001 for Environmental Management, ISO 9001 for Quality, and OHSAS 18001 (or ISO 45001) for Occupational Health and Safety. We foster a culture where environmental, health and safety (EHS) is an integral part of our associates’ work and require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to our standards and commitments. First Solar’s Environmental, Health and Safety Policy is available on our website:  http://www.firstsolar.com/Resources/Sustainability-Documents First Solar modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow line. During the manufacturing process, a thin semiconductor layer is continuously applied onto glass substrates using a high temperature Vapor Transport Deposition process. Laser scribes are then used to define individual cells and monolithic integration for cell interconnection. First Solar’s fully integrated manufacturing process requires less energy, water and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon, enabling First Solar thin film modules to have the smallest carbon footprint, lowest life cycle water use and fastest energy payback time of all solar technologies. In less than 3.5 hours, a sheet of glass is transformed into a complete PV module — 
flash tested, boxed and ready for shipment.In addition to manufacturing PV modules with the smallest environmental footprint in the industry, First Solar is committed to reducing the company’s own operational impact. Since 2009, we’ve successfully reduced our energy, water, waste, and carbon intensity per watt produced through improvements in module efficiency, manufacturing throughput and capacity utilization, as well as by implementing resource conservation projects at our facilities. We have received global recognition for our state-of-the art environmental controls and performance, world-class health and safety practices, industry-leading quality and reliability and manufacturing excellence. In 2015, our manufacturing site in Malaysia was awarded the prestigious Prime Minister’s Hibiscus Award. In 2016, our Perrysburg campus received the Ohio EPA’s Encouraging Environmental Excellence Gold Level Award and First Solar’s Santa Clara office received the Bay Area Green Business Program certification for efforts to ensure that our business operates in an environmentally friendly manner.The Ohio EPA recognized First Solar Perrysburg with the Encouraging Environmental Excellence (E3) Gold Level Award.The Ohio EPA E3 Gold Level Award is designed to recognize businesses that exceed regulatory compliance obligations and commit to long-term strategies to reduce waste, lower emissions and improve environmental performance. Applicants must pass a comprehensive compliance check, maintain an environmental management system and commit to continuous environmental improvement. First Solar is the 18th business in Ohio to receive the gold-level award.“First Solar is an outstanding Ohio business. This really is an exclusive club. 
You’ve got one of the best programs we’ve ever seen.” —Craig W. Butler, Ohio EPA Director.First Solar Malaysia was awarded the 2014/2015 Prime Minister’s Hibiscus Award for environmental excellence.The Prime Minister Hibiscus Award was first launched in 1996 to recognize companies for their commitment and contributions to environmental protection. Winners of the award are widely recognized as corporate role models for their environmental performance and excellence. First Solar Malaysia received the Exceptional Achievement Award, the State Award for the best awardee in Kedah state, along with a Gold Award for the Special Project Award that showcased an environmental project on renewable resources.Greenhouse Gas Emissions Goal (2014-2017)After surpassing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction goal in 2016, we set a new five-year goal for 2021 to reduce our GHG emissions intensity per watt produced by 45 percent compared to our 2008 baseline. The temporary ramp down in production decreased our absolute GHG emissions and increased our GHG emissions intensity in 2017. To manage our operational impacts as we continue to ramp up production, we have been incorporating energy and water efficiency measures into new buildings and tool designs. We continually strive to minimize our operational impact and drive continuous improvement to enable First Solar’s capacity to endure and to scale.The chart depicts direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions of all manufacturing and recycling plants, R&D and testing facilities, EPC-owned construction equipment, company-owned operational solar projects, and company-owned vehicle fleet on a carbon intensity basis measured per MW produced. Since 2008, our company-wide carbon intensity decreased by approximately 40 percent through increased module efficiency, manufacturing throughput, and capacity utilization, decreased emissions intensity of purchased grid electricity, and energy conservation and low carbon initiatives. Our GHG emissions intensity increased in 2017 due to the temporary ramp down in production. Energy Conservation InitiativesFirst Solar implements energy efficiency and low carbon initiatives as part of our standard manufacturing system design. We have installed onsite PV installations at our production sites in Ohio and Malaysia and at our recycling facility in Frankfurt Oder, Germany.2.75MW AC Rooftop and Ground-Mount PV Installation at First Solar’s Perrysburg, Ohio Manufacturing Facility.The Perrysburg PV installation generates enough energy to power 290 average local homes, displacing 1,920 metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions per year, based on the regional average grid. Our Perrysburg, Ohio facility uses solar electric power to offset peak demand. On the hottest days of the year in Ohio, we limit our energy usage by implementing an Energy Load Shedding Reduction Initiative to reduce the burden on the regional grid during peak hours.2.9 MW Rooftop PV Installation at First Solar’s Recycling Facility in Frankfurt Oder, Germany.First Solar Malaysia has one of the largest installations of a grid-connected carpark solar PV system in Malaysia. In 2015, First Solar installed 7,820 modules to supply power to our manufacturing facility in Kulim, Malaysia. The 750kW installation generates enough energy to power 350 average Malaysian homes and displace 750 metric tons of CO2-eq annually, which is the equivalent of removing 150 cars from the road and saving over 1.4 million liters of water per year, based on national averages.750 kW AC PV Installation at First Solar’s Manufacturing Facility in Kulim, Malaysia.2016-2017 Energy Efficiency InitiativesActivity Type Energy and Carbon 
Saving Initiatives  Investment Required (USD) Annual CO2e savings 
(metric tonnes) Annual 
Monetary 
Savings (USD) Energy efficiency
Processes In 2016, we utilized building management system controls to optimize our cooling tower water and reduce surging at our manufacturing facility in Ohio.  0 1,340  16,500  Lighting reduction in non-critical areas  In 2016, we removed lights in non-critical areas and installed LEDs to reduce energy consumption at our manufacturing facility in Ohio.  1,000 68 8,400 Energy efficiency: Building services In 2017, we replaced and reduced lighting in the office area at our manufacturing facility in Malaysia. 25,860 59 10,500 Manufacturing Energy Intensity (2014-2017)First Solar’s manufacturing energy intensity (energy consumption per watt produced) includes all processes, from the beginning of our manufacturing process to finished panel. Since 2009, our manufacturing energy intensity has decreased by more than 30 percent due to increased manufacturing throughput and module efficiency as well as the implementation of energy conservation programs. In 2017, our manufacturing energy intensity decreased by approximately 1 percent compared to 2016 primarily due to the reduction in our absolute manufacturing energy consumption, continued improvements in module efficiency, and energy efficiency measures. Our absolute manufacturing energy consumption fell by approximately 27 percent as our production volume decreased by 26 percent to 2.3GW in 2017 during our transition to Series 6 module technology and manufacturing equipment. We ran our manufacturing facilities at approximately 99 percent capacity utilization during 2017, which represented a 2 percentage point increase from 2016.Manufacturing Water Intensity (2014-2017)Since 2009, First Solar’s manufacturing water intensity (water consumption per watt produced) has decreased by 35 percent due to significant improvements in module efficiency, manufacturing throughput, and the implementation of water conservation and recycling projects. In 2017, First Solar’s manufacturing water intensity increased by 16 percent. Although we ramped down production, we were still using water for our bathroom facilities, cooling towers and process water generation. Overall, First Solar’s total manufacturing water consumption decreased by approximately 14 percent in 2017 primarily due to the reduction in our production volume, related to our transition to Series 6 module technology and manufacturing equipment. By recycling rejected water from our purification system back into our raw water tank in Malaysia, we saved over 75 million liters of water in 2017. Effluents and Waste In 2017, approximately 52 percent of First Solar’s total water withdrawn from water utilities (2.82 billion liters) was discharged as wastewater from our industrial wastewater treatment systems in Ohio and Malaysia. The remaining 48 percent was used for irrigation, cooling towers, recycling and sanitary purposes. The water withdrawal and wastewater discharge data includes all First Solar manufacturing facilities worldwide.Treated Industrial Wastewater Discharge(1.48 million m3)UPW Plant/Manufacturing/WWTPIrrigationTotal Municipal Water Supply to 
First Solar sites in Ohio and Malaysia2.82 million m3Sanitary Sewer/ EvaporationSanitaryCooling TowerOn-site treated industrial wastewater is indirectly discharged to sanitary sewer in the United States, and directly discharged to river in Malaysia. First Solar is committed to complying with wastewater regulations in all countries where we operate. First Solar treats wastewater at our manufacturing and recycling facilities using a batch discharge system. Once treated, the water is collected in holding tanks, which are sampled and tested to confirm compliance with regulatory limits before being discharged. No industrial wastewater leaves our site unless we have tested and approved it for discharge, even if it is being discharged to a municipal wastewater treatment plant. If the water contaminant levels are above the permitted discharge limit, it is sent for re-treatment internally. First Solar factories are equipped with state-of-the-art analytical capabilities for in-house water testing of heavy metals such as cadmium. Treated wastewater discharged from First Solar’s industrial wastewater treatment facilities in Ohio and Malaysia are significantly below the permitted discharge limits for cadmium.In addition to recycling water, we are also working on reducing the amount of wastewater discharged by retrofitting our recycling facilities. As of January 2018, all routinely-operated First Solar recycling facilities in the U.S., Germany, and Malaysia, generate zero wastewater discharge under normal operations. Instead, the wastewater is recycled and converted into freshwater, which can then be reused in the recycling process. As part of the retrofit, we recycled 3.7 million liters of water in 2017 at our recycling facility in Malaysia alone.Manufacturing Waste Intensity (2014-2017)First Solar’s manufacturing waste generation intensity (grams per watt produced) has decreased by more than 70 percent since 2009 as a result of increased module and manufacturing efficiency combined with recycling and waste minimization projects. In 2017, our manufacturing waste intensity increased by approximately 7 percent primarily due to the decommissioning of our Series 4 manufacturing equipment.Waste Recycled vs. Disposed (2014-2017)This graph depicts waste recycled and disposed by First Solar’s manufacturing and recycling facilities in Perrysburg, Ohio and Kulim, Malaysia. The data includes modules that we recycle onsite; both manufacturing line scrap and modules returned from the field but does not include modules that are being recycled at our recycling facility in Germany. First Solar’s state-of-the-art recycling process recovers more than 90 percent of the semiconductor material and 90 percent of the glass. The glass cullet is reused in new glass products and the unrefined semiconductor material is sent for further processing to be reused in new First Solar modules. Our laminate material which would normally be sent for disposal, is now being recycled in Malaysia for reuse in products such as rubber mats, bicycle handles, and shoe soles, thereby further closing the loop on our product’s life cycle. Many other manufacturing byproducts are recycled. In Perrysburg, we successfully recycled over 90 percent of our decommissioned manufacturing equipment. Overall, of the total material First Solar sends off-site, 85 percent is sent for beneficial reuse and not to landfill.Waste by Type and Destination (2014-2017)This graph depicts First Solar’s absolute manufacturing waste produced in kilograms (kg) with a percentage breakdown by type and destination. In 2016, our overall waste generation increased by 30 percent due to the expansion in production and new technology upgrades. In 2017, our absolute manufacturing waste generation decreased by approximately 20 percent primarily due to the reduction in our production volume for the transition to Series 6 module technology and manufacturing equipment. First Solar is committed to reducing and recycling hazardous waste in line with our environmental management system objectives of minimizing waste and preventing pollution.In 2017, First Solar recycled 17.73 million kilograms or 91 percent of its non-hazardous waste and sent the remaining 9 percent to landfill. First Solar recycled 40 percent (1.07 out of 2.68 million kg) of its hazardous waste and sent 60 percent to landfill. Since 2014, First Solar has decreased the amount of hazardous waste disposed by nearly 40 percent (from 2.65 to 1.61 million kg) through increased recycling. Hazardous waste is classified according to the definition used by the countries in which we operate, e.g. under the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations in Malaysia and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act in the U.S.Safety First: Occupational Health and SafetyRecordable Injury Rate (Per 200,000 Hours Of Exposure)“Safety First” is a core value at First Solar and our goal is to achieve an injury-free workplace. Since 2008, First Solar has reduced its recordable injury rate by nearly 90 percent (from 2.6) by establishing a strong safety culture throughout the company, ensuring an understanding of First Solar’s Safety Policies and Procedures, and standardizing processes at our project sites. First Solar’s recordable injury rate (RIR) includes all First Solar associates including manufacturing, R&D, construction, maintenance and operation, and office personnel. The engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) RIR includes PV array construction workers that were contracted by First Solar. An injury is considered recordable if it requires medical attention beyond first aid. First Solar requires all contractors to work under our safety policies, programs and procedures. In 2017, we increasingly began developing projects in new regions of the U.S. which did not benefit from the contractor experience base developed over several years in other regions. The majority of these contractor injuries consisted of bug bites and bee stings. First Solar’s overall RIR decreased in 2017 primarily due to the ramp down of several manufacturing lines for Series 6 retooling. First Solar’s company-wide RIR is about 16 times lower than the manufacturing industry average rate of 4.9 per 200,000 hours of exposure and our EPC RIR of less than 1 is well below the average construction industry rate.First Solar requires all contractors to work under our safety policies, programs and procedures. We have strict prequalification requirements which assess subcontractors based on quality, experience, supplier diversity and safety performance. Subcontractors are required to meet First Solar’s total recordable injury rate target (TRIR) standard of 1 or less. First Solar has a comprehensive safety training program for our EPC contractors which includes daily environmental, health and safety review talks and field observations. First Solar EPC conforms to OHSAS 18001 and uses a world-class workflow management tool to track incidents and assign corrective actions. Weekly and monthly audits are performed by First Solar safety staff to ensure compliance of sub-contractors. A Site Safety Committee is established for each site, consisting of both management and field representation from First Solar and our subcontractors. Site Safety Committee meetings are typically held on a monthly basis.100 percent of First Solar’s workforce and management team are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. In Ohio, First Solar has seven safety committees representing various parts of the workforce including production, R&D labs, recycling, and offices. The cross-functional safety teams’ membership rotates every six months to enable all interested associates in each department to participate. The safety teams meet on a bi-weekly basis and report to the EHS Steering Committee every quarter. The EHS Steering committee is made up of Directors and Managers who represent the rest of the staff at First Solar. We recently added two other committees that report into the EHS Steering Committee; the Ergonomics team meet on a quarterly basis and the Incident Review team meet on a weekly basis to go over incidents and implement corrective actions. In Malaysia, our site EHS committee meets every two months and is composed of Directors, Managers and shop floor associates from production, site services and quality and reliability. The site EHS committee focuses on setting and reviewing site goals, site indicators and allowing shop floor associates to discuss safety matters with site leaders. First Solar Malaysia also has three plant EHS forums which meet on a bi-weekly basis. In addition to reviewing injuries and incidents, the Plant EHS forums implement corrective actions and tactical actions to improve safety culture.Key Performance Indicators 2016 2017 GRI Standards Net Sales ($ Billion) 2.904 2.941 102-7 Total Modules Produced (Millions) 27.1 19.4 102-7 Total Gigawatts Produced (GW) 3.10 2.28 102-7 Total Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2) 406,108 325,518 305-1 & 2 Scope 1 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2)  14,730 16,161 305-1 Scope 2 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2)  391,378 309,357 305-2 Scope 3 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2) 735,997 679,425 305-3 Total GHG Intensity (Scope 1 & 2 Metric Tons CO2 per Watt Produced) 131 143 305-4 Total Electricity Consumption (MWh) 721,802 525,440 302-1 Consumption of Purchased Non-Renewable Electricity (MWh) 714,630 518,268 302-1 Consumption of Self-Generated Renewable Electricity- Solar (MWh) 7,172 7,172 302-1 Total Fuel Consumption From Non-Renewable Sources (MWh)  51,896 54,871 302-1 Natural Gas  12,220 13,073 302-1 Diesel/Gas oil  31,055 32,758 302-1 Motor Gasoline  8,621 9,040 302-1 Manufacturing Energy Intensity (kWh per Watt Produced) 0.23 0.23 302-3 Total Water Use (Billion Liters) 3.28 2.82 303-1 Manufacturing Water Intensity (Liters per Watt Produced) 1.06 1.23 -- Total Waste Generation (Million Kilograms) 28.22 22.06 306-2 Recycled Non-Hazardous (Million Kilograms) 22.38 17.72 306-2 Recycled Hazardous (Million Kilograms) 1.39 1.07 306-2 Disposed Non-Hazardous (Million Kilograms) 2.41 1.66 306-2 Disposed Hazardous (Million Kilograms) 2.04 1.61 306-2 Manufacturing Waste Intensity (Grams per Watt Produced) 9.1 9.7 -- Total Wastewater Discharge (Billion Liters) 1.83 1.48 306-1 Wastewater Generation Intensity (Liters per Watt produced) 0.59 0.65 -- Total Number of Associates  5,358 4,130 102-7 New Hires by Gender (% Male) 78% 65% 401-1 New Hires by Gender (% Female) 22% 35% 401-1 First Solar Recordable Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours) 0.44 0.29 403-2 EPC Site Recordable Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours) 0.58 0.72 403-2 First Solar Lost Time Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours) 0.26 0.19 403-2 EPC Lost Time Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours) 0.12 0.15 403-2 Total Training Hours 33,014 35,752 404-0 Average Training Hours by Gender (Male) 6 9 404-1 Average Training Hours by Gender (Female) 6 8 404-1 % Male Workforce 81% 82% 405-1 % Female Workforce 19% 18% 405-1 %  Male  Management 82% 81% 405-1 %  Female  Management 18% 19% 405-1 ISO 14001 Certification of Mfg. % 100% 100% -- OHSAS 18001 Certification of Mfg. % 100% 100% -- * 2016 net sales data has been updated as a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09. First Solar’s recordable injury rate for 2016 was adjusted to include an injury that became recordable after the end of the year. First Solar training data excludes training related to Manufacturing, IT, EPC, O&M, HR, and other functional groups as well as on-demand training available through Biz Library.