GovernanceESG Oversight At First SolarAt First Solar we define sustainability as our “capacity to endure and scale.” Our sustainability approach enables us to achieve long-term growth while following environmentally and socially responsible practices. First Solar’s sustainability program drives our commitment to the triple bottom line of “people, planet and profit” through our approach to responsible life cycle management, environmental footprint analysis, resource efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reduction, waste management, global charitable giving, operational cost reduction, responsible sourcing and human rights, as well as our global PV module recycling services. We are committed to minimizing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. First Solar’s Corporate Sustainability Policy is available on our website.In 2020, First Solar identified seven key environmental, social and governance (ESG) focus areas based on our latest materiality assessment (Circular Economy, Energy, Emissions & Resource Efficiency, Inclusion, Diversity & Belonging, Innovative Products, Public Policy & Public Sentiment, Responsible Sourcing and Human Rights, and Reliable Products) and formally established ESG oversight at the board and executive levels. Each key focus area is managed by ESG focus leaders who define, measure and report on progress to the ESG Steering Committee on a quarterly basis. The ESG Steering Committee consists of First Solar’s Executive Leadership Team (ELT) which has the highest level of direct responsibility for ESG matters within the company. The ESG Steering Committee and focus leaders report into the Board of Directors on a biannual or more frequent basis. The Board’s Nominating and Governance committee has overall oversight of ESG strategy and policies, as defined in their charter.Board Of Directors First Solar’s business is conducted under the oversight of our Board of Directors. The primary responsibility of the Board is to oversee and review senior management’s performance of First Solar’s business operations. Our Board of Directors is composed of 11 directors, including nine independent directors and two non-independent directors, our Chair of the Board and our CEO. Each of the chairs of our Board committees are held by an independent director. In 2020, we revised our Nominating and Governance Committee Charter to underscore that we are “actively seeking highly qualified women and minority candidates as part of the search process for new Board members,” and better defined diversity to include background, gender, race and ethnicity. As of 2021, approximately 30% of our Board of Director seats are occupied by women, with each Board committee having female representation.  Additionally, in our 2021 proxy statement we disclosed the racial composition of our Board. In addition to this 2021 Sustainability Report, we intend to release our first Board of Directors Diversity & Inclusion Transparency Report in the coming months. This report will provide greater clarity into our Board’s diversity story, describe our Board diversity commitments, and highlight our implementation strategies. For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipExecutive Management First Solar’s CEO and executive management team are responsible for managing the company’s day-to-day business operations, including the preparation of financial statements and short- and long-term strategic planning. Over the past year, we added gender, racial and multicultural diversity into the Executive Leadership team as a reflection of our commitment to diversity.For more information, please visit our website: http://www.firstsolar.com/en/About-Us/LeadershipEthical Business ConductFirst Solar holds ethical business conduct as a core principle and we are committed to operating at the highest ethical standards in every area of our business, everywhere we do business. First Solar’s Code of Conduct, Relentless Integrity: How We Conduct Business Ethically, demonstrates our commitment to this principle and guides the company’s business conduct. Our Code of Conduct applies to everyone, from members of the Board of Directors to our officers, associates and our valued partners. We have a long-standing commitment to conducting our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This commitment, along with our culture of agility, collaboration and accountability, defines our accepted behaviors and enables us to advance our mission to provide cost-advantaged solar technology through rigorous safety practices, innovation, customer engagement, industry leadership and operational excellence. First Solar has a Chief Compliance Officer, who reports regularly to the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team on the status of our ethical culture and developing processes and procedure to further monitor and advance it to the highest standards. First Solar has an existing mechanism for reporting any misconduct or policy violations via various channels, including our Ethics Hotline. Any First Solar associate, supplier and other external stakeholder can report concerns free of any retaliation, discrimination, or harassments via our third-party operated Ethics Hotline which provides an anonymous and confidential solution to communicate any concerns on conduct.Collective Bargaining And Freedom Of AssociationFirst Solar recognizes that in the locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or not bargain collectively in accordance with local laws. First Solar respects those rights and is committed to creating an environment of open communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, concerns or problems, and work together to address workplace issues.Anti-CorruptionFirst Solar performs risk assessments that consider the possibility of fraud and related indicators. We currently operate in, and may expand into, many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. First Solar’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy requires all associates to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and all other applicable local anti-corruption laws. The Global Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits bribery, kickbacks, and the giving of other improper payments to obtain or retain business and covers any person engaged to perform work on behalf of First Solar including freelancers, independent contractors, temporary contractors, independent professionals, agents and consultants. We communicate our anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies in our customer and service contracts. FCPA training is provided to associates in higher risk profile jobs and tailored according to the region. First Solar has implemented processes and procedures to help ensure compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. These processes and procedures are monitored and audited on an ongoing basis.Data Security And PrivacyFirst Solar is committed to complying with all data protection and privacy laws applicable to our business. First Solar’s global data protection compliance program operates as part of our global compliance program. First Solars’s Global Data Protection Policy establishes minimum standards that First Solar and our subsidiaries must apply to personal data on a company-wide basis. All First Solar associates are required to comply with our Global Data Protection Policy, including by ensuring that they have completed the requisite training to enable them to do so. First Solar conducts periodic and as-needed training regarding the lawful and intended purposes of processing personal data, the need to protect and keep information accurate and up-to-date, and the need to maintain the confidentiality of the data to which associates have access. As needed, First Solar functions, departments or divisions may conduct more specific training related to such functions, departments or divisions processing of Personal Data. In addition, annual Cyber Security training is required for First Solar associates, and a formal cyber communication cadence provides topical awareness on a monthly basis. Non-compliance with the policy may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal or contract termination. First Solar adheres to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and conducts annual audits and testing of its information security and data privacy programs, engaging external partners periodically.  First Solar has not experienced an information security breach in the last three years.BODESG Steering Committee (ELT)ESG Focus LeadersFirst Solar Sustainability Report 202151GovernanceGovernance53GovernanceGovernanceESG Recognition and Awards• 2021: MSCI ESG Research AA (Leader) Rating 
Highest ESG rating in the solar industry–First Solar, Inc.• 2021: Fast Company’s World Changing Ideas Award Finalist 
Responsible Solar- First Solar, Inc.• 2020: ISS ESG Corporate “Prime” Rating
Demonstrating best-in-class environmental, social, governance performance–First Solar, Inc.• 2020: Ohio EPA Encouraging Environmental Excellence Gold Award
First Solar Perrysburg and Lake Township manufacturing facilities.• 2020: Kedah Department of Environment State Environmental Excellence Award – First Solar Malaysia.• 2020: EPEAT Silver Rating
First PV product in the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics, 
First Solar Series 6.• 2020: CDP Climate Change A- rating
In recognition of our leadership on climate change and 
disclosure and management of climate-related risks–First Solar, Inc.• 2020: CDP Water Security A- rating
In recognition of our leadership on water stewardship and its 
disclosure and management of water-related risks–First Solar, Inc.• 2020: Global Challenges Index
Among 50 companies making pioneering contributions to 
overcome global challenges such as climate change, the provision 
of clean drinking water, deforestation, biodiversity, population development, poverty and global governance–First Solar, Inc.• 2019: PV Magazine Sustainability Award
Selected joint winner in recognition of Series 6’s industry leading environmental profile- First Solar Series 6.First Solar Sustainability Report 202155GovernanceExternal Sustainability Initiatives• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): First Solar has participated in and publicly reported to CDP since 2011. • Climate Leadership Council: As a founding member, First Solar supports the Climate Leadership Council’s mission and carbon dividends plan as a cost-effective, equitable and politically-viable climate solution. The plan calls for a substantial, gradually rising, revenue-neutral carbon tax with the revenue distributed to citizens.• EPEAT: First Solar is a member of the EPEAT Advisory Council, a non-fiduciary body formed to provide input and advice to EPEAT management. EPEAT is a globally recognized Type 1 Ecolabel which enables public and private purchasers to identify environmentally leading products from socially responsible companies. The EPEAT PV modules and inverters category launched in October 2020. • International Energy Agency (IEA) Photovoltaic Power Systems Program Task Committees 12: As a member of Task 12, First Solar promotes international collaboration on PV safety and sustainability. • International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA): First Solar is a founding member of IRENA’s multi-stakeholder Coalition for Action which works to dispel common misperceptions and factual inaccuracies about renewable energy. • Product Environmental Footprint (PEF): First Solar is a leading member of the Technical Secretariat to develop Life Cycle Assessment-based Product Environmental Footprint Category Rules (PEFCR) for PV electricity generation under the European Commission’s Single Market for Green Products Initiative Pilot process. The PEFCR for PV electricity generation were successfully finalized in 2018.• NSF 457 Photovoltaic Module Sustainability Leadership Standard (NSF/ANSI 457- 2019): First Solar is part of the Joint Committee which developed NSF 457, the industry’s first Sustainability Leadership Standard for PV modules and inverters. PV modules and inverters conforming to NSF 457 will be added to the EPEAT registry for sustainable electronics.• RE100: First Solar joined RE100 in 2020 and committed to powering our global operations with 100% renewable energy by 2028. RE100 is a global initiative dedicated to accelerating the shift to zero-carbon grids, led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP.• Responsible Business Alliance (RBA): First Solar joined the RBA in 2021 as a regular member to build on our track record of responsible sourcing. The RBA is the world’s largest industry coalition dedicated to supporting the rights and well-being of workers and communities in the global supply chain. First Solar is the first of the world’s largest top ten PV manufacturers to join the RBA.• Ultra Low-Carbon Solar Alliance (ULCSA): First Solar is a founding member of the ULCSA, an alliance of companies across the solar PV value chain committed to expanding market awareness and deployment of ultra low-carbon PV to accelerate reductions in solar supply chain GHG emissions.