Responsible Supply Chain ManagementSCREENING
All new suppliers undergo a rigorous qualification process using a balanced scorecard which focuses on Quality, Cost, Flexibility, Service, Technology and Sustainability. We regularly map our supply base and conduct an assessment to identify potential high-risk suppliers based on industry and geography by using third-party indexes on global slavery, forced labor and other ESG aspects.CONTRACTUAL
AGREEMENTS
Under the terms of First Solar’s master supplier contracts, suppliers must represent and warrant that they will not use child, slave, prisoner or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment in the supply of goods or provisions of services. Suppliers are also required to comply with all fair labor standard laws, First Solar’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Policies, as well as the RBA Code of Conduct.1REPORTINGWe publicly report on the environmental and social performance of the suppliers we audit in our sustainability report.52At First Solar, we take a comprehensive approach to responsible sourcing- from our policy, supplier contracts, screening, mapping and auditing, to training and reporting.43TRAININGWe provide Transparency across Supply Chain training to all associates involved in procurement. The training includes the following objectives: recognizing and communicating awareness of human trafficking risks relevant to First Solar’s business; ensuring compliance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657) and global human rights regulations; and identifying and avoiding trafficked labor in each specific business unit at First Solar.AUDIT We audit new and high risk suppliers on environmental management, health and safety, labor, human rights, and ethics by leveraging the RBA Code of Conduct as a framework. In 2021, First Solar became a member of the Responsible Business Alliance which gives us access to their advanced due diligence tools and programs, and will enable us to conduct third-party audits of potential high-risk suppliers by leveraging their Validated Assessment Program (VAP) — a leading standard for onsite compliance verification and effective, shareable audits. As of 2021, we will initiate independent third-party audits on potential high-risk suppliers through the RBA.First Solar Sustainability Report 202131Supply Chain OverviewOur thin film module manufacturing process uses approximately 30 types of raw materials and components to produce a solar module. Critical raw materials and components in our manufacturing process include CdTe, front glass coated with transparent conductive oxide, organics such as photo resist, tempered back glass, frames, packaging components such as interlayer, cord plate/cord plate cap, cables and solar connectors. First Solar has a global set of specifications for the materials used in our products which results in a tightly controlled supply chain with unrivalled traceability and quality products. We also own and operate the facilities which manufacture our modules- turning a sheet of glass into a completed module all under one roof. In contrast, many traditional tier one crystalline silicon PV manufacturers have multiple products, processes and bill of materials with a sprawling supply chain, which includes multiple process steps (polysilicon/ingots/wafers/cells/modules) often across multiple continents, resulting in increased risks relating to variability, quality, reliability and traceability. As part of our sourcing strategy, we are enabling suppliers that are near to our manufacturing locations, thereby reducing the transportation costs, environmental footprint as well as the lead times for such materials. As part of our sourcing strategy, we are actively working on regionalizing supply at our manufacturing facilities.In 2020, First Solar spent more than $1.7 billion on our global supply chain. Our data includes our manufacturing bill of materials, project spend, capital spend and indirect expenses. The data is based on the region purchase orders are issued to. Approximately 37% of our global spend was spent on local suppliers in the U.S. to support our module manufacturing operations and project development business in 2020. In total, we estimate we have created over 24,000 direct, indirect and induced jobs across the supply chain worldwide.  More than $10 million was awarded to women-, minority-, and disabled veteran-business enterprises (WMDVBE) in 2020, based on actual spend.2020 Supplier Spendby Region (%)47%39%14%AmericasEMEAAPAC2The estimated supply chain jobs are based on calculations provided by the University of Massachusetts Department of Economics and Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) in The Economic Benefits of Investing in Clean Energy. Direct jobs= 5.4 jobs/$1M spend; Indirect Jobs= 4.4 jobs/$1M spend; Induced jobs= .4 jobs (Direct + Indirect).32GRI Indicator Title 2020
Disclosure Social and Environmental impacts used for screening 414-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using
social criteria 33% Suppliers are screened on the following social criteria:• Clean and safe facilities • Minimum wages• Working hours (allowing at least one day off per week)• Health and safety practices• Non discrimination• Freedom of association and collective bargaining• Humane treatment and prevention of 
harassment or abuse• Prohibition of child labor • Prohibition of forced or compulsory labor• Collective bargaining• Business ethics (including corruption, extortion, embezzlement, conflict of interest, bribery, excessive gift giving, disclosure of information, intellectual property, fair business advertising and competition, privacy and non-retaliation.)• Conflict minerals 414-2 Negative impacts on social impacts in supply chain 
and actions taken 0 Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we were only able to conduct one onsite audit in 2020. This supplier had no potential negative social impacts based on their EHS audit score. First Solar is working to drive supplier improvement in Quality and EHS with suppliers. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria 33% Suppliers are screened on the following 
environmental criteria:• Environmental management systems• Pollution prevention and resource reduction• Solid waste management• Hazardous substances management• Environmental permits• Air emissions monitoring and management• Water management• Energy consumption and GHG emissions 308-2 Negative environmental 
impacts in the supply chain 
and actions taken 0 Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we were only able to conduct one onsite audit in 2020. This supplier had no potential negative environmental impacts based on their EHS audit score. First Solar is working to drive supplier improvement in Quality and EHS with suppliers. Human Rights Standards and PracticesFirst Solar is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking and slavery across our operations and supply chain. Our Labor and Human Rights Policy, which references international human rights declarations and due diligence guidelines, applies to all First Solar associates, officers, directors, contractors, suppliers and business partners, regardless of geographic region.Our Chief Compliance Officer manages First Solar’s Global Compliance Organization which oversees our ethics and compliance program. The goal of this organization is to implement policies, processes, training, monitoring and general awareness programs to promote ethics and compliance with applicable legal and regulatory standards. Subject to the requirements of local law, and after due diligence and full and fair investigation, any employee found to have directly engaged in or knowingly engaged suppliers engaged in slave labor or human trafficking will be subject to immediate termination 
of employment. Conflict MineralsFirst Solar is committed to responsible sourcing and operating a supply chain free of conflict minerals. We comply with and support the goals established under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd- Frank Act”) on conflict minerals and condemn human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transport or trade of minerals and any direct or indirect support to non-state armed groups or security forces that illegally control or tax mine sites, transport routes, trade points or any upstream actors in the supply chain. First Solar’s Conflict Mineral Policy is published on our website, communicated to our suppliers, and incorporated into supplier contracts. We require all our direct suppliers to agree to and follow these principles. We have an operating, cross-functional internal governance team with representatives from our supply chain, compliance and legal departments to ensure policy statements and control processes are followed. As we do not source directly from smelter or refiner processing facilities, we rely on the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Program (RMAP), previously known as Conflict-Free Smelter Program, to oversee and coordinate third-party audits of these facilities. The RMAP audit protocols and procedures require the smelters or refiners to engage specially trained third-party auditors to independently verify that these smelters and refiners can be considered conflict free. Our conflict minerals risk mitigation plan defines supplier-risk management strategies, including (i) continued procurement, (ii) assistance in identifying alternate sources of supply, and (iii) disengagement, the severity of which is at the discretion of our executive management. We aim to advance the effectiveness of our due diligence efforts and further enhance our compliance processes by, among other things, encouraging non-RMAP validated processing facilities to become validated either through the RMAP or a RMAP-recognized third-party audit program. First Solar’s Specialized Disclosure and Conflict Minerals reports are available on our public website (see “Specialized Disclosure” tab in SEC Filings).