Environmental • Short-term target to reduce • Currently developing carbon reduction strategy 1.87% our operational GHG following the carbon management hierarchy emissions intensity 16.5% by reduction in operational GHG emissions intensity in 2022 model: Avoid, Reduce, Replace 2026 compared to a 2020 over our 2020 baseline, keeping us ON TRACK to achieve our • Began engineering and construction on several 2026 target baseline projects with expected emissions reduction, with • Medium-term target plans to expand to additional biorefineries 12% increase in Scopes 1 and 2 and 22% increase in validated by SBTi to reduce Scopes 1 and 2 emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions since 2021, which NEEDS IMPROVEMENT 37.8% and Scope 3 emissions to achieve our 2030 SBTi targets 22.5% by 2030 compared to a 2021 baseline 26%* • Long-term carbon neutrality reduction in operational GHG emissions (thousand metric tons of goal of 100% reduction in CO2e) in 2022 from 2018 baseline, keeping us ON TRACK to operational GHG emissions achieve our 2050 target from 2018 baseline by 2050 • Reduce other air permit 89% deviations 60% by 2025 reduction in air permit deviations in 2022 from 2020 baseline, compared to 2020 baseline ACHIEVING our 2025 target • Clean energy: Contribute to Realized average renewable corn oil yield of 0.93 pounds/bushel • Planned evaporation system upgrades at our the production of low-CI Central City, NE and Shenandoah, IA biorefineries, in 2022, a 20% increase over 2020, keeping us ON TRACK renewable diesel via a 50% expected to reduce natural gas fuel consumption to achieve our 2025 target increase in average by approximately 10% at each renewable corn oil yield by • Began engineering work on our first on-site 1.86% 2025 over 2020 baseline electricity production project, a steam let-down reduction in natural gas intensity (MMBtu/Raw Material MT) in • Goal to reduce natural gas turbine at our Shenandoah biorefinery 2022 vs. 2021 baseline, FALLING SHORT of our 2026 target intensity (MMBtu/Raw Material MT) 2% per year Completed evaporation system upgrades at our Obion, TN through 2026 biorefinery, expected to reduce natural gas fuel consumption by approximately 10% at that biorefinery * Reductions a result of energy efficiency projects and asset divestments • Implementing efficiency and process 3.01% improvements to reduce water use, such as reduction in water intensity (Thousand Cubic Meters/Raw eliminating water additions to yeast props Material MT) in 2022 vs. 2021 baseline, keeping us ON TRACK to • Incorporating improvement ideas to reduce achieve our target water usage (land application, wastewater Successfully installed a controlled backwash system at our Otter pond projects and PEMS/CEMS system installs Tail biorefinery that returns water previously being discharged on scrubbers) into strategic plan back into the process, increasing water efficiency We source 100% of feedstock from farmers, grain elevators and cooperatives in the U.S., with over 90% originating from local farmland surrounding our biorefineries Finalized a multiyear farm carbon strategy/grain origination road map by the end of 2022 Defined "sustainably sourced" feedstock in the context of our farm carbon strategy Finalized our corporate recycling program plan with planned initiation of phase I in 2023 Completed tracking and consolidation of non-hazardous waste data at all of our biorefineries for 2022 * Green Plains considers feedstock to be sustainably sourced when one or more of the following sustainable farming practices was implemented for the production of the feedstock, including but not limited to split application of nitrogen fertilizer, 4R nitrogen management (right time, right place, right form and right rate), use of cover crops, conservation tillage practices (low till/no till), use of manure as fertilizer, etc. Social KEY ESG TOPICS  GOAL  Where We Are (Progress in 2022)  Where We Are Going (2023 and Beyond)  Employee Health and Safety  • Reduce OSHA TRIR by 35% by 2025 compared to 2020 baseline • Implement Cardinal Rules of Environment, Health, Safety and Security (EHSS)  46% decrease in OSHA TRIR in 2022 vs. 2020, ACHIEVING our 2025 target Safety metric included in executive compensation plan since 2012 and Cardinal Rules implemented in 2020 Occupational Health & Safety Policy published in September 2021  • 6S implementation across our platform, STOP Work Program, formalized shift change communication worksheets, standardize PPE and JSA card locations • Integrate all EHSS training with new LMS launch and reimagine safety training for 2023 to be more interactive and inclusive  Talent Acquisition,  • Enhance the data quality and  In 2022, we enhanced our employee referral program and  • In 2023, the new careers page on our website is  Engagement and DE&I  reliability of our candidate pool diversity metrics, to allow us to better measure  structured our new employee orientation and associated trainings  going live, structured interviewing and selection training and implementation is set to occur, and traineeship programs are being  and refine our recruiting action plans  Our 2022 internship program contributed to our talent needs as four interns in the program joined us as full-time employees  established at select colleges and universities • Enhance goals and plans on talent management, leadership training, and diversity, equity and inclusion • Develop diverse recruiting pools and outreach throughout our communities and student group organizations. Examples are Society of Women Engineers, Rise Up Program and others  KEY ESG TOPICS  GOAL  Where We Are (Progress in 2022)  Where We Are Going (2023 and Beyond)  Customers, Suppliers and Communities  • Increase donations and sponsorships by 10%-20% from 2021 to 2022 • Invest in 10 employee-led new priorities for donations  Donated $274,338 in 2022, ACHIEVING our 2022 target Our people volunteered 4,004 hours in 2022, ACHIEVING our  • Continue to engage with employee stakeholders to uncover new priorities for donations in 2023 and implement system for tracking and incentivizing employee volunteer hours  in 2022 (in addition to  stated target of 2,000 hours  • Continue to implement Product Quality and  existing priorities)  Food Safety Manual and implement QDR  • Dedicate 2,000 hours of  training across all new MSC™ facilities in 2023  volunteering company-wide  ACHIEVED implementation of QMS at MSC™ facilities, no  • Continue internal audit program in 2023 to  in 2022 • Implement Quality Management System (QMS) and corresponding quality procedures at all facilities equipped with MSC™ technology coming online in 2023  negative findings on U.S. FDA FSMA compliance audits and QDR training complete for all operational MSC facilities in 2022. Maintaining as ongoing goal for facilities coming online in 2023 Infused over $1.6 billion into local communities near our biorefineries via grain purchases in 2022, including over $822 million in direct purchases from area farmers  maintain no negative findings on future FDA audits and build the database to pull all testing (feed tags, COA, etc.) for product specifications to establish limits and identify out-of-specification products, keeping us on track to accomplish our goal of creating a key performance indicator (KPI) for tracking percentage of products meeting specification  • No findings on FDA audit for FSMA program in 2023 • Quality Deviation Report (QDR) training for all  74% of biorefinery volume shipped by bulk transport (rail or barge) in 2022, ACHIEVING goal of 50%  • Execute backhaul program with third-party carriers in 2023 to decrease deadheading (hauling from terminals to our biorefineries with an empty trailer) to reduce Scope 3 emissions  employees working at MSC™. Met with all of our top outside carriers to discuss and  equipped facilities coming  collaborate on sustainability goals, alignments and  online in 2023  backhaul program  • Establishment of KPI to track  % of shipped products  meeting specification  • Maintain 50% bulk (rail and  barge) shipping goal (in  2023) instead of truck to  positively impact our CI  scores and Scope 3  emissions  Governance KEY ESG TOPICS Board Composition and Structure  GOAL • Goal to reduce Board size to eight members by 2023 Annual Meeting  Where We Are (Progress in 2022) Proposal to declassify Board voted on at our 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and passed, resulting in start of multiyear declassification process ACHIEVED reduction to eight members with retirement of Board Chairman Wayne Hoovestol  Where We Are Going (2023 and Beyond) • At each Annual Meeting of Shareholders from 2023 to 2025, director elections will be for one-year terms, thus resulting in a completely declassified Board by 2025  Ethics and Compliance  • By 2022, 100% of Green Plains employees will be trained on Code of Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Human and Labor Rights policies  100% of Green Plains employees received Ethics and Anti-Corruption Training and Human and Labor Rights Training through the Company's newly launched Learning Management System (LMS), with required completion dates of December 30, 2022, ACHIEVING our target. Enhanced Vendor Screening program in 2022, screening an additional 2,666 foreign and domestic suppliers against 880 different watches, sanctions and most-wanted lists, including key human rights list  • Incorporate training for all employees on Code of Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Human and Labor Rights into company-wide launch of the new LMS in 2022, keeping us on track to accomplish our 2022 goal of 100% of employees trained  Environmental Creating the biorefinery platform of the future is synonymous with expanding environmental stewardship. OUR KEY TOPICS page  page  page  page  28  39  42  45  Climate Change  Energy Use and  Water Management  Natural Capital  and GHG Emissions  Efficiency  and Land  Stewardship  page 49 Waste, Circularity and Environmental Compliance Green Plains is driving innovation to further protect and benefit the environment. In this section of our report, we present actions taken and milestones achieved in 2022 across our key environmental topics. Notable achievements include leveraging innovative technologies and partnerships to further decarbonize our proteins, oils, and sugars, with substantial implications for emission reductions. We also met or exceeded targets in energy efficiency, water management and sustainable sourcing last year. Our targeted investments in carbon reduction are also creating their own next level opportunities for environmental wins. Green Plains is partnering to develop a sustainable form of aviation fuel that, if brought to scale, would be a game changer for global emissions. And we expect that our lowered CI levels will make us eligible for clean energy incentives created and expanded with passage of the Inflation Reduction Act. Climate Change and GHG Emissions Global climate change continues to be the focus of considerable attention, with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emission of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane, which are known to trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere. As an ag-tech innovator and a producer of low-.carbon fuels and ingredients, we are well .positioned to serve as part of the solution to climate change. At the same time, we continually analyze and manage the potential risks that climate change poses to our business and communities. In 2022, we continued to reduce the carbon footprint of our own operations, strengthened our climate risk analysis and management, and began an unprecedented collaboration to develop SAF. Operational Emissions Our products are created from annually renewable crops, primarily corn, with a low-.carbon footprint. However, our biorefineries emit biogenic CO2 through the process of fermentation, and additional CO2 from the combustion of natural gas to run our boilers and dryers. The majority of our operating emissions are released by the ethanol fermentation process and are classified as biogenic emissions. Most of the remaining emissions are from natural gas combustion (Scope 1) for steam generation and drying of distillers grains as well as indirect (Scope 2) emissions associated with electricity consumption. A very small amount of GHG emissions from gasoline, diesel and liquified petroleum gas (LPG) fuel combustion occurs on-.site related to our mobile equipment and generators, and are included in our Scope 1 emissions. We’ve set ambitious GHG reduction goals, with a path to carbon-neutral operations by 2050. As shown in the following tables, we are monitoring our progress with KPIs related to short-, medium-and long-term targets. We are excited to share that we have received validation of our near-term 2030 targets from the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), with the Scope 1 and 2 target ambition in alignment with a 1.5°C trajectory. This achievement demonstrates our commitment to credibility and accountability related to our impact on climate change. Short-Term Target: Performance Tied to Our Sustainability-Linked Credit Facility 2026 GOAL: 16.5% reduction in operational GHG emissions intensity (vs. 2020) MT CO2e/Raw Material MT ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Medium-Term Targets: Validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 2030 GOAL: Green Plains Inc. commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions 37.8% by 2030 from a 2021 base year* Green Plains Inc. also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions 22.5% within the same timeframe.* 2022 PROGRESS: 12% increase in Scopes 1 and 2 and 22% increase in Scope 3 GHG emissions since 2021 Thousand Metric Tons CO2e Long-Term Target: Carbon-Neutral Operations 2050 GOAL: 100% reduction in operational GHG emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and biogenic) (vs. 2018)** 2022 PROGRESS: Reduced operational GHG emissions by 26% since 2018 **Not validated by the Science Based Targets initiative PATH TO CARBON-NEUTRAL OPERATIONS BY 2050 (Scopes 1, 2 and Biogenic) Thousand Metric Tons CO2e Total operating Total operating emissions ll• Total operating emissions (actual) (project based expectations)† emissions (target) ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Climate Risk and Opportunity Management Green Plains recognizes that our business is not immune to potential physical or transitional impacts related to climate change. This global issue is likely to affect almost every aspect of our company, including potential impacts on the health and wellness of our employees, implications for how our facilities operate, sourcing of our raw materials and impacts on our customers’ use of our products. In 2022, we took a number of steps to further strengthen our climate risk strategy and management in the areas of governance, risk analysis and planning, and opportunity assessment and planning. Enhanced ESG Governance To decrease our exposure and build our resilience to climate change, we’ve enhanced our ESG governance, including a cross-functional ESG Workgroup comprising subject matter experts to systematically identify and assess our climate-related risks and opportunities. The ESG Workgroup met regularly in 2022, and members participated in a tabletop exercise and group discussion to further enhance our existing identification and assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities. Participants in the exercise considered the potential size and scope of identified risks, whether the identified risks and opportunities fall under short-, medium-or long.term time horizons, and whether the identified risks and opportunities could have a material financial impact on the organization. Consideration was also given to how the identified risks and opportunities could affect our business strategy and financial planning and how resilient our strategy is, considering different climate-related scenarios. We’ve set ambitious GHG reduction goals with a path to carbon-neutral operations by 2050. We monitor our progress with KPIs that have short-, medium-and long-.term goals. Information about our ESG governance is set out in “ESG and Climate Change Governance” on page 10 of this report. Climate Change Strategy: Scenario Analysis We enhanced our climate change strategy in 2022 to include scenario analysis. Specifically, we chose two primary scenarios under which to consider our climate-related risks and opportunities: a 2° Celsius scenario and a Business-as-Usual scenario. The 2°C scenario we selected aligns with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) 2.6. The Business-as-Usual scenario we selected aligns with the IPCC RCP 8.5. These IPCC scenarios are considered physical scenarios that describe the patterns of physical impacts attributable to climate change. We also considered how each scenario would align with the International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook (WEO) transition scenarios meant to describe scenario pathways that deliver a given limit to warming. The 2°C scenario we selected aligns with the IEA WEO 450ppm Scenario, and the Business-as-Usual scenario we selected aligns with the IEA WEO Current Policies Scenario. Our chosen 2°C scenario assumes that aggressive mitigation efforts are made to combat climate change, global emissions are halved by 2050 and global average temperature rise is not likely to exceed 2°C above pre-industrial levels. Businesses are primarily impacted by transition risks under this scenario, and the physical impacts are constrained but not completely avoided. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Many separate efforts to reduce CO2 emissions from the energy sector occur between now and 2040, including stronger deployment of technologies that are currently available at commercial scale today, the building of significant additional nuclear capacity and rapid deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCS). Additional key drivers and signposts that would need to occur include strong efficiency-related policy action, increased renewable energy generation, implementation of carbon pricing mechanisms, rapid deployment of electric vehicles (EVs) charged with renewable electricity, and increased use of bioenergy where biofuels make up 17% of worldwide transportation fuel demand. Our chosen Business-as-Usual scenario assumes that emissions continue rising at current rates and global average temperature rise likely exceeds 4°C above pre-industrial levels. Business is impacted most by physical risks as opposed to transition risks. More heat waves, changes in rainfall patterns and monsoon systems occur, Arctic summer sea ice almost disappears, and sea levels rise by one half to one meter. It is a future in which governments fail to follow through on policy proposals that have yet to be backed by legislation or other means of implementation and do not introduce any other policies that affect the energy sector. Additional key drivers and signposts that would occur include more unusually hot and fewer unusually cold days almost everywhere, increased ocean warming, dry areas becoming drier, wet areas becoming wetter and a decrease in glacier volumes. Identified Risks We have identified inherent climate-related risks with the potential to substantively affect our financials or broader business strategy. As the world moves toward a lower-carbon future, Green Plains acknowledges the possible risks associated with climate change, and we continually incorporate this understanding into our overall business strategy and planning. Green Plains considers two types of climate-.related risks: physical and transitional. We regularly review and evaluate topics that have the potential to present physical risks under a Business-as-Usual scenario and actively develop methods to mitigate those risks. Climate change has been shown to increasingly-cause more extreme weather conditions such as intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and winter storms, as well as increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. In partnership with our property insurer, we focus on these physical climate risks, and we are actively working to identify and respond to high-exposure areas. Our property insurer offers premium credit to its insurance customers for their efforts to address these risks through projects aimed at improving climate resilience such as structural improvements to increase snow-load capacity and wind resistance. Extreme weather conditions, droughts, unpredictable or later.than-usual last freeze/frost, and associated crop damage and negative impacts on yields may adversely affect the availability, quality and price of the annually renewable agricultural commodities we rely on to supply our biorefineries, as well as our operations and operating results. We also recognize that developments in drought-tolerant seed might not keep pace with these rapid changes. We may also see increased frequency of flood events similar to what occurred in our geographic area in 2019, which caused supply chain interruptions. This could also result in remapped floodplains, putting our assets in newly created flood zones and resulting in increased insurance premiums. Our Emergency Response Plans for all our operational sites detail the procedures for emergency scenarios, including adverse weather events. Rising mean temperatures and longer and more frequent summer heat waves would also make it more challenging to maintain the temperature of our refining process, resulting in the need to run supplementary summertime chillers longer or upgrade their capacities. Such adjustments would add to operating costs and could increase our emissions. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS We also consider the potential risks associated with rapidly transitioning to a low-carbon economy under a 2°C scenario and pay close attention to relevant policy, legal, technology and market changes. We regularly engage with stakeholders, policymakers, regulators and our industry partners on climate change issues and how they might affect our business. First, compliance with evolving environmental laws and regulations, particularly those related to climate change, could be costly. Enhanced emissions-reporting obligations and mandates on and regulation of existing products and services could result in increased operating costs, higher compliance costs and increased insurance premiums. Climate change legislation in the U.S. and abroad is likely to receive increased focus for the foreseeable future, with numerous past and future proposals made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to reduce GHG emissions. Compliance with future laws or regulations to decrease GHG emissions may have an adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial position. Second, our biorefineries are subject to extensive environmental regulations. Our ability to maintain the required regulatory permits or manage changes in environmental regulations is essential to successfully operating our biorefineries. Governing state agencies could impose costly conditions or restrictions that are detrimental to our profitability and may have a materially-adverse effect on our business. Costs to transition to lower-emissions process technology related to our decarbonization strategy is an important risk we consider that has the potential to result in increased research and development (R&D) expenditures related to new and alternative technologies in addition to capital investments in technology development. Possible unsuccessful investment in new technologies poses further risk. Uncertainty in market signals that result in abrupt and unexpected shifts in energy costs could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our industry is particularly susceptible to large and unexpected spikes in fossil natural gas prices. For example, $13 natural gas contributed to a series of widespread bankruptcies in the ethanol industry in 2008. Also, transitioning to a low-carbon economy could result in increased cost of raw materials, such as corn, enzymes and yeast. Fluctuating input prices could increase our overall production costs. Many of our biorefineries are capable of processing a variety of primary feedstocks beyond corn, including sorghum/milo and sugar beets. In fact, two of our biorefineries have regulatory-approved pathways to process sugar beets into ethanol. We also have plans to secure regulatory approval to process sorghum/milo into ethanol at a select number of facilities where there is adequate local sourcing available. While we believe this risk to be of relatively low-probability, this feedstock versatility is just one way in which we seek to manage the various risks facing our business. Further, our industry faces some level of scrutiny as it relates to debates around food vs. fuel and land use change/conversion. Please see page 45 for our analysis and position on these topics. This stigmatization could potentially result in reduced revenue from decreased production capacity (e.g., reduced/uncertain renewable volume obligations under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), delayed planning approvals or delayed air permitting for expansion projects or new construction). Increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback related to the perceived impact that our business has on climate change or food prices could result in a reduction in capital availability. Banks, lenders and other providers of capital may be more hesitant to invest in our business. This discussion of our identified climate risks incorporates risks disclosed in the Risk Factors section of Green Plains Inc.’s Form 10-K SEC filing. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Identified Opportunities We believe that low-carbon biofuel will continue to play a critical role in decarbonizing the economy, creating well-paying STEM jobs and reinforcing our domestic energy security. Green Plains is in a unique position to help address the most significant ESG risk of climate change, as we are in the business of producing low-carbon ingredients and fuels that displace traditional fossil fuel-based alternatives. Use of our products helps Green Plains' customers comply with the RFS, a law enacted by the U.S. Congress in 2005 and expanded in 2007, with goals to reduce surface transportation GHG emissions, expand the nation’s renewable fuels sector, decrease our reliance on imported fossil fuels and encourage ethanol production for use as a gasoline oxygenate to replace MTBE, which had been banned in multiple states.19 From 2007 through 2022, the renewable biofuels we produced have reduced GHG emissions by more than 48.3 million metric tons (MMT) of carbon dioxide equivalents, the equivalent of taking 10.4 million passenger vehicles off the road for one year.20 As an additional environmental benefit, ethanol, the most cost-effective octane enhancer available, also displaces some of the toxic elements of gasoline — aromatics such as xylene, toluene and benzene — thereby reducing particulate matter that negatively impacts air quality in addition to reducing GHG emissions. While most of our opportunities exist in a 2°C scenario, we also recognize there may be some unexpected opportunities in a Business-as-Usual world. Rising mean temperatures could create the right circumstances for an increase in domestic double cropping, as is currently common in Brazil. This increase in the supply of crop feedstocks could positively impact availability and put downward pressure on corn prices. Looking forward, we also believe that the transition opportunities available to Green Plains under a 2°C scenario cannot be overstated. We believe the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, and in particular the creation of the Clean Fuel Production Credit (CFPC) under section 45Z, presents an enormous opportunity for low-carbon liquid fuel producers like us. The CFPC would allow a biofuel producer to earn $0.02 per gallon for every CI point below 50kgCO2e/MMBtu up to $1.00 per gallon. Our biorefinery platform has the capacity to produce nearly 1 billion gallons of renewable biofuels annually. The basis for the CI calculation under this program is the most recent Argonne Greenhouse Gases, Regulated Emissions and Energy Use in Transportation (GREET) model as measured in kilograms of CO2e per million British Thermal Units. The current estimated Argonne GREET CI scores of our facilities are found in the accompanying table, and align with the most up-to-date studies analyzing the CI of corn ethanol. According to one such study, U.S. ethanol has a 46% lower GHG profile on average than petroleum-based gasoline.21 ARGONNE GREET CI SCORES  KG CO2E/MMBTU  69 66 65 63 60 59 59 56 54 51 19 https://www.epa.gov/renewable-fuel-standard-program 20 https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator 21 https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/abde08/pdf ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Carbon Reduction Strategy Our carbon reduction strategy is based on the carbon management hierarchy model: Avoid, Reduce, Replace. Over the past 15 years, we have used existing low-carbon fuel markets that incentivize the use of low-carbon biofuels like California’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) program and other state programs, as the basis for identifying our energy transition opportunities, with a focus on analyzing existing technologies where possible and assessing new technologies to reduce our emissions and improve carbon efficiency. With the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act and the creation of the CFPC, our carbon reduction and energy transition strategy now has an additional federal layer that allows for a consistent framework to evaluate the technical feasibility and, most importantly, the economic viability of energy transition investments. With eight of our biorefineries already on the Summit Carbon Solutions (SCS) carbon sequestration pipeline project, which is expected to capture approximately 1.9 million metric tons of CO2 from our facilities, the same amount that would be sequestered by 2.3 million acres of U.S. forests in a year,22 the CI of our biofuel is expected to drop 25-30 points. This is why capturing and sequestering our biogenic CO2 is our No. 1 priority and represents a major step in our decarbonization strategy. It is important to note that none of this captured CO2 will be used for enhanced oil recovery. We are also exploring opportunities to capture and utilize or sequester CO2 at our biorefineries that are not on the SCS pipeline. 22 https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator In order to further reduce the CI of our biofuels and other products/ingredients, however, we will need to invest in additional technology. We are evaluating technologies such as combined heat and power (CHP) co-generation systems, anaerobic digesters and gasification systems to produce biogas and renewable natural gas (RNG), photovoltaic solar, wind turbines and other co-generation technologies like steam let-down turbines. In fact, we have already begun engineering and/or construction on several projects that are expected to result in emissions reductions. The CST™ installation at our Shenandoah biorefinery is expected to reduce our biogenic emissions. We are also driving a steam let-down turbine co-generation project at our Shenandoah biorefinery targeting our Scope 2 emissions, as well as evaporation system upgrades at our Obion biorefinery that are expected to reduce Scope 1 emissions from natural gas combustion. Our decarbonization strategy is based on the unique operational circumstances and technical specifications of each of our biorefineries. Each of our facilities has unique characteristics that will require a varying combination of low-carbon technologies. For example, while one facility may be suitable for wind turbines and photovoltaic solar due to land availability and wind speeds, another may lack Federal Aviation Administration clearance due to a nearby airport, and the available land may not be suitable due to wetlands or other protected habitat. Any sites not suitable for traditional low-carbon technology may have to rely more heavily on CHP systems and other co-generation opportunities. Additionally, the viability of biogas and RNG production via anaerobic digestion and gasification will depend on sourcing feedstock of sufficient quality and regularity. Examples of how different technologies impact the CI of our biofuel under the GREET model are shown on the following page. Each location’s waterfall will be unique, with the end goal remaining the same: carbon-neutral or carbon-negative liquid biofuels. Whether it is converted into SAF or used in legacy internal combustion surface-transportation vehicles, there is a bright future ahead for biofuels that can achieve carbon neutrality. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS BREAKDOWN OF 60 CI ETHANOL AND CARBON REDUCTION STRATEGY ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Blue Blade Energy:Tomorrow's Aviation Fuel All roads lead to SAF. Decarbonization of the aviation industry is one of the most promising opportunities for biofuel producers like Green Plains. New alcohol-to-jet (ATJ) pathways will be necessary to achieve the U.S. government's ambitious volume targets for SAF. The "SAF Grand Challenge" calls for 3 billion gallons of SAF by 2030, and 35 billion gallons by 2050, up from the approximately 5 million gallons the country produces today. A goal that aggressive will require feedstock in large volumes, and the U.S. ethanol industry already produces 15 billion gallons of alcohol per year. In September 2022, Green Plains announced a partnership with Tallgrass to develop a Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) SAF technology with a new, robust and efficient catalyst that converts ethanol to a ketone with a carbon-oxygen bond, which is more energy efficient to break for conversion to the final jet fuel. Because the ethanol to ketone conversion is a single-step process, we believe the PNNL technology can be a game-changer in efficiently converting low-carbon alcohol to a drop-in SAF. In January 2023, we announced that United Airlines had joined the project, creating a joint venture (JV) with Green Plains and Tallgrass — Blue Blade Energy — to develop the catalyst and, depending on successful optimization, construct pilot and then full-scale production facilities. We expect that Green Plains will contribute ethanol feedstock, as well as production and technological expertise. The JV is a first-of-its kind business strategy in the SAF space, capitalizing on the four key components of feedstock, technology, infrastructure and demand. Tallgrass and Green Plains envisioned a structure with a demand partner that would not only use the fuel, but also invest in the technology development. This JV is the culmination of our transformation into a sustainable ingredient producer, marking significant progress in all our pillars of Protein, Renewable Corn Oil, Sugar and Carbon. ATJ pathways utilizing decarbonized ethanol as feedstock represent exciting opportunities for Green Plains and our shareholders, as well as for an evolving ethanol industry. Tracking Climate Performance To align our climate strategy and risk management process with our assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities, we began by tracking and publishing various relevant metrics and KPIs in our annual Sustainability Report. From those metrics, we developed short-, medium-and long-term goals and targets. Our ESG Workgroup evaluates, monitors and establishes targets by working with goal owners who develop specific plans, budgets and timelines to achieve individual goals. These are then reviewed and approved by the SLT and the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee. We report on several key areas of impact, metrics and targets associated with climate-related risks and opportunities, including GHG emissions, energy use, water use and land stewardship. The primary metric associated with our climate-related risks and opportunities is our absolute GHG emissions and the procedures and methods to collect data critical for calculating these emissions. Additional metrics associated with our climate change strategy include operational GHG emissions intensity at the organizational level as measured in metric tons of CO2e per metric ton of raw material feedstock, as well as the CI of our biofuel as measured in kilograms of CO2e per MMBtu. Through the tracking of these metrics, we can closely monitor our environmental impact and adjust our approach as needed. We continue to analyze our overall environmental performance across our company and identify areas for improvement. We have robust processes in place and continue to implement improvements to better understand and minimize our environmental impact. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS GREEN PLAINS PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1)  Thousand Metric Tons (MT) CO2e  1,252  1,098  1,179  1,316  1,688  Carbon Dioxide (CO2)  Thousand MT  1,251  1,096  1,178  1,315  1,686  Methane (CH4)  Thousand MT CO2e  0.596  0.519  0.557  0.620  0.795  Nitrous Oxide (N2O)  Thousand MT CO2e  0.779  0.631  0.677  0.739  0.947  Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2)  Thousand MT CO2e  357  338  348  527  655  CO2  Thousand MT  355  336  345  524  652  CH4  Thousand MT CO2e  0.928  0.893  0.910  0.215  0.267  N2O  Thousand MT CO2e  1.608  1.536  1.567  2.599  3.230  Biogenic GHG Emissions (CO2 from Fermentation)  Thousand MT  2,441  2,101  2,225  2,444  3,100  Total Operational GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2 and Biogenic)  Thousand MT CO2e  4,050  3,537  3,752  4,287  5,443  Operational Emissions Intensity  MT of CO2e/Raw Material MT  0.528  0.536  0.538  0.566  0.569  Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 3)  Thousand MT CO2e  2,849  2,342  —  —  —  Category 1  Thousand MT CO2e  2,128  1,751  —  —  —  Category 2  Thousand MT CO2e  47.6  45.4  —  —  —  Category 3  Thousand MT CO2e  463  345  —  —  —  Category 4  Thousand MT CO2e  52.0  44.8  —  —  —  Category 7  Thousand MT CO2e  2.35  2.39  —  —  —  Category 9  Thousand MT CO2e  78.2  87.2  —  —  —  Category 11  Thousand MT CO2e  77.3  66.5  —  —  —  * Scope 1 emissions reflect publicly reported data submitted to regulatory agencies as part of the annual air emission inventory reporting. Emission factors are derived through stack testing or through the use of commonly accepted emissions factors. The Scope 2 emissions we are currently reporting is purchased electricity. They are calculated using utility billing statements and the EPA GHG Emissions Calculator. We use a grid/location-based method of converting purchased electricity into GHG emissions. Scope 3 emissions are reported for category 1 (purchased goods and services), category 2 (capital goods), category 3 (fuel & energy related activities not included in Scopes 1 or 2), category 4 (upstream transportation and distribution, category 7 (employee commuting), category 9 (downstream transportation and distribution) and category 11 (use of sold products). ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS NON-GHG EMISSIONS 2025 GOAL: Reduce air permit deviations by 60% (vs. 2020) 2022 EARLY ACHIEVEMENT: Air permit deviations reduced by 89.49% (vs. 2020) Biorefineries produce some level of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) and particulate matter (PM) in the production of ingredients. To reduce these emissions from our operations, we employ thermal oxidizer (TO) and regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) emissions systems to remove up to 98% of the VOCs, HAPs and PM caused by the manufacturing process. For example, we upgraded the environmental controls for the dryers at our Mount Vernon, Indiana, biorefinery in early 2022 to reduce VOCs, HAPs and PM. These upgrades also lowered the biorefinery’s natural gas consumption, thereby reducing Scope 1 GHG emissions (MT CO2e) at the facility as well. ENTERPRISE-WIDE AIR EMISSIONS (EXCLUDES GHGs)*  GREEN PLAINS PERFORMANCE DATA  UNIT OF MEASUREMENT  2022  2021  2020  2019  2018  Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)  Thousand Metric Tons  0.089  0.087  0.098  0.099  0.122  Nitrogen Oxides (NOX)  Thousand Metric Tons  0.551  0.482  0.551  0.634  0.826  VOC Emissions  Thousand Metric Tons  0.696  0.649  0.563  0.583  0.746  Carbon Monoxide Emissions Particulate Matter Emissions Air Quality Permits, Standards and Regulations  Thousand Metric Tons Thousand Metric Tons Incidents of Non-Compliance  0.375 0.371 161  0.341 0.329 959  0.354 0.379 1,532  0.377 0.397 —  0.489 0.452 —  * Investments in emissions control systems exceed local environmental regulations. RISK MITIGATION APPROACH 100% of biorefineries equipped with: Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) programs Mechanical Integrity Program Continuously monitored critical emissions control systems (scrubbers, oxidizers) 100% of biorefineries equipped with: Scheduled and unscheduled emission inspections by State and Federal environmental agencies 100% of emissions control systems subject to: Daily, monthly and annual inspection and testing OPERATIONAL ACHIEVEMENTS 99% of ethanol and other organic vapors removed by scrubbers on process vent streams 95% reduction of PM by use of dust control systems ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Energy Use and Efficiency Natural Gas Intensity Decrease 1.86% decrease by the end of 2022 over 2021 baseline Green Plains is actively targeting and achieving new energy efficiencies across our operations and value chain. Efforts in 2022 focused on setting new efficiency targets, contributing to increased production of renewable fuel, supporting reductions in CI and working with our transportation partners to optimize energy use. Energy, in the form of purchased electricity and the combustion of natural gas fuel, is required to convert our feedstock into biofuels, feed and ingredients. That requirement won't change, but how and where we source energy and how efficiently we manage it can. We currently source grid electricity and fossil natural gas. While the share of renewables on the grid is constantly improving and natural gas is one of the least carbon-intense fossil fuels, we understand there is more that we can do. In 2022, we continued to reduce our energy use and increase energy efficiency across our platform. 2026 GOAL: 2% reduction per year of our natural gas intensity (MMBtu/Raw Material MT) 2022 PROGRESS: Reduced natural gas intensity by 1.86% (vs. 2021) GREEN PLAINS PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT OF MEASUREMENT Energy use and efficiency are key components of our carbon reduction strategy. A variety of clean energy-generation technologies are incorporated into the plan, including combined heat and power systems, co-generation, wind turbines, and photovoltaic solar. We have made steady reductions in both operational electricity and fuel consumption since 2018. We are also planning or engineering a number of energy efficiency projects, including drier exhaust energy reclamation and evaporator system upgrades. In addition, we regularly incorporate energy efficiency projects into our annual capital expenditures plan such as boiler and economizer upgrades, centrifuge power packs and variable frequency drives. CONSUMPTION REDUCTION SINCE 2018 Off-site electricity On-site natural gas fuel consumption consumption (MMBtu) (thousand megawatt reduced by 23.83% hours) reduced by 21.50% 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 Electricity Use  Thousand Megawatt Hours  726 650 661 735 924  Energy Intensity  Kilowatt Hours (KWh) / Raw Material MT  94.635 98.438 94.846 97.038 96.585  Natural Gas  Million British Thermal Unit (MMBtu)  23,517,446 20,622,819 22,158,963 24,778,741 30,874,334  Natural Gas Intensity  MMBtu / Raw Material MT  3.067 3.125 3.179 3.271 3.226  ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Clean Energy From Renewable Corn Oil We are a critical player in the production of clean fuels, in addition to creating low-carbon feedstocks for advanced biofuel production. One of our main goals is to contribute in a bigger way to the production of low-CI fuels, such as renewable diesel and SAF through increased renewable corn oil yields. 2025 GOAL: 50% increase in average renewable corn oil yield (vs. 2020) 2025 GOAL: Achieve average renewable corn oil yield of 1.2 pounds per bushel 2022 PROGRESS: Achieved average renewable corn oil yield of 0.93 pounds per bushel Renewable corn oil has a lower CI than most available feedstocks,23 and because it is not suitable for human consumption, it is considered a “waste oil” under the RFS and LCFS programs. The renewable corn oil produced at our biorefineries is an ideal low-CI feedstock for renewable diesel, biodiesel and SAF, and we have already increased our renewable corn oil yields since 2020, on track to achieve our 2025 targets. This effort is a prime example of how we continually work on extracting additional value from every kernel of corn we procure, creating more value for farmers and our stakeholders, while also supplying fuels that reduce GHG emissions. 23 https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/ abde08 ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Product Transportation and Infrastructure While the nature of our business lends itself to majority bulk transport with its smaller carbon footprint, Green Plains is partnering to optimize efficiencies in the local trucking services we also employ. According to the Association of American Railroads, moving freight by rail rather than trucks reduces GHG emissions by up to 75%.24 Today, Green Plains moves the majority of our biorefinery output via rail or barge. We met our 2022 goal of maintaining at least 50% in bulk transport last year in order to keep our CI scores low, achieving 74%. 2022 GOAL: Maintain at least 50% bulk transport 2022 ACHIEVEMENT: Maintained 74% bulk transport The balance of our freight moves by truck. Our primary strategic initiative for this key area of impact is to execute a volunteer backhaul program with our third-party carriers in 2023 to decrease deadheading. 2022 GOAL: Meet with all of our top outside carriers to align on backhaul program by year end 2022 ACHIEVEMENT: Met with all of our top outside carriers to discuss and collaborate on sustainability goals, alignments and backhaul program 2023 GOAL: Execute a volunteer backhaul program with third-party carriers to decrease deadheading In such a program, third-party carriers would voluntarily share what percentage of shipments originating out of our plants and terminals are backhauls. Deadheading is any trip from our product’s destination, usually our terminals, back to our biorefineries with an empty trailer. Traveling with an empty trailer significantly increases the GHG emission intensity of the trip (MT CO2e per ton-mile). Studies show that decreasing deadheading can reduce Scope 3 emissions between 3% and 20%.25 In 2022, our immediate objective was to directly engage with third-party carriers and trucking companies to discuss and collaborate on sustainability goals, alignments and the backhaul program, with a goal of meeting with all of our top outside carriers by the end of the year. Having met this goal in 2022, we are in the process of implementing the backhaul program this year. Our established network of biofuel storage facilities, at or near our 11 biorefineries, also helps us manage our transportation footprint. These facilities allow fuel and other value-added products to be easily loaded into railcars and tanker trucks. Each location features fuel storage tanks and access to major rail lines for transportation. By utilizing rail transportation assets, we are further reducing the need to truck biofuel long distances. Through our controlling stake in Green Plains Partners, a master limited partnership, we oversee a leased railcar fleet with an aggregate capacity of 85 million gallons dedicated to transporting end products. Green Plains Partners’ wholly owned subsidiary, BlendStar LLC, and its network of rail-accessible fuel terminals, with a combined storage capacity of approximately 6.9 million gallons, puts us in an effective position to reach southern markets that previously did not have efficient access to renewable fuel. 24 https://www.aar.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/AAR-Sustainability-Fact-Sheet.pdf 25 Lin, Dung Ying and Nig, Kuok Hou. (December 2021). “The impact of collaborative backhaul routing on carbon reduction in the freight industry.” Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment, Volume 17, Issue 8, pp. 626-628. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Water Management We are acting with urgency to decrease water use in our operations wherever possible, applying new technologies and processes to help safeguard this vital natural resource. In 2022, Green Plains continued to drive new water-use efficiencies in our biorefineries, reduce our water intensity and water-permit deviations and work with our farmer customers to support sustainable agricultural practices. Water Sourcing Each of our biorefineries requires a consistent and reliable supply of water, and we understand that efficient water use in production minimizes water disruption and pollution in the communities where we operate. The water used is sourced from groundwater (well water) and to a lesser degree from third-party providers (municipal water, including recycled municipal water). Much of the water used is recycled back into our biorefinery process. Since 2018, we have realized a 3.68% reduction in water withdrawn (thousand cubic meters), and we are acting to build on this progress. Goals and Achievements Our approach is being validated by the steady or early achievement of important water-management goals: 2025 GOAL: Reduce water intensity by 10% (vs. 2021) 2022 PROGRESS: Water intensity reduced by 3.01% (Thousand Cubic Meters/Raw Material MT) (vs. 2021) Water Resource Management We are currently developing a water resource management plan to guide us toward achieving our water management goals and are actively incorporating ways to reduce water usage (e.g., land application, wastewater pond projects, eliminating water additions to yeast props) into our strategic plan. In 2022, we implemented a number of efficiency and process improvements to reduce our operational water use. These included eliminating water additions to yeast props and successfully installing a controlled backwash system at our Otter Tail facility, which now returns water that was previously being discharged to the river back into our processes, increasing water efficiency. In 2022, we also performed periodic stack testing, which has allowed us to reduce the water flow and consumption of our CO2 scrubbers at some of our biorefineries. Planned efficiency solutions include implementing a drier-exhaust energy reclamation system that is able to condense the process water vapor exiting our dryer stack back into liquid for recycling. As seen in the diagram below, two streams of water are used in our biorefinery processes — cooling water and process water — and they do not come into contact with each other. Due to this stream separation, the majority of our cooling water and nearly all of our process water can be recirculated. Some water is lost through water treatment discharge (reverse osmosis reject and softener regeneration), boiler blowdowns, evaporation via dryer stacks, evaporation via cooling tower, or (at all but one of our facilities) the discharge of cooling water via continuous or periodic cooling tower blowdowns. Continuously recirculating cooling water eventually builds up dissolved solids to the point where it needs to be replenished with fresh water. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Environmental Compliance We comply with all local and federal appropriation, pollution and permitting requirements for water utilization at our facilities, and all but one of our facilities have zero liquid process water discharge. Additionally, our Shenandoah facility utilizes treated municipal recycled water in its cooling tower, reducing the amount of fresh water we pull from the local community. We currently do not have any known significant water-related impacts identified by local authorities or other stakeholders. All of our facilities are regulated for effluent standards via various state and federal regulatory agencies. Each state or federal authority is able to apply specific standards to meet the needs of local water bodies receiving effluents. Green Plains works with these authorities to ensure that proper standards are applied. Our water discharge is managed through stormwater monitoring planning & National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permitting, monitoring and reporting. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS GREEN PLAINS PERFORMANCE DATA  UNIT OF MEASUREMENT  2022  2021  2020  2019  2018  Groundwater Withdrawal  Thousand Cubic Meters  9,187  9,182  8,861  9,328  9,366  Municipal Water Withdrawal  Thousand Cubic Meters  1,683  759  1,239  1,458  1,897  Reclaimed Water Withdrawal  Thousand Cubic Meters  257  288  313  317  290  Saltwater Withdrawal  Thousand Cubic Meters  0  0  0  0  0  Surface Water Withdrawal  Thousand Cubic Meters  0  0  0  0  0  Total Water Withdrawal  Thousand Cubic Meters  11,128  10,229  10,413  11,103  11,553  Total Water Discharged  Thousand Cubic Meters  3,596  3,546  3,966  4,151  5,102  Total Water Use  Thousand Cubic Meters  7,532  6,683  6,447  6,952  6,451  Total Water Intensity  Cubic Meters Water / Raw Material MT  0.982  1.013  0.925  0.918  0.674  Water Quality Permits, Standards and Regulations  Incidents of Non-Compliance  7  15  41  —  —  Water Management in Manufacturing BEST AVAILABLE CONTROL SYSTEMS of biorefineries of biorefineries subject to: equipped with: Scheduled and Storm water unscheduled water containment ponds inspections by State and Federal agencies Boom systems RISK MITIGATION APPROACH Recycled water goal Process water, internal recycling/ zero liquid discharge by design Heat/cooling efficiencies by design Process efficiency measures (energy use) Recycled water for evaporative cooling Evaporative reuse Scrubbing efficiency Utility efficiency (offset by environmental) ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Natural Capital and Land Stewardship Green Plains is committed to protecting biodiversity and reducing deforestation while also partnering with our farmer customers to advance sustainable sourcing and farming. In 2022, we continued to assess the broader biodiversity and other nature-related impacts of our operations. This work is ongoing. Over the long term, we help ensure sustainable land use by keeping existing land in agriculture production, which in turn fosters soil regeneration and resilient ecosystems. By contrast, urban development claims 2 million acres of farmland per year in the U.S.26 In 2022, we developed a multiyear farm carbon strategy and grain origination road map to coordinate and drive sustainable farming practices and outcomes going forward. 26 Farmland losing to urban sprawl | Farm Progress Sustainable Agriculture We are working with our farmer customers to help reduce the CI of the feedstock they produce and we process, keep carbon in the soil, reduce water use and minimize erosion of valuable topsoil. Focus on Carbon Intensity Our farmers are always innovating, using the latest production practices, available technologies and latest science to produce more crops on the same number of acres. Leaps forward in seed technology have dramatically increased yields and enhanced drought tolerance and weed resistance. When coupled with regenerative production practices such as cover crops, reduced tillage and split application of crop nutrients, these new seed technologies also enable farmers to produce more while using fewer inputs, conserving water and making fewer trips across the field. As opportunities to advance sustainable agriculture expand every year, we seek to partner with farmers to lower their CI even further. These CI reductions are not only the right thing to do, they are also supported by state and federal policy, including LCFS programs and incentives codified in the Inflation Reduction Act in 2022. Technology-neutral clean fuel policy, such as the Section 45Z Clean Fuel Production Credit, can incentivize dramatic improvements in on-farm conservation if the policy is designed and implemented properly. Additionally, having an accurate and complete picture of the CI and sustainable characteristics of our primary feedstock is becoming more essential to participation in high-value end-use markets. This is demonstrated by the fact that many of our downstream customers are beginning to more closely scrutinize the CI of our animal feed products, which is itself impacted heavily by feedstock CI. As we begin implementing the first stages of our farm carbon strategy in 2023, we are gaining greater visibility into the true CI and sustainability of our baseline feedstock. We are driven to reduce the carbon footprint throughout our supply chain and plan to work side by side with our farmers to incentivize and scale sustainable farming practices. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Land Stewardship Because of our foundational relationship with farmers and their crops, land stewardship and the conservation of natural resources are top priorities for Green Plains. We source 100% of feedstock from farmers, grain elevators and cooperatives in the U.S., with over 90% sourced within a 30-mile trucking distance from each of our biorefineries. Our practice of buying locally from U.S. farmers not only keeps family farms in business and supports local communities but also helps mitigate deforestation around the globe and decrease the use of long-haul transportation and its environmental impact. Further, our new FQT MSC™ systems enhance renewable corn oil yields, allowing us to increase the production of an important clean energy feedstock source without expanding cropland acreage. The amount of corn we processed in 2022 can be grown on 261,000 fewer acres than in 2007,27 and none of our feedstock comes from land converted to cropland from forests, grasslands or wetlands, in compliance with RFS regulations related to renewable biomass. 27 (301,868,000 bushels of corn processed in 2022 / average US corn yield in 2007 of 150.7 bushels per acre) – (301,868,000 bushels of corn processed in 2022 / average US corn yield in 2022 of 173.3 bushels per acre) = 261,224.38 Sustainable Sourcing Each of our biorefineries uses on average approximately 30 million bushels of corn annually, and we rely on our strong relationships with local farmers to ensure that we receive a steady supply of corn. A number of farmers in our supply chain use sustainable farming techniques, such as precision agriculture and the split application of nutrients, to increase yields while simultaneously lowering the levels of traditional inputs needed (such as land, water, fertilizer, herbicides and insecticides).28 Many of these farmers also use cover crops and conservation tillage practices to reduce the risk of land degradation and often enroll marginal ground in federal conservation programs. 2030 GOAL: Source 100% of primary feedstock sustainably 2022 PROGRESS: Finalized a multiyear farm carbon strategy/ grain origination road map Defined what "sustainably sourced" feedstock means to Green Plains 28 See https://sustainableamerica.org/blog/what-is-precision.agriculture/ and https://nutrientstewardship.org/ implementation/split-fertilizer-application-helps-optimize.nutrient-management/. GREEN PLAINS CONSIDERS FEEDSTOCK TO BE SUSTAINABLY SOURCED WHEN ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING SUSTAINABLE FARMING PRACTICES WAS IMPLEMENTED FOR THE PRODUCTION OF THE FEEDSTOCK, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO: • Split application of nitrogen fertilizer • 4R nitrogen management (right time, right place, right form and right rate) • Use of cover crops • Use of conservation tillage practices (low till/no till) • Use of manure as fertilizer 2023 GOALS: Build Corn Procurement team to include additional carbon and traceability experience Continue to implement phased approach to achieving 2030 sustainable sourcing goal ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS BIOFUELS: FEEDING THE FOOD SYSTEM, USING FEWER RESOURCES AND COMBATING INFLATION New and evolving technologies and agricultural practices are changing the way that corn is grown and biofuels are produced in the U.S. — for the better. These advances are making it possible to grow more corn on fewer acres while using fewer inputs, creating positive environmental trend lines in biofuel production. Our Green Plains 2.0 roadmap incorporates and builds on these improvements. Producing Feed that Supports the Human Diet Many valued and sustainable products are made from corn — most notably ethanol, a clean, environmentally friendly and necessary octane booster for gasoline that helps extend the liquid fuel supply. Other coproducts include low-carbon feedstock for renewable diesel, CO2 for commercial use or permanent sequestration, feed for animals (~30% of the kernel) that would otherwise consume corn and other row crops, and feed for land-based farmed fish that would otherwise be fed fish. Historically, an unfounded criticism associated with biofuel production has to do with the amount of U.S. farmland used to grow corn that is not directly used for human consumption. It is important to note, however, that biofuels and the food system are not separate entities. The corn kernels processed in biorefineries do not leave the food system entirely. Rather, nearly a third of each kernel becomes feed for poultry, cattle, fish, and other animals consumed in human diets. As detailed on the following page, less than 10% of corn grown in the U.S. is processed directly into products for human consumption. USING LESS LAND TO GROW MORE CORN While overall production of corn, the most abundant crop in the U.S., has indeed increased dramatically over the past 100 years, the amount of land used to grow corn has actually been decreasing over time. As shown in the graph below, the total acres planted have gone down while corn yields have increased: from averages that hovered near 100 million acres in the early 1900s, to an average of 90 million acres between 2007 and 2021, to fewer than 90 million acres in 202229 as estimated by the USDA. 29 USDA/NASS QuickStats Ad-hoc Query Tool CORN ACRES PLANTED VS. YIELD (1926–2022) Scientific and technological advances, along with new production practices, notably precision agricultural technology and better seed genetics, are responsible for these higher yields per acre of corn planted. As shown in the graph below, yields have risen by 15% since 2007, when the RFS was expanded. These increased yields per acre have also been accompanied by reductions in chemical, fertilizer, and water inputs for every kernel grown, including a 50% reduction in the amount of nitrogen fertilizer application (in pounds per bushel of corn) since the 1970s.30 30 USDA ERS -Fertilizer Use and Price ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS SEEING FEWER ESTIMATED EMISSIONS Another positive trend is that estimated emissions from land use change (LUC) related to corn biofuel production have decreased since 2008. Improved and more sustainable farming practices as well as more accurate data collection methods are credited for the new estimations, among other factors. To name one example, an early technique for analyzing land use change in the 2008 Searchinger et al. FAPRI model was found to be faulty. According to the study: “To predict land specific crop acres, FAPRI relies upon Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite imagery data, which has been demonstrated to misclassify agricultural and non.agricultural lands, resulting in inaccurate predictions of land types that convert to cropland and unreliable emission estimates associated with LUC” (Melissa J Scully, 2021).31 31 Carbon intensity of corn ethanol in the United States: state of the science (iop.org) LAND USE CHANGE EMISSIONS (gCO2/MJ) COMBATING PRICE INFLATION FOR FOOD AND GAS In addition to these positive trends, biofuel production also helps combat price inflation for food items as well as fuel. The price of oil directly and significantly contributes to both food and fuel price inflation. Specifically, gas and diesel prices at the pump are a combination of the price of oil, refining costs, distribution and marketing, and taxes. These prices are largely fixed, with the exception of oil prices, which have a direct correlation with gas prices.32 Similarly, retail food prices are most significantly correlated with transportation costs (petroleum use),33 marketing and labor costs. 32 Fuels Prices – In Context, not Hype | Fuels Institute 33 Luft, R. Z. (2008, May 6). Food vs. fuel a global myth. Chicago Tribune. U.S. CORN USAGE BY SEGMENT 2022 38.1% Feed & Residual 28.8% Ethanol—Fuel 25.9% Octane Required in Fuel Supply 2.3% Higher Blends & Exports 0.5% Renewable Corn Oil for Renewable Diesel/Biodiesel 16.3% Exports The cost of the underlying commodity has a lower impact on the final retail prices of food. Increased biofuel use, therefore, actually brings down food and fuel prices for the consumer by extending the liquid fuel supply and making it more cost-effective: 10% ethanol blended into gasoline can reduce the price at the pump dramatically and higher blends such as E15 and E85 provide even greater savings. A recent study showed that ethanol saves the average U.S. household over $750 per year, or $0.77/gal on average, for total savings of $95 billion per year.34 34 https://ethanolrfa.org/media-and-news/category/news.releases/article/2023/02/new-study-ethanol-industry-s.impact-on-the-u-s-economy-strengthened-in-2022 7.1% Ethanol—Animal Feed 9.7% Other 2.8% High-Fructose Corn Syrup 2.5% Glucose & Dextrose 1.7% Starch 1.4% Cereal/Other 1.1% Beverage & Industrial Alcohol 0.2% Seed ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Waste, Circularity and Environmental Compliance Inherently Little Waste Our biorefinery operations, by their very nature, produce very little waste. When feedstock, primarily corn, arrives on-site, it is unloaded from trucks in bulk and dumped directly into a receiving pit. From there, the corn is passed through a scalping deck that removes any cobs and husks, leaving only corn kernels. The number of cobs and husks is very low as the farm machinery that harvested the corn has already separated the kernels from the rest of the plant. The water treatment process at some of our biorefineries produces some lime cake, which is disposed of as solid waste. However, our Superior, Iowa facility donates that lime to local area farmers for field application. Inherently Little Packaging In addition, our products require almost no packaging. The ingredients we produce are shipped in bulk quantities and loaded directly onto outbound rail cars and trucks. From there, the products are consumed relatively quickly, either by being blended and then combusted in an engine or consumed by livestock and other animals, leaving behind no packaging waste. Only a very small number of our products ship in packages. This lack of packaging for a majority of our products differentiates us and our industry from others that rely more heavily on finite materials and make products that require or have a lot of packaging and are more difficult to recycle at the end of life. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Goals and Achievements Beyond the circularity of our biorefinery operations, we take steps to manage other waste at our facilities. In 2022, Green Plains: • Completed the tracking and consolidation of non-hazardous waste data for all our biorefineries Environmental Compliance We work to protect natural resources and comply with all related laws and regulations, including around waste prevention and management. GREEN PLAINS PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2022 2021 Hazardous Waste Disposal Thousand Metric Tons 0.001 0.002 • Finalized an enhanced corporate recycling program for implementation in 2023 • Set a new goal of zero waste to landfill by 2030 LOOKING FORWARD: 2023 WASTE MANAGEMENT GOALS Implement enhanced corporate recycling program throughout 2023 Develop an active waste management plan to support our goal of zero waste by 2030 Non-Hazardous Waste Disposal Thousand Metric Tons 4.67 — We are committed to the protection of natural resources and compliance with all related laws and regulations, including around waste prevention and management. Throughout our operations, we seek to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, including the management of hazardous chemicals.35 All of our biorefinery locations are registered as Renewable Fuel Producers with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and meet the requirements for the RFS (Title 40 CFR Part 80). Additionally, 100% of the denatured fuel ethanol we produce is RFS compliant. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE  UNIT OF MEASUREMENT  2022  2021  2020  2019  2018  Number of Sites  Count  11  12  14  14  17  Number of Reportable Spills36  Count  0  1  1  1  0  Volume of Reportable Spills  Liters  0  1,210  9,971  22,933  0  ENHANCED RECYCLING: Number of Environmental Fines Count 01 11 PLANNED 2023 ROLLOUT Amount of Environmental Fines USD $0 $13,992 $25,000 $2,720 $11,570 PHASE III PHASE II PHASE I The pilot phase where we incorporate additional recycling bins, begin to measure volumes of recyclable commodities via a collection survey, and further refine program strategy for a self sustaining/ revenue generating recycling program.  35 36  GPRE complies with environmental laws and regulations from the following U.S. based agencies: NDEE, DHHS, IDNR, MPCA, MNDNR, MDH, EIPA, IDEM and TDEC. As defined by the U.S. EPA, a reportable spill is an uncontrolled release of material to the ground in excess of the reportable quantity. Ethanol facilities are classified as Very Small Quantity Generators (VSQGs) per U.S. EPA HazWaste Requirements (40 CFR Part 262.14), disposing of hazardous materials or waste according to authorized HazWaste haulers (Categories of Hazardous Waste Generators | US EPA).  The scale up phase where we decide upon final bin numbers based on volumes and efficiency and procure additional equipment to condense and market various recyclable commodities as determined by collection surveys.  Further enhancements like a composting program and expanding the strategy to additional Green Plains locations.  ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Social Green Plains respects the critical role of all stakeholders in our transformation journey. We continually work to enhance our programs and policies to support and empower our employees, customers, suppliers and communities. OUR KEY TOPICS page page page page page page 52  56  58  61  63  64  Employee Health Talent and Safety Acquisition, Engagement and DE&I  Training, Learning & Career Development  Customers  Suppliers  Communities  ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY Social We invest in the people on whom Green Plains depends: our employees, customers, suppliers and communities. Key investments in this area include prioritizing employee health and safety efforts; working to advance workforce diversity, equity and inclusion; partnering with our customers and suppliers to create shared benefits; and giving back to our local communities. Our occupational health and safety management system is based on the following recognized risk management standards: • Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) • Process Safety Management (PSM) • American National Standards Institute (ANSI) • National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) • Steel Tank Institute (STI) 