About this Report This sustainability report showcases Green Plains’ dedication to good corporate citizenship and meeting the needs of a growing global population through the use of innovative technologies that generate more valuable ingredients from fewer resources. This report covers our environmental, social and governance (ESG) data and initiatives during calendar year 2021 (January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021). We also share details on goals and initiatives that extend into 2022 and beyond. The environmental data within this report is limited to the biorefinery production segment of our operations, including our biorefining facilities. The data does not include our fuel terminals or corporate office, as these facilities have a comparatively negligible footprint. The social and governance data in this report is enterprise-wide except for employee turnover metrics, which exclude assets divested in 2021 (Green Plains Ord LLC and Green Plains Grain Company LLC’s Hopkins, MO and Essex, IA locations) as the divestment events artificially increased the turnover rate. Inquiries related to the report and its content should be directed to our sustainability team at sustainability@ gpreinc.com. More information can also be found at www.gpreinc.com. This report references select Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2016 standards, as well as applicable United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We also disclose under the Biofuels Standard from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and align with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. See page 63 for GRI, SASB and TCFD indices. Letter from our Chief Executive Officer Our inaugural 2020 sustainability report was the result of the dedication and hard work of the Green Plains multi-departmental ESG Work Group. This was a team of dedicated employees who understand the importance of leading our goal and strategy formation, as well as ESG reporting and compliance for all of our stakeholders. This foundational work group is part of our commitment to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework, reaching all the way to the Board of Directors, where the Nominating and Governance Committee oversees all ESG topics, including the approval of sustainability reports and ESG goals. Green Plains has always been a true ESG story, but it’s not enough to simply state that. We strive to embody sustainability in all its facets, and know that these reports are not just words on paper. This is our roadmap to continued climate friendliness and good global citizenship. In preparation for this 2021 Sustainability Report, Green Plains conducted a materiality assessment to help guide our principles in alignment with what our stakeholders value, and we have established our goals appropriately with that feedback in hand. We are prioritizing climate change mitigation and emissions, a diverse workforce and employee health and safety. In 2021, we reached a 35% reduction in operational greenhouse gas emissions from our 2018 baseline, keeping us on track to achieve our goals of a 50% reduction by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. We continue to add diverse perspectives to our workforce, while offering training and advancement opportunities at all levels of the company. We are expanding our networks to recruit a diverse pool of candidates, and now focus squarely on changing what an agriculture-centric company’s workforce will look like over the next 50 years. It is time to change the standard. We expanded our safety practices across our platform to be best in class, and enhanced our environmental health and safety audit programs. We are holding ourselves accountable and remaining transparent to our stakeholders in these efforts. Even while prioritizing all these initiatives, we are still executing our transformation plan to become a leading agriculture technology-focused producer of sustainable, value-added low-carbon ingredients. During 2021 we completed our Maximized Stillage Co-products technology installation at Wood River, as well as groundbreakings for construction at three more locations. Our Clean Sugar Technology holds enormous promise, amplified by its suitability to create a low-carbon feedstock for the forthcoming bio-economy. This disruptive technology produces dextrose through a low-carbon process and has a lower GHG footprint than fossil-based feedstocks, placing it in direct alignment with our climate change mitigation priorities. We continue to aggressively execute on our vision to create the biorefinery of the future, attracting the talent and investment needed to achieve it. In this report, we also present the facts related to the concept of land-use change in biofuel production, demonstrating that agricultural technologies have led to a consistent increase in production per acre, all while requiring fewer inputs to achieve these yields on fewer acres of cropland with less water and energy use. Green Plains has always been inherently sustainable, established on the principle of reducing transportation emissions with low-carbon biofuels. With each annual sustainability report, we are grateful for the opportunity to share what we are building on our foundation of sustainability and innovation. We are working tirelessly to produce more ingredients from the same locally sourced material grown with ecologically sound practices. It is time to evolve from a closed loop carbon system which already reduces emissions by almost 50% relative to fossil fuels, to capturing the carbon for sequestration or other commercial uses that can truly create the lowest carbon-intense products on the planet. Green Plains’ processes and innovations are the epitome of sustainability, and we are a true ESG story. The pages that follow, and each annual sustainability report after this one, will illustrate that. Todd Becker PRESIDENT AND CEO About Green Plains Our Business Green Plains Inc. (NASDAQ:GPRE) is a leading biorefining company engaged in the development and utilization of fermentation, agricultural and biological technologies to process renewable crops into sustainable, value-added ingredients. We produce cleaner, low-carbon biofuels, renewable feedstocks for advanced biofuels, high-protein ingredients for animal diets and high-purity alcohols for use in cleaners and disinfectants. As we continue our transformation into Green Plains 2.0, we are expanding our capabilities through novel technologies and partnerships to extract additional ingredients from the same annually renewable crops. We are increasing production of our new high-protein ingredients for pet, livestock and aquaculture diets, and providing low-carbon renewable biofuel options for consumers in the United States and abroad. In addition, we are focusing on our Clean Sugar Technology, a novel process with applications in biosynthetics, bioplastics and other sectors. On March 25, 2022, we completed a $350 million sustainability-linked credit facility tied to ESG Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and targets. This is an important next step in our sustainability journey as it aligns our financial structure with our sustainability initiatives. This meaningful connection between our financial practices and sustainability strategy demonstrates our commitment to achieving our ESG goals. For more information, visit www.gpreinc.com. CORPOR ATE HEADQUARTERS FLUID QUIP TECHNOLOGIES BIOREFINERY OUR TECHNOLOGY SUITE AND STRATEGIC PARTNERS ENABLE the continuous evolution and enhancement of our sustainable production capabilities. We continuously strive to find more innovative ways to produce more from our existing renewable resources. Memberships and Awards Green Plains was awarded the 2021 Ethanol Producer Magazine Project of the Year Award for completing upgrades related to reducing energy and water usage, lowering operating costs, and most importantly, reducing our carbon footprint. 1 Estimated CO2 amount to have been kept out of the atmosphere due to Green Plains-produced low-carbon fuel between 2007 and 2021. 2 2021 10-K Production Capacity. 3 Based on compliance with RFS regulations (40 CFR § 80.1401), which requires the use of “renewable biomass” as an ethanol feedstock and by definition means that planted crops cannot come from deforested land. Additionally, we use U.S. corn and have not imported corn from international markets where deforestation might be prevalent. Our Principles and Values Our five core principles help us to CHART our course and provide a framework for evolving in a rapidly decarbonizing world. CUSTOMER CENTRIC We make a difference in the world by providing quality ingredients to safely meet customer needs. • Ingredient mindset • Quality and safety focus • Understand our impact HUNGRY We are passionate, collaborative and seek achievement across all areas of our business. We are all in this together. • Competitive spirit • Collaborative • All-in mentality ACCOUNTABILITY We exercise sound judgment and self-discipline to drive impactful results. • Self-discipline • Sound judgment • Impactful results RESPONSIBILITY We serve our customers, communities, investors and families by striving for sustainability and diversity in all that we do. • Leadership in ESG • Diversity and inclusion • Work / life balance TRANSPARENCY We respectfully challenge ourselves to achieve excellence, while focused on our clear mission to innovate and create sustainable ingredients that matter. • Clear corporate mission • Respectful candor • Culture of innovation 