Governance We shape our sustainability governance to address the evolving needs and opportunities of our transformation road map, and to help ensure the utmost accuracy and integrity in our work. In 2022, we reconfigured and expanded our ESG leadership, and continue to enhance our climate related financial reporting and bolster our carbon assurance efforts. OUR KEY TOPICS Board Composition and Structure Board Overview 2022 KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE The Green Plains Board of Directors consists of nine members with diverse qualifications, qualities JIM ANDERSON FARHA ASLAM TODD BECKER WAYNE HOOVESTOL EJNAR KNUDSEN BRIAN PETERSON MARTIN SALINAS, JR. ALAIN TREUER KIMBERLY WAGNER Industrial Manufacturing & and skills that support our near-and long-term LEADERSHIP STRATEGIC INDUSTRY Ingredient Production strategies, including our ongoing transformation. The company made a key governance Commodity Markets/Marketing enhancement in 2022, having been the first Iowa corporation of which we are aware to act on a change in Iowa law eliminating the requirement that company boards remain classified. In February 2022, we put forward a proposal to our shareholders for a vote at its Annual Meeting of Shareholders in May 2022 to declassify our board. This proposal was approved by an overwhelming majority of shareholders. Strategy Development International Business The declassification process is a multiyear initiative. All future director elections, beginning with the elections at our 2023 Annual Meeting of M&A / Partnerships Shareholders, will be for one-year terms. Three Capital Markets incumbent directors up for reelection at the 2023 Annual Meeting will serve one-year terms, expiring in 2024. These three directors, along with Audit / Risk / Cybersecurity three incumbent directors, will be up for reelection at the 2024 Annual Meeting and will serve one-year terms, expiring in 2025. These six Legal / Regulatory / Govt. Relations directors, along with two incumbent directors, will be up for reelection at the 2025 Annual Meeting and will serve one-year terms. This will result in fully declassified board elections occurring at the 2025 Annual Meeting, where all eight members Public Company / Corp. Governance / ESG Executive Leadership will be up for reelection. We will also achieve our current goal to reduce the size of our board to eight members by the 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders with the retirement of Board Chairman, Wayne Hoovestol. Executive Compensation ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS 2022 BOARD COMPOSITION AND PARTICIPATION Board of Directors 67% INDEPENDENT Audit Committee 100% INDEPENDENT CompensationCommittee 100% INDEPENDENT Nominating &Governance Committee 100% INDEPENDENT 2022 2021 2020 Executive 11% 11% 9% Independent 67% 67% 73% TENURE 0-4 years 33 1 5-9 years 1 13 10+ years 557 2022 2021 2020 Executive 0% 0% 0% Independent 100% 100% 100% TENURE 0-4 years 2 20 5-9 years 00 1 10+ years 1 13 2022 2021 2020 Executive 0% 0% 0% Independent 100% 100% 100% TENURE 0-4 years 1 10 5-9 years 00 2 10+ years 222 2022 2021 2020 Executive 0% 0% 0% Independent 100% 100% 100% TENURE 0-4 years 2 20 5-9 years 00 1 10+ years 1 13 93% Results of Annual Say on Pay Vote 97% Board Meeting Attendance Rate UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2022 2021 2020 Board Meeting Attendance Rate  %  97%  85%  96%  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION  Ratio  63/1  69/1  42/1  Yes/No  Yes  Yes  Yes  %  93%  88%  97%  ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Commitment to Board Diversity The board recognizes the value of nominating directors who bring varying perspectives, opinions, skills, experiences, backgrounds and personal characteristics to discussion and decision-making. Diversity is one of several key factors that our Nominating and Governance Committee considers when identifying director candidates. Our Board Qualifications and Diversity Policy requires that each time a vacancy arises on the Board, the Nominating and Governance Committee must ensure that any search firm hired is instructed to provide a candidate pool that is comprised of at least 50% candidates that are women or otherwise considered diverse and at least 25% of the interviewed candidates are women or otherwise considered diverse. The Nominating and Governance Committee views diversity broadly and considers diversity of experience, skills and viewpoint, as well as traditional diversity concepts such as race/ ethnicity, gender identity or expression, national origin, religion and sexual orientation when making nominations. 2022 BOARD DIVERSITY PERCENTAGE OF INDIVIDUALS WITHIN OUR  HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY IN EACH OF  UNIT OF  THE FOLLOWING DIVERSITY CATEGORIES  MEASUREMENT  2022  2021  2020  Gender  Male  %  78%  78%  91%  Female % 22% 22% 9% Age 30-50 % 0% 11% 9% Green Plains is committed to maintaining a board  Over 50  %  100%  89%  91%  comprising diverse viewpoints and has made significant progress related to board diversity  Race/Ethnicity  since 2020. With the addition of two new board  Caucasian/White  %  78%  78%  100%  members in 2021, we accomplished our goals to appoint two female directors and one director who adds diversity and reach 33% gender/  Hispanic/Latin American Black/African American  % %  11% 0%  11% 0%  0% 0%  ethnically diverse board members prior to the  Asian/Pacific Islander  %  11%  11%  0%  2022 Annual Meeting. As part of an ongoing refreshment initiative, the Board has also appointed a lead independent director, rotated  American Indian/Alaskan Native Two or More Races  % %  0% 0%  0% 0%  0% 0%  the leadership and adjusted the composition of its  Unspecified  %  0%  0%  0%  key committees. Jim Anderson serves as the Lead  Independent Director. Martin Salinas, Jr. serves as  Audit Committee Chair, Kimberly Wagner serves  as the Nominating and Governance Committee  Chair and Brian Peterson serves as the  Compensation Committee Chair.  ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS IN 2022 WE MADE financial and in kind political corporate contributions in the amount of $25,000 and political action committee (PAC) contributions in the amount of $68,000. Ethics and Compliance Green Plains has made several enhancements in the areas of ethics and compliance in recent years. Throughout 2022, we continued to maintain or build upon initiatives put into place in 2021, including our Vendor Screening Program. The screening process utilizes 880 different watch lists and other data sources to search for unlawful business practices, including corruption, human rights violations, sanctions or criminal activity. At least 2,666 additional parties (consisting of prospective or new international customers, suppliers and other vendors) were screened in 2022, ensuring that Green Plains was not conducting business with sanctioned or blocked counterparties. Further, all Green Plains employees received Ethics and Anti-Corruption Training and Human and Labor Rights Training through the company's newly launched LMS, with a required completion date of December 30, 2022. Green Plains has a robust compliance program modeled from guidelines and/or recommendations of the United States Department of Justice as well as the United States Sentencing Commission. The program includes approximately 163 areas of compliance that the company has identified as being applicable to its business. Each area of compliance is assigned to one or more Responsible Corporate Employee(s), who are primarily responsible for 1) maintaining a thorough knowledge of laws, regulations and guidelines applicable to their area and 2) implementing compliant policies and procedures (with support from secondary departments or employees as needed). Our Legal Department conducts audits of the compliance functions, choosing several primary areas to focus on each year. During 2022, Investor Relations and multiple Engineering-related areas underwent Legal Department audits. Findings, recommendations and courses of action were discussed with the CLAO and other key personnel as applicable. We abide by our Code of Ethics (Code) and aim to operate at the highest levels of integrity and good corporate citizenship. The Board is responsible for the Code and has entrusted our management team with its implementation in satisfaction of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Code: ¥ Prohibits employees and directors from taking unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unfair dealing practice ¥ Contains a Conflicts of Interest policy that applies to all directors and employees, and outlines expectations and requirements, including mandatory reporting. Employees and directors are obligated to report any potential conflict of interest, and they cannot personally take opportunities or achieve personal gain using company property, information or position. Additionally, employees and directors may not compete with the company in any manner ¥ Provides advice about ethical and lawful behavior and offers various methods for seeking additional information, in addition to summarizing certain government laws and regulations Employees, customers, suppliers and the general public have access to a Compliance Hotline to report concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior either by telephone (844.957.2596) or via our online portal. This hotline is operated by a third party and is completely confidential. The CLAO and Audit Committee Chair receive all reports and the CLAO, or their designee, investigates all complaints. Every employee upon hire needs to acknowledge both the Code of Ethics and Code of Business Conduct. All new hires are obligated to participate in our New Employee Legal Orientation, where we highlight our corporate policies and procedures, including the Code of Ethics. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Anti-Corruption Policy We make every effort to conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards to maintain the complete confidence and trust of our consumers, shareholders and the public. Every employee, officer and director is expected to carry out the performance of their business responsibilities ethically and in accordance with our Anti-corruption Policy. Human and Labor Rights Policy We are committed to upholding human rights where we operate, and this includes protecting and promoting labor rights of our employees and providing a safe work environment. We are also dedicated to respecting the rights of disadvantaged people. We monitor suppliers and customers for human rights violations and aim to create a positive impact in our communities. We abide by our Human and Labor Rights Policy and Code of Vendor Conduct, both of which prohibit child and forced labor at Green Plains and our suppliers and customers. Cybersecurity Cyberattacks are a leading risk and continue to evolve and increase in sophistication and frequency. Our Information Security Program utilizes the latest technologies to keep our systems secure and provide training resources to keep our users informed. As a key producer in the ag-tech space, we have the same vision for our cybersafety as we do for our employee health and safety Ñ a vision of zero: zero incidents, zero breaches and zero leaks thefts or losses of customer data. In 2022, we maintained 0 identified leaks, thefts or losses of customer data. As with any operational risk, Green Plains has a strong governance structure around cybersecurity. We have a centralized IT function at our corporate headquarters to have clear visibility into how well our policies enhance cybersecurity. We continuously monitor for potential threats, perform regular tests of our ability to respond and recover, and conduct continuous assessments of our cybersecurity standards. To further mitigate threats, we collaborate with governments and regulatory agencies, and take part in external events to enhance our knowledge of the emerging threat landscape. We also engage independent third parties to audit our cybersecurity program, in accordance with top information security standards such as ISO 27001. Cybersecurity is embedded in our organizational structure and overall business strategy, where the SLT briefs the Audit Committee about cybersecurity matters on a quarterly basis. The most senior manager responsible for cybersecurity matters is our Chief Financial Officer, who, along with our Senior Vice President of Business Technology, discusses the current state of information security with the rest of the SLT on a regular basis. The Board Audit Committee provides oversight for the Cybersecurity Program. We engage in response readiness, cybersecurity training, disaster recovery and business continuity considerations. Our cybersecurity training program is a multi.dimensional information security learning experience with annual online video training sessions as well as ongoing dynamic and interactive learning exercises throughout the year that are designed to hone our employees' cybersecurity awareness and enhance our overall information security performance. Green Plains carries a broad cyber insurance policy covering information security risks and partners with our insurers for optimal transparency and risk mitigation. 