Social Our relationships with stakeholders — employees, customers, suppliers and community members — are crucial to our continued success. 43 44 Talent Retention and Engagement Aside from Employee Health and Safety, we view Talent Retention and Engagement as our most important Material ESG topic, in terms of its impact on our success as a business. If it weren't for our talented and dedicated employees, we would not be able to execute on our transformation plan. With that said, we have made this topic a priority and plan to launch many new initiatives to retain existing talent and recruit new talent. We also plan to review and consider implementing talent acquisition software and tools as well as implement a targeted job opportunity communication plan. That communication plan involves reaching out to a diverse audience via collaborations with Women in Agriculture (WIA), Radio Lobo, El Perico, Omaha Star and New Era, among others. In 2021, we implemented an employee referral program that rewards current employees with up to $3,000 when a referred employee is hired into a salaried role and up to $1,000 when a referred employee is hired into an hourly role, provided the referred employee remains with the company for a year. COMPENSATION & BENEFITS 2021 presented many challenges for both employers and employees, including rising inflation, hitting nearly 7%, and a competitive talent market for employers. We made the decision to institute one-time salary increases at all levels of the company in the summer of 2021. These increases outpaced inflation, even by 2021 standards, and was on top of normal wage increases. We also made significant upgrades to our employee benefits package in 2021 and are committed to regularly analyzing credible salary data guides and resources to be competitive in total compensation packages and top tier benefits for our employees. We adjust compensation according to the state/municipalities in which we operate. All of our hourly employees are paid well above the federal minimum wage, and we monitor local minimum wages to ensure we are complying and are paying above the higher applicable wage rate. The benefits package upgrades we made in 2021 now include up to 6% matching 401(k) contribution at hire and 8% match after five years, 6 weeks paid bonding leave for birthing parents after 6 weeks of short-term disability and 2 weeks paid bonding leave for non-birthing parents, generous paid time off, and 11 paid holidays including 1 floating holiday of the employee’s choosing. * Average entry-level wage defined as the average wage of all new employees whose hire date fell within the calendar year 2021. 46 401(K) Green Plains offers a defined contribution 401(k) plan to interns, temporary, part-time and full time employees that features 100% immediate vesting and matches up to 6% of eligible employee contributions upon hire, and 8% at five years of service. EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PLAN Employees can qualify for a wellness incentive that pays them $360/year if they enroll in one of our medical plans. In order to qualify, employees must complete a health survey, biometric screening, and certify they are tobacco-free or complete a tobacco cessation program. Corporate employees have access to an on-site wellness facility and are offered free weekly fitness classes. COMPANY HOLIDAYS New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and one floating holiday of the employee’s choosing. OTHER BENEFITS • Flexible Spending Account (Medical and Dependent) • Health Savings Account • Travel Assistance • Identity Protection • Hearing Discount Program HEALTH BENEFITS • All full-time employees can enroll in the following: • Medical insurance coverage that offers three options • Dental insurance and two options for vision insurance • Voluntary supplemental medical coverages — Accident insurance — Critical illness insurance — Hospital Indemnity insurance • Voluntary Life and AD&D for the employee, spouse, and children Green Plains also offers and pays for: • Life and AD&D for employees, spouse, and children • Short-term disability • Long-term disability Bonding leave for birthing and non-birthing parents TRAINING AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT We offer several training and career development initiatives for our associates, including: • Our Learning Management System (LMS) provides training in safety, ethics, legal policies and procedures, information technology (IT) and cybersecurity and professional development, among other topics. We plan to launch this system in 2022. • Leadership training is given to two groups: Those in Vice President (VP) positions and above and those in Director positions and below. VP and above leaders can participate in a two-day off-site retreat covering relevant topics such as developing the leader within, emotional intelligence, effective communication and communication styles, conflict management and change management. Learning occurs through small and large group discussions, team presentations and brainstorming. We also plan to deliver leadership best practices to company leaders and director positions and below via monthly and quarterly leadership training sessions. • Each employee receives an annual performance review and can provide their supervisor with feedback during the review as well as throughout the year. Beginning in 2022, our annual review process will be enhanced with a more robust Performance Management system designed to foster communication between employees and managers, allow for greater insight into personal, departmental and company goals, while providing feedback and guidance to employees. Employee Health and Safety We work tirelessly to promote the health and safety of our employees in the workplace and have committed to reducing our OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) by 35% by 2025 compared to our 2020 baseline. In fact, we are well on our way to meeting that target as we reached a 24% decrease in OSHA TRIR in 2021. As part of operational safety, we evaluate and continuously improve our Health and Safety program through our Program Review and Enterprise Implementation program, which includes policies, controls, elimination of hazards and safety training. The program also conducts regular safety training, inspections, incident reporting and investigation as well as internal and external audits. All facilities have Health and Safety committees that meet monthly, and all employees are invited to participate in the meetings, which include multifunctional panel decision-making. Additionally, all employees at our 11 biorefineries are covered under our Process Safety Management (PSM) policy and procedures covering regulated, highly hazardous chemicals and non-regulated chemicals, as well as other safety protocols. All of our Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and PSM program policies and procedures, along with our Contractor Management System and Emergency Response Planning & Training, are intended to prevent or mitigate significant negative occupational health and safety impacts linked to our operations. Occupational Health & Safety Management System PROGRAM REVIEW AND ENTERPRISE IMPLEMENTATION • Cardinal Rules SAFETY TRAINING • Program Matrix • Emergency Response Planning and Training HAZARD ASSESSMENT AND IDENTIFICATION • Process Hazard Analysis • Inspections • Audits CONTROLS • Hierarchy of Controls • Contractor Management System (FirstVerify) • Process Safety Management (PSM) program policy RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS • American National Standards Institute (ANSI) • National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) • American Petroleum Institute (API) • Steel Tank Institute (STI) HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM • Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals 49 Customers Our value chain model, operational excellence, risk management strategy and strong relationships with industry partners enable us to successfully meet the needs of our customers, regardless of their size, order volume or location. Green Plains Trade Group, our marketing and distribution segment, sells and distributes our ingredients that matter from our 11 biorefineries, bringing 1 billion gallons of renewable biofuel, 2.5 million tons of animal feed and 276 million pounds of renewable corn oil to the market in 2021. As our world has started to return to a new form of normal, we were able to resume our customer appreciation days in 2021 with events held at our biorefineries throughout the year to show our appreciation for the patronage of our loyal customers, many of whom are our neighbors in the community. Whether we’re selling a tanker of corn oil, a barge of distillers’ grains, or a unit train of renewable biofuel, we strive to deliver the best product at the highest value as safely and efficiently as possible. Our diverse customer market includes individual farmers, international corporations, pet food companies, retailers, traders and aquaculture companies. Due to the strategic location of our facilities in the Midwest, delivery to almost anywhere in the country is convenient, fast and efficient. We utilize trucks for local markets and use major U.S. rail carriers to ship to other parts of the country. Our terminals also allow us to deliver to blenders in previously underserved regions, further expanding our customer base. Brazil, Canada, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Peru, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey, Vietnam, as well as the European Union and others are among our international markets receiving our product. Green Plains products help our customers meet the following state, national and international policies: • U.S. Renewable Fuel Standard • California Air Resources Board Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) • Oregon Clean Fuels Program • Washington State Clean Fuel Standard • British Columbia’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Renewable & Low Carbon Fuel Requirements) Act and the Renewable & Low Carbon Fuel Requirements Regulation • Canadian Clean Fuel Standard • Brazil RenovaBio We prioritize the health and safety of our customers by ensuring that all of our products are subject to either a Certificate of Analysis process, feed tag with guarantee or another type of quality assurance document. Our facilities continue to perform well during audits by the FDA regarding compliance with the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) regulation, with no facilities receiving negative findings. Additionally, all our products have Safety Data Sheets (SDS) that include information on sourcing of components, substances that might produce an environmental impact, safe use and disposal, which can be found here. 51 52 Communities In 2021, Green Plains continued to positively impact communities through increased donations and sponsorships for local economic development corporations, community projects and state sheriff’s associations. We donated $243,918 in 2021. We have made donations to organizations like Discovery Park in Union City, Tennessee, helped fund a playground for children with mobility limitations and developmental delays, and supported local FFA chapters and ag-focused youth camps. When tornadoes struck Obion County, Tennessee, in December of 2021, taking lives and destroying property and livelihoods, Green Plains donated $100,000 towards recovery efforts in the area. We intend to match our employees’ commitment and dedication to causes they support by investing in 10 new employee-led priorities for donations in 2022 (in addition to our existing commitments) and increase donations and sponsorships by 10-20% in 2022, over our 2021 level. We plan to engage with employees via surveys, roundtables, company intranet, among others in order to establish our new priorities for donations in 2022. Beyond these donations, we maintained our commitment to the wellbeing of our employees and communities. When wildfires devastated farms and ranches near Green Plains Central City, we contributed 6,000 pounds of feed to local livestock operations. Many of our employees at our various locations serve on local city councils and volunteer for church groups, food pantries and other volunteer organizations in their free time. We want to enhance this and show our support by dedicating 2,000 hours of volunteering company-wide in 2022. Already in 2022, we established a partnership with the Food Bank for the Heartland to commit employee volunteers on a recurring basis throughout the year. We plan to implement a system for tracking employee volunteer hours in order to monitor our progress in reaching our 2,000-hour target. Beyond donations and volunteerism, we also contribute to the health and safety of our local communities by ensuring that 100% of our operations have implemented environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring via EPA's Risk Management Program and our Process Safety Management policy and procedure. Operational Impacts We maintain our mutually beneficial relationships with local farmers, infusing capital into the economy with a positive impact on rural communities throughout the U.S. Midwest. In 2021, we significantly helped rural communities and the nation’s economy in the following ways: • We directly infused over $1.5 billion into local communities near our biorefineries via grain purchases in 2021, including over $580 million in direct purchases from area farmers • Our industry directly and indirectly supported more than 407,000 jobs in the country. • Our industry added more than $52 billion to the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through annual operations, transportation and new project construction. • Biofuel production provided an additional $28.7 billion for U.S. households. • Our MSCTM installations have an $11 million impact in each community, through increased hotel, restaurant, entertainment and local contract spending. 