About This Report This 2022 Sustainability Report is a testament to Green Plains' ongoing commitment to corporate citizenship and our strategic transformation. This report covers our environmental, social and governance (ESG) data and initiatives during calendar year 2022. We also share details on goals and initiatives that extend into 2023 and beyond. The environmental data in this report, with the exception of the GHG emissions inventory, is limited to the biorefinery production segment of our operations, including our biorefining facilities. The GHG emissions inventory covers all relevant GHG emissions, from all relevant sources and subsidiaries. The boundary coverage for Scopes 1 and 2 emissions is 99.69%, and the boundary coverage for Scope 3 emissions is 100%. The social and governance data in this report is enterprise-wide. Select data in this report has also received external limited assurance by a third party, Apex Companies, LLC. Please see page 91 for a copy of the assurance letter and complete listing of the metrics that received limited assurance. Inquiries related to the report and its content should be directed to our sustainability team at sustainability@gpreinc.com. More information can also be found at gpreinc.com/sustainability. Green Plains has reported the information cited in the GRI content index for the period January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022 with reference to the 2021 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. This report also references applicable United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We also disclose under the Biofuels Standard from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and align with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. See page 71 for our Reporting Frameworks. Letter From Our Chief Executive Officer Green Plains has reached a pivotal point in our transformation, gaining momentum in 2022 with progress across all aspects of our evolution into a true biorefinery platform, creating sustainable ingredients that matter. We are expanding production of our novel ingredients, attracting new partners and entering new markets, all while lowering our carbon intensity. Our ingredients’ quality is higher than ever before, each one a low-carbon alternative to competitors already on the market and each one a crucial component of our broader vision that encompasses the four pillars of our transformation: Protein, Renewable Corn Oil, Sugar and Carbon. Within these pillars, we are focused on developing cleaner technologies, providing lower-carbon solutions to existing industries, reducing our own carbon intensity and enhancing our role in the circular economy. In 2022, we started up our protein We broke ground on the first-of-its-kind technology installations at three additional commercial-scale Clean Sugar Technology™ locations and now have a total of five facility at our biorefinery in Shenandoah, operational — over half of our production Iowa, and are already in discussions with capacity — with Ultra-High Protein potential co-location partners and capacity of 330,000 tons. We announced a customers. The dextrose molecules from partnership with North America’s premier this patented process, developed and aquaculture producer, Riverence Group, owned by Fluid Quip Technologies, have a further validating the quality and efficacy lower carbon intensity than alternatives of our product and platform. Our traditionally produced at wet mills and have high-protein ingredients not only have a a wide range of applications, including lower carbon intensity than available bioplastics, biochemicals and synthetic alternatives and are more nutritious, but biology. We believe we have only begun to they also help reduce the need to feed fish unlock the potential for this ingredient to to fish, relieving pressure on aquatic displace petroleum-based molecules and ecosystems. build a truly renewable supply chain to jump-start the fermentation revolution. PRIORITIZING SUSTAINABLE CHOICES Our customers in aquaculture, pet food, dextrose and other verticals want assurance that our ingredients are renewable and have a lower CI than available alternatives. Fluid Quip Technologies’ intellectual property has enabled us to achieve all-time record levels of renewable corn oil production. This inedible oil is a highly sought after feedstock for the production of biodiesel, renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel, due to its low carbon intensity. We’ve also teamed up with United Airlines and Tallgrass on a robust partnership to develop alcohol-to-jet sustainable aviation fuel with an exclusive license on Pacific Northwest National Laboratory’s ketone technology. This joint venture, Blue Blade Energy, is the first such partnership to include feedstock, off-take, technology and infrastructure entities. Without a doubt, innovative technology was a noteworthy theme for Green Plains in 2022, as it guided the significant progress we have achieved in our transformation. We are partners in one of the largest carbon capture and sequestration projects in the world and are exploring additional opportunities to ensure that our path to carbon neutrality by 2050 remains on track. We made these commitments before the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, but this landmark legislation enhances the benefits of our carbon intensity reductions and opens the door to consideration of new technologies at our biorefineries as well as enhanced partnerships with our farmer customers to expand regenerative agriculture practices. While decarbonization can stand on its own as a pillar of our transformation, it also underpins all other initiatives as the world shifts to more sustainable preferences for all things from fuels to food. Our customers in aquaculture, pet food, dextrose and other verticals want assurance that our ingredients are renewable and have a lower carbon intensity than available alternatives. 2022 brought notable improvements in our corporate governance as well. We added seasoned experts to our leadership team and reorganized to align with our evolving company, as our transformation into the biorefinery platform of the future achieves critical mass. Our Board of Directors and senior leadership team members are fully dedicated to our sustainability goals and are clear on their roles in ensuring that we achieve them. Further aligning with stakeholder expectations, we enhanced our reporting to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to include scenario analysis and have secured approval of our near-term carbon reduction targets from the Science Based Targets initiative. Our stakeholders demand credibility and assurance that our goals are at the center of our operations, and we are putting in the work to demonstrate that our commitments are real. Our ingredients are, by nature, renewable, and by producing more sustainable alternatives for our customers, we solidify our position as a thought leader at the intersection of agriculture, energy and technology. This vision guides decisions in our day-to-day operations, with all actions geared toward our overall strategy of providing the world with more environmentally friendly alternatives for feed, fuel and the emerging bioeconomy. As you’ll see in the pages that follow, we have continued to build an actionable road map to our ambitious goals, executing on strategies along the way and continuously improving as best practices evolve. We hold ourselves to high standards, but perhaps more importantly, you hold us to high standards. And we will continue to deliver. About Green Plains Our Business Green Plains Inc. (NASDAQ:GPRE) is an ag-tech innovator utilizing our experience in agribusiness and fermentation, along with our status as a leader in biorefining, to push technological advancement and innovation in our ingredient sectors. We produce low-carbon biofuels, renewable feedstocks for advanced biofuels, high-protein ingredients for animal diets, dextrose for use in bioplastics and biosynthetics, and high-purity alcohols. Every day we work to create more value from fewer resources, seize meaningful opportunities for our company and innovate ingredients to meet our customers’ needs, all while serving as stewards of the environment. We are focused on producing lower-carbon alternatives to help reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the global supply chain and have a positive impact in the fight against climate change. For more information, visit www.gpreinc.com. STRATEGIC metric tons of carbon gallons of renewable purchased from PARTNERS ENABLE reduction to date(1) biofuel sold in 2022 non-deforested, US-domestic the evolution and sources(3) enhancement of our sustainable production 958,000,000 301,868,000 5 capabilities. We sustainable gallons of renewable biofuel bushels of corn continuously strive to technology production capacity(2) consumed in 2022 installations find innovative ways to produce more from our existing renewable resources. 281,730,000 2,280,000 pounds of renewable corn oil sold tons of dry equivalent in 2022 animal feed sold in 2022 Awards Green Plains was among the Top 50 in the 2022 Real Leaders Eco Innovation Awards, a recognition of our achievements: reducing energy and water usage, lowering operating costs and reducing our carbon footprint. We were also named among America's Most Responsible Companies 2023 by Newsweek and Statista. Memberships 1 Estimated CO2 amount to have been kept out of the atmosphere due to Green Plains-produced low-carbon fuel between 2007 and 2022. 2 2022 10-K Production Capacity. 3 Based on compliance with RFS regulations (40 CFR § 80.1401), which requires the use of “renewable biomass” as an ethanol feedstock; by definition means that planted crops cannot come from deforested land. Additionally, we use U.S. corn and have not imported corn from international markets where deforestation might be prevalent. Our Principles and Values Our five core principles help us CHART our course and provide a framework for evolving in a rapidly decarbonizing world. C CUSTOMER CENTRIC We make a difference in the world by providing quality ingredients to safely meet customer needs. • Ingredient mindset • Quality and safety focus • Understand our impact H HUNGRY We are passionate, collaborative and seek achievement across all areas of our business. • Competitive spirit • Collaborative • All in mentality A ACCOUNTABILITY We exercise sound judgment and self discipline to drive impactful results. • Self discipline • Sound judgment • Impactful results R RESPONSIBILITY We serve our customers, communities, investors and families by striving for sustainability and diversity in all that we do. • Leadership in ESG • Diversity and inclusion • Work / life balance T TRANSPARENCY We respectfully challenge ourselves to achieve excellence, while focused on our clear mission to innovate and create sustainable ingredients that matter. • Clear corporate mission • Respectful candor • Culture of innovation 