Stakeholder Engagement and Material Topics In 2021, we enhanced our stakeholder engagement process by conducting a formal materiality assessment. We communicated directly with key internal and external stakeholders and leveraged ESG research and ratings, global frameworks and standards to understand and execute on goals associated with environmental and social impact for the company and relevant stakeholders. Our key stakeholder groups and our methods of engagement are set forth in this report's GRI index in response to disclosure 102-40 (page 67). Our stakeholder-oriented, data-driven and forward-looking approach helped identify our top environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities for the company. It further provided us with valuable information to help prioritize disclosure, data collection, goal setting and strategy development. The Materiality Map ranks ESG topics based on importance to our business success and key stakeholder groups and enables us to prioritize material topics based on their relevance to stakeholders and the impact on the business. Based on our assessment, this report focuses on the topics in the “Prioritize” quadrant, while addressing nearly all other topics. 11 12 -14 15 16 In 2021, FQT engineered and constructed a fully scalable commercial CST production facility at the Green Plains Innovation Center at York, Nebraska. In 2022, engineering began for a full scale CST production facility that can process up to 30,000 bushels of corn per day, which we expect to break ground in late 2022. We believe this technology can transform a dry-mill facility into a clean sugar biorefinery, where dextrose and glucose replace ethanol as the primary product. Our process extracts the sugar using simple enzymes and mechanical separation, avoiding harsh chemicals traditionally used at wet-mills. Further, carbohydrate (renewable carbon) feedstocks attained using CST can deliver considerably lower carbon intensity (CI) scores than conventional fossil-derived feedstocks, such as crude oil and coal. Importantly, our dry milling process produces bio-based glucose and dextrose at a dramatically lower CI than other available technologies, such as wet milling. A recent technical report shows this CI reduction is anywhere from 20% to 48%, due to the unique advantages of FQT’s patented technology, which allows a dry mill to skip an energy intensive portion of the sugar production process on the front end of a wet-mill. This results in a CI score similar to that of Brazilian cane sugar, which is traditionally thought of as the industry standard low-CI carbohydrate feedstock. CARBON INTENSITY (KG CO2E/MT DRY SUGAR) Dry Mill Clean Sugar 641 Wet Mill Sugar 1050 Non-renewable petroleum based monomers are so widely used, with markets of millions of tons per year spanning a wide range of industries, that replacing them with renewable carbon feedstocks can achieve far reaching sustainability benefits. ESG Highlights The following table outlines our Material ESG Topics, existing goals that were set in 2021, progress related to those goals, as well as our planned initiatives and any new goals and targets for 2022 and beyond. 