Ethics and Compliance Green Plains has made several enhancements in the area of ethics and compliance over the past year. In 2021, we have updated and improved our Anti-Corruption Policy, adopted a Human and Labor Rights Policy and initiated a new Vendor Screening program, screening 7,558 foreign and domestic vendors and suppliers against 63 different watches, sanctions and most-wanted lists, including key human rights list. We have also set a goal to have 100% of Green Plains employees trained on Code of Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Human and Labor Rights policies by the end of 2022. We plan to accomplish this by incorporating this training into the company-wide launch of the new Learning Management System (LMS) in 2022. We abide by our Code of Ethics (Code) and aim to operate at the highest levels of integrity and good corporate citizenship. The Board is responsible for the Code and has entrusted our management team with its implementation in satisfaction of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Code: • Prohibits employees and directors from taking unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unfair dealing practice. • Contains a Conflicts of Interest policy that applies to all directors and employees, and outlines expectations and requirements, including mandatory reporting. Employees and directors are obligated to report any potential conflict of interest, and they cannot personally take opportunities or achieve personal gain using company property, information or position. Additionally, employees and directors may not compete with the company in any manner. • Provides advice about ethical and lawful behavior and offers various methods for seeking additional information, in addition to summarizing certain government laws and regulations. Employees, customers, vendors and the general public have access to a Compliance Hotline to report concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior either by telephone (844.957.2596) or via our online portal. This hotline is operated by a third party and is completely confidential. The CLAO and Audit Committee Chair receive all reports and the CLAO investigates all complaints. Every employee upon hire needs to attest to both the Code of Ethics and Code of Business Conduct. All new hires are obligated to participate in our New Employee Legal Orientation where we highlight our corporate policies and procedures, including the Code of Ethics. In November 2021, the company updated its Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (“Code of Conduct”). The updated Code outlines in greater detail: • What constitutes a Conflict of Interest; • Rules and limits for Gifts and Entertainment; • Proper uses and representations of using social media; • Summaries of the company Insider Trading Policy, Risk Management Policy and Whistleblower Policy; • Anti-harassment stance and procedures; and • Political activities and public relations. 