Environmental Our commitment to environmental stewardship is exemplified in all we do, and we are constantly striving to do even more. Our Climate Change Strategy The issue of global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane. Climate change legislation in the U.S. and abroad is likely to receive increased focus and consideration for the foreseeable future, with numerous past and future proposals made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to limit emissions of GHG. Our products are created from annually renewable crops — primarily corn — with a low-carbon footprint. However, our biorefineries emit biogenic CO2 through the process of fermentation and additional CO2 from the combustion of natural gas to run our boilers and dryers. We are taking action now to reduce our own GHG emissions, but we also recognize that our business is not immune to physical or transitional impacts related to climate change. This global issue is likely to affect almost every aspect of our company, including potential impacts on the health and wellness of our employees, implications for how our facilities operate, sourcing of our raw materials and impacts on our customers’ use of our products. However, as a producer of low-carbon fuels and ingredients, we are well-positioned to serve as part of the solution to climate change. To decrease our exposure and build our resilience to climate change, we’ve enhanced our ESG governance, including a cross-functional ESG Work Group comprised of subject-matter experts to more systematically identify and address our climate-related risks and opportunities. We’ve set aggressive GHG reduction goals with a path to carbon-neutral operations by 2050. We monitor our progress with key performance indicators that have short-, medium- and long-term goals. Components of our strategy are discussed below, and information about our ESG governance is set out in “ESG and Climate Change Governance” in the Governance section of this report. Risks As the world moves toward a low-carbon future, Green Plains acknowledges the possible risks associated with climate change and we incorporate them into our overall business strategy and planning. Green Plains considers two climate related risks: physical and transitional. We regularly review and evaluate topics that have the potential to present physical risks and actively develop methods to mitigate them. Our Emergency Response Plans for all our operational sites detail the procedures for emergency scenarios, including adverse weather events. We are using existing technologies where possible and assessing new technologies to reduce our emissions, improve carbon efficiency and identify energy transition opportunities. We also consider the potential risks associated with rapidly transitioning to a low-carbon economy and pay close attention to policy, legal, technology and market changes. We continually engage with stakeholders, policy makers, regulators and our industry partners about climate change issues and to address our impact on the environment. Additionally, we have identified inherent climate-related risks with the potential to substantively affect our financials or broader business strategy. First, compliance with evolving environmental laws and regulations, particularly those related to climate change, could be costly. Compliance with future laws or regulations to decrease GHG emissions may have an adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial position. Secondly, our biorefineries are subject to extensive environmental regulations. Our ability to maintain the required regulatory permits or manage changes in environmental regulations is essential to successfully operating our biorefineries. Governing state agencies could impose costly conditions or restrictions that are detrimental to our profitability and may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Lastly, climate change itself has been shown to cause increasingly more extreme weather conditions such as intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and winter storms, as well as increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Extreme weather conditions and droughts may adversely affect the availability, quality and price of the annually renewable agricultural commodities we rely on to supply our biorefineries, as well as our operations and operating results. The risk process incorporates risks disclosed in the Risk Factors section of Green Plains Inc.’s Form 10-K SEC filing, as well as considers potentially relevant risk factors disclosed in peer companies’ Form 10-K SEC filings. Opportunities We recognize that where there is risk, there is opportunity. We are in a unique position to help address the most significant ESG risk of climate change as we are in the business of producing low-carbon ingredients and fuels. In 2005, the U.S. Congress enacted the Renewable Fuel Standard to reduce surface transportation GHG emissions, expand the nation’s renewable fuels sector, decrease our reliance on imported fossil fuels and encourage ethanol production for use as a gasoline oxygenate to replace MTBE, which had been banned in multiple states.17 We believe that low-carbon biofuel will continue to play a critical role in decarbonizing the economy while creating green jobs and reinforcing our domestic energy security. Our biofuel has a 46% lower GHG profile on average than petroleum based gasoline.18 In addition, ethanol is the most cost-effective octane enhancer available and displaces some of the toxic elements of gasoline — aromatics such as xylene, toluene and benzene — thereby reducing not only GHG emissions but also particulate matter that negatively impacts air quality. 28 29 GHG Emissions The majority of our operating emissions are released by the ethanol fermentation process and are classified as biogenic emissions. Most of the remaining emissions are from natural gas combustion (Scope 1) for steam generation and drying of distillers' grains as well as indirect (Scope 2) emissions associated with electricity consumption. A very small amount of GHG emissions from gasoline, diesel and Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) fuel combustion occurs on-site related to our mobile equipment and generators, and is included in our Scope 1 emissions. We have an established carbon neutrality goals and set aggressive targets of a 50% reduction in operational GHG emissions by 2030 and 100% reduction by 2050 over a 2018 baseline. Since 2018, we have reduced our operational GHG emissions by 35%, keeping us on track to achieve our 2030 and 2050 targets. In addition, we: • Plan to submit our GHG emissions reduction targets to the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) for validation by the end of 2022. • Set a target to reduce our operational GHG emissions intensity to 16.5% by 2026 compared to a 2020 baseline. • Calculated and disclosed our Scope 3 emissions in this report. • Are evaluating initiatives to reduce our Scope 3 emissions. ——— ——— ——— ——— ——— Energy Use and Efficiency We are reducing our energy use and increasing efficiency across our platform by incorporating energy efficiency projects into our annual capital expenditures plan. Such projects include boiler and economizer upgrades, centrifuge power packs and Variable Frequency Drives (VFD). Since 2018, we have realized a 29.70% reduction in off-site electricity consumption (thousand megawatt hours) and a 33.19% reduction in on-site natural gas fuel consumption (MMBtu). We are continually developing goals to further increase energy efficiency. We recently set a new target to reduce natural gas intensity (MMBtu/Raw Material MT) 2% per year through 2026. GREEN PLAINS UNIT OF PERFORMANCE DATA MEASUREMENT 2021 2020 2019 2018 Electricity Use  Thousand Megawatt Hours  650  661  735  924  Energy Intensity  Kilowatt Hours (KWh) / Raw Material MT  98.438  94.846  97.038  96.585  Natural Gas  Metric Million British Thermal Unit (MMBtu)  20,622,819  22,158,963  24,778,741  30,874,334  Natural Gas Intensity  MMBtu / Raw Material MT  3.125  3.179  3.271  3.226  Clean Energy: Renewable Corn Oil We aim to be a key player in the production of clean fuels in addition to creating low-carbon feedstocks for advanced biofuel production. One of our main goals is to contribute in a bigger way to the production of low carbon-intensity fuels such as renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel via a 50% increase in renewable corn oil yield by 2025 over a 2020 baseline. Renewable corn oil has a lower carbon intensity than most available feedstocks23 because it is considered a “waste oil” under low carbon fuel standard programs. The renewable corn oil produced at our biorefineries is an ideal low CI feedstock, and we have already made progress by realizing corn oil yield of 0.85 pounds per bushel in 2021, a 9% increase over 2020, keeping us on track to achieve our 2025 target of 1.2 pounds per bushel. This is another example of how we are constantly working on extracting additional value from every kernel of corn we procure, creating more value for farmers and for our stakeholders, while reducing GHG emissions. 23 https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/abde08 33 34 --Biodiversity and Land Stewardship Biodiversity The need to protect and preserve our natural ecosystems is more apparent than ever before. Green Plains is committed to supporting biodiversity efforts, reducing deforestation and preserving areas of high biodiversity value. In 2021, we began assessing the broader biodiversity and other nature-related impacts of our operations and are taking steps to mitigate our impact. Our most material nature-related issues include ensuring long-term sustainable land use that keeps land in agriculture production (as opposed to urban development which claims 2 million acres of farmland per year in the U.S.)26 and that fosters soil regeneration and resilient ecosystem services. In November 2021, we began establishing habitat for migratory monarch butterflies onsite at our Shenandoah and Superior biofuel facilities in Iowa. The projects are part of a larger initiative called the Monarch Fueling Station Project spearheaded by the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association and the Iowa Monarch Conservation Consortium, which promotes habitat for endangered pollinators. Its objective is to provide patches of native grasses and other pollinator-friendly plants to promote monarch feeding and reproduction during their layover in the state on their 2,500-mile journey from the U.S. and Canada to the hibernation grounds in central Mexico. Since the initiative started in 2017, it has established 19 fueling stations covering 48 acres. The Green Plains Shenandoah station will cover 1.75 acres, with planting expected to begin in the spring of 2022. The station at Superior will be established on a nearby field, beginning with one or two acres, with the potential to expand. The establishment of the monarch fueling stations aligns with Green Plains’ sustainability initiatives to promote and preserve wildlife habitat. Land Stewardship Land stewardship and the conservation of natural resources are top priorities for Green Plains. Our practice of buying locally from U.S. farmers not only keeps farms in business, but it also helps to mitigate deforestation around the globe and decreases the environmental impact of long-haul transportation. Further, our new FQT MSC™ systems enhance renewable corn oil yields, allowing us to increase the production of an important clean energy feedstock source without expanding cropland acreage. The amount of corn we processed in 2021 can be grown on 256,000 fewer acres than in 200727, and none of our feedstock comes from land converted to cropland from forests, in compliance with RFS regulations related to renewable biomass. We are growing more of the same annually renewable feedstocks on fewer acres, while using fewer resources and inputs. Each of our biorefineries uses approximately 17 to 42 million bushels of corn annually, and we rely on our strong relationships with local farmers to ensure we receive a steady supply of corn. We locally source 100% of feedstock from farmers, grain elevators and cooperatives in the U.S., and within trucking distance from each of our biorefineries. 26 Farmland losing to urban sprawl | Farm Progress 27 (259,786,000 bushels of corn processed in 2021 / average US corn yield in 2007 of 150.7 bushels per acre) – (259,786,000 bushels of corn processed in 2021 / average US corn yield in 2021 of 177 bushels per acre) = 256,144.46 37 38 39 40 difficult to recycle at the end of life. Circularity is inherent in our processes and products, and our alignment with the circular economy is evident — it is core to who we are and our #ingredientsthatmatter. Moving forward, our waste management objectives are to complete tracking and consolidation of non-hazardous waste data at all of our biorefineries for public disclosure in our next Sustainability Report as well as enhance a corporate recycling program at our Omaha, Neb. headquarters in 2022. WASTE UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2021 Hazardous Waste Disposal Thousand Metric Tons We are committed to the protection of natural resources and compliance with all related laws and regulations, including around waste prevention and management. Throughout our operations, we seek to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, including the management of hazardous chemicals.34 All of our biorefinery locations are registered as Renewable Fuel Producers with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and meet the requirements for the Renewable Fuel Standard (Title 40 CFR Part 80). Additionally, 100% of the denatured fuel ethanol we produce is RFS compliant. UNIT OF ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE MEASUREMENT 2021 2020 2019 2018 Number of Sites  Count  12  14  14  17  Number of Reportable Spills35  Count  1  1  1  0  Weight of Reportable Spills  Liters  1,210  9,971  22,933  0  Number of Environmental Fines  Count  1  1  1  2  Amount of Environmental Fines  USD  $13,992  $25,000  $2,720  $11,570  34 GPRE complies with environmental laws and regulations from the following U.S. based agencies: NDEE, DHHS, IDNR, MPCA, MNDNR, MDH, EIPA, IDEM and TDEC. 35 As defined by the U.S. EPA, a reportable spill is an uncontrolled release of material to the ground in excess of the reportable quantity. Ethanol facilities are classified as Very Small Quantity Generators (VSQGs) per U.S. EPA HazWaste Requirements (40 CFR Part 262.14), disposing of hazardous materials or waste according to authorized HazWaste haulers (Categories of Hazardous Waste Generators | US EPA). 42 