SOCIAL Employee Health and Safety We actively work to protect the health and safety of our employees by monitoring and evaluating our EHS programs, practices, and outcomes. Our goal is continual assessment and improvement in all EHS areas going forward, as we transform and grow our business. As described by the U.S. Department of Energy, industrial plant activities often involve "working with heavy industrial equipment, fixing any worn or broken machinery parts, and testing the quality of the end products. Within the bioenergy sector, plant workers can also be engaged with combining chemicals and testing fuel and chemical end-product quality."37 Given the scientific and technical nature of the work performed in our biorefineries, Green Plains fully appreciates the critical importance of effective EHS policies and practices for both our valued employees and our business. Further, we believe that transparency and disclosure around incidents and hazards, as well as safety achievements, is the straightest line to optimal employee safety. In 2022, we continued to make good progress in our safety journey, notably exceeding our 2025 target for reducing OSHA Recordable Incidents three years early: 2022 EARLY ACHIEVEMENT: OSHA TRIR reduced by 46% (vs. 2020 baseline) 2025 GOAL: Reduce OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) by 35% (vs. 2020 baseline) In 2022, we also continued to factor safety metrics into the calculation of executive compensation, required implementation of our Cardinal Rules for the third consecutive year, and applied the tenets of our new Occupational Health & Safety Policy for a second year in a row. We also experienced 0 process safety incidents in 2022. 2023 GOALS: Reimagine safety training for 2023 to be more interactive and inclusive Implement layered audit program across the platform 37 https://www.energy.gov/eere/bioenergy/bioenergy-career-map-plant-manager EHS Programs and Policies To support operational safety, we evaluate and seek to improve our Health and Safety program on an ongoing basis through our Program Review and Enterprise Implementation framework, which consists of policies, controls, hazards elimination and safety training. Specifically, Green Plains conducts regularly scheduled safety trainings, inspections, and incident reporting and investigations. We also ensure the completion of internal and independent external audits. Each of our facilities has its own Health and Safety Committee that meets monthly. All employees are invited to participate in these meetings, which feature multifunctional panel discussions and decision-making. All employees at our 11 biorefineries are covered under our Process Safety Management (PSM) policy and procedures, which define protocols for regulated, highly hazardous chemicals as well as non-regulated chemicals, among other safety protocols. Additional Green Plains programs, policies and procedures designed to prevent or mitigate significant negative occupational health and safety impacts linked to our operations include: ¥ OSHA policies and procedures ¥ Our PSM policies and procedures ¥ Our Contractor Management System ¥ Our Emergency Response Planning & Training program PROGRAM REVIEW AND ENTERPRISE IMPLEMENTATION ¥ Cardinal Rules CONTROLS ¥ Hierarchy of Controls ¥ Contractor Management System (First, Verify) ¥ PSM Program Policy OSHA POLICIES ¥ Industrial Hygiene Testing ¥ Audiometric Surveys ¥ Hearing Conservation ¥ Respiratory Fit Testing SAFETY TRAINING ¥ Program Matrix ¥ Emergency Response Planning & Training RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS ¥ American National Standards Institute (ANSI) ¥ National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) ¥ American Petroleum Institute (API) ¥ Steel Tank Institute (STI) INCIDENT REPORTING SYSTEM ¥ Incident Investigation Policy and Procedure ¥ Incident Investigation Teams ¥ Corrective Actions HAZARD ASSESSMENT AND IDENTIFICATION ¥ Process Hazard Analysis ¥ Inspections ¥ Audits HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM ¥ Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES ¥ Meet monthly ¥ All employees welcome to participate ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY 2022 Strategic Safety Initiatives Key health and safety initiatives implemented by Green Plains in 2022 included: ¥ 6S Lean implementation across our platform ¥ Stop Work Authority training and implementation ¥ Formalized communication worksheets for shift changes ¥ Standardized personal protective equipment (PPE) and job safety analysis (JSA) card locations 6S LEAN: 5S + SAFETY 6S Lean, otherwise known as 5S + Safety, is a system that aims to promote and sustain a high level of productivity and safety throughout a workspace. EHSS CARDINAL RULES We believe that all occupational incidents, injuries and environmental harm are preventable. As such, we continue to require adherence to what is known internally as our Environmental, Health, Safety and Security (EHSS) Cardinal Rules. We monitor adherence to the Cardinal Rules in several ways, including monthly internal scoring, semi-annual corporate audits and regular "walk around" safety compliance monitoring. All employees and contractors of Green Plains and its related subsidiaries, as well as visitors to Green Plains and its subsidiaries, are expected to understand and abide by our Cardinal Rules. Each of the above-described individuals has stop-work authority when and if that person believes that a rule is not being followed or that an unsafe condition or hazard is present in the workplace. HAZARD AND INCIDENT RISK ASSESSMENT Green Plains works to assess safety risks, and identify and prevent potential work-related hazards, on both a routine and ad hoc basis. Per best practice, we use a variety of methods to collect and evaluate safety-risk information, including: ¥ Job hazard ¥ Industrial hygiene assessments testing ¥ Process hazard ¥ Audiometric surveys analyses ¥ Hearing-conservation ¥ Safety committees programs ¥ Periodic internal and independent ¥ Respiratory fit testing external audits ¥ Internal and and inspections independent external ¥ Hierarchy of health and safety controls assessments HAZARD AND INCIDENT REPORTING AND REMEDIATION Green Plains employees are encouraged to report work-related hazards and hazardous situations through our Incident Reporting System, Employee Concerns Reporting system and GP Alert Line System. Work-related incidents are investigated and corrective actions and needed improvements are determined by our Incident Investigation Policy & Procedure and Incident Investigation teams. Employees may also participate in Safety and PSM committees and meetings to voice concerns and identify solutions. Green Plains also follows the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals Hazard Communication Program. This program has been recognized by multiple government agencies as best practice for the biofuel, petroleum and chemical industries. In addition, each of our applicable biorefinery facilities with hazardous chemicals has instituted a Hazard Communication Policy, which comprises employee training, management responsibilities, maintenance of chemical listings and associated documentation (e.g., safety data sheets (SDS), container labeling and pictogram requirements). Green Plains reviews and updates this policy annually. EMPLOYEE SAFETY TRAINING The Green Plains Safety Training Program Matrix includes all OSHA-covered and related applicable topic areas. Our employee safety training consists of: ¥ Monthly online training ¥ Quarterly classroom training ¥ On-the-job training for all production employees Production employees at each of our 11 biorefineries must complete at least 25 hours of safety training each year. 2022 ACHIEVEMENTS: Completed integration of EHSS training into LMS as of December 31, 2022 Consolidated and updated EHSS training courses specific to Green Plains GREEN PLAINS PERFORMANCE DATA SAFETY GOALS AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION We continued to link executive compensation to the achievement of safety goals in 2022, our 10th consecutive year of prioritizing and incentivizing safety in this structured manner. Our annual incentive bonus is linked to a biorefinery safety goal with 11 leading and lagging safety and environmental metrics, including: ¥ OSHA and lost time injury rates ¥ Safety training and safety drill completion rates ¥ Environmental plan reviews and training ¥ Environmental incident and third-party audit closeouts ¥ Process safety management compliance TOTAL NUMBER RATE 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Employee fatalities as a result of work-related injury  0  0  1  0.00  0.00  0.12  Employee days away from work (DAFW) injuries  1  2  10  0.11  0.24  1.17  Employee total recordable work-related injuries and rate (TRIR) 17  22  30  1.88  2.66  3.51  Hours worked  1,807,662  1,656,538  1,710,636  * per 200,000 hours worked ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Talent Acquisition, Engagement and DE&I Our highly skilled and valued employees are the linchpin of our ongoing transformation toward the biorefinery platform of the future. Green Plains relies on top talent to execute daily operations across our 11 biorefineries, implement and leverage innovative technologies, and realize our Green Plains 2.0 road map. In 2022, we launched a host of new initiatives to help ensure that we keep our existing talent and are best able to recruit additional talent as needed. Key initiatives included: ¥ Embraced new talent acquisition software and tools allowing us to better connect with talent in both a high tech and high touch manner ¥ Leveraged communications pathways to better reach diverse audiences, via media such as: ¥ Women in Agriculture (WIA) ¥ Radio Lobo ¥ El Perico ¥ Omaha Star ¥ New Era ¥ Enhanced our Employee Referral Program ¥ Structured our new employee orientation and associated trainings ¥ Enhanced our talent acquisition infrastructure, including standardizing key components of our interviewing and selection systems, manager training and laying the groundwork for traineeship programs at select universities. ¥ The traineeship is being piloted at one of our top university partners that will bring 30-40 students to one of our biorefineries, where the students will receive application exercises that they will apply to their classroom project, and receive course credit. Also in 2022, we introduced additional means of engagement with our newest employees at Green Plains. This includes an internal communication channel, The Loop, where we have a New Hire channel that keeps new hires connected. This one-stop location contains relevant information on key events happening within the company and externally. Common topics include customer updates, employee recognition, benefits available to our employees, key events, executive insights and other relevant topics. 2022 Employment Type A Growing Uni-to-Green Plains Pipeline In 2022, we welcomed 22 student interns who worked across multiple areas of our business, our largest intern class to date. What's more, they represented a significant increase from the previous year: 2021: 2 0 interns interns transitioned to full-time employment 2022: 22 4 interns transitioned to full-interns time employment FULL-TIME PART-TIME Male Female Total  716 164 880  3 6 9  Employee Turnover All Employees  2022 30%  2021 24%  2020 18%  ¥  Created a more interactive and informative Careers page on our website ¥ Live as of January 2023  Male Female Under 30 30-50  80% 20% 32% 41%  76% 24% 23% 51%  87% 13% 34% 43%  ¥ Features mechanisms to stay engaged with  Over 50  27%  26%  23%  the company via our talent community while also highlighting our uniqueness as an employer, technically and culturally ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Compensation and Benefits Offering competitive wages and employee benefits is essential to attracting and retaining the top talent required by Green Plains. 2022 presented many challenges for both employers and employees. Among these were a continuation of the elevated inflation rate seen in 2021, surpassing 7% in 2022, and a competitive talent market for employers. Despite these headwinds, Green Plains continued to provide competitive wage increases in 2022, in addition to having boosted wages by 13.5% in 2021. We are committed to regularly analyzing credible salary data guides and related resources to remain competitive in total compensation packages and top-tier benefits for our employees. We continue to ensure competitive total rewards for our employees, regularly benchmarking to ensure attractive pay and benefit programming that addresses our employees' key needs. All of our hourly employees are paid well above the federal minimum wage. We monitor local minimum wages to ensure that we are in compliance and paying above the higher applicable wage rate. Additionally, we further upgraded our Employee Benefits Package in 2022 to now include: ¥ An enhanced wellness program that leverages high-tech ways to monitor physical activity and earn incentives ¥ 100% increase in paid bonding leave for birthing parents ¥ Up from 6 weeks in 2021 to 12 weeks in 2022 ¥ Additional paid time off (PTO) ¥ Two new floating holidays of the employeeÕs choosing ¥ Pet insurance and pet wellness benefits 401(K) Green Plains offers a defined contribution 401(k) plan to interns and temporary, part-time and full-time employees that features 100% immediate vesting and matches up to 6% of eligible employee contributions upon hire and 8% at five years of service. EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PLAN Employees can participate in a wellness program that will reward them for the steps they are already making toward their overall wellness and incentivize them to start a more healthy lifestyle. They complete tasks for points in the system that they can redeem for gift cards. Corporate employees have access to an on-site wellness facility and are offered free weekly fitness classes. COMPANY HOLIDAYS New YearÕs Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and two floating holidays of the employeeÕs choosing. OTHER BENEFITS ¥ Flexible Spending Account (Medical and Dependent) ¥ Health Savings Account ¥ Travel Assistance ¥ Identity Protection ¥ Hearing Discount Program 5.21x HEALTH BENEFITS All full-time employees can enroll in the following: ¥ Medical insurance coverage that offers three options ¥ Dental insurance and two options for vision insurance ¥ Voluntary supplemental medical coverages ¥ Accident insurance ¥ Critical illness insurance ¥ Hospital indemnity insurance ¥ Voluntary life and AD&D for the employee, spouse, and children ¥ Pet wellness benefit and pet insurance Green Plains also offers and pays for: ¥ Life and AD&D for employees, spouse and children ¥ Short-term disability ¥ Long-term disability Bonding leave for: ¥ Birthing parent -12 weeks 100% paid ¥ Non birthing parent -2 weeks 100% paid EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PLAN Our Employee Assistance Plan (EAP) is available to all full-time employees and their dependents. The EAP assists with matters related to: ¥ Family and relationships ¥ Emotional well-being ¥ Financial wellness ¥ Substance abuse and addiction ¥ Legal assistance ¥ Physical health ¥ Work and career Ratio of average new employee wage to the federal minimum wage (2022) ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Training, Learning & Career Development Given the exacting nature of biorefinery operations, including emerging technologies and ESG opportunities, Green Plains invests in continual learning and career development programs. We offer virtual and in-person learning and development opportunities for all our employees. To meet the need for continual learning at Green Plains, in 2022 we launched our new Learning Management System (LMS), the learning portal for Green Plains University, a one-stop shop for learning and developmental resources. Through LMS, all employees at all levels can access: ¥ 2,700+ courses to complete compliance, technical skills, and professional trainings ¥ Courses in subject areas that include workplace safety, business skills, ethics, HR compliance, information technology (IT), cybersecurity, leadership and management essentials, legal policies and procedures, technical skills development, and more Green Plains also continues to offer the following avenues of learning and development: Ongoing Performance Feedback ¥ Annual goal-setting, development planning and ongoing feedback process in which managers and employees engage in ongoing discussions to ensure progress relative to company and individual objectives ¥ Provided to all employees Average Hours  of Training  2022  2021  2020  Male  25.78  25  25  Female  25.98  25  25  Production  25.79  25  25  Corporate  1.067  0  0  ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Diversity, Equityand Inclusion Green Plains believes in the value of an increasingly diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace to drive operational excellence and good corporate citizenship. Our talent management system includes policies and programs in furtherance of workforce DE&I. We establish goals, and we proactively work to include more women and employees who enhance the diversity of our Green Plains family. Throughout 2022, we have accomplished DE&I objectives associated with attracting diverse talent. We remain on track for long-term development of gender balance. We acknowledge there is still much work to be done in the area of DE&I and have committed to enhancing our data quality and reliability related to candidate pool diversity metrics, with the ultimate goal to eventually set measurable targets to ensure that we have a diverse candidate pool for all of our open positions. 2023 GOAL: Enhance the data quality and reliability of our candidate pool diversity metrics, to allow us to better track the success of our recruiting action plans Proactive Outreach In 2022, we continued to partner with recruiting and outreach networks within organizations that support more women and diverse candidates in STEM and other professional fields. Internal Audits and Restructuring Beyond recruiting efforts, Green Plains is taking a multi-pronged approach to translating DE&I aspirations and goals into on-the-ground realities. In 2022, we focused on starting up internal trainings and evolving practices to support the achievement of our DE&I objectives. DE&I Training ¥ Developing a Learning & Development program to communicate the value of diversity, equity and inclusion and having all voices represented throughout the employee life cycle ¥ Making programs available to hiring managers and employees throughout Green Plains ¥ Providing all employees with access to equal training opportunities within their respective departments and roles Onboarding Updates ¥ Began updating Green Plains onboarding and orientation programs and materials ¥ Program and materials to reflect company history, current strategy, company pillars, safe and secure practices, HR compliance, accounting/finance, business technologies, legal policies and procedures, and employee benefits Job Description Audits ¥ Began reviewing company job descriptions to ensure that postings are attracting all potential employees ¥ All potential and current employees should understand the company mission and our commitment to sustainable practices Hiring Process Improvements ¥ Introduced new interview and hiring training and practices ¥ Trainings and practices developed by experts within our business ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS 2022 Employee Diversity Employees per diversity category* 2022 2021 2020 Male 719 (80.9%) 680 (80.3%) 630 (81.1%) Female 170 (19.1%) 167 (19.7%) 147 (18.9%) Under 30 194 (21.8%) 162 (19.1%) 133 (17.1%) 19.1% 30-50 445 (50.1%) 415 (49.0%) 403 (51.9%) FEMALE Over 50 250 (28.1%) 270 (31.9%) 241 (31.0%) Caucasian/White 811 (91.2%) 788 (93.0%) 726 (93.4%) Hispanic/Latin 26 (2.9%) 18 (2.1%) 15 (1.9%) 80.9% American MALE American Indian/ 4 (0.4%) 4 (0.5%) 3 (0.4%) Alaskan Native Asian 12 (1.3%) 8 (0.9%) 6 (0.8%) Black or African 24 (2.7%) 23 (2.7%) 21 (2.7%) American Employees per diversity category* Two or More Races 5 (0.6%) 4 (0.5%) 5 (0.6%) Unspecified 7 (0.8%) 2 (0.2%) 1 (0.1%) Total Employees 889 (100.0%) 847 (100.0%) 777 (100.0%) * All of our employees are based in North America. 1.3% 91.2% Employment Type ASIAN CAUCASIAN/ Full-time Part-time WHITE 2.7% 164 6BLACK OR 2.9% AFRICAN FEMALE FEMALE HISPANIC/ AMERICAN LATIN AMERICAN 716 30.6% MALE MALE TWO OR 0.4% MORE RACES AMERICAN INDIAN/ ALASKAN 0.8% NATIVE UNSPECIFIED ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY Customers We have evolved from an early commodity business that turned corn into ethanol to a modern biorefinery platform that transforms byproducts into valuable low-carbon coproducts in the areas of protein, renewable corn oil, sugar and carbon. Our loyal customer base includes individual farmers and retailers, many of whom are our neighbors across six U.S. states. We also sell to traders and international corporations in a host of countries. For our diversified markets, we produce a variety of products across our 11 biorefineries and three innovation centers, as depicted below, all with the opportunity to be truly low carbon due to our planned carbon-capture project. SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING FRAMEWORKS Green Plains Trade Group, our marketing and distribution segment, sells and distributes ingredients from our 11 biorefineries. In 2022, we delivered 872 million gallons of renewable biofuel, 2.3 million tons of animal feed and 282 million pounds of renewable corn oil to the market. We strive to deliver the best product at the highest value as safely and efficiently as possible. Delivery from our facilities in the Midwest to almost anywhere in the country is convenient, fast and efficient. We utilize trucks for transport to local markets, major U.S. rail carriers and barges to ship to other parts of the country and ocean vessels to ship internationally. Our terminals also allow us to deliver to blenders in previously underserved regions, further expanding our customer base. Contributing to an emerging bioeconomy, our low-CI oils are helping customers meet the following U.S. and international clean-energy standards and laws: ¥ U.S. RFS ¥ California Air Resources Board LCFS ¥ Oregon Clean Fuels Program ¥ Washington State Clean Fuel Standard ¥ British ColumbiaÕs Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Renewable & Low Carbon Fuel Requirements) Act and the Renewable & Low Carbon Fuel Requirements Regulation ¥ Canadian Clean Fuel Standard ¥ Brazil's RenovaBio ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS Protecting Product Quality and Safety The quality and safety of our ingredients are crucial to our customers, to food and fuel systems, and to us. Green Plains employs a range of tools and standards to help ensure the safety and quality of our products for our customers and their purposes: ¥ First, all our products are subject to either a Certificate of Analysis process, testing to earn feed tags with guarantees, or other forms of quality assurance testing. ¥ Further, our facilities are audited by the FDA to assess our compliance with Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) regulations. There have been no negative findings at any of our facilities from these FDA audits. ¥ Additionally, we maintain Safety Data Sheets (SDS) for all of our products that record such information as sourcing of components, substances that might produce an environmental impact, and safe use and disposal. Because product quality and safety are a fundamental responsibility of our business and integral to our success, we assess and evolve our assurance processes on an ongoing basis. In 2022, we implemented the following for all facilities equipped with MSCª technology as they came online: ¥ Product Quality and Food Safety Manual ¥ Quality Management System (QMS) and corresponding Quality Procedures ¥ Quality Deviation Report (QDR) and QDR training ¥ Corrective action and preventative action (CAPA) programs/tools and training for all employees Additional product quality and safety initiatives accomplished in 2022 include: ¥ Implementing an internal audit program to maintain no negative findings on future FDA audits ¥ Building a database to pull testing (e.g., feed tags, COA) for product specifications to establish limits and identify out-of.specification products ¥ Creating a KPI for tracking percentage of products meeting specifications ¥ Planning QDR training for all new MSCª facilities coming online in 2023 ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY Suppliers We strive to partner with suppliers that are, like Green Plains, working to advance sustainability in their operations and practice good corporate citizenship. Our choice of suppliers affects our larger ESG impact and potential for progress. Our dedicated group of suppliers, primarily based in North America, consistently meet the needs of our growing business. We do not outsource any significant part of our activities. Our Code of Vendor Conduct ¥ Green Plains monitors our suppliersÕ compliance with our sustainability goals ¥ Green Plains assesses and screens third parties, including corn suppliers as of 2022 SCREENING OUR ENZYME, YEAST AND OTHER CHEMICAL SUPPLIERS ¥ 2018Ð2019: Majority screened using limited ESG criteria ¥ 2020: 100% screened using limited ESG criteria ¥ 2021: Enhanced ESG screening ¥ 2022: Increased watch lists and other sources used in screenings from 63 to 880 SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS  Our Suppliers and Service Providers  We rely on our strong relationships with suppliers and local municipalities for the following goods and services: CORN Each of our biorefineries requires on average approximately 30 million bushels of corn annually, depending on production capacity. We spend over 80% of our procurement budget on local corn suppliers, the majority of which are family farms. Corn is an annually renewable crop that captures CO2 from the air as it grows and sequesters it in the soil and in the kernel. NATURAL GAS Our biorefineries use approximately 29,000 BTUs of natural gas per gallon of production. We have service agreements to acquire the natural gas we need and transport it through pipelines to our biorefineries. WATER Many of our biorefineries use groundwater, including one that uses recycled municipal water, for operations. Drinkable water is also obtained from the city. Local municipalities supply the necessary water to biorefineries that do not have on-site wells. ELECTRICITY Local utilities supply on average approximately 0.8 kilowatt hours of electricity per gallon of production to each of our biorefineries. Many of these utilities source a significant portion of their energy from renewable sources, like the utility that supplies our Superior, Iowa biorefinery, which is located near a wind farm. OTHER SUPPLIERS Enzymes, yeast, denaturant and bulk commodity chemicals are obtained from domestic suppliers. ABOUT OUR COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN PLAINS TO SUSTAINABILITY Communities Giving Back: A Banner Year In 2022, Green Plains surpassed our goal of increasing monetary donations by 10%-20% over the 2021 figure, donating $274,338 to meaningful causes and events. Across Green Plains, our people also volunteered a total of 4,004 hours, surpassing our stated target of 2,000 hours by 100%. Together, we pushed beyond expectations to make an even greater impact in our communities. We are only as successful and healthy as the communities where we live and work, and 2022 was a banner year in helping to strengthen our communities. We volunteered at food banks, homeless shelters, animal shelters, youth events and more. In 2023, we are considering new ways to further encourage service to our communities, with more opportunities for our teams to volunteer together. We continue to develop and enhance partnerships with organizations that support our strategic goals, including cleanup and beautification projects, youth agricultural organizations and events, health and safety entities, STEM-related events and nonprofits, rural schools, community disaster-recovery events, diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, and more. In addition, our teams sponsor state and county fairs, school district events, career fairs and unique local partnerships. We sponsor booster clubs, local safety campaigns and volunteer firefighter appreciation events. In 2022, we also enhanced our sponsorship procedures, outlining budgets for all locations and prioritizing local giving. In Omaha, we are the leading sponsor of the American Lung SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING FRAMEWORKS 2022 ACHIEVEMENT: Monetary donations increased by 12.47% (vs. 2021) 2022 GOAL: Increase monetary donations by 10 20% (vs. 2021) Association Corporate Cup. This annual event raises approximately $330,000 for education, as well as lung disease research, support, programs and services. Beyond the company donation, our team of employees consistently ranks in the top-five fundraising teams across the entire event. At Green Plains, we take our citizenship seriously and hold ourselves accountable as good stewards and good neighbors. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Further, to help protect the health and safety of our local communities, we evaluate the environmental impacts of our operations by: ¥ Ensuring that 100% of our operations have implemented environmental impact assessments ¥ Performing ongoing monitoring via EPA's Risk Management Program and our own Process Safety Management policy and procedures CAPITAL INVESTMENT Green Plains also supports local communities by contributing to rural economies and livelihoods, as well as into the U.S. economy as a whole. In 2022, we continued to maintain a mutually beneficial relationship with local farmers, infusing capital into rural economies and communities throughout the Midwest: ¥ Green Plains directly infused over $1.6 billion into local communities near our biorefineries via grain purchases in 2022, including over $822 million in direct purchases from area farmers ¥ Green Plains' MSCª installations have an $11 million impact in their communities, through increased hotel, restaurant, entertainment and local contract spending As a whole, the biofuel industry made significant monetary contributions to rural communities and the U.S. economy in 2022: ¥ Directly and indirectly supported more than 421,600 jobs in the U.S. ¥ Added more than $57 billion to the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through annual operations, transportation and new project construction ¥ Provided an additional $34.8 billion to U.S. households through biofuel production Source: https://ethanolrfa.org/media-and-news/ category/news-releases/article/2023/02/new.study-ethanol-industry-s-impact-on-the-u-s.economy-strengthened-in-2022 