Our Commitment to Sustainability  Sustainability is both a driver and an outcome of our ongoing transformation into a customer-centric producer of low-carbon ingredients.  Green Plains is committed to fully realizing this transformation. We are passionate about delivering on the rapidly expanding opportunities and crucial benefits of the emerging bioeconomy.  In concrete terms, this means that we continually innovate across our four pillars of Protein, Renewable Corn Oil, Sugar and Carbon. We are advancing and multiplying our renewable processes and coproducts to benefit a far-reaching set of stakeholders Ñ employees, farmers, customers, suppliers, shareholders, communities and our shared environment.  In parallel, we continue to evolve our social and governance infrastructures to enable the success of our ambitious initiatives. We work to continually evaluate and improve our practices in these areas to position Green Plains to meet the growing sustainability needs of a changing world.  SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW  page 10  page 12  page 13  page 14  page 21  ESG and  Stakeholder  Value Chain  A Culture of  ESG Highlights  Climate Change  Engagement and Key  Transformation  Innovation  Governance  ESG Topics  ESG and Climate Change Governance Board Oversight The Green Plains Board monitors compliance with the companyÕs regulatory requirements and is dedicated to the oversight of ESG topics, including climate change, GHG emissions and employee safety. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board has primary oversight of our ESG initiatives, with the goal of integrating ESG strategy into our overall business strategy. The BoardÕs other committees provide support to the entire Senior Leadership Team (SLT) by overseeing certain key areas of impact. Nominating and Governance Committee Pursuant to its charter, the Nominating and Governance Committee oversees ESG topics, including the development, approval and updating of the CompanyÕs ESG purpose, mission statements, strategies, policies and goals. It is responsible for monitoring progress of strategy and goals and reviewing climate-related topics on a quarterly basis. The committee is earnest about transparency and is responsible for oversight of ESG initiatives, including this Sustainability Report. Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors compliance with the company's Code of Ethics and hotline reporting and reviews conflicts of interest and related-party transactions. The Audit Committee is also responsible for assessing risks related to cybersecurity and mitigating those exposures with policies and procedures. Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee determines remuneration policies with help from third-party compensation consultants. The committee holds our executives accountable for our ESG priorities by integrating performance measures that align with our goals. Since 2012, we have included a safety metric in our annual incentive award program and adopted a compensation recovery policy that goes beyond legal requirements and puts emphasis on ethics and compliance. Our 2021 and 2022 compensation programs incorporated ESG performance criteria. Management Governance Green PlainsÕ President and CEO is the most senior member of the SLT responsible for the companyÕs overall strategy and performance, including oversight of ESG topics such as climate-related risks and opportunities. The SLT is composed of the President and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Transformation Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Legal & Administration Officer (CLAO), Chief Human Resources Officer, Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Executive Vice President of Operations & Technology, Executive Vice President of Commercial Operations and Executive Vice President of Product Marketing & Innovation. The President and CEO is also a member of the Board, reporting to the Board on a regular basis. In recognition of the importance of collaboration and integration of ESG across the organization, our SLT is actively engaged with: ¥ Developing governance practices responsive to climate-related issues. ¥ Regularly reviewing the company's performance versus targets related to ESG goals such as GHG emissions, energy use, customer relationships, employee safety, customer safety and community outreach. ¥ Incorporating risk assessment and ESG strategy into financial and operational plans. ¥ Making recommendations to our Compensation Committee to link executive compensation to ESG performance. ¥ Implementing technical and operational changes that improve climate-related performance. ¥ Engaging with investors on climate-related issues. ¥ Participating in the company's climate-related disclosure practices. The SLT is the highest management level responsible for climate-related issues, and the ESG Workgroup is responsible for the day-to-day identification and management of ESG topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities. This group consists of cross-functional subject matter experts at the associate, management and executive levels and is led by the ESG Program Manager and Senior Vice President (SVP), Sustainability, who coordinate with the Chief Legal & Administration Officer. The SLT and ESG Workgroup review and approve all policies and approaches developed by subject matter experts and track metrics relative to ESG goals over time to the fullest extent possible. Our position as a leading biorefining company focused on transforming annually renewable crops into sustainable, value-added ingredients dictates our responsibility to ESG issues at all levels. By including representatives from all key areas and levels of the company, the ESG Workgroup ensures a coordinated, company-wide approach. The importance of ESG performance is well integrated across operations, legal, trade, finance, accounting, product sales, technology, EHSS, investor relations and human resources. The ESG Workgroup facilitates outreach between certain stakeholders and the Board, using various means to consult with stakeholders and subsequently reporting back through the CLAO to the Nominating and Governance Committee. Members of the ESG Workgroup meet with the SLT quarterly to report on our environmental performance and status of initiatives and to discuss ESG-related strategy. The ESG Workgroup, through the ESG Program Manager and SVP, Sustainability, reports directly to the CLAO, who meets quarterly with the Nominating and Governance Committee on all ESG matters, including climate-related risks and opportunities. Our committee charters and corporate governance policies can be found on our website. We continuously monitor performance tracking related to ESG based on analysis from ESG rating agencies (including but not limited to Sustainalytics, MSCIª, ISS and S&P) as well as through stakeholder engagement processes, Q&A during quarterly earnings calls, annual shareholder meetings, feedback from our 24/7 ethics hotline and direct engagement with investors. Stakeholder Engagement and Key ESG Topics We identify and assess our impacts based on a wide range of information, including active and ongoing stakeholder engagement, internal assessments, enterprise risk management systems, legal reviews, governmental agency and non-governmental organization reports, peer filings and industry reports. These actions help us prioritize disclosure, data collection, goal-setting and strategy development. Throughout this stakeholder-oriented, data-driven and forward-looking approach to identify and assess our top environmental, social and governance impacts, we communicated directly with key internal and external stakeholders, leveraged ESG research and ratings, and vetted them against global frameworks and standards. Our ongoing stakeholder engagement process consists of a combination of formal materiality assessments, press releases, town halls, social media, 24/7 ethics hotline, earnings calls and direct outreach, among other tactics. Our key stakeholder groups and methods of engagement are outlined in this graphic. On page 21, we highlight the key ESG topics that are the most important to our business success and key stakeholder groups. This enables us to prioritize crucial ESG areas based on their relevance to stakeholders and impact on business. Stakeholder Engagement EMPLOYEES ¥ Town halls ¥ Company announcements ¥ Social media ¥ 24/7 ethics hotline ¥ Charitable events ¥ Weekly newsletter ¥ Company intranet ¥ Press releases CUSTOMERS, VENDORS, SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS ¥ Press releases ¥ Social media ¥ 24/7 ethics hotline ¥ Customer appreciation days SHAREHOLDERS ¥ Annual shareholder meetings ¥ Press releases ¥ Social media ¥ Publicly accessible quarterly earnings conference calls ¥ Direct outreach ¥ National investor events LOCAL COMMUNITIES ¥ Press releases ¥ Company announcements ¥ Social media ¥ 24/7 ethics hotline ¥ Charitable events ¥ Direct outreach initiatives, partnerships and site tours GOVERNMENT AGENCIES ¥ Earnings releases ¥ Financial filings ¥ Regulatory reporting Value Chain Transformation A Culture of Innovation 2022 was a year of innovation and technological milestones for Green PlainsÕ ongoing transformation. Notably, we opened our Innovation Center at Omaha, the third such center across our platform. The Innovation Center at Omaha features a commercial-scale aquaculture feed mill, state-of.the-art laboratory space for aquaculture and Fluid Quip Technologies (FQT), and further lab space for potential future university partnerships. The facility also serves as a showroom for our companyÕs transformation and technologies. Alongside our existing Innovation Center at York, Nebraska and our Optimal Aqualab in Shenandoah, Iowa, the Innovation Center at Omaha rounds out our full suite of research, development and production capabilities. The Innovation Center at York features a pilot fermentation train as well as a world-class analytical lab, allowing for rapid testing of process yields. Additionally, the Innovation Center has downstream separation equipment used for on-site pilot development of FQTÕs Clean Sugar Technologyª (CSTª) and testing of process enhancements to the patented Maximized Stillage Co-Productsª (MSCª) protein recovery system. Being a leader in agricultural technology means investing in research and a devotion to identifying and scaling up the best available processes. These three innovation centers serve that crucial purpose for Green Plains. 2022 Technology Highlights: Breakthroughs in Sugar, Protein and Feedstock Ag-tech innovation is the catalyst of transformation at Green Plains, and it played a significant role in expanding our lower-carbon ingredient portfolio in 2022. We are leveraging patented technologies developed by our majority-owned subsidiary FQT to unlock more value from each kernel of corn while simultaneously lowering the carbon intensity (CI) of our ingredients across our operations. In this section, we highlight key technological innovations implemented last year that have significantly expanded our ability to offer new, lower-carbon alternatives for our customer partners in rapidly expanding markets. feedstock Any renewable, biological material that can be used directly as a fuel or converted to another form or fuel or energy product.4 4 Recent Advances in Thermochemical Conversion of Biomass, 2015 SOCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORTING FRAMEWORKS A New, Clean Sugar With Wide Applications Developed by FQT, CSTª can be used in dry-milling facilities such as those operated by Green Plains to produce dextrose and glucose rather than ethanol as their primary products. It is at the core of the build-out of our biocampus model, which will contribute to and support the emerging biorevolution. We are leveraging CSTª to add the production of low-carbon dextrose and glucoseÑthe benefits of which are significantÑto our biotechnology portfolio. As when producing ethanol, the process of making clean sugar also creates high-value co-products such as renewable corn oil and high-protein feed ingredients. Further, CSTª provides industrial quantities of carbohydrate feedstock that can be used in manufacturing applications in the growing biochemical, renewable chemical and synthetic biology industries. CSTª dextrose also has a lower CI score than dextrose produced with traditional wet-milling processes. Scaling Clean Sugar In 2022, we achieved food-grade certification, FSSC 22000, at our pilot CSTª production facility at our Innovation Center in York, Nebraska. Stringent quality management and a continuous improvement approach resulted in certification of our glucose and dextrose syrups at this facility, where production is ongoing. Following this external validation, in the third quarter 2022, we broke ground on a first-of-its.kind, full-scale CSTª production facility co-located with our Shenandoah, Iowa, bio-campus. Initial outputs are estimated at 200 million pounds of dextrose/glucose annually, with the ability to scale up to 500 million pounds upon further investment. This new CSTª facility will utilize a portion of the current biorefinery corn grind as a feedstock to produce its sugar. It will also return all remaining components of the corn Ñ proteins, fibers, oils, unused starches and sugars Ñ to the biorefinery. Scheduled to become operational by the first quarter of 2024, the Shenandoah CSTª facility is expected to produce 95% dextrose-equivalent (DE) and mid-DE products for shipment via rail and truck or eventually directly to over-the-fence partners. 2022 Breakthroughs ¥ Achieving food grade certification at pilot CSTª facility ¥ Breaking ground on first of its kind, commercial scale CSTª facility ¥ Entering discussions with potential co location partners and customers From Biorefineries to Biocampuses: Leading a Biorevolution Renewable feedstock from the most abundant renewable carbon source available OUR PRODUCTS CONTRIBUTE TO THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY: Produced cleanly, without harsh chemicals Lower CI than alternatives Renewable source of carbon Providing Lower-Carbon Alternatives Production of our new 95-DE and mid-DE products will expand opportunities for Green Plains and our customer partners across the food and beverage, synthetic biology and biochemical industries. Due to their lower CI compared with competitors' offerings, CSTª-produced ingredients can help companies reduce their carbon footprints and gain a competitive edge in todayÕs sustainability-focused markets. CSTª-produced carbohydrate (renewable carbon) feedstocks can deliver considerably lower CI scores than conventional fossil-derived feedstocks, such as crude oil and coal. Additionally, Green Plains' dry milling process produces bio-based glucose and dextrose at a dramatically lower CI than other available technologies, such as wet milling. A recent internal report shows this CI reduction compared to a wet mill to be anywhere from 20% to 48%, due to the unique advantages of FQTÕs patented technology, which allows a dry mill to skip an energy-intensive portion of the sugar production process found on the front end of a wet mill. There are several reasons for this. First, CSTª is fundamentally focused on the production of sugars (glucose and dextrose), whereas wet mill technology focuses on the starch. Second, it is inherently simpler to separate the sugars from the other coproducts such as fiber, protein and renewable corn oil. Third, this innovative approach leads to more efficient processes and less equipment and energy use. Taken together, the use of CSTª equates to lower electrical, chemical and water usage per unit of production. Additionally, because CSTª uses some of the same processes as a dry mill ethanol facility, we can see further benefits in the production of low-CI sugar and low-CI ethanol. CARBON INTENSITY (KG CO2 E/MT DRY SUGAR) Dry Mill Clean Sugar Wet Mill Sugar Source: Recent internal report SUPPLYING A BURGEONING MARKET In North America, demand for bio-based glucose and dextrose derived from corn, one of the most abundant renewable carbon sources available, is high and expected to continue growing. Meeting this expanding demand will require new sources of glucose and dextrose, and Green PlainsÕ investment in CSTª strategically positions us to supply these markets. The bio-based glucose and dextrose industry, including bioplastics, biochemicals, renewable chemicals and synthetic biology, is diverse and evolving quickly. According to the Biotechnology Innovation Organization, the global economic value of the biotechnology industry is estimated at $355 billion.5 Going forward, it is expected that large amounts of fermentable sugars will be required for next-generation biopolymer, biochemical, biofuel and food products.6 Even if the world were to recycle 100% of its products, there would still be a need for virgin materials to keep pace with overall economic growth.7 In addition, consumer preferences are increasing demand for responsibly produced ingredients and products. Consumers expect products to be derived from renewable sources and manufactured in a safe and non-invasive manner. By incorporating and driving the use of CSTª in our operations, Green Plains is well suited to help meet this demand; our process extracts sugar from corn using simple enzymes and mechanical separation, avoiding harsh chemicals traditionally used at wet mills. Replacing widely used, non-renewable petroleum-based feedstocks with renewable carbon feedstocks, such as bio-based glucose and dextrose derived from corn, can deliver far-reaching sustainability benefits. 5 Biotechnology Innovation Organization. Renewable chemical platforms building the biobased economy. Ind. Biotechnol.14:109, 2018 6 Singh V, Stone J, Roberts JP, et al. Industrial biotechnology shaping corn biorefineries of the future. Cereal Foods World 2019;64(4) 7 Expert View: Five ways biotech supports the transition to a more circular economy. Bio Market Insights Feb 14, 2019 by Christophe Schilling, CEO, Genomatica BETTER PROTEINS, MORE RENEWABLE CORN OIL, EVEN LESS CARBON Green Plains is leveraging another of FQTÕs patented tools, MSCª technology, to achieve breakthroughs in higher-protein feed ingredients and valuable low-CI feedstock for the production of advanced biofuels such as renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). In using the MSCª system, we can achieve 50% or greater protein concentration, which combined with the high yeast component, is a valuable ingredient for pet, aquaculture, poultry, swine and dairy rations. This technology is crucial in our work to produce sustainable higher-protein feed ingredients, optimal starch utilization and more Ñ all without expanding crop acreage. Additionally, the MSCª system can increase the volume of renewable corn oil we are able to extract from the process by 50%. Renewable corn oil serves as a valuable feedstock for the production of advanced biofuels like renewable diesel and SAF. In 2022, Green Plains completed the construction of three additional MSCª installations: Central City, Nebraska; Mount Vernon, Indiana; and Obion, Tennessee. These join our Shenandoah, Iowa, and Wood River, Nebraska, biorefineries already producing Ultra-High Protein. These five facilities account for more than half of our total 2023 production capacity. We also completed a Cradle-to-Gate Life Cycle Assessment of our Ultra-High Protein product, following the EUÕs Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) methodology.8 The results of the assessment include a CI from the Climate Change impact category of PEF in kilograms of CO2e per metric ton of Ultra-High Protein and utilize an economic allocation to easily compare our results to other common feed ingredients included in the Global Feed Life-Cycle Institute (GFLI) database. According to the PEF analysis, the CI of our Ultra-High Protein is 1,340 kg CO2e/ton UHP, which compares very favorably to many common alternative feed ingredients on the market today. Our protein products also have many functional characteristics that several alternatives, such as pea protein, lack, in addition to having a smaller carbon footprint. GFLI DATABASE SAMPLE (CRADLE-TO-GATE, ECONOMIC ALLOCATION IN USD)  LIFE CYCLE IMPACT ASSESSMENT  Product Name  Climate Change (Kg CO2 e/Ton Product)  Corn DDGS at U.S. ethanol plant  655  Fishmeal at Norwegian fishmeal and oil production plant 1,041 Corn gluten meal at global wet mill plant 1,125 Ultra-High Protein at U.S. ethanol plant 1,340 Pea protein-concentrate, at German plant Soybean meal at Brazilian crushing plant 4,257 Soybean protein concentrate at Brazilian crushing plant 8 The LCA study is not a formal PEF assessment due to the absence of a suitable PEF Category Rule (CR) for our product. GREEN PLAINS INC. 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 Breakthroughs ¥ Used MSCª systems to create higher protein animal feed, including aquaculture applications ¥ Extracted 50% more renewable corn oil with operational MSCª systems an important low CI feedstock for advanced biofuels such as renewable diesel and SAF ¥ Added three new MSCª installations, for a total of five, with annual capacity of 330,000 tons ¥ Achieved over 50% of total production capacity powered by MSCª in 2023 A CLEANER, HIGHER-QUALITY PROTEIN Green PlainsÕ protein products are plant-based, with key components of both corn and yeast. While other plant-based proteins rely on harsh chemicals and solvents to extract their product, Green Plains uses clean mechanical separation of fiber, fat and protein to produce consistent and nutritious Ultra-High Protein products. Corn has traditionally been considered an energy crop due to its starch content. However, by employing fermentation in conjunction with MSCª technology, we are transforming corn into a versatile dual-purpose energy and protein resource. A BETTER NUTRITIONAL PROFILE Our MSCª systems have achieved a baseline 50% crude protein with an optimum balance of inputs and yields. We have conducted further trials to achieve higher protein concentrations, with a proven path to commercial-scale concentrations above 60%. Additionally, through exclusive technology partnerships, we are leveraging a suite of biotechnology enhancements to achieve further improvements to the nutrition profile of our Ultra-High Protein. These improvements aim to provide feed formulators with the option to partially replace an even wider range of animal and plant-based proteins in an effort to increase their feed quality and reduce overall costs. However, this is not just a protein quantity story. It's also about greater digestibility and nutritional value. A key parameter for nutritional evaluation is digestibility, also known as the amount of nutrients absorbed by the animal being fed. FQTÕs and Green PlainsÕ nutrition researchers have evaluated our protein productsÕ digestibility in several animal groups, including swine, poultry and fish. These studies have demonstrated that our amino acid digestibility is high (>87%) and consistent.9 Furthermore, Green PlainsÕ Innovation Center at York lab team demonstrated our products' high quantity of small peptides, which support its consistently high digestibility values. MSCª technologyÕs unique separation and final drying process ensures that there is minimal protein quality degradation when the product is dried. The protein ingredient industry has been facing the perennial challenge of properly drying its product without causing heat damage and loss of digestibility. The gentle, non-contact drying used in the MSCª system across the Green Plains production platform ensures consistent protein integrity. Another important nutrition consideration is the amino acid distribution of a protein. Nutritionists typically evaluate the levels of amino acids in proteins, such as lysine, methionine, valine and tryptophan, among others. Various research studies led by FQT, Green Plains and independent research institutes have confirmed the significant presence of these desirable amino acids in our products as well as our products' excellent digestibility coefficients. Finally, as nutritionists balance the needs of animals, they must consider the energy that feeds provide. A recent study concluded that the energy value of Green Plains' protein products is significantly higher than that of other common plant-based proteins.10 A YEAST GENERATOR The MSCª process recovers much of the spent yeast, a valuable ingredient in animal nutrition that is generated in the fermentation process. The ethanol industry is a net producer of spent yeast, through the production of distillers grains and Ultra-High Protein, which is used to make animal feed. While the amount of yeast added to fermentation is measured and known, there is also an approximate 40-fold generation of yeast during the fermentation process. This yeast co-product of our Ultra-High Protein production helps reduce the carbon footprint of our feed 9 Source: Study conducted by Dr. Carl Parsons, University of Illinois 10 Nutritional value of ethanol coproduct evaluated for poultry, Bill Dudley-Cash, Feedstuffs Vol. 89, No. 11, November 6, 2017. operations, needing no additional arable land for its generation and by extension promoting biodiversity. The yeast component self-propagates in a closed-loop fermentation system within the relatively small footprint of a modern-day biorefinery. Approximately 24% of the dry matter of our high-protein product is spent brewerÕs yeast. Further, yeast has been studied extensively in animal nutrition and is known to be a high-quality protein source with further immuno.stimulatory properties. Studies have shown that the use of yeast in animal diets results in high growth, feed intake and feed efficiency rates, with positive effects on robustness and health in fish.11,12 Similarly, yeast cell wall components and intracellular contents have been shown to have a valuable influence on health and immune competence. A recent study found that yeast as a protein source has a favorable amino acid profile, preferable taste and positive health effects.13 Experiments with yeast in diets for salmon concluded that yeast supports high-growth performance and improves fish health.14 Another study on the effect of yeast on gut health in Atlantic salmon found that yeast reduced inflammation in the gut, strengthened the gut barrier function and increased protection against pathogens.15 A SUPERIOR SCALABLE SOLUTION The global feed industry relies on consistent sources of ingredients to manufacture approximately 1.36 billion tons of compound feed.16 A novel protein must be available year-round depending on the animal species, demonstrate consistency in its nutritional parameters and come in sufficient volumes to support the complex, large-scale logistics and production infrastructure of the feed industry. Volume, regulatory compliance and resilience in the supply chain are hurdles that other novel protein technologies, such as insect protein and single-cell proteins, are having difficulty clearing. Using MSCª technology, we are developing and commercializing a new protein alternative that can meet these criteria while also contributing to the circular economy Ñ a major breakthrough in the global feed sector. We have a unique opportunity to produce a 50%+ plant-based protein at scale using our dry milling ethanol processes. A CIRCULAR ECONOMY STANDOUT MSCª is making it possible for Green Plains to create high-quality animal feed ingredients from material that human beings would not consume rather than from additional valuable land or marine resources. Because they are coproducts of existing biofuel operations, Green Plains' Ultra-High Protein products exemplify the dynamics of a circular economy, in which the reuse and regeneration of materials or products eases impacts on limited natural resources. These high-value alternative protein products have considerable environmental benefits. A recent study revealed that the replacement of 10% of a common vegetable protein with MSCª proteins is associated with a 19% and 14% reduction in CO2 emissions associated with poultry and salmon production, respectively.17 Feed accounts for the largest overall environmental impact of Atlantic salmon farming in all measured categories except eutrophication.18 POTENTIAL FOR AQUACULTURE MARKETS Aquaculture is one of the fastest-growing industries in the world. Green Plains has a unique opportunity to become a key supplier of high-quality, plant-based aquafeed for land-based recirculating aquaculture systems (RASs), which normally feed fish to fish. Our Ultra-High Protein product is currently being tested in our aquafeed formulations and could potentially reduce demand for fishmeal in fish feed formulations, which in turn would help reduce the overfishing of the oceans. We believe the inclusion of our Ultra-High Protein product in aquafeed formulations could positively impact the fish in/fish out (FIFO) ratio of aquafeed, where FIFO is a measure of kilograms of whole wild fish for fishmeal production per every 1 kilogram of farmed fish production. 11 Overland & Skrede 2016, Yeast derived from lignocellulosic biomass as a sustainable feed resource for use in aquaculture, J. Sci. of Food & Agriculture 12 Hauptman, B.S. et al. 2014; Aquaculture 432:7-14 13 Overland & Skrede 2017, Review, J. Sci. of Foods & Agriculture 14 Overland et al., 2013, Aquaculture, Sahlmann & Djordjevic et al., 2019; Aquaculture, Hansen et al., 2019, Aquaculture, Reveco & Hofosaeter et al., PlosOne In press 15 Grammes et al., 2013 Plos One; Reveco & Hofosaeter et al., Plos One In press; Hansen et al., 2019, Aquaculture; Sahlmann, Djordevic et al., 2019 Aquaculture 16 Alltech Agri-Food Outlook 2022 17 Burton et al., 2021, Use of an Ethanol Bio-Refinery Product as a Soy Bean Alternative in Diets for Fast-Growing Meat Production Species: A Circular Economy Approach, MDPI 18 Sherry, J. and J Koester Life cycle assessment of aquaculture council certified Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). Sustainability 12:6079 ESG Highlights Each year, our ESG reporting focuses on areas of greatest importance to both our business success and our key stakeholders. Goal setting, measurement, disclosure and continual progress are integral to our ESG efforts. In the tables that follow, we share an overview of the goals we set for 2022 for each of our Key ESG Topics, the progress made toward those targets in 2022 and some related goals that we have set for 2023 and beyond. 