COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS IN GHANA In 2014 Hess Ghana undertook seismic survey and drilling operations in its offshore Deep Water Tano/Cape Three Points license area. The seismic survey, lasting almost four months, collected data over a seabed area of 1,800 square kilometers and was followed later in the year by the drilling of three appraisal wells. As part of the project development, Hess identified coastal fishing communities as an important stakeholder group due to the potential for interaction offshore between fishing canoes and company vessels. Hess reached out and consulted with the fishermen, traditional leaders, and the six District Assemblies closest to the license area. At the community level, a key to success was to work through the chief fishermen, who commanded respect in each community and facilitated discussion in small groups. Engagement with the fishermen gave Hess a good understanding of the issues and challenges that the fishing community faces, and by developing good relationships it permitted early and easy resolution of problems. A good example was the resolution of an incident in which a fisherman’s nets were damaged by a seismic survey vessel. A swift investigation, with help from the chief fisherman, the Fishermen’s Association and the Fisheries Commission, allowed Hess to replace the damaged equipment in a timely and equitable manner. Hess works to identify and map its operational stakeholders and develop engagement plans at each asset. Assets create, maintain and implement a strategic social investment program tailored to that operation and community. Grievance Mechanisms Formal grievance mechanisms support stakeholders who are seeking to share feedback with companies on their operational impacts and help ensure that the company has a process to respond to and act on that feedback. Through our membership in IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, and in partnership with six of our sector peers, in 2014 we participated in a voluntary pilot project at one of our shale energy asset locations. We also developed an internal database to support implementation and management of our stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes. We are applying the learnings from our site specific grievance mechanism pilot to an enterprise wide set of guidance and accompanying tools to support our efforts to enhance our ability to listen to, engage and respond to stakeholders. Through a consistent application of robust grievance mechanisms, we hope to strengthen our relationships with communities and respond more effectively to their concerns, thus addressing issues before they grow into more severe or widespread problems. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT Engaging with stakeholders helps us to proactively identify, mitigate and manage above ground risks that can impact communities and projects. Prior to new country entry, project startup, or expanding existing facilities, we examine the social, political and economic environment to identify non-technical risks and mitigation activities and integrate them into our strategic planning. Recent examples include the following: • We completed a third party social and environmental baseline study for Hess’ Bakken operations and surrounding communities. The findings provided Hess with a better understanding of environmental and social issues the region is facing. The study captured feedback from internal and external stakeholders, and the findings have been incorporated into mitigation plans, stakeholder discussions and industry partnership opportunities. The study will also help inform social investments going forward. • We conducted social and environmental studies in Kurdistan, Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia in conjunction with our operational activity and to provide additional information for social responsibility and investment programs. • We commissioned a report of the downtown Houston area where Hess Tower is located. The report identified socio-economic issues and potential social investment opportunities. Human Rights Building trusted partnerships and treating people with dignity and respect are part of our company’s culture. Although it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, companies like ours must act with care and respect for the human rights of all citizens wherever we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human rights related incidents by engaging with stakeholders, including communities, to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. We have been working to more firmly align our business practices with our CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy and Security and Human Rights Policy. For example, before we begin exploration activities in a new country, we analyze human rights issues with the understanding that these are clear business risks that must be assessed and managed. This analysis is integrated into the new country entry process to help inform our strategy and approach. In 2014 we continued to implement our Security and Human Rights Toolkit. We conducted one workshop in December 2013 and a second workshop in October 2014, targeted toward our Algeria asset leadership team. We also developed a self-assessment questionnaire to support asset implementation of the Toolkit. We are continuing to expand use of the Toolkit on an ongoing basis with the goal of having workshops at every asset. We also educate our employees on the importance of respecting human rights. We have developed an online training module and documentation for all employees that explains human rights and why they are important to our business. The course reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers employees guidance on integrating respect for human rights into their daily work and provides direction on how to report suspected human rights issues. All employees will be expected to take this course once it launches. In addition, human rights content is included in our mandatory Code of Conduct training, which all employees completed in 2014. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING For Hess, CSR is more than philanthropy and what we do with our profits; it is about how we operate. Our programs have evolved over time to incorporate a broader understanding of what it means to invest in a community. Philanthropy is an element for developing communities and maintaining a social license to operate, yet it is not sufficient in and of itself. To make a contribution to sustainable development, companies must excel in areas beyond charitable giving, such as local sourcing, capacity building and workforce development, while also minimizing the social and environmental impacts from operations. Our strategic social investments are designed to create shared value that improves the quality of life in local communities and helps create a favorable environment for our operations. We focus in particular on education and heath, contributing to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in the supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. 2014 Social Investment Spending by Country ($ Thousands) 75% U.S. $31,881 Equatorial Guinea $8,059 Kurdistan Region of Iraq $1,134 All Others* $1,326 *Includes Algeria, Australia, Denmark, France, Ghana, Libya, Malaysia, St. Lucia, U.K. 2014 Type of Investment ($ Thousands) 1% <1% 2% <1% <1% Education $33,752 Community $5,367 In-Kind $1,799 Disaster Relief $664 Health $576 Environment $95 Other $86 Arts & Culture $61 Note: These charts include all social investments in 2014, including those associated with joint venture operations. COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE We have several different types of social investment programs; in general, these include corporate-led, multi-year and multi-million-dollar flagship programs as well as asset-based projects with moderate funding levels. In 2014 our social investments totaled $42.4 million, with $33.8 million going toward education projects. Another $6.6 million was earmarked for economic development, health and capacity building. Flagship Investments in Education We currently have two flagship projects that are focused on helping to develop secondary education systems and capacity. PRODEGE II Building on Hess’ PRODEGE project to develop the primary education system in Equatorial Guinea, PRODEGE II carries the theme of quality education to the junior secondary population. The program, funded at $50 million over five years, has three broad goals: • Support the Ministry of Education in its efforts to consolidate the successful outcomes of Phase 1 and replicate them across all primary schools nationwide and to strengthen preschool education ($11.4 million) • Strengthen junior secondary education through intensive teacher training and by introducing an active learning methodology that prepares students for both higher education and the workplace. Activities will target students enrolled in school as well as young people who have left school ($33.1 million) • Build the capacity of the Ministry of Education to better manage and sustain a system of quality education ($5 million) We are receiving implementation assistance from FHI 360, a non-profit human development organization whose role is fiduciary as well as program design, technical assistance in country, monitoring and evaluation. The program started in late 2014 and was able to accomplish several key objectives. At the end of 2014, FHI 360 teamed up with the Ministry of Education to distribute a complete suite of instructional materials to 860 primary schools across the country, benefiting some 33,000 students. FHI 360 also trained the PRODEGE team within the Ministry of Education to train teachers on how to incorporate the materials into classroom instruction. Succeed 2020 Succeed 2020 is a five-year, $25 million program to assist students in North Dakota as they prepare for college, careers and the workplace. The program has been carefully planned and implemented as a partnership with the state of North Dakota and FHI 360. It supports college and career counseling for students, professional development for teachers, tutoring and online learning. Nominated by the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce, Hess was recognized by North Dakota’s State Superintendent of Public Instruction with the 2014 ACT College and Career Readiness Award for this effort. During the 2013/2014 school year, more than 2,500 students from 66 school districts participated in eight college and career fairs, and more than 3,000 students participated in science, technology, engineering and math activities. Thousands of students participated in Roads to Success lessons; this curriculum is designed to integrate college and career planning into classroom lessons. In addition, more than 200 teachers, 300 administrators and 150 counselors and advisors received professional development, support and guidance. Local Programs At the local level, Hess assets and Houston headquarters have focused their social investments in the areas of education and community development. University of North Dakota Petroleum Engineering Program In 2010 the University of North Dakota (UND) launched a $65 million capital campaign to expand the Petroleum Engineering Program, the only program of its type in the state. The program, started in 2010 with four students, increased enrollment to 200 by 2013. While Hess has supported various programs at the university over the years, we committed $5 million in 2014 for infrastructure and other needs to support the school’s rapid growth. This level of funding complements our existing engagements with academic institutions around recruiting and research, enhances our ability to hire engineers locally, and assists UND in building institutional capacity that can help the school secure accreditation. Belmont College Beginning with the 2013/2014 school year, Hess has partnered with Belmont College in Ohio and its foundation to award scholarship funding to incoming and current students enrolled full or part time in an associate degree or certificate program. The purpose is to provide funding to help students gain the highly technical skills necessary to do well in the local economy, where increased oil and gas activity is resulting in an economic revival. Scholarship recipients are selected by the Belmont College Scholarship Committee, in cooperation with the Office of Student Financial Aid. Special considerations are made to non-traditional students who are displaced workers returning to college in order to further their education and regain employment. Key performance metrics for the Hess Corporation Scholarship program include scholarship recipient demographics, completion rates, and job placement data (when available), as well as data on the overall status of the energy programs at Belmont College. LEAP In 2014, LEAP (Learn. Engage. Advance. Persevere.) completed the first year of a three-year pilot dropout prevention program for at-risk middle school students at two Houston, Texas, inner-city schools. Five program partners, including Hess, work collaboratively to provide support to students who are English language learners and over age for their grade level. The first year went well, with partners integrating their programs at the two schools and students leveraging opportunities available to them. Art and design were added to the second year of the program as part of a movement by school districts nationwide to augment the traditional primary through secondary school science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. This addition helps students understand STEM elements through customized applications and more natural ways of learning. LISC Founded in 1979, LISC (Local Initiatives Support Corporation) is the largest community development support organization in the United States. LISC helps to sustainably transform distressed communities through local resident led community development organizations. It supports the development of local leaders and the creation of affordable housing, facilities, local businesses and jobs. Through Hess support, LISC’s Houston program was able to expand their team to conduct financial and employment workshops in addition to launching their Occupational Skills Initiative program to strengthen math and literacy skills for job training programs in health care. LISC also conducted “Leading Together” leadership workshops to educate community leaders on organizing fundamentals, neighborhood affordability and preservation, economic development and systematizing city advocacy. Tioga Fireﬁghter Training Volunteer firefighters in Tioga, North Dakota, benefited from extensive training in 2014 thanks to a $22,000 Bakken Hess Force grant. Six volunteer firemen attended the Texas A&M firefighting school in College Station, Texas, in early 2014. The training courses are similar to real-life situations the firemen would encounter in both the community and in the field. SAFETY AND HEALTH 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS > Achieved a 23 percent  > Closed all action items  improvement in  identified in our 2013  workforce (employees  process safety health  plus contractors) Total  checks by the targeted  Recordable Incident  deadline  Rate and a 14 percent  improvement in  workforce Lost Time  Incident Rate  compared to 2013  Safety is a top priority at Hess. Our ultimate goal is zero incidents, and as we work toward that goal we strive for continuous improvement in key safety metrics. Commitment to and accountability for personal and process safety begins at the highest levels of our company, as performance against our metrics is a component of our bonus formula for executives as well as all employees. PREVENTING DROPPED OBJECT INCIDENTS Our Hess Rules for employees and contractors provide guidance for controlling seven activities (such as lifting and hoisting and working at heights) that are at high risk for fatalities. We also focus on activities such as dropped objects and equipment failure, and we are implementing programs and practices aimed at preventing such incidents. In late 2014 we put a particular focus on preventing dropped objects, in part because of a perceived upward trend pertaining to these types of incidents, including a major incident involving a contractor. To more effectively prevent such injuries from dropped objects, Hess senior management conducted visits in early 2015 with our drilling contractors to discuss and assess their systems for preventing dropped objects. We have also worked with our contractors on their mitigation programs, worked with site personnel so that they understand and react appropriately to hazards, and have conducted routine inspections. We regularly review our contractors’ health and safety systems so that they align with ours. 2015 GOALS  > Successfully conducted a simulation of a major offshore loss of containment incident  > Meet a workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate target of 0.33 or below  in the Gulf of Mexico  – our most complex emergency drill ever  PERSONAL SAFETY We continued to make significant strides in our safety performance in 2014. The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for our full workforce (i.e., employees and contractors together) was 0.40,  a 23 percent improvement from 2013.  Our full workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) was 0.12, a 14 percent improvement from 2013. Our contractor TRIR dropped 25 percent in 2014 compared to 2013, while our employee TRIR was flat year-to-year. We experienced no employee or contractor fatalities in 2014. PROCESS SAFETY Our focus on process safety is to prevent unintentional releases that could result in a major incident such as a fire, explosion or toxic exposure. To manage process safety effectively at Hess, we focus on: • Design integrity – reducing risks to as low as reasonably possible in the design and construction of facilities • Technical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining our hardware • Operational integrity – working within operational design parameters • Process safety leadership – minimizing the likelihood of process safety events through the effective management of  process safety risks by our leaders across the organization > Meet a High Potential > Achieve 95 percent (HiPo) incident rate of implementation of 0.32 or below safety observations Full Workforce Safety Performance1,2 2012 2013 2014 Cases per 200,000 Hours Workforce TRIR Workforce LTIR Employee and Contractor  Safety Performance 2012 2013 2014 Cases per 200,000 Hours Employee TRIR Contractor TRIR 1 Hess corporate and upstream workforce data,  which includes employees plus contractors together. 2 When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are  used. A Lost Time Incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the  incident. We include occupational illness and  occupation-related disease for current  employees in our companywide safety totals. Our process safety program has three strategic elements: enhancing process safety leadership; understanding and identifying process safety vulnerabilities; and educating key people across the organization in process safety awareness. In 2014 we significantly strengthened our process safety systems enterprise wide. First, we worked to address the approximately 400 action items identified in our 2013 process safety “health checks.” A health check is an internal, high-level assessment of the process safety at our various production assets and drilling operations around the world. The on-time completion of the action items was incorporated as a metric in our annual incentive plan formula for Hess employees. At year end 2014, 65 percent of the action items had been addressed, and they all had been closed by the deadline date. All health check action items are on target for closure by year end 2017. Second, we convened a two-day, multi-functional process safety alignment meeting to discuss process safety in depth. The meeting brought together 40 people from various Hess business units and backgrounds with the goals of ensuring that process safety was being addressed consistently across the enterprise, clarifying roles and responsibilities, and identifying opportunities for improvement. The gathering represented a step change in our level of alignment, coordination and communication regarding process safety management. Third, we developed three standards that relate to process safety: • Enterprise Management of Change (MOC) – We have various functional and regional MOC procedures; this standard sets minimum requirements that they must all meet. This will improve MOC implementation by aligning MOC expectations across the enterprise. • Process Safety Information (PSI) – This defines the minimum requirements for documentation that must be maintained. It also requires that any changes to PSI must go through the enterprise MOC process. • Vehicle Entry – This defines requirements to reduce the likelihood of a vehicle engine becoming an ignition source of a release at our onshore production assets and drilling operations. Also in 2014 we continued to conduct process safety awareness training, primarily among our drilling and completions employees and contractors. We have been collecting information on process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) per the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers’ (IOGP) Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. This recommended practice identifies leading and lagging KPIs that can be used to strengthen risk controls and barriers in order to prevent major process safety incidents. In May 2012 we began tracking process safety events (PSEs), which are the result of a loss of primary containment of any material, including non-toxics and non-flammables. These are Tier 1 and Tier 2 lagging KPIs that can be reported at an enterprise level in both internal and external reports. Tier 3 and 4 KPIs are primarily designed for monitoring and review of risk control systems/barriers at the facility, business and enterprise level. Because these indicators are specific to particular facilities or company systems, they are generally not suitable for company-to.company benchmarking or year-on-year corporate performance reporting. The chart below shows our process safety performance in 2013 and 2014, in terms of Tier 1 (greater consequence) and Tier 2 (lesser consequence) process safety events. Data for 2012 were not included because Hess and the industry were in the process of understanding the new IOGP data collection methodology and working to improve the quality of the data. Although year end 2014 data is higher than 2013, a closer look at the cases that comprise this data has not revealed a statistically valid trend. Process Safety Events 2013 2014 Tier 1 PSEs 18 20 Tier 2 PSEs 48 49 Note: Tier 1/Tier 2 criteria and PSE events are based on deﬁnitions from the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, Process Safety–Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. The enterprise included on-time closure of environment, health and safety (EHS) audit and health check action items as a Tier 4 KPI that was included in the 2014 bonus calculation for all Hess employees. The Global Drilling and Completions organization began tracking some specific drilling and completions Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs as well in 2014. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE While we always aim to prevent incidents, we are also prepared to swiftly respond to any emergency that may arise – whatever its cause. Hess’ emergency preparedness and response procedures are designed to protect people from injury, the environment from spills and other incidents, our assets from damage and the company’s reputation from harm – in that order. Our Emergency Response Network is composed of incident response and mitigation personnel at the asset, regional and enterprise levels. In July 2014 we conducted our most complex emergency drill yet – the simulation of a major offshore loss of containment incident in the Gulf of Mexico. The day-long exercise involved all levels of our Emergency Response Network as well as multiple contractors. Going forward we hope to conduct an exercise of this magnitude once each year, in addition to our regular, smaller scale emergency exercises and drills. To complement our own capabilities, we partner with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. In 2014 we joined the Marine Preservation Association, which runs the Marine Spill Response Corporation. This membership significantly enhances our oil spill response capabilities in the Gulf of Mexico. We belong to the Subsea Well Intervention Service, a program that provides well capping and dispersant equipment and oil spill dispersant that can be deployed internationally, and the Wild Well Control Capping System, for international deployment in the case of source control situations. We subscribe to Impact Weather, which provides detailed reports on potential weather threats. In addition, we partner with Oil Spill Response Limited, Marine Well Containment Company, the Subsea Well Response Project, the Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group and Clean Gulf Associates. We are also active members of the Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA (the global oil  and gas industry association for environmental and social issues) and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. The project is developing Good Practice Guides on 24 key aspects of oil spill preparedness and response. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT At Hess, contractors now comprise over 80 percent of our workforce. As this proportion has increased in recent years, we have significantly strengthened our contractor management processes. As part of the procurement process, EHS reviews are conducted for those contractors that are considered higher risk, due either to the number of manhours they will work at Hess or the nature of that work, such as drilling and completions or offshore work. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry safety prequalification software for most major areas of Hess operations. Elsewhere, we use in-house processes such as supplier questionnaires. In the United States, potential contractors receive a grade based on items such as insurance and safety record. If potential contractors receive a low grade, the asset director (or above) must endorse a safety action plan before the contractor may be approved. The procurement process will also typically include an on-location audit. New contractors take part in a four-step onboarding and engagement process. performance during its decommissioning of wells nal safety N LOCAL EFFORTS in the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields in the North Sea, off the U.K. coast. The project involved taking the offshore oil rigs out of service, removing all facilities and subsea structures and permanently closing off the wells. This complex, seven-year process – which has required 6.5 million manhours to date – has achieved a Total Recordable Incident Rate of just 0.13 with only four Lost Time Incidents. HEALTH AND WELLNESS Hess’ health and wellness strategy encompasses several elements of health management: • Health risk assessment and planning • Industrial hygiene and control of workplace exposures • Medical emergency management • Management of health in the workplace, fitness for task assessment and health surveillance • Health impact assessment • Health reporting and record management • Public health interface and promotion of good health 4 Hess partner Belmont College in Ohio to sponsor and facilitate a one-day oilfield emergency response training for 250 local firefighters and emergency medical technicians. The training – which included 21 sessions from which attendees could choose – educated first responders on how to handle the unique challenges that may arise at a shale oil asset. These skills are increasingly important as oil and gas exploration and production in the Utica Shale continue to grow. CE DEV ENT In early 2014 our Occupational Health team met with Hess EHS professionals from around the world to review these elements and introduce a Health Gap Assessment Tool. We began conducting health gap assessments in the second quarter, piloting the effort with the Gulf of Mexico EHS team, followed by Seminole (Texas) and China. Health gap assessments enable our sites to identify any gaps in their health and wellness initiatives and set short and medium term health management priorities. The initial assessments contained some common themes and, in particular, highlighted the need to focus further on industrial hygiene monitoring and practices. This observation was validated by internal audit team findings. In 2014 we worked with our assets in Ghana and Equatorial Guinea to develop plans and guidance to address the Ebola epidemic, should the need arise. Fortunately, no Ebola cases were ultimately reported in these countries. These guidance documents were part of a larger update to our corporate pandemic planning program. Our pandemic plans help us to maintain business continuity by setting triggers and action steps in the case of epidemics such as Ebola or, more commonly, influenza. In the second half of 2014 the Occupational Health team partnered with EHS colleagues in Ohio and North Dakota to conduct industrial hygiene surveillance on noise levels, benzene and silica dust exposure at hydraulic fracturing sites. In addition, we deployed mobile medical surveillance of the Hess workforce at locations throughout North America in 2014. This effort helps to ensure that our workforce is fit for duty and that we are complying with internal requirements and government regulations. It includes hearing testing, respiratory fitness testing and occupational health related medical exams. We also conduct random drug and alcohol surveillance of the workforce, with emphasis on our field locations, to further ensure health and safety at our operations. SAFETY AT OUR DEEPWATER ASSETS Deepwater operations can present personal and process safety risks greater than those of land-based assets. While the drilling and production processes are in many ways similar, the wells tend to be much deeper and are under greater pressure. Accidental discharges can be more severe and harder to contain. Oil spill response is more complicated. And of course, the operations are conducted on self-contained, mobile offshore drilling units. At Hess, we have been managing these safety risks effectively. We currently have three deepwater assets (in more than 1,000 feet of water) in production: Baldpate and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Okume complex in Equatorial Guinea. Tubular Bells is our most recent; it commenced production in November 2014. Two other deepwater sites are in pre-production: a rig off the coast of Ghana has completed appraisal, and our Stampede project in the Gulf of Mexico has been sanctioned and should be in production by 2018. Like all oil and gas companies operating in U.S. waters, our deepwater operations in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System (SEMS) regulations. The SEMS rules – which were first implemented in 2010 and then revised in 2011 – set forth a series of requirements operators must follow to help ensure workplace safety. In particular, SEMS mandates a systematic approach to identifying hazards and then managing or mitigating them effectively. It puts a strong emphasis on emergency preparedness and response, with mandatory weekly drills. We implement the SEMS requirements through our own EHS management system. Although our asset in Equatorial Guinea is not technically subject to SEMS, we manage safety at that location to the same high standards as in the Gulf of Mexico, using the Hess EHS management system. 