HOW WE OPERATE Operating in a lower-for-longer oil price environment, strengthening our license to operate 
and enhancing our reputation through advocacy and transparency in reporting Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ Discussion (Page #) Regulatory Assurance Strengthen our regulatory assurance process through integration into our business operating rhythm* Expanded use of our compliance tracking tool at U.S. assets and enhanced the field assurance team that conducts our leak detection and repair program; further aligned central and asset-based regulatory assurance efforts within our business operating rhythm Continue to evaluate and enhance our EHS management system in 2017 and beyond 53 Ensure alignment of our regulatory advocacy priorities with our enterprise risk management process* Began this alignment process, including regular engagement with domestic assets and with our enterprisewide EHS function Refine and enhance the regulatory advocacy process in 2017 to ensure that regulatory risks and potential impacts are appropriately characterized and considered in company decision making* 16 Transparency 
in Business Conduct Refine reporting to meet stakeholder expectations Published our 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Core “in accordance” option, and disclosed new indicators such as those related to grievances, occupational health and supply chain Continue to refine sustainability disclosure to align with stakeholder expectations in 2017 and beyond 5, 40 Further enhance our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure Developed supporting reporting systems and continued rollout of online anti-corruption compliance training Enhance our Global Trade Compliance Program and revise our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in 2017 15 Supply Chain 
and Contractor Management Begin implementation of our Contractor Management Standard Developed standard templates for key common supply contracts; continued to enhance our contractor selection, management and review process; and strengthened our process for managing contractors through ongoing implementation of our Contractor Management Standard Embed standard model contracts and continue training on and implementation of standards, driving consistency and efficiency across all assets in 2017 16–17, 32 Management Systems Deploy Lean metrics Rolled out enterprisewide Lean metrics for tracking the training of embedded Lean leaders across both business functions and individual skill levels, and for assessing the status of our progress in developing a distinctive Lean culture Further embed the Lean way of thinking into Hess’ culture in 2017 11 Continue to roll out and implement a complete set of enhanced EHS global standards on a prioritized basis Approved five new EHS global standards and completed gap assessments for these standards at selected assets Continue to develop and implement EHS global standards on a prioritized basis through 2020 12, 27–29, 31–32 Measure effective implementation of the EHS & SR strategy through established targets and metrics* Began tracking individual initiatives through project-specific work plans as part of our business operating rhythm Continue to measure effective implementation of the EHS & SR strategy through 2020* 6 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 6SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Meeting our commitment to operate as a trusted energy partner Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ Discussion (Page #) Community 
and Stakeholder Engagement Continue to integrate stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management and social investment into enterprise business processes Continued to integrate SR considerations into our enterprise business processes Integrate SR and Human Rights Guidelines into enterprise business processes to support policies and standards in 2017 19, 23 Expand implementation of stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes* Implemented the processes at two new assets Continue to advance progress in 2017* 20–21 Continue to progress implementation of our SR Global Standard* Progressed this effort in 2016, including development of guidelines to support the associated policy and standard Approve and continue implementation of the SR Standard in 2017* 19 Human Rights and Security Continue to progress implementation of our Human Rights Global Standard* Progressed this effort in 2016, including development of guidelines to support the associated policy and standard Approve and continue implementation of the Human Rights Standard in 2017* 19 Commence risk-based rollout of human rights training module at selected assets* Conducted risk-based human rights training at selected assets Review enterprisewide social, reputational and human rights risks to update risk identification in 2017* 23 Develop human rights content for contractor onboarding* Incorporated human rights training into contractor onboarding Refresh and conduct human rights training as needed based on identified risks in 2017* 23 Track the implementation of new standards through the number of employees and contractors completing human rights training at high-risk assets, as well as the percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses* Began tracking progress with these initiatives Continue tracking progress through 2020* 7 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. Guyana Planning Room, Houston, Texas72016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPROGRESS AND GOALSSAFETY AND HEALTH Focusing on continuous improvement in process safety management systems, integrity and barrier management, assurance and competency, as we aspire toward zero incidents Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ Discussion (Page #) Process Safety and Spills Continue to progress our efforts in integrity management to include prioritized asset integrity assessments and implementation of performance standards for integrity critical equipment (ICE)* Continued enterprisewide efforts to generate performance standards for ICE and launched an enterprisewide assessment of the mechanical integrity of our equipment Continue to promote performance standards for ICE and complete asset integrity assessments for all Hess-operated production locations in 2017* 30 Continue to progress our efforts in integrity management, including offshore implementation of our enhanced barrier management approach* Implemented our enhanced barrier management approach at our Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Equatorial Guinea assets by the first quarter of 2017 Implement our enhanced barrier management approach in South Arne in 2017, and at Stampede and North Malay Basin as those assets come online* 30 Continue to make improvements in our process safety management system and process safety standards* Launched enterprisewide assessments of our process safety management systems and issued 26 additional engineering standards and specifications to further improve process safety and operations Continue to make improvements in our process safety management system and process safety standards in 2017 and beyond* 29–30 Build upon our Gulf of Mexico competency assurance program and enhance our enterprisewide EHS assurance program* Advanced the competency assurance effort in 2016 and developed a tiered EHS assurance program for the enterprise Further enhance the enterprisewide competency strategy, with a focus on integrating and enhancing existing global systems to achieve a shared competency system in 2018 and beyond; begin the implementation of 
an enterprisewide tiered EHS assurance program in 2017 and beyond*  8 Occupational Health and Safety Meet a workforce total recordable incident rate target of 0.31 or below  While we did not achieve the 0.31 target rate, we improved our employee total recordable incident rate by 58 percent and strengthened our process for managing contractors through ongoing implementation of our Contractor Management Standard Meet a workforce total recordable incident rate target of 0.34 or below in 2017 28 Meet a severe safety incident rate (previously called high potential incident or “HiPo” safety rate) target of 0.15 or below While we did not achieve the 0.15 target rate, we achieved a four-year low in the number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events Meet a severe safety incident rate target of 0.15 or below in 2017 28–29, 31 OUR PEOPLE Preserving management and technical capabilities to respond effectively when the price of oil recovers Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ Discussion (Page #) Employment Practices Continue focus on employee engagement Held 37 Leadership Dialogue sessions and created a new early-career development program for drilling and completions engineers Promote a culture of engagement and continuous learning; embed the Hess Way of Working into more of our people processes (e.g., performance management form and leadership development programs) in 2017 37 Advance initiatives and process efficiency in the annual compensation process, performance management, talent management and learning and development Evaluated opportunities for continuous improvement in our talent management practices and conducted focused training for first-time leaders Continue to simplify and streamline talent management processes to deliver targeted development and succession plans in 2017 36 Refine usage of Career Manager, our integrated human resources system, through continuous improvement in data integrity, reporting and use of analytics Added succession-planning functionality 
to CareerManager, giving us the ability 
to analyze critical information about our organizational capabilities and bench strength Continue to align our structure and strategy to provide appropriate promotion and development opportunities and more fully leverage each person’s capability 
in 2017 36 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 8CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Implementing tactical strategic actions to reduce our carbon footprint Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ Discussion (Page #) Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Create a working team with senior leader representation to review strategic actions with regard to climate change* Created a working team to review climate change-related strategic actions Begin to assess our value assurance process to identify opportunities to fully integrate EHS deliverables that include climate change-related actions (e.g., assessment protocols) in 2017* 39 Continue to expand North Dakota midstream gas gathering infrastructure* Achieved startup of the Hawkeye Compressor Station (January 2017) Operate the Hawkeye Compressor Station in 2017 and beyond to help reduce gas flaring* 9 Continue to progress a project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had traditionally been flared in our Okume operation to the Ceiba Field to use as fuel gas to help power our operation* Progressed planning for this capital project Complete the capital phase of the project in 2017* 43 Make progress toward our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in GHG emissions intensity (tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)) based on our current portfolio of operated assets, versus our 2014 baseline* Reduced GHG emissions intensity by 
20 percent, compared to our 2014 baseline Continue to make progress against our 2020 target* 41–42 Continue to improve performance related to reducing methane emissions, through ONE Future sector-based targets* Maintained methane emissions below the overall 2025 ONE Future target of less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the value chain Continue to make progress against ONE Future sector-based 2025 targets* 45 Make progress toward our 2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) by 50 percent based on our current portfolio of operated assets, versus our 2014 baseline* Reduced flaring intensity by 29 percent, compared to our 2014 baseline Continue to make progress against our 2020 target* 42–43 ENVIRONMENT Safeguarding the environment and responsibly managing our environmental footprint Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ Discussion (Page #) Water Management Improve water data collection methodology* Enhanced our water data collection methodology and increased the frequency of internal data collection requests Continue to improve water data quality in 2017* 47–48 Incorporate water management in the risk assessment process* Evaluated options for the integration of water management into risk assessments and other elements of our business operating rhythm Continue to advance this effort in 2017 and beyond* 47–48 Process Safety and Spills Maintain focus on reducing liquid spills and gas releases from our operations Observed a five-year low in losses of primary containment Achieve a severe environmental incident rate target of 0.027 (i.e., 
a 10 percent reduction compared to 2016) in 2017; continue to evaluate and enhance our pipeline integrity management program 47, 52 Hydraulic Fracturing Continue initiatives to reduce the environmental impacts of shale energy development Continued our involvement with the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD)program and the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC), and replaced trucks with piping for freshwater transport in North Dakota for 100 percent of well completions Continue involvement with the EFD and EERC and continue to evaluate water reduction strategies in 2017 47 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 92016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTProduction Operations, North DakotaHOW WE OPERATEOur management systems and corporate culture are designed to help us meet the highest standards of corporate citizenship. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our people, safeguarding the environment, and contributing to the sustainability of the communities where we operate, while delivering long-term value to our shareholders.The six core Hess Values support our aim to be the most trusted energy partner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility Policy, Human Rights Policy, and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Values to define internal expectations for sustainable management and performance at Hess. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section.GOVERNANCE AND KEY INITIATIVESThe highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, while direct responsibility lies with the company’s executive leadership. The EHS Subcommittee of the Board’s Audit Committee provides guidance to the Board on EHS-related considerations. Each member of the Subcommittee is independent and qualified under standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Subcommittee met four times in 2016.  See Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/hessgovernanceguidelinesThe EHS Subcommittee is tasked with assisting the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance and reputation. The Subcommittee also develops recommendations for the Audit Committee and the full Board on policies, programs and practices to address such issues and risks. Subcommittee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operations, research and development, and financial expertise. In addition, Subcommittee members, together with our executive leadership, have actively engaged in field visits to better understand our management systems and key EHS risks. In 2016 Subcommittee members visited our Gulf of Mexico production and drilling operations and focused on our integrity management processes. Our Vice President of EHS meets regularly with the Subcommittee and the Chair of 
the Subcommittee to prioritize any actions needed.Our company is governed by the Hess Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues, and is the highest approval body before the Board. While the Executive Committee meets face to face at least every other month, our Chief Operating Officer chairs an operational subcommittee of the Executive Committee that meets regularly to discuss these same matters.In 2016 Hess formed the Operational Excellence (OE) Network, an expanded version of the former OE Council, with broader functional and operational membership and a mandate to oversee high-impact, enterprise-level initiatives. Like the council, the OE Network aims to align and integrate these efforts to create value for the company. The network enables us to more effectively design and implement key enterprise initiatives by fostering collaboration across Hess’ global resources and creating standardized methodologies supported by tools and processes.Connecting process owners and business leaders across the company helps us to ensure that projects are planned and implemented holistically – for example, by evaluating how a new or changed process will impact other processes throughout Hess. We also establish metrics to monitor the effectiveness of our processes and verify we are sustaining improvements.2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS. Approved five new environment, health 
and safety (EHS) global standards and completed gap assessments for these standards at selected assets. Deployed enterprisewide Lean metrics. Further enhanced our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure through development of supporting reporting systems and continued rollout of online anti-corruption compliance training. Strengthened our use of regulatory assurance tools. Developed standard templates for key common supply contracts and continued to enhance our contractor selection, management and review process2017 GOALS. Continue to develop and implement EHS global standards on a prioritized basis. Further embed the Lean way of thinking into Hess’ culture in each business function. Enhance our Global Trade Compliance Program and revise our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Continue to evaluate and enhance our EHS management system. Embed standard model contracts and continue training and implementation of standards, driving consistency and efficiency across all assets112016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHOW WE OPERATEThis report describes several key initiatives sponsored by the OE Network in 2016. Examples include development of the Incident Reporting and Investigation and Contractor Management Standards (see Safety and Health, pages 29 and 32, respectively), our regulatory and process safety efforts (see pages 29–30), and development of a tiered EHS assurance program (see page 27).EHS Global StandardsAt Hess, management systems provide an important framework for continuous improvement in enhancing operational excellence, tracking key performance metrics, managing risk and maintaining regulatory compliance. In 2016 we continued to develop and implement an enhanced set of EHS standards across the company. The goals of this project, which has been guided by our OE Network, are to formalize enterprisewide expectations and accountabilities and support a globally consistent approach to operational excellence. By documenting our expectations in the form of standards, we aim to strengthen assurance across the enterprise.Following a risk-based approach and our Documents Standard, we prioritized the order of development and implementation for enterprisewide standards into three phases, as shown in the graphic below. In 2016 we developed and approved the Phase II standards through cross-asset and cross-functional teams and began implementing these standards across 
our operations.The first part of implementation requires our assets to complete desktop gap assessments to compare their current documented practices with the expectations of the enhanced standards and identify actions to close any gaps identified. In 2016 all assets included within the scope completed gap assessments on the Phase II standards and created implementation plans to align with the below timeline.We plan to fully implement Phase I standards by the end of 2017, Phase II standards by the end of 2018 and Phase III standards by the end of 2020.An important aspect of the standards development process has been the incorporation of Lean principles. For example, we developed a standardized work process to gain efficiency, incorporate lessons learned and track our progress from the start of development through the implementation of each standard. To add clarity for all those involved and to mitigate inefficiencies, we created support tools and guidance documents and made them easily accessible through our company intranet. To bring accountability, we established metrics and charts to track the completion of gap assessments and discussed progress as part of our routine operating rhythm. See page 15 for further discussion of Lean.Operations of the FutureWe are in the process of implementing a significant operational reorganization and improvement plan. This effort – called Operations of the Future, or OOTF – focuses on better aligning job duties to business processes to maximize efficiency, reliability, integrity and surveillance; optimize production and costs; and drive continuous improvement, including improvements to EHS performance. The change was driven in part by the increasing complexity of our technical and operational processes.Through OOTF we are generating cross-functional, asset-based teams with a geographic focus. We view OOTF as a cultural shift – another step in engaging all of our people to deliver as “One Team, One Goal.” The new approach helps to break down silos and focuses the entire organization on working in service of our colleagues in the field.Hess is also redefining roles and responsibilities to provide more clarity for individual job functions and teams. OOTF aims to drive key operational information, decision making and accountability downward within operational teams and to build leadership capabilities into the front line through training and coaching. The new team structure is supported by standardized processes and proactive management. We are focusing in particular on key drivers of efficiency and performance, including reducing unplanned work and deferrals, creating resource capacity and maximizing production. To support these operational improvements, we are also better integrating contractors in day-to-day operations so they are equipped to be true partners with Hess.We initially developed and implemented OOTF in our onshore assets, launching at our Bakken asset in late 2015 and continuing with our Permian asset in early 2016. Our offshore operations will begin implementation in 2017.Operational ReadinessSignificant operational and EHS risks can occur during commissioning and startup. During these early phases, we make preparations to help ensure that both the physical equipment and the people running the equipment can operate to Hess’ safety, environmental, production and economic performance standards.For several years we have been improving and formalizing our approach to operational readiness. Project teams undergo three Operational Readiness Assessments during the development of major projects to help identify risks and opportunities and prepare for external, pre-operational regulatory reviews. The Operational Readiness Assessments are aligned with the 14 elements of our EHS management system:. Organization and Leadership. Management of Change. Hazard and Risk Management. Emergency Preparedness 
and Response . Compliance. Incident Reporting and Investigation. Improvement. Documents and Data Control. Training, Awareness and Competency. Performance Measurement 
and Communication. Contractor Management. Audit. Design, Operations and Maintenance. Management ReviewAs part of each assessment, Hess subject matter experts and contractors, as applicable, engage in a collaborative workshop, contributing cross-functional insights and sharing best practices and lessons learned from other regions. The project team and senior executives regularly review the risks identified through these workshops.In 2016 we developed an operational readiness dashboard that collects information on key operational readiness factors, identifies risks from each assessment and provides an overview of project milestones. The dashboard, which is regularly reported to senior executives during strategic review meetings, has been helping us track operational readiness for our three key developments: the Hawkeye Compressor Station in North Dakota, the Stampede Project in the Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin Full Field Development in the Gulf of Thailand.KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSESWe apply a number of key processes in our company that help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities.Enterprise Risk ManagementHess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our operations. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) process is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent internal audits. In these risk assessments, we identify each risk and assess its likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business, as well as other risks as appropriate.Our Risk Management Standard – finalized in early 2017 – will further improve the alignment and integration of risk management across our operations and functional areas. The risk management requirements in this standard apply to all assets and major capital projects and prospects throughout their respective lifecycles (i.e., acquisition, exploration, appraisal, development, production and abandonment). The Risk Management Standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization – including individual functions such as ERM and EHS – to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process. Key elements of the standard include the following:. Minimum risk management expectations for each asset and major capital project (risk plan, ERM assessment, functional risk assessment(s), stakeholder engagement plan, integrated risk register and risk monitoring) to help ensure consistent adoption and alignment in risk tools. A hierarchy of risk assessments, integrated across technical and functional areas, that outlines the level of management review applied to different tiers of risk. A formalized process for aligning risk assessment with stakeholder engagement, including the facilitation of stakeholder mapping at ERM workshops. A risk monitoring process with accountabilities and an operating rhythm to help ensure appropriate monitoring, alignment and escalation of risk from the asset, project or function to and from senior managementAs part of our ERM process, we conduct risk assessments for all assets and major projects annually. Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated throughout the year as part of each asset’s and major project’s operating rhythm. Risk assessments are also completed prior to each value assurance stage gate deliverable (described below) for all projects, rig commitments and new opportunities that go through the value assurance process.We also require that functional-level risk assessments be included in the asset or project risk plan, as determined by each function. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility.In 2016 we began a detailed review of integrity risk at our producing assets, as part of our ongoing asset integrity management process. This comprehensive effort, which is focused on identifying and mitigating process safety and loss of containment risks, is described further in the Safety and Health section.Value AssuranceValue assurance is a review process Hess uses to characterize and assess our major investment opportunities. It utilizes internal reviews by those who are not directly involved with the asset or project to provide additional objectivity. Following this process helps us ensure that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high-quality input.We review our assets and major capital projects as part of the business planning cycle to verify that they add value to our company and that the relevant technical expertise has been incorporated. The reviews focus on economics, subsurface and facility design, environmental and socioeconomic considerations, regulatory requirements and other nontechnical risks. We apply a carbon price of $40 per tonne to the greenhouse gas emissions generated by significant new projects to evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics and to compare alternative project configurations.The value assurance process is closely aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company.New Country EntryOur new country entry process helps us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities in a new country of operation. Through this process, subject matter experts from various functions across Hess evaluate our future operations in a particular country through a detailed risk questionnaire that accounts for social, environmental, legal, external affairs, compliance, commercial and supply chain risks. The purpose of the review, which draws on available information from governmental sources such as the U.S. State Department as well as leading nongovernmental organizations such as the World Resources Institute, is to categorize each risk as high, medium or low based on severity and whether the risk can be easily mitigated.Through the new country entry process, we endeavor to enhance the quality and breadth of information available to Hess leadership for the evaluation of new opportunities. The process also helps the project team mitigate identified risks once a commitment is made to enter a new country. Ultimately, we are able to support our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes.LeanOver the past seven years, Hess has implemented Lean principles across our operations to eliminate waste, create value and drive reliability and continuous improvement for our communities, employees, business partners, shareholders and other stakeholders.We view Lean not as a short-term program for achieving cost savings, but as a holistic cultural shift, changing the way we think and act. Central to this shift has been moving our leaders from directing solutions toward coaching and developing employees and contractors to generate solutions themselves. The result is a distinctive Lean culture in which continuous improvement comes from the entire workforce – our “army 
of problem solvers.”One recent example of Lean in action is from our Stampede Project in the Gulf of Mexico. We have been collaborating with our six lead drilling and completions contractors and using Lean thinking to improve performance. This multi-company approach is unique within our industry and has contributed to the successful delivery of some of the most complex deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico.  See additional examples on the new Lean section of our website at hess.com/lean-advantageBUSINESS CONDUCTIn the Hess Code of Conduct, we describe the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working for Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. To promote the Hess Values across our global operations, the Code of Conduct has been translated into the local language of each of our countries of operation. Hess takes disciplinary actions for violations of the Code of Conduct and related policies.Our compliance policies and procedures all stem from our Code of Conduct. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces policies, procedures, processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Its aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer informs the Board of Director’s Audit Committee on a regular basis.Hess utilizes an automated approval system to review and approve higher-risk transactions. To continuously improve compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations, anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs as well as other enterprise programs. Our Global Compliance team, through its dedicated investigation arm, investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team in 2016. Global Compliance continued to partner with other key functions such as Legal, EHS, Human Resources and Corporate Audit to review potential issues and put in place appropriate remediation steps.Providing employees with effective training on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture and helping ensure employees understand and embody the Values in their daily work. Our Global Compliance team has developed in-depth training on our Code of Conduct that includes examples of how employees can translate the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. All employees joining Hess take this training as part of their new hire process. In 2016 we implemented an annual Code of Conduct certification that is required for all current employees. The Global Compliance team conducts audits and ongoing monitoring to help ensure that all employees complete these trainings. At year-end 2016, 96 percent of employees had completed the onboarding training and 
93 percent of employees had completed the Code of Conduct certification.We also require new and current employees to take in-depth anti-corruption training based on Hess’ ABAC Policy and Procedure. Since inception of the enhanced ABAC program in 2015, 
96 percent of employees have completed ABAC training. To further support Hess’ ABAC program, in 2016 we improved the process for disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest.POLITICAL SPENDINGHessPACIn the U.S., federal election law permits corporations to establish political action committees (PACs), which may make political contributions. HessPAC, the political action committee of Hess’ U.S. employees, entered its first full cycle of operation in 2016 and generated $158,978 in member contributions. HessPAC made $112,000 in political contributions in a bipartisan manner to candidates at both the state and federal levels.All federal contributions from HessPAC are publically disclosed and accessible through the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). State contributions from HessPAC are publicly available on each Secretary of State’s website. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC.AdvocacyAs Hess is a trusted voice on energy policy, there is great value in our engagement with stakeholders regarding legislation and regulations that may impact our company, both domestically and internationally. Hess actively engages in discussions with elected and appointed government officials in order to better understand legislative and regulatory requirements and ultimately help mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. The company’s principles and values dictate that all of our political engagements are done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and that no direct political contributions are made by Hess employees using corporate funds.Hess fully complies with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all substantial amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government 
Act of 2007. In 2016 the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $1.11 million. This included expenses for internal employees, external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act.Hess belongs to a number of associations, primarily to give the company access to the associations’ expertise in business, technical and industry best practices – an approach that is consistent with our industry peers. Hess requires all trade associations to report all expenses related to lobbying activities as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for 23 percent of our total lobbying spend in 2016.In 2016, none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of our associations for direct political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for express political advocacy. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2016 can be found on page 60.We recognize that our positions do not always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these associations, organizations or collaborative working groups.Hess has a strict internal policy that prohibits our employees from engaging with elected officials or regulators as an official representative of the company without the approval of the Vice President of Government and External Affairs. Our policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. The policy also helps to ensure that Hess continues to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remains compliant with all reporting requirements.As part of the regulatory assurance element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts.SUPPLY CHAINOur business partners, suppliers and contractors are critical to Hess’ overall success and our ability to maximize the efficiency of operations while minimizing operational risks. We work collaboratively with our supply chain to improve performance and create shared value.We jointly review processes, procedures and data with our suppliers to help drive the right actions and foster continuous improvement. For example, we are working with our suppliers to implement Lean principles across our assets. Through Lean, we are finding new ways to integrate our efforts to create win-win solutions that have sustainable benefits. At our onshore assets, Hess has worked with suppliers to develop standardized approaches to various categories of maintenance jobs, including standardized work instructions and material requirements. This standardization and repeatability helps improve work efficiency and quality.In 2016 we purchased more than 
$5.5 billion of goods and services from more than 5,000 suppliers, whose manhours comprised over 70 percent of our total workforce hours. Engagements with our suppliers are conducted so as to comply with applicable local laws and requirements, and practices may differ from those described below in certain instances.Management ApproachWe manage our key suppliers with a cross-functional team that works collaboratively to reach mutually agreed-upon targets for safety, quality, delivery and cost. Team members – representing critical organizational functions such as operations, engineering and finance – work together to create efficiencies while also building long-term, strategic relationships with key suppliers.Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, potential suppliers – as determined by a risk-based decision matrix – undergo a risk review, an ABAC and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable standards arise, the relevant department within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans 
as needed.Contracts that involve higher risk, due to either the number of manhours the supplier will work for Hess or the scope of that work, automatically trigger an EHS review in the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on our 14 EHS management system elements. Absent certain limited exceptions, suppliers that do not meet our requirements must develop an improvement plan before they can contract with Hess. Further detail on our EHS-related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section.The companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with applicable laws and regulations in areas such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, conflicts of interest and anti-corruption laws, and must maintain any licensing or permitting requirements with respect to their activities. Suppliers are also required to abide by our Code of Conduct and Hess’ Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see pages 19 and 23). Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure, quality and EHS.  See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements for suppliers at hess.com/sustainability/how-we-operateLOCAL CONTENTInternationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production-sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary, but may include use of an approved supplier list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or workers.In Malaysia, for example, we use an approved vendor list that includes Malaysian-owned companies, and we also commit to holding our suppliers accountable to hiring local staff. In Equatorial Guinea, Hess works with the government to identify qualified local suppliers and include them in tenders 
as applicable.EHS GLOBAL STANDARDS PROJECT PLAN 2015–2017 2016–2018 2017–2020 Phase I Standards
.  Energy Isolation.  Land Transportation.  Lifting and Hoisting.  Process Safety Information.  Vehicle Entry.  Waste Management Phase II Standards .  Confined Space Entry.  Contractor Management.  Dropped Objects.  Emergency Preparedness and Response.  Incident Reporting and Investigation Phase III Standards .  Behavior-Based Safety.  Excavation and Trenching.  Permit-to-Work.  Medical Assessment.  Safety Systems Bypass.  Working at Heights 123Note: Additional standards published outside the scope of this project include the Management of Change Standard (2015), the Hess Marine Standard (2016) and the Risk Management Standard (2017).12132016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHOW WE OPERATEVALUE ASSURANCE PROCESSGate review and decisionGate review and decisionGate review and decisionHandover to Operations TeamIMPLEMENT.  Deliver the refined 
optionREFINE.  Optimize preferred option.  Define plan for delivery.  Secure fundingSCREEN.  Develop objectives and requirements.  Evaluate and rank options.  Reduce risks and uncertainties.  Select preferred optionFRAME.  Outline objectives.  Determine technical 
and commercial 
viability.  Identify alternativesOPERATE.  Operate in line with budget and plan.  Meet/exceed sanction metrics.  Meet Production Excellence 
expectations.  Post-project review