CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Tioga Gas Plant, one of our major infrastructure projects. This expansion more than doubled the plant’s capacity from 100 million to 250 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) and increased the liquids processing capacity almost tenfold, from 260,000 to 2.5 million gallons per day. Hess has played a key role in the formation of the North Dakota Petroleum Council’s (NDPC) Flaring Task Force and the initial recommendations from the Task Force that helped shape North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC) Order #24665. NDIC Order #24665 mandates operators to capture 77 percent of produced gas in 2015, increasing to 85 percent in January 2016 and increasing again to 90 percent in October 2020. No further targets have been established. Expansion of our gas gathering infrastructure, including the addition of compression lines and low and high pressure gathering lines, was a top priority in 2014 and continues into 2015 and 2016. These infrastructure projects leave Hess well positioned to achieve each of North Dakota’s stated capture targets. With a regulation now in place and given current oil economics, we plan to meet this requirement in lieu of our 2017 projection. Through our involvement with the NDPC, Hess continues to be actively engaged in ongoing discussions around flaring concerns in North Dakota. Flaring at the wellhead in North Dakota increased from 27 percent of associated gas production in 2013 to 28 percent in 2014, as a result of the shutdown of the Tioga Gas Plant to complete the expansion project. However, post shutdown, between April and December 2014, flaring at the wellhead averaged 21 percent. We are currently on target to meet the established capture rates of 77 percent in 2015 and 85 percent in January 2016. Natural Gas Capture In addition to addressing our long term flaring, in the nearer term we are also mitigating flaring by exploring ways to capture gas at the wellhead for use in our drilling operations and for conversion to natural gas liquids. Bi-Fuel Rigs and Boiler Conversions In 2013 we launched a bi-fuel installation project by retrofitting diesel engines to gas/diesel engines on seven of the 14 drilling rigs operating for Hess in the Bakken. This engine retrofit captures and uses natural gas at the wellhead, which reduces fuel costs from fewer diesel delivery truck trips and lowers air emissions from the cleaner burn of natural gas compared to diesel. As part of this project, nine boilers were also converted to operate exclusively on natural gas during winter operations. In 2014 this project saved 520,945 gallons of diesel fuel and resulted in 65 fewer truck deliveries. Hess is also exploring ways to capture gas at the wellhead and convert it to compressed natural gas or liquefied natural gas, which would allow us to utilize it throughout our North Dakota operations. Natural Gas Liquids In 2013 we began a wellhead gas capturing project in North Dakota that uses a mobile system to recover high-BTU gas from locations that are flaring and produce natural gas liquids (NGL) and treated lower-BTU gas. This project provides dual economic and environmental benefits by converting gas into marketable products, which reduces the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions. The project began with two prototype units and soon expanded to include a 500 thousand cubic feet per day (MSCFD) built-for.purpose unit. When operating at full capacity, the 500 MSCFD unit is designed to average four to five gallons of NGL per MSCF processed and result in emission reductions of 30 percent for nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide, 64 percent for volatile organic compounds and 42 percent for carbon dioxide. The NGL capture units are deployed throughout the Hess Bakken acreage where field flaring is occurring. More than 3 million gallons of NGL were captured in 2014, resulting in more than 150 MMSCF of gas that was not flared. Wellhead gas capture was expanded in 2014 as we ordered 14 additional built-for-purpose units, and we will be at full contracted capacity of 10,000 MSCFD in the second quarter of 2015. For the last half of 2015 we anticipate 90 percent utilization, which will capture over a million gallons of NGLs per month, equivalent to a 3,000 tonne per month reduction in CO2e. Power Generation Power generation utilizing Bakken gas was also pursued in 2014 with the first working project in place in the first quarter of 2015. This pilot project involved replacing diesel power generation with gas and was implemented at a stranded site that is utilizing eight 170 kilowatt generators. As a result of the project, the site is now using 200 MSCF of gas to directly power all of its electrical needs. A review of all remote power generation is currently underway. Transportation In 2013 in North Dakota we began using flexible hose for freshwater transport  instead of trucks. This type of hose collapses flat when not in use, like a fire hose, and can be used to pipe water  directly from the water source to our wells. The 600-foot sections of hose can be connected to lengths of several miles. We conducted our first pilot in September 2013 with four well pads and have now expanded its use to 20 percent of our wells. Use of these flat hoses eliminates the need for trucks to haul water, resulting in less noise and lower GHG emissions, transportation costs and risk of vehicle accidents. In 2014 our North Dakota frac team piped 43 percent of the water used for fracturing, exceeding its 25 percent target. Approximately 4.5 million barrels of water were piped, removing approximately 41,174 truckloads from the road. The frac team developed operating procedures for cold weather operations, and, with the cooperation of vendors, piping was successfully utilized throughout the cold weather months. See our CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange ENERGY USE Energy management is an integral part of Hess’ lean approach because it makes economic sense and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Our operations make and purchase energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2014 energy consumption from Hess E&P operated assets was approximately 34 million gigajoules, essentially flat compared to our 2013 energy use. Seventy-five percent of our energy use was generated directly by our operations, primarily at our Seminole and Tioga Gas Processing Plants, at our production facilities in North Dakota, South Arne and Equatorial Guinea and from our Global Drilling Operation. The remaining 25 percent was gross indirect energy (including energy burned by utilities to provide net purchased electricity) purchased for our North Dakota and Permian basin operations and gas processing plants. The 16 percent increase in electricity usage in 2014 is primarily attributable to the use of new electric turbines to power the Tioga Gas Plant expansion project. While electricity consumption is increasing, the expanded gas plant is capable of processing significantly more natural gas (previously flared), which is being captured and transported to the gas plant for processing. 2014 Purchased Electricity by Primary Energy Source Thousand Energy Source Percentage MWh Coal  480  56%  Natural Gas  212  24%  Wind  101  12%  Nuclear  36  4%  Conventional Hydroelectric  22  3%  Biomass, Solar, Other Renewables  14  2%  * Approximate ﬁgures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration 2013 state electricity generation proﬁles. In 2014 our U.S. operations accounted for essentially all (approximately 865,000 megawatt hours) of our purchased electricity. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 14 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. An element of our climate strategy is to use more renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to at least 10 percent of net electricity used in our operations. In 2014 we purchased 125,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 125,000 megawatt hours or about 12 percent of our purchased electricity from E&P operated assets. Overall, approximately 26 percent of our indirect energy use was from renewables. 2014 Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules 3% 2% U.S. 25,749 Equatorial Guinea 4,701 Denmark 2,385 Malayasia 932 Other 660 2014 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source Thousand Gigajoules Natural Gas 20,198 Diesel 5,631 Energy Use Thousand Gigajoules 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 2012 2013 2014 Direct Indirect IMPROVING OUR UNDERSTANDING OF METHANE EMISSIONS Methane emissions come from a range of sources and sectors of the economy that are unevenly dispersed across the landscape. Methane is emitted by natural sources as well as by human activities, such as from natural gas systems and agriculture. The cleaner burning characteristics of natural gas will enable it to play a critical role in the nation’s diverse energy future. The issue of fugitive emissions of methane during natural gas production has received attention as shale energy production in the United States has resulted in an increasing supply of abundant, low cost natural gas. While technology has made it possible for the industry to produce more natural gas, questions related to attribution and measurement have led to uncertainties in estimates of current and projected methane emissions. In 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released an analysis of methane emissions and trends in the United States. The study indicated that methane emissions decreased by almost 11 percent between 1990 and 2012. Methane emissions from agricultural activities were found to have increased, but emissions from sources associated with the exploration and production of natural gas decreased. During this same time period, natural gas production increased 40 percent. Despite these decreasing methane emissions trends, our industry and Hess specifically are investing in efforts to improve methane data collection and measurement, to improve our understanding of methane sources and trends and to enable more effective management of opportunities to reduce methane emissions. Hess, together with a number of other companies, has collaborated with Colorado State University (CSU) and the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) to study methane emissions associated with the natural gas industry’s gathering infrastructure and processing plants. This study is one of 16 studies sponsored by EDF and its industry partners to quantify natural gas emissions across the value chain. The CSU study, which was published in February 2015 in Environmental Science & Technology, is the largest and most comprehensive field study to date for the oil gathering and processing sector. In this study, researchers found wide variations in the amount of methane being emitted at various sites – especially in the gathering sector. The study found that less than 1 percent of the methane that passed through natural gas gathering and processing facilities in the United States leaks. It also revealed that roughly one-third of gathering facilities account for 80 percent of methane emissions. The study went on to say that variations among similar facilities were being driven by differences in inlet and outlet pressure and abnormal process conditions. The research team is using the measurement data to develop an estimate of total methane emissions from all gathering and processing facilities in the country. Those results are expected to be published later in 2015. Hess is also collaborating with six other oil and gas companies, EDF and the Southwestern Research Institute in the Methane Sensor Challenge. This challenges technology developers and engineers to develop low cost methane monitors that can help the oil and gas industry better detect, and ultimately reduce, methane emissions. In January 2015 the Obama Administration announced plans to cut methane emissions from oil and gas operations by 45 percent by 2025 from 2012 levels. While we view this goal as ambitious, the Administration is focused first on regulation of new and modified sources of emissions and has deferred direct regulation of existing sources of methane emissions in hopes that voluntary initiatives such as ONE Future, which is described below, will minimize the need for regulatory action to control existing sources. Hess is a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, which was established in late 2014. ONE Future is a coalition of companies from across the natural gas industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield continuous improvement in the management of methane emissions associated with the production, processing, transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, flexible approach to managing methane emissions that is expected to yield significant reductions in emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross natural gas production across the value chain. ONE Future’s approach will be for each of the four industry sectors to aim for reduction targets proportional to their share of total emissions. As shown at right, emissions across the full natural gas value chain are averaging 1.31 percent, according to the EPA’s established methodology. ONE Future, through the use of an external consultant, will review current methane emissions factors, in light of the recent EDF coordinated research studies, to determine whether those methodologies are representative and include all major sources. This will allow ONE Future to establish and agree on an emissions protocol with the EPA. After a baseline is established, ONE Future will set sector targets for proportional reductions beyond current emissions rates. Consideration will also be given to the safety, practicality and cost effectiveness of potential reductions and, if appropriate, they may place increased emphasis on specific processes and sectors. Each of ONE Future’s member companies seeks to provide maximum value to the consumer, and it is for that reason that our approach to reducing methane emissions is focused on identifying and addressing the most cost-effective emissions sources. To resolve potential conflicts, ONE Future has commissioned independent technical studies by leading researchers in the field that will determine specific emission reduction targets for each sector in order to achieve the overall goal of an industry-wide average target of 1 percent or less of gross production. With improvements in measurement methodology and strategies to reduce methane emissions that will likely result from studies like the CSU study, we are confident that we can gain a better understanding of the methane issue. The company commits to work toward setting reasonable methane reduction targets over the next one to three year period, working in collaboration with the ONE Future coalition. For the past 18 years, Hess has been a partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas Star program. This program created a partnership between the EPA and industry to identify and share best practices that yield reduced methane emissions. Since joining the Natural Gas Star Program in 1997, Hess has achieved cumulative methane emission reductions of 1.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (3,325,333 MCF). These results have been achieved through employing the Natural Gas Star methane reduction technologies and practices shown in the pie chart at the right. The EPA is currently developing the next generation of Natural Gas Star through a program called Enhanced Natural Gas Star, which Hess is helping to shape through ONE Future and the American Petroleum Institute. While all of this collaborative activity is going on, Hess is continually looking for opportunities to reduce our methane footprint. Distribution & Retail Exploration & Production Gathering & Production Transmission & Storage * of 1.31% overall average methane leakage rate Other Flare Reduction 4.2% 5.0% Installation of Vapor Recovery Units Installation of Catalytic Converters Installation of Installation of Electric Flash Tank Compressors Separators on Glycol Dehydrators * of 1.6 million tonnes of CO2e emission reductions 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS > Conducted study to > Continued progress evaluate water on environmental efficiency options at and social impact Seminole Gas Plant assessments at several of our assets 2015 GOALS > Continue initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of shale energy development > Utilize Environmentally Friendly Drilling scorecard to assess drilling performance in North Dakota > Conduct hydrogeological study to assess capacity of Ogallala Aquifer to better understand long term availability and yield We consider responsible management of our environmental footprint to be an important component of our operational excellence. We dedicate significant staff and resources to ensuring compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and our voluntary commitments. We have several key performance metrics that we track at the asset and enterprise levels, and performance on these metrics is included in the employee bonus formula. Our assets have spill preparedness and response plans and conduct emergency response exercises. Through these efforts, we continuously strive to reduce the amount of water and energy we use, limit our emissions to air, and prevent spills and other unplanned releases. WATER At Hess, we recognize public concern about our industry’s use of water, and we are committed to using water wisely in our operations. We understand the importance of a risk-based approach to water management, which means considering the entire water lifecycle – from sourcing to use to disposal. We closely monitor our water use and are always looking for ways to reduce our water footprint. We also work hard to safeguard underground drinking water aquifers in the areas near our wells, as discussed in the Shale Energy section of this report. Our total exploration and production water use increased by 11 percent year-over-year, due to growth in our shale operations in Ohio and North Dakota. Our Seminole Gas Processing (SGP) plant in West Texas remains our biggest single water user, accounting for 66 percent of our usage in 2014. The SGP plant uses water primarily for process cooling and sources it from a Hess owned and operated groundwater well field that withdraws from the Ogallala Aquifer. The SGP plant is located in a region where baseline water stress is categorized as “high risk,” based on evaluations we have conducted using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct water risk mapping tool. Water demand in the region is driven primarily by agricultural uses, and Hess’ consumption is a small fraction of that use. According to Texas Water Development Board data, our withdrawals from the aquifer represent only 0.1 percent of estimated annual water demand. We have been working for several years to find ways to reduce our water use at the SGP plant. The facility recirculates water in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to prevent buildup of solids in the circulating water, a portion is removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown water, which totaled 939,000 cubic meters in 2014, is reused in our Permian production operations to maintain reservoir pressure. In 2014 a consultant completed a feasibility study of water efficiency options for the SGP plant. The study (continued on page 49) Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters 12 10 0.89 0.07 0.45 8 6 4 2 0 2012 2013 2014 Surface Water Municipal Water Groundwater 2014 Freshwater Use by Business and Facility Thousand Cubic Meters 3% 2% Seminole Gas Plant 6,078 North Dakota 1,688 Ohio 1,000 Tioga Gas Plant 271 International 192 ENVIRONMENT SHALE ENERGY In recent years Hess has made significant investments in unconventional oil and gas plays – first in the Bakken formation in North Dakota, the premier tight oil play in the United States, and more recently in the Utica formation in Ohio, an emerging shale gas play. In both plays we extract hydrocarbons from tight rock formations using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing. The oil and gas from these two plays constitute about 30 percent of Hess’ total production. We recognize that the public has voiced concerns about the potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. At Hess, we aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impacts. To do this, we employ multidisciplinary risk management processes in our planning and decision making. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes activity aspect identification and technical review as well as value assurance activities. All of our assets also undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk assessment during the capture, appraisal, development and production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments help us identify mitigation measures we can pursue to ensure protection of the environment, protection of the communities in which we operate, and the safety of our combined contractor and employee workforce. We also have a multi-year internal audit plan in place that ensures we perform Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits of our assets regularly. Our North Dakota and Ohio assets were audited in 2013, and our Tioga Gas Plant was audited in 2014. Going forward, we will be conducting focused EHS audits at our unconventional assets on an annual basis. Furthermore, we continue to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our performance and enhance our “license to operate,” as discussed in the Community and Social Performance section. Protection of Water Quality To help ensure that water resources are protected, we make groundwater and surface water monitoring a priority. In Ohio we determine baseline groundwater and surface water conditions at sites prior to drilling. We also perform post-drilling assessment and, depending on risk, we annually sample wells and surface water at select assets. In North Dakota, the state operates a regional network of groundwater quality monitoring wells. We sample surface water where requested by landowners and when the surface water body is close to our activities and test the water to assess its suitability for hydraulic fracturing. Groundwater resources are protected by sensible onsite operating practices, including the development of plans to prevent spills of chemicals used in well construction and completion. We employ closed-loop fluid containment systems for drilling fluids at our North Dakota and Ohio shale energy drilling sites. Frac fluid flowback is stored in closed top tanks with secondary containment. These practices prevent potential surface water and groundwater impacts. In addition, the practices allow for the recycling of drilling materials and reduce the volume of waste that needs disposing onsite in lined impoundments or transported offsite for disposal at regulated facilities. Water Use A recent study showed that, on average, hydraulic fracturing uses less water than conventional drilling to retrieve the same amount of oil or gas.1 That said, fracturing does require significant amounts of fresh, locally sourced water, and that water is sent deep underground and thus removed from the Earth’s water cycle. We understand the importance of managing this precious resource responsibly, and as part of our environmental commitment, we aim to reduce our freshwater use. Hydraulic fracturing accounted for about 28 percent of Hess’ total freshwater consumption in 2014, with North Dakota at 18 percent and Ohio at 10 percent. No flowback water was reused, due to high salinity in North Dakota and limited quantities in Ohio. In early 2015 we analyzed our full-year 2014 water use in the Bakken compared to 12 major peers in the region. Using publicly available data reported to state regulatory authorities, we found that Hess used 46,000 barrels of water per well fractured, which was significantly less than our peers. In recent years we have tested several alternatives to fresh water – including non-potable water sources such as treated domestic wastewater, saline water and frac fluid flowback – to assess their suitability for hydraulic fracturing. In North Dakota, we do use small quantities of non-potable, underground water (from the Beaver Lodge Devonian Unit formation) for workover and drilling operations. In Ohio, in early 2015 we successfully piloted the use of produced water for pump down operations in one well, and the use of produced water for additional wells is planned. Though several projects have shown promise, most have not proven economically feasible to date. Well Integrity Whether for conventional or unconventional resources production, the key to protecting underground water resources is well integrity – that is, ensuring strong and impermeable physical barriers between our wellbores and the surrounding rock and underground aquifers. While the well completion and hydraulic fracturing processes occur miles below the Earth’s surface, our wellbores pass through 1. Comparison of Water Use for Hydraulic Fracturing for Unconventional Oil and Gas versus Conventional Oil. B. R. Scanlon, R. C. Reedy, and J.-P. Nicot. Environmental Science & Technology 2014 48 (20), 12386-12393. DOI: 10.1021/es502506v Note: Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale and numbers are approximate. groundwater at shallower depths during drilling and well construction. Therefore before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of any underground fresh water to ensure that we protect that water and conform to regulatory requirements and internal standards. In the U.S. we are typically required by state agencies to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the contents of the wellbore. We submit this information in applications for well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Even in locations where such permitting processes are not in place, we use prudent industry well construction standards, as described below. Well completion designs can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, the management of drilling risks and technology applications. To help ensure well integrity, our wellbores are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically: • A “surface casing” is installed from the surface to below the lowest known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval from the deepest point to the surface around the casing, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well and the strata containing the groundwater being protected. • Inside the surface casing, a second “intermediate” casing is installed and cemented in place. • An acoustic cement bond log is selectively employed to ensure the cement barrier is in place, which prevents fluid migration. • The well completion is performed through a third casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) placed inside the intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate fluids within the well. • Due to potential fracture stimulation interference (i.e., stimulating one well and observing increased pressure on nearby producing wells), nearby oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity (based on distance from the well being stimulated), and wellhead systems are tested for integrity prior to any activity. • During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to operate surface and downhole equipment within their design ratings. • Monitoring of microseismic events is conducted in real-time, for two purposes: • to monitor the growth, i.e., the orientation and dimensions of induced hydraulic fractures, which are created during the completion of wells, and • to monitor for any low-level seismicity. Using these and other practices, we ensure annullar integrity in our well construction operations. In North Dakota we have drilled over 200 new wells annually for the past several years and experienced zero cases of failed well integrity in our unconventional operations. ENVIRONMENT SHALE ENERGY CONT. Frac Fluid Additives To conduct drilling and fracturing operations effectively and safely, we use water mixed with very small concentrations of chemical additives in the wellbore. Each additive has an essential purpose, such as reducing friction, killing bacteria or inhibiting corrosion or scale deposits. The well casing and cementing processes described previously help to ensure that the chemicals in our fracturing fluid never come into contact with groundwater or surface waters. We know that some stakeholders are concerned about the makeup of these fluids, however, and we have worked to select the compositions of least concern. For instance, we do not use diesel or benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene or xylene (BTEX) in our frac fluids. Also, we require our hydraulic fracturing contractors to provide non-proprietary data regarding the chemicals used in each fractured well. This information is publicly available on the FracFocus website, and we conduct periodic audits of FracFocus submissions to ensure accuracy. We participate in stakeholder forums that are developing science-based frameworks for the evaluation of hazards and risks associated with chemical additives and the promotion of safer and more protective alternatives. We respect our frac fluid and service providers’ desire to keep proprietary formulations confidential, while we also encourge our suppliers to voluntarily disclose all chemical additives. Air Emissions In our shale energy operations, greenhouse gases and other air pollutants are emitted during flowback and production operations when the infrastructure is not available for immediate connection to the wellhead. Where a pipeline connection is unavailable, flaring of the natural gas produced during flowback may be utilized to create a safe working environment during that process.  In Ohio, during well completions, we typically direct gas directly into the gas gathering infrastructure. This eliminates the need to flare, although we do occasionally need to flare gas for testing purposes. In some well locations in North  Dakota, this type of infrastructure is still being built. We have a flaring reduction strategy for North Dakota and have been steadily investing in infrastructure, as discussed in the Climate Change and Energy section. See the Climate Change and Energy section for more information on greenhouse gas emissions, and the Environment section for more on other air emissions. Land Use We seek to minimize land use and reduce the number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. In North Dakota, we continue to transition from a single well per pad to hold the lease to multi-well pad drilling. In 2015 we are developing one “super pad” that will contain 19 wells on a single well pad with shared surface facilities. In Ohio, we have employed a geographic information systems (GIS) tool for use during appraisal activities in order to minimize impact on the environment and streamline permitting. The tool incorporates environmental and social baseline data as GIS layers and is used to identify sensitive areas and select well pad locations. Transportation Impacts We are sensitive to stakeholder concerns about increased trucks on the road in areas of high drilling activity. In North Dakota, we have participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed at minimizing the oil industry’s impact on public roads and traffic congestion. And we have collaborated with community partners and state officials in North Dakota to ensure adequate infrastructure funding to improve traffic safety and support road maintenance. In 2015 we plan to remove additional trucks from the road through the use of remote truck offloading at the Ramberg truck facility and the addition of new crude oil booster pumps, which will deliver oil from Ramberg to the Tioga Rail Terminal. Since 2013 in North Dakota we have been rapidly increasing our use of flexible hose for transporting fresh water to drilling sites, rather than trucks. In 2014 more than 43 percent of our water was transported this way, and we expect to reach 60 percent in 2015. See the Climate Change and Energy section for more information on this initiative. Crude-by-Rail Safety The transport of crude oil by rail has become an issue of increasing concern in the United States and Canada, as shipments have increased alongside the increase in shale oil production, and several high-profile derailments have occurred. Improving crude-by-rail safety is a shared effort among railroad companies, regulators and operators. At Hess, we are taking the issue very seriously and are committed to doing our part to minimize the risks involved. Hess’ Tioga Rail Terminal is fed by pipeline and a truck offloading facility. Hess was the first company in the industry to have a fleet comprised entirely of the AAR Petition P-1577 railcar, which was designed to safely transport crude oil, including the light sweet crude found in the Bakken. In 2015 Hess will be one of the first companies to procure crude oil tank cars equipped with thicker shells and full height head shields for puncture resistance, enhanced thermal protection, and bottom fittings protection as called for in the latest DOT-117 enhanced tank car design standard. We have an internal, cross-functional Rail Transport Working Team, which meets weekly to share information regarding any and all issues relating to rail safety. We are also actively engaged with oil and gas industry efforts to further improve the safety of rail crude oil transport. We are represented on the American Petroleum Institute (API) Rail Policy Committee, Government Affairs Committee and Rail Transportation Group, and are active on several multi-stakeholder task forces addressing these issues. Also, we work closely with railroad companies to help ensure that our oil is delivered safely. included both practice- and technology-based recommendations for reducing water use. For 2015, we have contracted for a hydrogeological study to be completed, to assess the capacity of the aquifer and help us better understand long term water availability and yield. Drilling and completion activities in North Dakota and Ohio comprise our second-largest water use. Most of this water is used for hydraulic fracturing. As discussed in the Shale Energy section of this report, in North Dakota we have tested several options for using nonpotable water for this purpose, though none have proven economically feasible to date. Because water optimization is a concern not just for our company but for our entire industry, we participate in two industry forums focused on this issue. A Hess representative is vice chair of a water working group convened by IPIECA, the oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. The working group aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also a founding member of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 18 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production. BIODIVERSITY At every Hess location around the globe, we include the protection of biodiversity in our project decision making and management. We typically conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on all major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species against the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. The results of the ESIAs are used to create mitigation strategies. When a full ESIA is not appropriate, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments where the classification of species and habitats change in areas where we operate. In 2014 we completed two full ESIAs – one for our deepwater Stampede project in the Gulf of Mexico and one for our onshore Pires asset in Kurdistan. The Stampede ESIA found no species of concern and recommended no mitigation efforts beyond those already outlined in the regulatory permits. The Pires ESIA identified three birds and one plant from the IUCN Red List in our area of operation. We subsequently developed mitigation measures to help protect these species, which included surveying drilling locations for these species. In the United States we have been monitoring the addition of new species to the national endangered and threatened species lists by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS). (The FWS is expected to add approximately 250 new such species by the end of 2015.) We are identifying locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Already, we have adjusted drilling site locations to accommodate  habitat features and priorities for certain species. In the Permian Basin in Texas, we conducted a biological survey of lesser prairie chicken habitat, as this species was listed by the FWS as threatened in early 2014. We determined that our leased areas did not overlap with habitat for this species. As part of an Environmental Assessment process that is currently underway, we are working with the FWS in North Dakota to help ensure that our proposed Hawkeye pipeline does not unduly impact the Dakota skipper, a butterfly species listed as threatened in October 2014. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitat that overlaps with our operations (see table).1 We also identify IUCN protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2014 there were three such areas – two in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park) and one in Australia (Wanjarri Nature Reserve).2 IUCN Category  Number of Species  Critically Endangered  13  Endangered  30  Vulnerable  141  Near Threatened  188  1 The numbers in this table – especially for vulnerable and near threatened species – are greater than reported in previous years because both our operational footprint and our internal measurement techniques have changed. We are now using internationally verified data sets at a less granular scale for consistency across our assets, while previous measurement was based more on individual biological assessments, localized to each asset. 2 Our reporting on IUCN protected areas has also become more robust compared to past years, as we now have tools to categorize protected areas in an internationally consistent way. Waste Thousand Tonnes 300 200 1.7 We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services working group of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. In practices at our Ohio assets; we plan to use it at our North Dakota assets in 2015. WASTE Our operations generate a variety of waste streams, including construction debris; scrap metal and wood; oily tank 3.9 2012 2013 2014 Hazardous Non-hazardous Oil in Produced Water  Discharges to Sea bottoms; contaminated soil; office and October we helped lead (and had several domestic waste such as paper, staff members participate in) the working group’s first peer-to-peer training workshop on managing biodiversity and ecosystem services in the oil and gas industry. We also participate in the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator cardboard and light bulbs; and other waste items specific to drilling and production operations. It should be noted that, consistent with IPIECA reporting guidelines, our waste data do not include mud and cuttings generated in our onshore operations. Wastes are managed according to the waste management plan specific to each 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv) Principles Association. This initiative operating location. The waste brings the mining, oil and gas and management plan is designed to comply financial sectors together to develop and with all applicable regulatory share good practices for safeguarding requirements and to protect human biodiversity and ecosystems. In 2014 the health and the environment. Following CSBI published a timeline tool designed our lean philosophy, our operations try to to help align project development, biodiversity impact management, and financial timelines and milestones. Hess is also a sponsor and active member of the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program. The EFD program is a partnership among multiple oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations and is coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center. It aims to provide unbiased science and develop solutions to address environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. For example, the EFD developed a scorecard that provides oil and gas companies with a means for objectively assessing and continually improving their environmental performance and that of their service providers. In 2014 we used the scorecard to assess and improve minimize waste generation and recycle wherever possible. In 2014 we generated approximately 188,000 tonnes of waste, nearly all (99 percent) of which was deemed non.hazardous according to applicable regulations. In addition, we disposed of 84,693 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota and Ohio operations at licensed disposal sites in 2014. DISCHARGES Discharges from our offshore facilities include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. At some of these facilities, these waste streams are reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, whereas others discharge directly to the ocean. In some other cases we ship drilling waste to shore for treatment and disposal. Oil Volume in Produced Water (tonnes) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv) Criteria Pollutants Offshore discharges of non-aqueous with respect to improved data collection drilling mud and cuttings in Equatorial and indicators and to provide targeted Guinea and Ghana in 2014 contained input to spill mitigation strategies. Based approximately 140 tonnes of low toxicity on encouraging results from this analysis synthetic fluid. This represents an we embarked on a more detailed analysis increase from the previous year because as part of our 2015 EHS “Must Do’s.” of an increase in the number of offshore We maintain strong relationships with wells drilled. mutual aid and emergency response Offshore produced water discharges organizations at the local, regional and totaled 6 million cubic meters in 2014. global levels to enhance our ability to SO2 Emissions (tonnes per million BOE) 25 25 20 15 10 5 00 2012 2013 2014 Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 14 parts per million volume (ppmv), totaling 70 tonnes of oil discharged. This reflects a year-over-year decrease in total oil discharged and an increase in the average oil content, primarily due to the divestiture of our offshore operations in Indonesia which respond swiftly and effectively to any incidents. More information about our emergency response program, including our memberships and partnerships with spill response organizations, is provided in the Safety and Health section of this report. SO2 VOCs NOx Hydrocarbon Spills 1,000 200 900 Volume of Spills (bbls) 800CRITERIA POLLUTANTS had high volumes of discharges with 0 0 150 Number of Spills Number of Spills 700 Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) 600 relatively low oil content. 468and sulfur dioxide (SO2) result from fuel SPILL PREVENTION combustion, process operations and The number of spills remained relatively flaring activities. Volatile organic 500 100 400 300 50200 100flat year-over-year. The volume of compounds (VOCs) are mainly emitted non-hydrocarbon spills decreased, while the volume of hydrocarbon spills increased due to a handful of larger spills in our Denmark and North Dakota operations. In 2014 we conducted a detailed analysis of our spill reporting. The aim of this during product loading and storage. In 2014 our normalized emissions of VOCs remained relatively consistent with the previous year, while emissions of NOX and SO2 decreased. The decrease in NOX emissions is due to reduced drilling activity in 2014. The decrease in SO2 emissions is due to the completion of the 2012 2013 2014 Volume of Spills (bbls) Number of Spills Non-Hydrocarbon Spills 5,000 100 analysis was to better identify root 4,000 80Tioga Gas Plant expansion. causes and to make recommendations 583,000 50 52 60 2,000 40 1,000 20 0 0 2012 2013 2014 Volume of Spills (bbls) Number of Spills 