CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYClimate change is a global challenge that requires government, business leaders and civil society to work together on cost-effective policy responses that recognize the vital role safe, affordable and reliable energy plays in ensuring human welfare, economic growth and security. Our clean water and sanitation; food production and storage; lighting, heating and cooling; transportation and defense systems depend predominantly on abundant, affordable and secure supplies of oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas also serve as feedstock for thousands of products on which modern society relies – products such as medical devices, pharmaceuticals, clothing and building materials – and provide jobs and revenues critical to supporting economies around the world.At Hess, we understand that oil and natural gas are essential to meet the world’s growing energy demand, and we are committed to developing these resources in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy addresses climate change and the actions we can undertake to control and reduce our carbon footprint. We have established targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 25 percent and flaring intensity by 50 percent, for the current portfolio of assets we operate, by 2020 (versus a 2014 emissions baseline). Sustainability risks, including climate change, are examined by our Board of Directors and taken into account in formulating our company strategy.Hess will continue to take cost-effective, appropriate steps to monitor, measure and reduce emissions through the following actions:. Setting targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations. Accounting for the cost of carbon in all significant new investments. Applying innovation and efficiency to reduce energy use, waste and emissions across our operationsWe also engage with key stakeholders – including government agencies, private landowners and communities – on 
a number of issues, including those related to climate change and energy, and we will continue to communicate our performance on these issues in our annual sustainability report and the sustainability section of our company website (hess.com/sustainability). Our CDP Climate Change responses, which are available on our website, contain more detailed information on the company’s climate change-related risks and opportunities.Hess is an active member of IPIECA on sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are too complex for individual companies to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change-related issues and helping to develop and provide credible future energy solutions. They enable this collaborative work by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in terms of innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and provide feasible future energy solutions.Hess has consistently been recognized as a leader in the oil and gas industry for our disclosure and transparency relating to sustainability, and we remain committed to our goal of top-quartile performance in this regard. In addition to preparing this sustainability report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Core reporting level, we participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure. In 2016 we were recognized on the prestigious CDP Global Climate List as a leader in addressing climate change-related risks and opportunities. Hess earned leadership status, the highest category, and was among the top-ranking energy producers on the list. Also, for the seventh consecutive year we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America, which highlights public companies with outstanding performance across economic, environmental and social factors, including those related to climate change.  See our CDP Climate Change response at 
hess.com/s/cdpclimatechangeGREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCEWe report GHG emissions from our oil and gas assets on an operated and equity basis. Our emissions estimates include carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide – reported in units of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). In 2014 Hess began using global warming potentials based on the values in the Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to estimate CO2e totals. GHG data from 2013 and prior have not been restated, because the impact on historical values was not material (about 1 percent).Approximately 95 percent of Hess’ direct (Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are from stationary combustion sources such as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. The factors used to estimate emissions for these sources enterprisewide are those prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart C). The remaining 5 percent of our operated GHG emissions are from a variety of noncombustion and fugitive emission sources such as storage tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic pumps and valves. For such sources at onshore facilities, we use the emission factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other appropriate regulatory or industry-specific factors to estimate fugitive emissions for those facilities.We also report indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions.Operated Emissions 
(Scopes 1 and 2)As we continue to expand our business, we aim to operate more efficiently by reducing GHG emissions per unit of production. Our EHS & SR strategy outlines a target to reduce GHG emissions intensity by 25 percent, for the current portfolio of assets we operate, by 2020 versus a 2014 emissions baseline.In 2016, of the estimated 4.6 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 4.1 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and approximately 0.5 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions, from purchased electricity. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion) and flaring accounted for 43 percent and 52 percent of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, respectively.In 2016 our absolute GHG emissions decreased by 1.0 million tonnes compared to 2015, due primarily to reduced flaring in North Dakota related to gas capture enabled by infrastructure enhancements and reduced production in that region due to weak oil prices, as well as reduced flaring in Equatorial Guinea related to a decline in production.Our GHG emissions intensity (i.e., tonnes of emissions per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)) decreased by 20 percent in 2016 versus our 2014 baseline. This cumulative improvement brings us close to achieving our 
25 percent emissions intensity reduction target for 2020. It is worth noting that weak oil market conditions in 2016 tempered oil demand, which resulted in lower-than-anticipated production and associated GHG emissions.Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG emissions from our operated and nonoperated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. Between 2008 and 2016, we reduced our absolute equity GHG emissions by more than an estimated 6 million tonnes, achieving a GHG emissions intensity of 35 tonnes per thousand BOE, primarily through a combination of improving operating practices, selling assets and shutting down refinery operations. The use of innovative technology is also helping to minimize our carbon footprint. Our nonoperated Valhall facility in Norway, which employs hydroelectric power from shore to power all process equipment other than emergency backup systems, averaged a GHG emissions intensity of 
2 tonnes per thousand BOE in 2016.Our major source of emissions from nonoperated oil and gas assets in 2016 was the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area. Our equity emissions from this asset were approximately 1.2 million tonnes. Major sources of emissions from operated assets in 2016 included those from our Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota assets and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants, which together accounted for an estimated 2.4 million tonnes of equity emissions. All of our other operated and nonoperated assets made up the balance of equity emissions at an estimated 0.6 million tonnes.Scope 3 EmissionsScope 3 GHG emissions are those generated from corporate value chain activities that are not accounted for and reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. To assess our Scope 3 emissions, we use the Petroleum Industry Guidance for Corporate Value Chain Accounting methodology.The Petroleum Industry Guidance is based on the World Resources Institute’s and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard, which includes 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions. Historically, only three of the Scope 3 emissions categories – Purchased Goods and Services (emissions generated from refined petroleum products sold), Use of Products (emissions generated from our natural gas sales) and Processing of Sold Products (emissions generated from energy used to refine petroleum products) – were material to Hess. With our transformation to an exploration and production company, the Purchased Goods and Services category is no 
longer applicable.The table at left details our Scope 3 emissions. In 2016 we sold 458 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural gas which, when burned by customers, accounted for an estimated 9.1 million tonnes of GHG emissions. We sold 201 thousand barrels per day (MBPD) of crude oil, which, when processed by refiners, accounted for another 3.5 million tonnes of GHG emissions, for an estimated total of 12.6 million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions.Although not material, we also track and report emissions associated with employee business travel. Combined emissions from employee business travel via commercial air carrier and rail in 2016 were about 5,000 tonnes of CO2e, down 47 percent from last year due to management efforts to reduce employee travel. As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, we have purchased carbon credits annually since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent of business travel emissions. In 2016 we purchased 10,000 tonnes of carbon credits from The Climate Trust, for the retirement of offsets related to wastewater treatment facilities in Texas. This contribution more than offset the GHG emissions we estimate were generated from employee business travel.EMISSION REDUCTION INITIATIVESIn support of our GHG emission and flaring intensity reduction targets, we track and monitor air emissions at each of our assets and undertake a variety of emission reduction initiatives. Our efforts focus on our largest emitting facilities and on opportunities that are technically and economically feasible and where we are able to achieve stakeholder approval. In 2016 reduced oil and natural gas production related to weaker-than-anticipated energy demand, as well as the continued low price of oil, reduced the pool of emission reduction opportunities.FlaringIn 2016 flaring from Hess-operated assets – which totaled 74 MMSCFD – was down 25 percent compared to 2015. On an intensity basis, we have made substantial progress toward our 50 percent reduction target by reducing our cumulative flaring intensity by 29 percent through 2016, compared to 2014. We expect to continue to make progress as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives in Equatorial Guinea and our Bakken asset 
in North Dakota.At our Equatorial Guinea asset, we will spend more than $30 million on a project to pipe gas that is being flared at our Okume operation to the nearby Ceiba Field so that it can be used instead as fuel gas to run our operations. This project is a win-win, as it is expected to substantially reduce both flaring and the costs associated with fuel purchases.In North Dakota, we have invested nearly $2.2 billion in midstream infrastructure between 2012 and 2016 to capture and monetize natural gas from our wells and minimize flaring. As part of this investment, we expanded the Tioga Gas Plant to increase processing capacity and thereby reduce the need for flaring. We more than doubled the plant’s capacity from 100 to 250 MMSCFD and increased the liquids processing capacity almost tenfold, from 260,000 to 2.5 million gallons per day.We anticipate that expansion of the midstream gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities and natural gas liquids and gas gathering lines, will continue into 2017. These midstream infrastructure projects will leave Hess well positioned to significantly reduce flaring over the next several years.TransportationIn 2016 we opened a compressed natural gas (CNG) fuel facility near the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota. The facility, which includes one CNG compressor, four light-duty filling stations and two heavy-duty filling stations, is currently using captured gas that had been previously flared. This captured gas is partially displacing diesel in high-horsepower engines for drilling and well completion operations in the Tioga area and to fuel Hess’ fleet of 25 CNG/gasoline, bi-fuel light-duty trucks. This use of CNG is helping us meet our GHG goals by reducing flaring and providing a lower-emission fuel for our vehicles and operations. It also reduces costs by displacing the need for more expensive diesel or gasoline fuel. Since April 2016, our use of CNG from this fueling station has reduced CO2e emissions by approximately 1,800 tonnes and eliminated the use of nearly 630,000 gallons of diesel and gasoline. We expect our 2017 GHG emission reductions from this facility to be even more significant.Also in North Dakota, we use flexible hose to transport fresh water directly from the water source to our wells, instead of using trucks. Over the past three years, we have steadily increased the percentage of water we supply to our fracturing operations by hose rather than by truck, which reduces noise, GHG emissions and the potential for accidents associated with truck traffic. In 2016, 100 percent of the water used for hydraulic fracturing in North Dakota (approximately 5.2 million barrels) was transported using flexible hoses, eliminating 50,400 truck deliveries 
and 2 million miles driven, and cutting 
4,300 tonnes of transportation-related GHG emissions. As an additional benefit, in winter months we use line heaters along with the hoses to deliver 75 degree Fahrenheit water into insulated tanks, eliminating the need to heat 
water on location.Natural Gas CaptureIn North Dakota, based on technology developed through our partnership with GTUIT – a designer, manufacturer and operator of well site natural gas capture and natural gas liquid (NGL) extraction equipment – we have adopted an innovative new approach to recover high-BTU (British thermal unit) gas from locations that were producing NGLs and flaring. The new equipment successfully addresses some of the technical challenges associated with capturing this gas – the units are modular and mobile, they can operate reliably unmanned and they can adapt to the ever-changing flow conditions of the well and the changing chemistry of the associated gas.In 2015 we installed 15 of these mobile units with a capacity of 10 MMSCFD. We operated all 15 units until October 2016, when we dropped down to 14 units with a total capacity of 9.5 MMSCFD. Throughout 2016, we captured an estimated 7.9 million gallons of NGLs, avoiding more than 510 MMSCF of gas flaring, reducing GHG emissions by an estimated 49,000 tonnes and saving about 15,700 tonnes of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from entering the atmosphere. This project provides dual economic and environmental benefits by converting gas into marketable products as well as reducing the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions.  See additional examples of emission reduction initiatives at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energyENERGY USEReducing our energy use has the dual benefit of lowering costs and GHG emissions, and it is a central focus of both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean approach to managing the business. We generate and purchase energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2016 energy consumption from Hess-operated assets was approximately 38 million gigajoules (GJ), 6 percent higher than in 2015. Seventy-eight percent of Hess’ energy use was directly generated from our operations, primarily at the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants and at our production facilities in North Dakota, Denmark and Equatorial Guinea. The remaining 22 percent was indirect energy (energy used by utilities to provide net purchased electricity) purchased for the West Texas and North Dakota production operations and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants.In 2016 our U.S. operations accounted for all of our purchased electricity – approximately 896,000 megawatt hours, or a 4 percent reduction from last year. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 15 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. We also support renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to at least 10 percent of the net electricity used in our operations. In 2016 we purchased 100,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 100,000 megawatt hours or about 11 percent of the electricity purchased for our operated exploration and production assets. In total, including the RECs, approximately 26 percent of our indirect energy use came from renewable sources.2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS. Created a working team with senior leader representation to review strategic actions with regard to climate change. Progressed planning for a capital project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had traditionally been flared in our Okume operation to the Ceiba Field to help power that operation. Through 2016, reduced flaring and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensities by 29 percent and 20 percent, respectively, against our 2020 targets. Reduced equity GHG emissions by more than 6 million tonnes between 2008 and 20162017 GOALS. Begin to assess our value assurance process for new projects to identify opportunities to fully integrate environment, health and safety deliverables that include climate-related actions. Complete the capital phase of the project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas from our Okume operation to the Ceiba Field. Continue to make progress against our 2020 reduction targets for flaring and GHG emissions intensities. Continue to improve performance related to reducing methane emissions, through ONE Future sector-based targetsGLOBAL ENERGY OUTLOOKAccording to the 2016 World Energy Outlook New Policy Scenario developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA), worldwide energy use will grow by approximately 30 percent between 2014 and 2040. Through this scenario, which incorporates all announced GHG emission and energy policy commitments, including the Paris climate agreement pledges signed by 194 countries, the IEA sees a solid place for oil and natural gas in the world energy supply for many years to come. Furthermore, energy demand for oil and natural gas is projected by the IEA to grow 27 percent between 2014 and 2040, with these resources collectively accounting for 50 percent of the energy mix – down from 52 percent today. In the IEA’s alternative 450 Scenario, which is consistent with a 50 percent chance of limiting the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million, energy demand will increase by 9 percent by 2040, with oil and natural gas accounting for approximately 45 percent of the energy mix. The IEA has stated that the challenges of achieving the 450 Scenario “are immense, requiring a major reallocation of energy-sector investment capital.” Even in the 450 Scenario, the IEA finds “no reason to assume widespread stranding of upstream oil assets,” stressing that “the decline in oil production from currently producing fields far exceeds the decline in the demand” for oil. The concept of stranded assets is discussed further in the Carbon Asset Risk Report on the following page.392016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYCARBON ASSET RISK REPORTOur stakeholders have expressed an interest in understanding the potential impact that future climate change regulation may have on Hess’ market valuation. Through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process we have developed risk profiles for each of our assets to identify key risks – including carbon – and estimate the likelihood and potential impact that these risks could have on our business. We compile all risks we identify as critical on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. All new significant projects are rigorously screened to verify they meet or exceed established threshold return-on-investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy.In addition, we actively evaluate viability for significant projects based on potential future carbon constraints. In 2016 we updated the theoretical carbon price we use in economic evaluations for significant new projects to $40 per tonne of carbon dioxide – equivalent to the current estimate by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) of the social cost of carbon. Factoring carbon dioxide prices into our valuation process enables us to evaluate project viability based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints.A select group of stakeholders and investors has raised concerns that energy companies may be overvalued in a future carbon-constrained world because these companies may not be able to produce a portion of their reserves and, hence, these reserves will be “stranded.” As discussed in the Global Energy Outlook section on the previous page, the IEA has stated that even in their 450 Scenario (2 degree case), failing to invest in upstream assets through 2040 could lead to major supply problems because the decline in oil production from currently producing fields far exceeds the decline in demand for oil. In addition, according to IHS Energy’s September 2014 report Deflating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be monetized during the next 10 to 15 years. Based on the IHS study and the IEA positions cited on the previous page, Hess believes there is a high likelihood our reserves will be monetized and that markets are currently valuing our carbon assets rationally.  For more information on how we are assessing carbon asset risk, 
see hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energy2016 Hess Proved Reserves by 
Resource Type*2016 Hess Proved Reserves by Region*1,109 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent23%48%12%17%*Deepwater is a conventional resource but it is shown separately here to provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 feet of water depth.*Hess' proved reserves consist of 74 percent liquids (i.e., light and medium crude oils, condensate and natural gas liquids) and 26 percent natural gas.402016 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by SourceThousand Tonnes CO2eOperated Greenhouse Gas Emissions(Scope 1 and Scope 2)Million Tonnes CO2eGHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE)5.65.44.643363531.  Scope 1 Emissions.  Scope 2 Emissions.  GHG Intensity and 2020 Target2016 Operated Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions by CountryThousand Tonnes CO2e.  U.S. 3,060.  Equatorial Guinea 1,081.  Malaysia 248.  Denmark 206412016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYEquity Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
by CountryMillion Tonnes CO2e2016 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONSMILLION TONNES CO2e Use of Sold Products 9.1 Processing of Sold Products 3.5 Total 12.6 Hess Flaring RatesFlaring (MMSCFD)Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE).  North Dakota.  Equatorial Guinea.  Other.  Flaring Intensity and 2020 Target42Compressed Natural Gas Facility, North Dakota432016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYEnergy Use
Thousand Gigajoules.  Direct
.  Indirect2016 Energy Use by CountryThousand Gigajoules2016 Direct Energy Use by Fuel SourceThousand Gigajoules44MANAGING METHANE EMISSIONSThe advancement in shale energy technology in recent years has resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural gas. The clean- burning characteristics of natural gas can play a critical role in the transition toward a low-carbon economy. Although natural gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce its climate benefits.Stakeholder interest in this issue has continued in recent years, and in 2016 the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management drafted several regulations aimed at controlling fugitive methane and VOC emissions. Industry maintains that these regulations are largely unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of growth in natural gas production and because it is in the industry’s best interest to monetize gas to generate additional revenue.One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue voluntary reductions in methane emissions. As a result, Hess became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a group of companies from across the natural gas industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield continuous improvement in the management of methane emissions associated with the production, processing, transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, flexible approach to managing methane emissions that is expected to yield significant reductions in such emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the value chain by 2025. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of 1 percent or less across the natural gas value chain provides immediate GHG reduction benefits.To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value chain: production 
(0.36 percent), processing (0.11 percent), transmission and storage 
(0.30 percent) and distribution (0.22 percent), which cumulatively total to the 1 percent target. Hess has activities in two sectors, production and processing. In 2016, our methane emissions rate for production was 
0.06 percent, and our emissions rate from processing was 0.19 percent, 
an increase of 0.08 percent from the previous year. However, our combined methane emissions rate from the production and processing sectors was 0.09 percent, which is well below the ONE Future combined target of 
0.47 percent for those two sectors. In 2016 the U.S. EPA required reporting of some new fugitive methane emission sources previously not reported, which were associated with the natural gas gathering and processing sector. The U.S. EPA also prescribed the emission factors for these sources. The inclusion of these fugitive emissions resulted in an increase in our reported methane emissions as well as our methane emission rate. Hess will work with ONE Future to understand the changes in U.S. EPA reporting methodology and potential impacts to the sectoral targets.In 2016 ONE Future also commissioned research and analysis to assist members in developing customized abatement strategies to fit their emissions profiles. Most notably, ONE Future contracted ICF, a global consulting and technology services firm, to conduct an analysis of the marginal abatement cost (MAC) of various methane emission abatement technologies and work practices for the natural gas industry. The MAC analysis – based on up-to-date assumptions regarding emission rates and equipment costs in all industry segments except distribution – identified reductions totaling 88.3 billion cubic feet (BCF) of methane per year at a total annualized cost of $296 million or $3.35 per million cubic foot (MCF). An additional 8.9 BCF in reductions were identified separately for the distribution segment, and 12.3 BCF in reductions were projected for the application of reduced-emission completions for hydraulically fractured gas wells.In addition to the ONE Future sectoral targets, we are committed to continuing to improve our performance. Our principle focus in 2016 was implementation of an extensive leak detection and repair (LDAR) program across all of our production facilities (existing and new) in North Dakota. This supplements our ongoing LDAR programs at the gas plants in Texas and North Dakota and our production operations in Ohio. Further detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment section.From its inception, ONE Future has worked with the U.S. EPA to help ensure that any methane reduction achieved through its performance-based approach is recognized and accounted for in the agency’s Natural Gas Star Methane Challenge Program. In October 2016 both parties reached agreement on the ONE Future Emissions Intensity Commitment Option under the Methane Challenge Program. This allowed companies interested in joining the Methane Challenge Program to have the opportunity to choose from two options to reduce methane emissions: the Best Management Practice Commitment or the ONE Future Commitment, which gives credit for performance-based, voluntary reduction efforts. Hess has chosen a commitment through ONE Future and has not joined the Methane Challenge Program, as further discussed in the Environment section.Methane Emission Rate (ONE Future Protocol)*Methane Emissions Rate (%).  Natural Gas Value Chain 2012.  Hess 2016.  ONE Future 2025 Target*The methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane produced or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.- operated assets.2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT45Drilling Operations, Gulf of MexicoENVIRONMENT2016 Freshwater Use by 
Facility/Business FunctionThousand Cubic MetersSafeguarding the environment is a 
key aspect of the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. Responsible management of environmental impacts – including water use, air emissions, waste and spills – is an essential component of our drive for operational excellence and an important part of how we do business every day. We also dedicate significant staff and resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments.Hess has been a sponsor and active participant in the Bakken Production Optimization Program (BPOP) – a research program led by the Energy and Environmental Research Center and funded by the North Dakota Industrial Commission – since 2015. BPOP aims to improve Bakken system oil recovery and reduce the environmental footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. In the first years of the program, Hess has supported research on issues such as TENORM (technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive material) disposal, flaring reduction and spills remediation. Moving forward, BPOP research activities are focused on decreasing the environmental impacts of wellsite operations and reducing the demand for infrastructure construction and maintenance, all while increasing well productivity and the economic output of North Dakota’s oil and gas resources.We also voluntarily sponsor and participate in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, a partnership among oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center. The program aims to develop science-based solutions to environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. We continually evaluate initiatives proposed by EFD to determine their relevance and importance to Hess. Although we did not engage in any specific EFD projects last year, we will continue to sponsor the program in 2017 and will monitor proposed initiatives on an ongoing basis.To track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time, we use key performance metrics – including several factored into our annual incentive plan – at the asset and enterprise level. Through these efforts, we continuously strive to reduce the amount of water 
and energy we use, limit our emissions to air and prevent spills and other unplanned releases.WATER MANAGEMENTWater management is one of our material issues and a key element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. Water is a critical resource for our onshore exploration and production operations, where it is used primarily for cooling purposes in both our upstream and midstream operations, as well as drilling and completions, including hydraulic fracturing. We know water is also an important resource for the communities and ecosystems in which we operate. In some areas, our water use may be restricted by local limitations on water supply and disposal.We understand public concern about our industry’s use of water, and we are committed, throughout our operations, to evaluating and reducing our water footprint. We are developing a risk-based, lifecycle approach to managing water, from sourcing through disposal. We are also working to improve our water data collection process, water risk assessment and risk-based evaluation of asset-level water management opportunities. Additional examples of our approach to reducing our water footprint are discussed in the Environment section of our website (hess.com/sustainability/environment).Our total freshwater use for exploration and production decreased by approximately 16 percent from 2015 to 2016, primarily due to reduced drilling and completions activity in North Dakota.The Seminole Gas Plant in West Texas, which uses water primarily for process cooling, remained our largest single freshwater user in 2016, accounting for 76 percent of our companywide freshwater usage. The plant sources its water from a network of Hess-owned and operated groundwater wells that withdraw from the Ogallala Aquifer.Although the primary driver for water demand in the region is agricultural activities (Hess’ withdrawals from the aquifer represent only 0.1 percent of estimated annual water demand), the baseline water stress in the region is categorized as “high risk.” Recognizing the need to address water stress in this region, we conducted a multi-year hydrogeological study to assess the capacity of the Ogallala Aquifer as well as long-term water availability and yield. After concluding the study in 2016, we are in the process of evaluating the results and options for reducing our water use.For example, water reuse continues to be a focus for Hess at the Seminole Gas Plant, and we are researching options for reusing produced water to supplement or replace the water used from the aquifer. In 2016 we reused more than 1 million cubic meters of fresh water at the plant, representing 19 percent of the plant’s total usage for the year. The facility recirculates water in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to prevent the buildup of solids in the circulating water, a portion is removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown water was reused in our Permian production operations to maintain reservoir pressure.Drilling and completion activities in North Dakota and Ohio comprise our second-largest water use. Most of this water is used for hydraulic fracturing. We use 
small quantities of brackish groundwater for reservoir management purposes in North Dakota.We also reduced water use at the Tioga Gas Plant in 2016 by implementing a new chemical treatment process, improved water usage analyses, and improved water monitoring and chemical injection systems in the boilers, cooling towers and other equipment. Due in part to these efforts, we reduced water use by approximately 18,000 cubic meters, or by 5 percent compared to 2015. The new systems are also helping us to reduce wastewater, chemical usage and potential equipment corrosion.Hess participates in two industry forums focused on water management, both to advance our own performance and to contribute to industrywide knowledge-sharing and progress. First, we are active participants in the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 18 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production.BIODIVERSITYWe recognize the potential impacts oil and gas development can have on habitats and biodiversity. We consider the protection of biodiversity in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production and closure at every Hess location around the globe.We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. We use the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments when the classification of species and habitats changes in areas where we operate.In 2016 Hess conducted an updated field survey and habitat analysis of the Lesser Prairie-Chicken, whose potential range overlaps with our Permian asset in West Texas. Hess has participated in a joint government and industry rangewide conservation program to protect this species and its habitat since 2014.As part of our goal to mature biodiversity management at Hess’ global assets, we have been developing threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. We completed guides for our Bakken asset in 2015 and our Permian asset in 2016, with guides for additional assets planned over the next few years.We monitor the addition of new species to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national endangered and threatened species lists. In addition, we are identifying locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Already, we have adjusted drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species. IUCN RED LIST SPECIES Category Number of Species Critically Endangered 17 Endangered 53 Vulnerable 225 Near Threatened 252 Hess utilizes third-party software programs, such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with our operations (see table above, which provides a snapshot of relevant species at the time of publication of this report). The IUCN updates the Red List species classifications regularly based on new information and improved data from ongoing third-party studies, and we update our species list accordingly.We also identify IUCN-protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2016 there were two such areas, both in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park). We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We also participate in the Endangered Species Working Group of the American Petroleum Institute (API) to discuss oil and gas development with the goal of proactively balancing development with environmental decision making that aims to minimize biodiversity harm.We also participate in the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems.WASTEWe generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production activities. For each Hess asset, we manage waste through specific waste management plans designed to comply with all applicable regulatory and Hess requirements for that location, and to protect human health and the environment. These plans align with the Hess Waste Management Standard, which was implemented in 2015 as part of our global standards project. In addition, the plans require application of our waste minimization principles of “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and Dispose” – with disposal being the least preferred option.In 2016 we generated approximately 93,400 tonnes of solid waste, more than 99 percent of which was classified as nonhazardous according to applicable regulations. Our overall waste disposal numbers were significantly lower in 2016 than in 2015 due to large site cleanup activities undertaken in 2015, which caused a one-time increase in waste for that year, as well as decreased field activity in 2016.We also disposed of approximately 43,300 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota and Ohio assets at licensed disposal sites in 2016. These drill cuttings, as well as the discharges from our offshore facilities (discussed 
in the next section), are not included in our overall waste totals per IPIECA reporting guidance.In North Dakota, naturally occurring radioactive materials, or NORM, can be naturally dissolved out of subsurface formations into produced water and can then build up in production equipment and piping during drilling and production. NORM that are concentrated in this way are referred to as technologically enhanced, or TENORM. In 2016 Hess was able to avoid disposing of 221 tonnes of nonhazardous piping waste in North Dakota by decontaminating the piping (i.e., removing the TENORM) and recycling it instead. We disposed of the TENORM scale removed from the pipes in approved and audited waste facilities. Even with the necessary disposal of the scale material, we were able to reduce the volume of landfilled waste by a factor of approximately 40.DISCHARGES FROM 
OFFSHORE FACILITIESDischarges from our offshore facilities include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. These waste streams are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, discharged directly to the ocean or transported to shore for treatment and disposal or recycling.In 2016 our offshore facilities discharged a total of 3,404 tonnes of nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, which included 311 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid.Offshore produced water discharges totaled an estimated 6.4 million cubic meters in 2016. Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 18 parts per million volume (PPMV), totaling 87 tonnes of oil discharged. This data reflects an increase in average oil content and total oil discharged, compared to 2015.SPILL PREVENTIONHess maintains spill preparedness and response plans and conducts emergency response exercises at each of our assets. To support a swift and effective response for any loss of primary containment (LOPC) incident, we maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. Hess’ international oil spill response needs are supported by our partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an international, industry-funded cooperative that responds to oil spills globally. Our domestic needs are supported by Marine Spill Response Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea Area Spill Response Mutual Aid, Tri-State Bird Rescue and Research, Control Risks and International SOS. Hess representatives serve on the Board of Directors of the OSRL and on the Executive Committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit oil spill cooperative that supports the Gulf of Mexico.Our international subsea preparedness and response capabilities are supported by the Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are members of the Marine Well Containment Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant capabilities as well as equipment and personnel mutual aid.We are also active members of the Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. Hess participates in several of the API’s preparedness and response efforts, including the Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and Response Subcommittee, the Pandemic Planning Working Group and the Oil-Rail Emergency Response Joint Working Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international businesses.We track LOPC events through our incident reporting system regardless of size and material and report spills following industry and applicable regulatory guidance. By proactively tracking all LOPC events, we are better able to analyze root causes, including those events that may be low in impact but relatively higher in frequency. We also use leading and lagging indicators to monitor LOPC performance, including tying LOPC performance to our cash bonus plan again in 2016.In 2016 the number and volume of both hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon spills significantly decreased compared to 2015, returning Hess to the trend of year-over-year reductions that we observed between 2012 and 2014. The decrease in 2016 can be attributed in part to a reduction in activity during the year. We realize that in order to maintain this positive trend, Hess will have to remain diligent in our spill prevention efforts as activity ramps up again in 2017.Even with the substantial decline in spills last year, we experienced some notable LOPC events. In all cases, we implemented site incident control and spill containment coordination efforts immediately upon detection, and we experienced no injuries. We experienced two mechanical integrity-related LOPC events that can be attributed to corrosion issues in North Dakota. 
One involved a spill of approximately 770 barrels of produced water and the other resulted in the release of approximately 250 barrels of emulsion fluid. In both events, the spills were contained on site, and the fluid and affected soil were collected and removed for disposal. Also in North Dakota a spill of approximately 200 barrels of oil and 225 barrels of produced water occurred due to equipment failure. Approximately 40 barrels of the oil and water mixture migrated offsite but was contained before reaching surface water systems. Spilled fluid and impacted soils were removed for remediation.We have been working to implement a range of programs to continue our focus on spill prevention. To address spills that result from corrosion and integrity issues, we have recently enhanced our inspection and surveillance programs, upgraded external corrosion protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, and replaced or redesigned pipes. We have also expanded spill-related worksite controls, such as fluid transfer checklists, and spill prevention training. In North Dakota, we helped to form a new local chapter of the National Association of Corrosion Engineers to advance pipeline integrity, safety training and information sharing among pipeline and oil and gas companies operating in the region. The process safety assessments and asset integrity assessments we have been pursuing (see the Safety and Health section) should also help to drive improved LOPC performance.AIR EMISSIONSThe normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities results in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emission sources, including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions. In 2016 our normalized emissions of VOCs continued to follow a downward trend, while normalized emissions of NOX and SO2 increased compared to 2015.The upward trend in NOX and SO2 emissions intensity is attributable in part to an increase in drilling activity – and the associated increase in the use of diesel-powered equipment – at Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Malay Basin. This change in drilling activity level, as well as the need to run some equipment regardless of production levels, paired with a decrease in production at those assets, contributed to the increase in NOX and SO2 emissions intensity. Other factors that contributed to the SO2 emissions increase were operational upset events at the Seminole Gas Plant and production challenges at our Tubular Bells Field, both of which resulted in additional flaring activity.We have an ongoing reliability program in place for the Seminole Gas Plant, through which we continually seek to enhance facility operations to minimize emission events. We are also enhancing the maintenance program at the Seminole Gas Plant and planning upgrades to plant systems and equipment in 2017 to reduce the plant’s emissions and improve its performance going forward.REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGSIn 2016 we paid $24,430 in environmental fines and penalties. The majority ($14,430) of this expenditure was related to waste management in our discontinued operations (i.e., our previous marketing and refining businesses). The remaining $10,000 included two fines for administrative issues with drilling operations in North Dakota.As mentioned in the Climate Change and Energy section, in 2015 and through 2016 we had initiated implementation of a leak detection and repair (LDAR) program across all of our Bakken production facilities as a way of achieving voluntary reductions as part of our ONE Future commitment. The intent was to also report reductions achieved through this program under the Methane Challenge Program. However, Hess, as well as a number of other Bakken operators, recently entered into a Consent Decree with the North Dakota Department of Health resolving alleged noncompliance with state air pollution laws and provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Pursuant to the Consent Decree, we are required to implement corrective actions, including implementation of an LDAR program at our existing upstream oil and natural gas production facilities in North Dakota. Given this Consent Decree, we did not consider it appropriate to commit to the LDAR program under the Methane Challenge Program.Strengthening our regulatory assurance program is one of the six components of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance also helps us to ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. As part of our long-term compliance strategy, our regulatory team continued to expand the use of a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. assets in 2016.We also enhanced our LDAR field assurance team, in part to fulfill the additional monitoring required through the Consent Decree mentioned above. Compliance assurance activities that will be implemented through our field assurance team include monthly audible, visual and olfactory inspections and semiannual optical gas imaging on equipment that has the potential to emit fugitive emissions. Overall, our LDAR program comprises: monthly audible, visual and olfactory inspection of equipment with the potential to leak (North Dakota production operations), as well as quarterly (North Dakota and Texas gas plants) and semiannual (North Dakota production operations) optical gas imaging. At our Ohio production facilities, we conduct quarterly, semiannual or annual inspections using optical gas imaging. Per the regulations of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), we are able to move to semiannual or annual inspections after a period of demonstrating de minimis leak rates for permitted equipment.Optical gas imaging is performed by our field assurance personnel in the regulatory group who are certified in the use of infrared thermal cameras and other monitoring techniques (such as U.S. EPA Method 21) to detect fugitive emissions. These measures, together with the steps we are taking to reduce flaring in North Dakota, will help to further reduce our fugitive methane emissions.In addition, we are working through 
the API to implement its Recommended Practice 1173 related to pipeline safety management systems. As part of our commitment to this initiative, we are evaluating and enhancing our management system and integrity management programs pertaining 
to pipelines.Freshwater UseMillion Cubic Meters.  Groundwater.  Municipal Water.  Surface Water2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS. Continued initiatives to reduce the environmental impacts of shale energy development. Enhanced our water data collection methodology. Observed a five-year low in losses of primary containment. Expanded use of our regulatory compliance tracking tool2017 GOALS. Continue to improve water data quality through enhancements in the data collection process. Continue to advance efforts to incorporate water management in the risk assessment process. Evaluate water reduction strategies. Achieve a severe environmental incident rate target of 0.027 (i.e., a 10 percent reduction compared to 2016)472016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTProduction Operations, North Dakota48SHALE ENERGYAdvances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have resulted in a rapid increase in shale oil and gas development in the U.S. – although activity has slowed in the past two years due to low commodity prices. Hess has made significant investments in these unconventional oil and gas plays – first in the Bakken Formation in North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil plays, and more recently in the Utica Formation in Ohio, an emerging shale gas play. Oil and gas from these plays constitute about 45 percent of Hess’ total operated production.We recognize that some groups have voiced concerns about the potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. The practices we use are well established and, in most cases, have been employed in conventional oil and gas development for many years.We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impact and, as discussed in the Social Responsibility section, we aim to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our performance and enhance our license to operate. All assets undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow us to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help us protect the environment, the communities in which we operate and the safety of our workforce. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes identification and ranking of environmental considerations and other aspects 
of our operated activities as well as technical review and value assurance activities. We also perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis.Well IntegrityWhether for conventional or unconventional resources production, a key 
to protecting groundwater is well integrity – that is, working to ensure physical barriers between the wellbore and the surrounding rock and underground aquifers.While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwater bearing zones at shallower depths. Before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and conforms to regulatory requirements and internal Hess standards.Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the contents of the wellbore. We submit this information in applications for well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Well designs can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, the management of drilling risks and technology applications.To help ensure well integrity, our drilling process for new shale wells is to line wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically:. A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval to isolate the freshwater zone, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well and the strata containing the groundwater being protected.. Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and cemented in place, and an acoustic cement bond log is employed to confirm that the cement barrier meets regulatory requirements.. The well completion is performed through a final casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate fluids within the well.. To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference – that is, stimulating one well and having it result in hydraulic communication in nearby wells – existing offset oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity, and the wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being shut-in or additional equipment is installed on wellheads that can safely operate within proper distances.. During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to operate surface and downhole equipment within their design ratings.Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground injection wells has not been a focus of potential concern for our operations in North Dakota. In Ohio, regulators have implemented measures through the permitting process to address seismicity concerns in the state. Hess follows a monitoring methodology and an operational control process when performing hydraulic fracturing in areas of known faults or areas where previous seismic activity greater than 2.0 magnitude has occurred. An expanded discussion of our shale oil and gas operations – including protection of water quality, water use, hydraulic fracturing fluid composition, air emissions, land use, transportation and crude-by-rail – can be found on our website.