CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYTioga Rail System, North DakotaHess monitors, measures and takes steps to reduce our carbon footprint at existing and planned operations. We have been executing a five year (2009-2013) climate change strategy and are in the process of developing a policy to provide internal clarity on our climate change framework, demonstrate comprehensive climate change management and increase transparency. This policy, when adopted, will guide operational and project planning efforts to manage 
our carbon footprint. We recognize the need for cooperation between U.S. and world leaders and industry to develop comprehensive energy solutions that will meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These solutions include increased use of cleaner burning natural gas, commercial scale carbon neutral technologies and demand reduction measures such as energy efficiency initiatives. Carbon price signals may also encourage more efficient 
use of hydrocarbons. In the U.S., we support a transparent, flexible, equitable and reasonable approach to reducing carbon emissions that will not impede the domestic economic recovery. STRATEGY AND GOALSIn 2009 the Hess Leadership Team (HLT) approved a five year corporate climate change strategy for 2009 through 2013. Key elements of the strategy address GHG emissions intensity, flaring, energy efficiency, carbon accounting and products and services to help customers become more carbon efficient. A synopsis of the progress we have made 
in executing our climate change strategy is summarized in the table below. While we are on track in most areas, a transformation of Hess is underway. This impacts our ability to achieve our GHG emissions intensity reduction target (equity basis) of 
20 percent below the 2008 baseline by the end of 2013. Through 2010 we reduced our equity basis GHG emissions intensity by 14 percent. However, we have subsequently exited petroleum refining with the closings of the HOVENSA joint venture refinery in January 2012 and the Port Reading refining facility in February 2013. In addition, we have announced the planned divestiture of our other downstream businesses. The higher carbon intensity of exploration and production operations, combined with reduced production and throughput from asset sales and facility closures, mean 
that our normalized target is no longer achievable. However, between 2008 and 2012, our absolute GHG emissions (equity basis) have decreased 26 percent (2.8 million tonnes). We expect GHG emissions (equity basis) will be three to four million tonnes lower in 2013 than in 2008 because of a combination of improved operating processes and discontinued operations. In 2012 we began incorporating carbon footprinting tools and energy efficiency best practices into our capital evaluation for new upstream investment decisions valued greater than $50 million to promote carbon efficient equipment selection. The cost of carbon is included in base project economics in carbon-regulated areas. In all other areas, the cost of carbon is included in project economics 
as a sensitivity analysis. Workshops to educate project engineers were held in Houston, London and Kuala Lumpur and were taught by subject matter experts.During the year we began building an energy management system to track energy use throughout the corporation. This new system helps us identify opportunities to reduce energy use and flaring. In 2013 we will continue to collect energy use data with the goal of evaluating energy efficiency improvement opportunities and establishing an energy baseline and targets for 2014 and beyond.Another element of our strategy is increasing the use of renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to 10 percent of net electricity used for company operations. We have exceeded this target for the past three years. In addition, our Marketing and Refining (M&R) business installed a 1.1 megawatt solar photovoltaic system at its Woodbridge, N.J. headquarters to provide more than 20 percent of its electricity needs. Since 2010 we have also achieved carbon neutral status for employee business travel on commercial air carriers through the purchase of carbon offsets.In 2013 and through early 2014 we will update our climate change strategy and objectives for the next five year cycle (2014-2019). We will continue to emphasize best practices for flare reduction and energy efficiency. To accomplish this objective we will also continue to assess opportunities to improve our emissions performance.GOVERNANCE STRUCTUREThe HLT oversees the climate change strategy and its execution by the Hess Climate Change Network (CCN). The CCN reports to the company’s Operational Excellence Pillar Team, which is led by the President of E&P and includes senior leaders from our upstream and downstream business segments, as well as corporate Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility, Global Process Excellence and Information Technology functions. We established four CCN work groups to develop, update and execute the company’s climate change strategy. The Climate Policy Work Group monitors policy developments, assesses their impact on our operations and coordinates strategy development across the four work groups. The Energy Efficiency and Flaring/Venting Work Groups focus on the technical and operational factors of carbon footprint evaluation and reduction. The Carbon Markets Work Group provides guidance on forward pricing for project economics and carbon monetization opportunities.GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCEWe report our GHG emissions on an operated and net equity basis. The majority of our direct (Scope 1) emissions are associated with fuel combustion and flaring. We report indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect emissions (Scope 3), resulting from employee business travel and the transport and use of our products. Hess Operated Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)In 2012, of the 5.7 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from operated assets, 5.0 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and 
0.8 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion), flaring and indirect emissions (purchased electricity) accounted for 44 percent, 43 percent and 13 percent of GHG emissions respectively.Greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets increased 0.7 million tonnes, primarily as a result of an increase in flaring emissions due to the rapid expansion of our operations in the North Dakota Bakken formation. Based 
on North Dakota Industrial Commission data, we have historically had some of the lowest gas flaring rates in the industry. However, our flaring rates in the Bakken region currently exceed the 2012 industry average of 32 percent. While we decreased our flaring in the Bakken from 2009 to 2010 by bringing additional gas gathering infrastructure online, our flaring subsequently increased from 2011 to 2012, following the acquisition of acreage in remote areas with insufficient existing gas gathering infrastructure. These new acquisitions accounted for 56 percent of our Bakken flaring at year end 2012. At operated assets, flaring rates in the Bakken formation have stabilized between 2011 and 2012 and we expect flaring to decrease substantially in the next few years as we continue to invest in flare reduction projects.We are investing more than $1.2 billion to improve 
gas gathering infrastructure, monetize gas recovery and 
minimize gas flaring. These investments include the planned completion of four gas gathering projects by 2014. Other mitigation measures utilized in 2012 included daily review of rates and pressures to optimize the steam to oil ratio, a measure of efficiency. We also piloted third party services 
to compress natural gas for transport. These mitigation measures continue in 2013, along with pilot testing methods for natural gas liquids collection at the well site and plans for conversion of some of our contracted drill rigs to dual fuel (natural gas as well as diesel). Based on our current production and emissions forecast, 
we anticipate further absolute reductions in GHG emissions reflecting these flaring reduction initiatives in North Dakota and the closure of our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility. In addition to our projects in the Bakken, we have ongoing flare reduction initiatives in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea (EG). 
We continue to look for ways to reduce fuel consumption 
and improve our operational efficiency through these and other energy efficiency initiatives.Hess Net Equity Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) Since 2007 we have tracked GHG emissions from our non-operated locations based on our equity interest in 
each asset. Tracking emissions on a net equity basis is
more difficult than on an operated basis, but it provides a more accurate overall picture of our carbon footprint.Our major sources of emissions from non-operated assets in 2012 included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) and SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures and our equity interests in Samara-Nafta, Russia and Pailin field, Thailand. Combined, these assets accounted for approximately three million of our eight million tonnes of net equity emissions. Operated sources included our operations in EG and North Dakota, the Port Reading refining facility and the Seminole and Tioga gas plants, which together accounted for 3.2 million tonnes of net equity emissions. Our year-over-year net equity emissions decreased by more than one million tonnes CO2e, primarily due to the closure of the HOVENSA joint venture refinery in early 2012. Scope 3 Product Use EmissionsThe majority of our Scope 3 emissions are associated with customer and consumer use of our fuel and other products. Although no standard methodology has been adopted 
within our industry to report these types of emissions, we have followed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) approach.Our methodology for calculating product use emissions addresses the products that we refine and sell, as well 
as natural gas that we produce and sell for third party consumption. We exclude emissions associated with products that are manufactured by others and purchased 
by Hess for resale. Emissions factors for refined petroleum products are based on the EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting. Natural gas emissions factors reflect CO2 content in gas sales.Our product use emissions have decreased from approximately 40 million tonnes CO2e in 2010 to 22 million tonnes CO2e in 2012, as a result of shutting down our HOVENSA joint venture refinery. In February 2013 we closed our remaining Port Reading refining facility. Therefore, our Scope 3 product use emissions from refined petroleum products are expected to be less than one million tonnes 
in 2013.Other Scope 3 EmissionsIn addition to our product use emissions, in 2009 we began identifying and quantifying potential carbon hotspots in our value chain. To date, we have collected data associated 
with third party supply and distribution and business travel. Scope 3 emissions from these activities are not material relative to product use emissions, but demonstrate our progress in assessing our value chain GHG emissions.We have refined our approach for 2012 to focus on third party activities where we can obtain accurate and reliable source data. These include ocean transport of refinery feedstock for the Port Reading refining facility and refined petroleum products for resale by Energy Marketing and Retail Marketing. We also collect data on employee business travel on commercial air carriers. In 2012 Scope 3 ocean transport emissions were 210,000 tonnes CO2e, similar to 2011. Our emissions from employee business travel on commercial aircraft were approximately 23,000 tonnes, the same as 2011. We offset more than 120 percent of commercial carrier emissions through the purchase of carbon credits from The Climate Trust (TCT). In addition, we provided a $25,000 grant to TCT to support an avoided grasslands conversion carbon offsets project in the Prairie Pothole Region of North Dakota. The grant will advance validation of a new carbon offset protocol for avoided grasslands conversion by the American Carbon Registry and the Voluntary Carbon Standard. The methodology will enable grassland producers to earn income from preservation of their grasslands and the soil carbon present in these systems. As a result, this project will support ranching families and rural communities in a region of noted rural out-migration while preserving sensitive habitat. We have joined the CDP Supplier Initiative (formerly known 
as the Carbon Disclosure Project) and have requested 
key suppliers of refined petroleum products and biofuels 
to respond to our information requests. Our goal is to improve our understanding of third party GHG emissions from the production of these products that we sell to customers and consumers.ENERGY USEEnergy management is fundamental to our company’s business strategy and our ongoing efforts to improve 
energy efficiency at Hess.Our operations make and purchase energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2012 energy consumption from Hess operated assets was approximately 47,000 thousand gigajoules, a 2.3 percent increase over 2011. Seventy-five percent of our energy use was generated directly by our operations. The remaining 25 percent was gross indirect energy (including energy burned by the utility to provide net purchased electricity).The slight rise in energy use in 2012 was primarily at 
E&P operations where approximately 75 percent of the company’s energy was used. The largest increase occurred at our rapidly expanding North Dakota operations, where year-over-year production increased 87 percent and energy use rose 18 percent.In 2012 U.S. operations accounted for more than 99 percent (approximately 1.1 million megawatt hours) of net purchased electricity. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 8 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind and hydroelectric power. Hess targets to purchase at least 10 percent of annual net electricity from renewable sources. In 2012 we acquired 180,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equal to 180,000 megawatt hours or about 15 percent of our net purchased electricity. Overall, approximately 23 percent of our indirect energy use was from renewables.Energy InitiativesIn 2012 Hess continued to improve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption at our operations. We began monthly collection of energy use and spend data at our assets to identify opportunities to reduce energy and costs. These data are reported monthly to senior leaders and will inform our five year climate change strategy and energy goals for 2014-2019. For major new projects ($50 million or greater) we require that energy assessments be included in planning and 
review. We held project planning workshops at all major E&P locations to educate project design teams on new requisite tools for assessing energy efficiency. The workshops were developed by a cross-functional team of internal and external energy experts.We also continued to advance the energy efficiency 
projects at existing facilities. For example, a lighting project was completed at a New Jersey facility, lowering energy 
use by a projected 145 MWh annually. Terminal Operations continued a multiyear strategy to reduce fuel use by converting boilers from heavy fuel oil to natural gas. In 
late 2012 through early 2013, our Charleston, S.C. 
and Pennsauken, N.J. terminals completed natural gas conversions. We also improved the monitoring and accountability for boiler fuel use and in some markets 
we stopped storing fuel products that must be heated. Combined, these efforts resulted in a 31 percent decrease 
in Terminal Operations’ fuel use between 2009 and 2012.Hess continues to help meet the world’s increasing demand for energy while we manage our carbon footprint 
and energy use. This commitment underpins our seven-point strategy that addresses the challenges and opportunities presented by climate change.Climate Change Strategy and Progress Strategy Progress Establish and publicly communicate a five year GHG emissions intensity reduction target. Due to the restructuring of Hess into a pure play Exploration and Production (E&P) company, our target of 20 percent reduction in emissions intensity by 2013 is no longer achievable. However, since 2008 we reduced absolute GHG emissions (equity basis) by 26 percent 
(2.8 million tonnes) through 2012. Account for the cost of carbon in all significant future investment decisions. We incorporated carbon cost considerations into the E&P project planning process for major investments and held training workshops for project engineers. Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions when designing production facilities. We incorporated energy efficiency considerations into the E&P project planning process for major investments and held training workshops for project engineers. Reduce flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 50 percent over five years (by end of 2013 compared to 
2008 baseline). We continued to review flare reduction options while having already reduced combined flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 61 percent through 2012. Implement a corporate wide energy efficiency program. We implemented monthly collection of energy use and spend data at our assets to identify opportunities to reduce energy consumption and costs and to begin establishing a baseline. Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity 
for company operations from renewable sources. We purchased renewable energy certificates equivalent to 15 percent of our 2012 net electricity use. Offer Hess Energy Marketing customers products and services to help them minimize their carbon footprint. Hess Energy Solutions expanded its integrated commodity contract offerings, incorporating energy efficiency, renewable energy and fuel conversion services. Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by SourceThousand Tonnes CO2eOperated Greenhouse Gas EmissionsMillion Tonnes CO2e Scope 1 Emissions     Scope 2 Emissions (gross) Flaring 2,433 Fuel Combustion 2,300 Indirect 760 Other 238Tioga Gas Processing Plant Expansion, North DakotaNet Equity Greenhouse Gas EmissionsNet Equity Emissions by CountryThousand Tonnes CO2e  U.S. Virgin Islands (U.S.V.I.) Normalized GHG Algeria Non-operated E&P Russia Hess M&R Hess E&P Malaysia/
Thailand U.S. 3,159 Malaysia/Thailand 1,986 Equatorial Guinea 952 Russia 454 Other Countries* 419 U.S.V.I. 332 Algeria 243 U.K. 210Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE)GHG (Million Tonnes CO2e)*Other countries:
Denmark 1.8% 
Azerbaijan 1.3% 
Norway 1.2%
Libya 1.0%Product Use EmissionsMillion Tonnes CO2 Natural Gas     Gasoline     Diesel     Residual OilGHG factors are 0.37, 0.43 and 0.47 tonnes of CO2/barrel for gasoline, diesel and residual oil, respectively, and 0.0966 tonnes of CO2/MMBtu for natural gas. These factors are based on the EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting, except the gas factor which is adjusted for JDA’s CO2 content in gas sales.Energy Use Thousand GigajoulesEnergy Use by CountryThousand Gigajoules Direct     Indirect U.S. (E&P) 24,590 U.S. (M&R) 11,938 Equatorial Guinea 
3,833 Indonesia 2,879 Denmark 2,365 U.K. 1,148 Thailand 171Direct Energy Use by Fuel SourceThousand GigajoulesU.S. Net Indirect Energy Use by Fuel Source*Thousand MWh Natural Gas 423 Coal 400 Nuclear 229 Wind 57 Hydro 23 Biomass, solar and other renewables <10 Natural Gas 25,544 Petroleum Coke 5,620 Diesel 3,493 Fuel Oil 335 Renewables (Solar) 4*Approximate figures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) state net electricity generation profiles for utilities and independent power producers as of March 2012Green BuildingsIn 2012 Hess continued to make progress incorporating environmental excellence into our leased buildings and owned facilities. Renovations continued at Hess’ M&R headquarters in Woodbridge, N.J., where we aim to achieve Leadership in Energy Efficiency and Design (LEED®) Gold certification. The renovations include the addition of high efficiency lighting and mechanical equipment and efficient window glazing, as well as sensor operated and low-flow plumbing fixtures. We also installed a $5.6 million, 1.1-megawatt solar energy facility that supplies approximately 22 percent of the building’s electricity needs. The 3,472 single-axis panels have sun-tracking capability for up to 25 percent more sunlight capture than fixed panel systems. The field began operations in April 2012 and generated 1,037 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity by the end of the year. Our leased E&P headquarters building in Houston 
is certified LEED Platinum for Core and Shell. We completed an interior buildout in 2011 to meet commercial interior LEED Silver criteria. Energy conservation features include a lighting system that monitors the position of the sun and adjusts window shades accordingly, occupancy sensors that turn off lights in unoccupied rooms and a “green roof” that helps cool the building. We measure and ensure indoor air quality, encourage bicycle commuting and have programs in place to ensure recycling. In addition, we use environmentally friendly cleaning supplies and pest control. The building’s high efficiency plumbing fixtures and its reuse of air conditioning condensate and rainwater for landscaping help to conserve our use of water.Hess Solar Field, Woodbridge, N.J.Hess E&P Headquarters, Houston, TexasENVIRONMENTValhall Field, NorwayWe have initiatives to reduce the amount of water and energy we use, limit the level of greenhouse gas and other air pollutants we emit, prevent spills, and reduce the time it takes to remediate affected sites. In 2012 we standardized waste management practices across U.S. operations to improve consistency and performance. We are currently conducting two major multiyear decommissioning projects in the U.K. sector of the North Sea. These projects have required extensive environmental assessments and have presented unique challenges as 
we remove thousands of tonnes of infrastructure from the seabed for subsequent recycling and disposal. We are also introducing a new global air emissions reporting system, which will improve the accuracy, reliability and accessibility of environmental data. In addition we are strengthening and standardizing our environmental assessment processes to ensure key environmental risks are identified, mitigated and communicated to our stakeholders. In 2012 we began to use new evaluation tools to assess the environmental and social risks associated with our operations. In the Utica Shale in Southeast Ohio we began using an online Geographical Information System (GIS) that incorporates environmental and social baseline data. It is used on a daily basis to help us avoid ecologically sensitive areas, minimize impacts to the environment and reduce permitting requirements and review time.WATER USEFresh water availability and quality are issues of increasing importance, especially within Exploration and Production (E&P). We recognize responsible water use is a key issue for the communities where we operate and for our stakeholders. Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy commits us to conserving natural resources. As a result, we closely monitor our water use, strive to reduce our water footprint and are taking steps to safeguard water quality.In 2012 our operations used 12 million cubic meters of fresh water, 99 percent of which was used in our U.S. operations. Groundwater accounted for 54 percent, surface water withdrawals less than 1 percent, and the remainder was purchased from local municipalities. Fresh water use decreased about 8 percent compared to 2011, primarily 
due to lower consumption in our gas processing and refining operations. No water sources were identified as having been significantly affected by the company’s water use.In 2012 we used 8.5 million cubic meters of fresh water in our E&P operations, 71 percent of the company total. About 78 percent was used by U.S. natural gas processing plants (Seminole in Texas, Tioga in North Dakota and Sea Robin in Louisiana), 21 percent was used for hydraulic fracturing operations and 1 percent for all other operations. The Seminole Gas Processing Plant (SGP) in West Texas was our largest fresh water user. The plant uses water mainly for process cooling and sources it from a Hess owned and operated groundwater well field. Due to 
regional climatic conditions – dry all year and hot during 
the summer – there is a high evaporative loss associated with SGP’s cooling system. The facility recirculates water 
in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to prevent buildup of solids in the circulating water a portion 
is removed as “blowdown.” Fresh water inputs to the cooling system must replace both the amount of blowdown and the amount of water lost to evaporation. In 2012 SGP used 6.3 million cubic meters of water for process cooling and other utilities, 5 percent less than in 2011. To put this in context with overall regional use, SGP’s 2012 groundwater withdrawals represented 0.1 percent of the estimated regional demand from the Ogallala Aquifer based on Texas Water Development Board data for the Llano Estacado region (www.twdb.texas.gov) which includes the county where SGP is located.In Marketing and Refining (M&R), the Port Reading refining facility used 2.3 million cubic meters of water purchased from the local municipality, comprising 64 percent of M&R’s total fresh water use. Approximately 75 percent of the 2.3 million cubic meters of water used at Port Reading was for the facility’s cooling system, which recirculates water between three and six times. The facility’s utility systems account for approximately 20 percent of water use. The remaining 5 percent is used throughout various stages of 
the petroleum refining process.SGP and Port Reading together accounted for 71 percent of the company’s 2012 fresh water consumption and represent the vast majority of our water recycling/reuse activities. In 2012 about 1.1 million cubic meters (9%) of water was reused.BIODIVERSITYUnderstanding biodiversity and key ecosystem services 
are important considerations in our project planning and execution. At times our operations extend into sensitive habitats where the protection of migratory and local animal and plant life is critical to our project decision making. Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy reinforces our commitment to the environment.We routinely conduct biodiversity screenings for major new projects as part of early site evaluation and selection. Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) are used to create mitigation strategies for environmental and biodiversity risks. These ESIAs are performed for Hess by experienced third party consultants in accordance with country specific laws and regulations. ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies followed by screening of plant and animal species against the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 
Red List and threatened and endangered species lists. 
In locations where an ESIA is not mandated, our E&P management system framework requires risk screening 
and impact assessments for proposed exploration, drilling and development programs. ESIA results are made public where required by law. In 2012 we continued to enhance our approach to biodiversity impact assessment and management. We are building consistency in expectations and execution of our biodiversity and ecosystem services by developing global standards that address these issues. Part of this development process includes evaluating the implementation of IPIECA guidance on biodiversity assessment and management across our operations. We have also conducted a review of geospatial tools for identifying ecosystem risk factors and are currently assessing training needs. In 2012 Hess E&P assets continued the ESIA process initiated in 2011 for our offshore Tubular Bells project in the Gulf of Mexico. We also began the scoping of an ESIA to assess the risks associated with our offshore Stampede project in the Gulf of Mexico, which is in the early conceptual design phase. In North Dakota we completed a study of the effects of seismic surveys in Lake Sakakawea on pallid sturgeon and other endangered fish species. We conducted this study to understand the impacts of proposed seismic geophysical surveys that may occur in September 2013 within specific regions of the lake pending U.S. Fish & Wildlife approval. The study findings included identification of sound levels to which adult fish can be safely exposed and will inform best practices for future surveying activities.Hess is a member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystems Services working group of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. IPIECA provides us with opportunities to continuously learn and improve as well as engage with stakeholders inside and outside our industry. For example, IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association have formed the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI). This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share best practices to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystems. This workflow is helping us effectively apply the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standard 6 on Biodiversity, Conservation and the Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. Hess also participates in the Advisory Committee of the Environmentally Friendly Drilling – Technology Integration Program (EFD-TIP). The EFD-TIP represents an integrated approach for applying new technologies to address environmental impacts in shale oil and gas production. Potential technologies come from service providers, Research Partnership to Secure Energy for America 
projects, National Energy Technology Laboratory funded projects, and the EFD Program (efdsystems.org). Since 2010 Hess has collaborated in an industry-wide 
study on fish impingement and entrainment and thermal impacts of cooling water intakes. The study was initiated 
to support revisions to the Gulf of Mexico-wide National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. 
It is now being used to support development of a company monitoring plan that addresses permit requirements for 
both existing and new facilities.In 2012 we began to use new evaluation tools to effectively assess biodiversity risks associated with our operations, including the GIS tool in the Utica Shale.In addition to the evaluation of available biodiversity tools, 
a formalized data collection scope of work is under development. The use of a formalized approach and biodiversity data collection tools will help us enhance our data collection process during the next several years. Historically we have collected biodiversity data manually through reviews of ESIAs and other existing reports, which are limited because they only cover a fixed time period. This improved approach will help us maintain more up-to-date information.IUCN Red ListHess Corporate Environmental Affairs maintains a list 
of IUCN Red List species compiled and updated using environmental due diligence, screening and impact assessment reports. Most of the endangered or critically endangered species on this list are marine life that thrives 
in tropic and subtropic regions, including some coastal 
and offshore regions in the vicinity of our project areas.No Hess asset is located within an IUCN protected area, with the exception of the Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field in northeastern Thailand. Some associated wellheads and gas gathering lines lie within the northern boundary of the Phu Kao-Phu Phan Kham National Park, an IUCN Category V protected area. To help maintain and protect this national forest, we provide financial support for local fire fighting and reforestation programs.SITE DECOMMISSIONINGAs offshore oil and gas facilities reach the end of their commercial life, decommissioning those assets presents unique engineering, environmental protection and waste management challenges. The Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields (FFFA) in the North Sea stopped production in 2008 after delivering more than 100 million barrels of oil during a 17-year life. The Ivanhoe and Rob Roy fields (IVRR), also in the North Sea, have also ceased production. The knowledge gained from the FFFA project will be applied to their decommissioning this year. These fields mark the first major subsea abandonment in United Kingdom (U.K.) waters. While well abandonment is not uncommon, most abandoned 
wells in the North Sea have been primarily from fixed platforms, with fewer challenges than older fields present such as corrosion. As these projects are the first of their kind in the North Sea, our activities are setting a precedent for future decommissioning projects in the region. We have been active in industry committees to develop guidance for responsible decommissioning practices and worked with regulators to ensure that these operations are completed safely and effectively. As the operator of these fields, we thoroughly researched and planned the decommissioning design. Full decommissioning plans were prepared and environmental impact assessments were conducted for the FFFA and 
IVRR projects. These included assessments of the possible environmental and social impacts from decommissioning activities on the biological environment, in addition to fishing and other commercial activities in the area. Decommissioning activities at FFFA commenced with the removal of the Floating Production Storage Offloading (FPSO) vessel. Then a multiyear undersea process began to disconnect and remove “mattresses” (big concrete blocks latticed together with wire mesh or rope), “trees” (assemblies of valves and fittings attached to each oil well), and the associated subsea pipelines. Steps are taken to conduct work safely and minimize 
impact on the environment. For example, a guard vessel remains in place at the site to keep shipping traffic clear 
and be a potential first responder in case of an oil spill or other emergency. Arrangements have also been made 
for decontamination and recycling or disposal of the infrastructure removed from the seabed. The operation 
will recover more than 7,000 tonnes of steel and concrete, 95 percent of which will be recycled. DISCHARGESDischarges in our E&P and M&R operations include stormwater runoff and process wastewater. In the U.S.
these discharges are regulated under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). Discharges associated with our E&P operations also include produced water, drill cuttings and drilling fluids. Offshore exploration and production discharges include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. In 2012 the drilling mud and cuttings discharged from 
offshore operations contained approximately 322 metric
tons of oil. Offshore produced water discharges totaled 
16.5 million cubic meters with an average oil content of 
nine parts per million volume (ppmv). The discharged produced water contained 119 metric tons of oil, 93 
percent of which was from operations in Equatorial Guinea, the North Sea and Indonesia. Onshore E&P operations generated approximately 24.9 million cubic meters of produced water, of which 57 percent was reinjected for reservoir management and 43 percent was reinjected for disposal. No produced water onshore was discharged to surface water. Overall, 95 percent of gas plant stormwater discharge samples were within NPDES permit limits. The Port Reading refining facility discharged 1.3 million 
cubic meters of treated wastewater. Nearly all (99.7 percent) of terminal and refinery discharge samples were within permit specifications.HYDROCARBON SPILLSIn 2012 hydrocarbon spill volumes totaled 788 barrels from 138 spills. The volume of hydrocarbon spills has increased over the past three years and spill volumes nearly doubled from 2011. Three spills in North Dakota accounted for 58 percent of the 2012 spill volume. Equipment was immediately shut down and cleanup efforts commenced. More than two-thirds of the spilled volume was recovered. Our company is a member of a spill consortium in North Dakota, Sakakawea Area Spill Response LLC (SASR), which organizes training exercises and purchases equipment to be made available in the event of a spill at Lake Sakakawea. This initiative allows faster and more comprehensive spill response capabilities. NON-HYDROCARBON SPILLSThe volume of non-hydrocarbon spills in E&P totaled 1,879 barrels of fluid from 60 spills, a 57 percent decrease in volume from 2011. Two produced water spills totaling 1,015 barrels occurred at our West Texas operations as a result of injection line leaks. More than 90 percent of the spill volumes were recovered.CRITERIA POLLUTANTS Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides (SOX) result from fuel combustion, process operations 
and flaring activities. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 
are emitted during product loading and storage and fuel dispensing. In 2012 normalized NOX and SOX emissions increased 18 percent and 11 percent respectively. Normalized VOC emissions increased substantially in North Dakota as a result of increased activity and rapid expansion of operations.WASTEOur typical waste streams include construction debris, 
scrap metal and wood, office and domestic waste, oily 
tank bottoms, contaminated soil, spent acids and caustics and used catalyst. Scrap metal, spent acids and caustics, and used catalysts are usually recycled or reused. Waste is disposed according to waste management plans at each operating location. Approximately 200,000 metric tons of waste was generated in 2012, of which 96 percent was non-hazardous. Thirty-seven percent of the waste we generated last year was recycled or reused. In 2012 we exported 10.4 tonnes of waste considered hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention. The waste was generated from catalyst used in our operations 
at our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility and exported to 
the eurozone for recovery of precious metals.REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGSWe paid approximately $85,000 in environmental fines 
and penalties in 2012. More than 80 percent of those fines were incurred in our M&R segment, primarily associated 
with operation and maintenance of underground storage tank systems at our retail stations. Corrective actions were taken in response to each incident to ensure compliance going forward.ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURESWe remediate sites that have been affected by our activities, including former or current gas stations, terminals, refineries and onshore E&P facilities. We accrue for environmental assessment and remediation expenses when the future costs are probable and reasonably estimable. As described in Item 7 of the company’s 2012 SEC Form 10-K filing, at the end of 2012 Hess held a reserve of $55 million for estimated environmental remediation liabilities, which we expect will adequately cover assessment and remediation costs for all known impacted sites. Information about estimated asset retirement obligations, which are accounted for separately, is provided in the company’s 2012 SEC 
Form 10-K filing.Environmental assessment and remediation expenditures in 2012 were $19 million. In 2012 capital expenditures related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental standards, other than for the low sulfur requirements, were $70 million.We are strengthening our environmental assessment processes to ensure that key environmental risks are identified, mitigated and communicated to our stakeholders. Environmental stewardship and responsible development make good 
business sense.Fresh Water UseMillion Cubic MetersFresh Water Use by Business and Facility Thousand Cubic MetersE&P Seminole Gas Plant 6,286 North Dakota 1,758 Tioga Gas Plant 206 Sea Robin Gas Plant 174 International 80 Other U.S. 34M&R Port Reading 2,272 Retail 1,077 Terminals/Woodbridge 179 Groundwater      Municipal      Surface WaterMonitor lizard, native to mangrove habitats near our Pangkah operations in Indonesia IUCN Category Number of Species Critically Endangered 22 Endangered 41 Vulnerable 243 Near Threatened 250 Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus Fields Decommissioning Map The decommissioning of the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields’ subsea facilities in the U.K. North Sea is setting standards for future projects in the region. Hydrocarbon SpillsOil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea Oil Volume in Produced Water (Metric Tons) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv*) Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)     Number of Oil Spills (#)*parts per million volumeMalaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf of ThailandNon-Hydrocarbon SpillsCriteria PollutantsEmissions (Tonnes per million BOE) Volume of Spills (bbls)     Number of Spills (#) VOCs      NOx      SOxWasteMetric Tons Non-hazardous     HazardousHess-supported Elizabeth River Remediation Project, VirginiaASSETS IN TRANSITIONOur company’s multiyear transformation to become 
a more focused and higher growth exploration and production (E&P) company culminated March 4, 2013, when we announced we are exiting our downstream businesses, including retail, energy marketing and energy trading to become a pure play E&P company.The company also announced we would further focus the E&P portfolio by divesting assets in Indonesia 
and Thailand and pursuing monetization of Bakken infrastructure assets in North Dakota, expected in 2015.We will continue to provide information to stakeholders as our transformation into a pure play E&P company progresses. Until this process is complete, updates 
on the assets in transition will be provided in future sustainability reports. In this section we describe the key products and services of our downstream businesses for activities conducted in 2012.ENERGY MARKETINGHess Energy (hessenergy.com) is a leading energy marketer in the Eastern U.S., providing natural gas, electricity and fuel oil to more than 21,000 commercial, industrial, government and small business customers. 
In 2012 natural gas and electricity accounted for more than 85 percent of sales volumes on a thermal 
equivalent basis. The Energy Solutions group within Energy Marketing continued to build a portfolio of products and services to help customers reduce their energy use and costs, become more energy efficient and shrink their carbon footprint. Drivers include local regulations, voluntary corporate initiatives, and the favorable economics of natural gas over heating oil.Energy Solutions offers integrated commodity contracts that can incorporate energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fuel conversion services, depending on a customer’s needs. Energy management and efficiency services include Demand Response, retrofit assessments, comprehensive energy audits, energy benchmarking and energy reduction plans that help customers meet their voluntary energy goals or comply with local regulations. In New York City, recent clean air legislation mandates the phase out of heavy heating oils, which will impact approximately 10,000 buildings. Energy Solutions provides comprehensive fuel conversion services integrated with commodity contracts. Together these services ensure that buildings are properly heated 
and that they benefit from the long term economic advantages of natural gas. We have joined the New 
York City Energy Efficiency Corporation on fuel conversion projects and the New York City Energy Efficiency Corporation and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which provide financing, while Energy Solutions provides project management and natural gas supply expertise. Our Energy Operations group includes wholesale electric and natural gas operations, as well as a new line of business in independent power generation. During 2012 operations began at the Bayonne Energy Center, a 512-megawatt natural gas fueled electric power plant joint venture with ArcLight Capital Partners. The plant provides electricity to New York City. A joint venture was also formed (Hess 50%) to build a 655-megawatt natural gas fueled electric generating facility in Newark, N.J. (newarkenergycenter.com). REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTSHess has 1,361 branded retail stations along the U.S. East Coast (hessexpress.com). These stations provide customers with ultralow sulfur diesel (ULSD) 
and reformulated (RFG) and conventional gasoline. 
Our stations sold 534 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2012, all of which were ULSD. RFG sales volumes were approximately one billion gallons and represented 52 percent of total gasoline sales. Under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations, in 2012 we generated approximately $8 million in surplus renewable fuels credits that we sold to other companies. We purchase biodiesel produced from a variety of EPA-approved feedstocks, including soybean oil, corn oil, 
canola oil, camelina oil, animal waste, waste grease and other sources to blend into ultralow sulfur diesel or #2 heating oil at our Newark, N.J., Baltimore, Md., Bronx, N.Y., and Jacksonville, Fla. terminals. In 2012 our Marketing and Refining (M&R) segment purchased and sold approximately 9.5 million gallons of biodiesel. Additional product responsibility information as per the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI G3.1 guidelines is included on our public website where we have posted a GRI Content Index (hess.com/2012griindex). NUVERA FUEL CELLS Nuvera Fuel Cells (nuvera.com), a wholly owned Hess subsidiary, conducts applied research and development 
and commercialization of motive fuel cell power systems and hydrogen delivery solutions for automotive, industrial and aerospace applications. Technologies include hydrogen fuel cells for electric vehicles and hydrogen generation and fueling systems. Nuvera has conducted research with industry partners, academic institutions and the U.S. Department of Energy National Energy Labs to advance hydrogen fuel cell technology by continuing to improve fuel cell durability and the efficiency of fuel cell stack technology.One of Nuvera’s key technologies is the PowerTap® hydrogen generator, which uses steam methane reformation to generate high-purity, high-pressure hydrogen. This technology capitalizes on abundant natural gas as a source of clean and cost effective hydrogen and can also use biomass methane and other renewable feedstocks. PowerTap® units are currently deployed in industrial applications, including the material handling industry.Nuvera is also working on advanced hydrogen fuel cell systems for industrial mobility, automotive and aerospace applications. Nuvera has entered into joint development agreements with leading automotive and aerospace companies to further the advancement of OrionTM, an 
eighth generation fuel cell stack design. One example is a partnership with a major aerospace company to develop onboard electrical power generation systems for commercial airliners.SUPERSTORM SANDYSuperstorm Sandy, one of the largest Atlantic storms on record, hit the U.S. East Coast in October 2012 with high winds, rain and an extreme storm surge that devastated 
one of the most densely populated and developed areas 
of the country. The storm and ensuing damage had a tremendous impact on our customers, our employees 
and our day-to-day business, especially affecting our M&R customers in and around the New York metropolitan area. Despite unprecedented challenges, Hess was able to continue providing products and services to customers. 
We were prepared, customer focused, committed to operating safely and remained dedicated to our corporate values through it all.In the last decade, experience from serious weather events in Texas, Florida, North Dakota, the U.S. Northeast and Asia has taught us the importance of early planning. We routinely prepare, test and follow detailed procedures when faced with an emergency weather event. As the superstorm was approaching, we tracked it closely and ensured that our retail locations, terminals and Port Reading, N.J. refining facility followed pre-hurricane preparation checklists to safeguard employees and customers and secure equipment. Early on, we arranged for and staged 110 emergency generators to power our operational areas from Eastern Pennsylvania to metropolitan Boston that were in the storm’s path. Most generators were deployed to retail sites but some were used at our terminals to ensure a continuity of supply. We brought in additional personnel and equipment before the storm hit, including Hess employees and contractors who traveled from Houston and from the Southeastern U.S. to provide onsite support. We tracked the crisis as it developed, monitoring the locations of generators and personnel and recording the timeline of events around the region. At some of our locations in the New York City region we brought in cots 
and supplies to house workers temporarily, and we lodged out-of-town employees at nearby hotels. 
We worked with our energy marketing industrial, commercial and government customers in advance of the storm to provide them with ample fuel inventories. In addition to fuel for transportation, demand for fuel for back-up power generation significantly increased as areas within the region lost electricity for as long as two weeks. 
By placing large generators at our Port Reading Terminal, 
we were able to run the loading rack continuously for about 10 days to meet the demand for gasoline and diesel fuel. 
We supplied fuel a day and a half after the storm surge hit 
to meet urgent needs in local communities, providing diesel fuel for senior centers, homeless shelters and hospitals. 
We also provided gasoline for public safety personnel and emergency responders. Our marketing staff handled a steady flow of calls from commercial, industrial and government clients needing diesel fuel to run their generators. The number of fuel deliveries in the days immediately after 
the storm was about three to four times normal.Within two days after the storm ended, Hess had reopened 177 of our 186 retail sites in New Jersey, New York City 
and Long Island, operating at 95 percent capacity regionally. Although there were long lines of customers at some stations, Hess retail staff worked hard to maintain an organized and safe environment for customers and employees. Station personnel assisted with directing traffic and maintaining orderly queues for gasoline as well as in convenience stores. Office-based employees across Hess who had previous retail experience went on duty to help pump gas and otherwise assist motorists during the very hectic days following the storm. Our retail sites became important gathering places to get a cup of hot coffee or necessary food items in communities where the local Hess station was the nearest store with power. As the sites reopened, we posted real-time fuel inventory data on hessexpress.com, and encouraged motorists to visit stations with fuel inventories exceeding 7,000 gallons. We publicized this information to minimize customer frustration associated with shortages. Our website, Facebook page and Twitter pages kept customers informed about our fuel supplies and addressed their questions and concerns. Through the social networks, our customers expressed many positive comments about Hess facilities being open and accessible.Our people relied on teamwork and collaboration to maintain employee and customer safety and business continuity throughout this crisis. The company established several ways to communicate with employees about safety issues and the status of Hess facilities. A 24-hour hotline was established 
to provide employees with information about which office locations were open and where to report for work. We also 
set up a website for employees with information about available assistance and services. Through this system we also sent out text message alerts, which were sometimes the most efficient means for getting news to employees. Our Houston office played an important role by assisting with procurement and communications during the days after the storm. Hess employees demonstrated their continued strong commitment to safety by ensuring there were zero recordable injuries or incidents during the storm and its aftermath. People throughout the company acknowledged that the independent spirit and focus on people and communities that are embodied in the Hess Values were 
vital in helping us successfully weather this historic storm.Hess business leaders have reviewed our performance during Superstorm Sandy so that we can improve our response and resilience in future situations. Planning and preparation were essential to our quick recovery immediately after the storm. We intend to be even more proactive during future events by mobilizing Hess employees and contractors from outside the affected region even sooner. The value of having communication and logistical support that is based outside the affected area and improving remote access for key personnel within the impacted area were among the important lessons we learned.