ENVIRONMENT Responsible management of our environmental footprint is a key component of our drive for operational excellence. We maintain spill preparedness and response plans and conduct emergency response exercises at each of our assets. We also dedicate significant staff and resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments. One of our voluntary commitments is our sponsorship and active participation in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, which is a partnership among multiple oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations that is coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center. The program aims to provide sound science and develop solutions to address environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. One outcome of our involvement was our partnership with EFD, ElectraTherm and Gulf Coast Green Energy to reduce flaring at our Bakken asset, as described in the Climate Change and Energy section on page 49. In addition, we initiated efforts to reduce water disposed in underground injection wells, as described further in the Shale Energy section on page 54. To track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time, we use key performance metrics – including those factored into our annual incentive plan – at the asset and enterprise level. Through these efforts, we continuously 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS strive to reduce the amount of water and energy we use, limit our emissions to air and prevent spills and other unplanned releases. WATER MANAGEMENT Water is vital for our onshore exploration and production operations, primarily for cooling and hydraulic fracturing. At our new developments and operations, water use may be impacted or restricted due to local limitations on water supply and disposal options. We recognize public concern about our industry’s use of water, and we are committed to evaluating our water footprint. As such, we identified water management as a material issue and critical element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. We are developing a risk-based, life cycle approach to manage water from sourcing through disposal. We also plan to pursue objectives relating to water data enhancement, water risk assessment and risk-based evaluation of asset-level water management opportunities. Additional examples of our approach to reducing our water footprint are discussed in the Shale Energy section. Our total freshwater use for exploration and production decreased by 13 percent from 2014 to 2015, primarily due to our exit from several international assets (e.g., Algeria, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the U.K.) in 2015. The Seminole Gas Plant in West Texas, which uses water primarily for process  2016 GOALS Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters 12 10.6 10.3 10 8.9 8 6 4 2 0 2013 2014 2015 Groundwater Municipal Water Surface Water 2015 Freshwater Use by  Business and Facility Thousand Cubic Meters 1%4% Seminole Gas Plant 5,874 North Dakota 1,908 Ohio 766 Tioga Gas Plant 321 International 76 cooling, remained our largest single freshwater user in 2015, accounting for (continued on page 57) • Piloted implementation of a compliance tracking tool at our Bakken asset • Continue initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of shale energy   development • Conducted a hydrogeological study to assess capacity of the Ogallala   Aquifer • Begin efforts to improve water data collection methodology • Adopted our new global Waste Management Standard • Further incorporate water management in the risk assessment process ENVIRONMENT In recent years, advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have resulted in a rapid increase in shale oil and gas development in the U.S. Hess has made significant investments in these unconventional oil and gas plays – first in the Bakken Formation in North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil plays, and more recently in the Utica Formation in Ohio, an emerging shale gas play. Oil and gas from these plays constitute about 50 percent of Hess’ total operated production. We recognize that some groups have voiced concerns about the potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. The practices we use are well established and in most cases have been employed in conventional oil and gas development for many years. We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impact. All assets undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow us to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help us protect the environment, the communities in which we operate and the safety of our workforce. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes identification and ranking of environmental considerations and other aspects of our operated activities as well as technical review and value assurance activities. We also perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis. As discussed in the Community and Social Performance section, we continue to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our performance and enhance our license to operate. Protection of Water Quality Hess protects water resources through the implementation of various controls. Our well pads and aboveground operating equipment use secondary containment to minimize impacts from loss of primary containment (LOPC). Measures to prevent stormwater from entering the well pad are incorporated into our construction design, and precipitation that falls within an operating area is controlled to help prevent impacted runoff from leaving the pad. Hess also has processes and procedures to respond to an LOPC to quickly control, contain and mitigate impacts. We employ closed-loop containment systems for drilling fluids, which reduce the risk of LOPC. These systems also provide efficiency in controlling waste volumes, as liquids and cuttings can be better separated for improved waste management and disposal. We store flowback and produced water in closed tanks. In Ohio, Hess meets or exceeds state regulatory requirements for baseline groundwater and surface water sampling of neighboring properties prior to drilling. Through water sampling, both Hess and the surrounding property owners are provided with a baseline of water quality conditions prior to operations. This activity affords all parties a level of protection as well as promotes transparency and stakeholder engagement. In North Dakota, the state operates a regional network of groundwater quality monitoring wells. We understand the importance of managing water resources responsibly and continue to evaluate our operations for potential opportunities to improve our water performance. Hydraulic fracturing accounted for 25 percent of Hess’ total freshwater consumption in 2015, with our North Dakota and Ohio assets reflecting 17 percent and 8 percent, respectively, of this amount. Hydraulic fracturing requires significant amounts of locally sourced water. A large percentage of that water remains underground, retained within the formation during and after the hydraulic fracturing process, and thus is removed from the Earth’s water cycle. The ability to incorporate alternatives to fresh water within the operational life cycle is dependent upon a multitude of factors and is predominately driven by local conditions. In 2015 Hess initiated a program to evaluate opportunities to reduce the quantity of recovered water disposed in underground injection wells. Through various efforts to pilot the reuse of drilling, flowback and produced water in hydraulic fracturing, we were able to eliminate the disposal of more than 76,000 barrels of recovered water and to offset our use of freshwater resources by that amount. Well Integrity Whether for conventional or unconventional resources production, a key to protecting groundwater is well integrity – that is, ensuring physical barriers between the wellbore and the surrounding rock and underground aquifers. While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwater bearing zones at shallower depths. Therefore before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and conforms to regulatory requirements and internal Hess standards. Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the contents of the wellbore. We submit this information in applications for well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Well designs can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, the management of drilling risks and technology applications. To help ensure well integrity, our current process for new wells is to line wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically: • A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval from the 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report deepest point to isolate the freshwater zone, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well and the strata containing the groundwater being protected. • Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and cemented in place and an acoustic cement bond log is employed to confirm that the cement barrier meets regulatory requirements. • The well completion is performed through a final casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate fluids within the well. • To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference – that is, stimulating one well and having it result in hydraulic communication in nearby wells – existing offset oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity, and the wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being shut-in. • During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to operate surface and downhole equipment within their design ratings. • Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground injection wells has not been a focus of potential concern for our operations in North Dakota. In Ohio, regulators have implemented measures through the permitting process to address seismicity concerns in the state. Hess follows a monitoring methodology and an operational control process when performing hydraulic fracturing in areas of known faults or areas of previous seismic activity greater than 2.0 magnitude. Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid Composition Hydraulic fracturing fluid is predominantly composed of water with proportionally small volumes of proppant and chemical additives. The water we use for the fluid is primarily from freshwater sources, though as discussed in the Water Use section, non-freshwater sources may also be used. Proppant is a solid material, such as sand, used to hold the formation open and allow the oil and gas to flow into the well. We have been increasing our use of sand as a proppant (instead of ceramic materials) and reached 100 percent use of sand by the end of 2015. The chemical additives in fracturing fluids are used for specific purposes such as reducing friction, killing bacteria or inhibiting corrosion or scale deposits. We know that some stakeholders are concerned about the chemical composition of hydraulic fracturing fluid. Hess does not use diesel or benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene or xylene (BTEX) in our hydraulic fracturing fluids. We also evaluate the additives we use and consider new products that become available. In 2014 and 2015 Hess pioneered the use of high-concentration friction reducers (HCFRs). HCFRs have multiple benefits, including a reduction in pumping power requirements (which lowers fuel use and emissions) and a reduction in the overall number and volume of chemicals used per well. Using fewer chemicals per well reduces the number of vehicle deliveries and the occupational and environmental exposure risks associated with handling chemicals, as well as the potential for and consequences of spills. By the end of 2015, approximately 26 percent of our North Dakota wells had been completed with the reduced additive fluid composition containing HCFRs. Hess is continuing to increase the percentage of wells completed with the new composition and is targeting 100 percent of all wells by year-end 2016. We participate with our peers in forums that are engaged in developing science-based frameworks for the evaluation of suppliers to provide data on the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluid used in each well. This information is publicly available on the FracFocus website. While respecting laws that allow our service providers to preserve the confidentiality of their fracturing fluid formulations, we encourage transparency in chemical use and disclosure. Air Emissions In our shale energy operations, regulated emissions occur during flowback and production operations. When technically feasible, these emissions are collected and directed to a pipeline for gathering and processing. Where pipeline availability is constrained, flaring of the natural gas produced may occur. See the Climate Change and Energy section for more information on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Companywide non-GHG air emissions are discussed at the end of this section. ENVIRONMENT Land Use We seek to minimize land use and reduce the number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. In North Dakota this can be achieved by implementing multi-well pad drilling – that is, multiple wells (up to 18) on a single well pad with shared surface facilities. In both Ohio and North Dakota we use geographic information systems when siting facilities to minimize the impact on the environment and local communities. Transportation Impacts We are sensitive to stakeholder concerns about increased trucks on the road in areas of high drilling activity. In North Dakota we have participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed at minimizing impacts on public roads and traffic congestion. We have also collaborated with community partners and state officials in North Dakota to promote adequate infrastructure funding to improve traffic safety and support road maintenance. In 2015 we were able to remove additional trucks from the road through the use of remote truck offloading at the Ramberg Truck Facility in North Dakota and the addition of new crude oil booster pumps that now deliver oil from Ramberg to the Tioga Rail Terminal. In 2015 we further increased our use of piping to transfer fresh water for completions at our North Dakota asset. During the year we piped water to approximately 72 percent of our well completions, which offset more than 63,000 truck deliveries. As discussed in the Safety and Health section, the Hess completions team is using a new “sandbox system” for delivering proppant sand to about half of the wells Hess is fracturing in North Dakota. With the sandbox system, the boxes empty by gravity and the sand falls out of the boxes onto a conveyor. Importantly for road safety, the sandboxes can be delivered ahead of time and pre-staged for use throughout the fracturing process. This reduces the need for nighttime and bad weather truck deliveries, which reduces the risk of exposure for drivers, well site staff and other road users. Crude-by-Rail Safety Over the past several years, the transport of crude oil by rail has become an issue of concern in the U.S. and Canada. Improving crude-by-rail safety is a shared effort among railroads, regulators and operators. At Hess, we are committed to doing our part to minimize the risks involved. Hess encourages the adoption of a holistic approach to rail safety that is science based and addresses accident prevention, mitigation and emergency response capability. We recognize that appropriate train and track design standards and maintenance are significant factors in preventing train derailments. We rely on guidance from studies conducted by railroads and regulators and follow mandatory train and rail car design and maintenance standards. To that end, Hess was one of the first companies in 2015 to procure crude oil tank cars equipped with thicker shells and full-height head shields for puncture resistance, enhanced thermal protection and bottom fittings protection as called for in the DOT-117 enhanced tank car design standard issued in May 2015. Effective July 1, 2015, Hess entered into a midstream energy joint venture in which Global Infrastructure Partners purchased a 50 percent ownership interest in Hess’ Bakken, North Dakota, midstream assets. The Tioga Rail Terminal and associated rail cars are included in the joint venture. However, Hess, through our affiliates and service agreements with the joint venture, continues to operate the assets. We do not own any “legacy” DOT-111 rail cars. Through the midstream joint venture, we have an ownership interest in 956 crude oil rail cars that were constructed between May 2011 and March 2012 to AAR Petition 1577 (CPC-1232) safety standards and are equipped with advanced safety features, including a thicker, more puncture-resistant shell, extra-protective head shields at both ends of the rail car, and additional protection for top fittings and a self-closing safety relief value. Each of these CPC-1232 crude oil rail cars is capable of being upgraded to the most recent DOT-117 safety standards. Our midstream joint venture acquired 550 new crude oil rail cars, which it began receiving in 2015. These cars have been constructed to the most recent DOT-117 standards, with the exception of adding electronically controlled pneumatic (ECP) brakes. In accordance with the 2015 transportation legislation passed by Congress and signed by the President in December 2015, implementation of the ECP brake requirement is on hold while the National Academy of Sciences conducts a hazard study on ECP brakes to determine whether they are warranted. In May 2015 a crude oil train – at the time owned by a Hess affiliate– was being transported by BNSF Railway when it derailed near Heimdal, North Dakota. No injuries were reported in connection with the accident. The derailment resulted in a release of crude oil. The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating the cause of the accident, and that investigation is ongoing. We have worked with local and national governmental agencies, industry, rail equipment manufacturers and the railroads to facilitate the safe transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products. Also, we have an internal, cross-functional Rail Transport Working Team that meets regularly to share information regarding issues relating to rail safety. We are also actively engaged with industry efforts to further improve the safety of rail crude oil transport. We are represented on the American Petroleum Institute (API) Rail Policy Committee, Government Affairs Committee and Rail Transportation Group. We are also active on several multi-stakeholder task forces addressing these issues. 66 percent of our companywide freshwater usage. The plant sources its water from a network of Hess -owned and  -operated groundwater wells that withdraw from the Ogallala Aquifer. Based on an evaluation we conducted using the World Resource Institute’s Aqueduct water risk mapping tool, the baseline water stress in the region is categorized as “high risk.” According to Texas Water Development Board data, the primary driver for water demand in the region is agricultural activities. Hess’ consumption comprises a small fraction of the region’s total use; our withdrawals from the aquifer represent only 0.1 percent of estimated annual water demand. Recognizing the need to address water stress in this region, we are studying our water use impacts on the Ogallala Aquifer. In 2015 we conducted a hydrogeological study to assess the capacity of the aquifer and help us better understand long-term water availability and yield. We are in the process of evaluating the results of the study and considering the potential options for reducing our water use. We also continue to prioritize reusing water at the Seminole Gas Plant. In 2015 we reused more than 1 million cubic meters of fresh water at the plant, representing 18 percent of the plant’s total usage for the year. The facility recirculates water in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to prevent the buildup of solids in the circulating water, a portion is removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown water was reused in our Permian production operations to maintain reservoir pressure. Drilling and completion activities in North Dakota and Ohio comprise our second-largest water use. Most of this water is used for hydraulic fracturing. We use small quantities of brackish groundwater for reservoir management purposes in North Dakota. We understand that water optimization is a concern for our company and our entire industry. To promote knowledge sharing and inform our path forward with respect to these issues, we participate in two industry forums focused on water management. First, we actively participate in a water working group convened by IPIECA. The working group aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. Second, we are members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 18 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve life cycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production. BIODIVERSITY At every Hess location around the globe we consider the protection of biodiversity in our decision making and management. We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. The results of an ESIA are used to create mitigation strategies. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments where the classification of species and habitats changes in areas where we operate. In 2015, as part of the permitting process for the Hawkeye Pipeline project, we conducted a formal environmental impact assessment (EIA) in North Dakota. The EIA identified one species of butterfly (the Dakota Skipper) from the IUCN Red List in our area of operation. We subsequently developed mitigation measures, including surveying and continuous monitoring, to help protect this species. In the U.S. we have been monitoring the addition of new species to the national endangered and threatened species lists by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In addition, we are identifying locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Already, we have adjusted drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species. Hess utilizes third-party software programs, such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with our operations (see table). Critically Endangered  16  Endangered  32  Vulnerable  118  Near Threatened  161  We also identify IUCN-protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2015 there were three such areas – two in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park) and one in Western Australia (Wanjarri Nature Reserve). We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of ENVIRONMENT Waste Thousand Tonnes 300 252.9 250 200 148.7 150 119.8 100 50 0 2013 2014 2015 Hazardous Non-Hazardous Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea 2013 2014 2015 Oil Volume in Produced Water (Tonnes) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Hydrocarbon Spills 5,130 6,000 200 180 1,000 Volume of Spills Number of Spills the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. In October we helped lead and had several staff members participate in the working group’s first peer-to-peer training workshop on managing biodiversity and ecosystem services in the oil and gas industry. We also participate in an API Endangered Species Working Group to discuss large-scale projects with the goal of minimizing biodiversity harm and aligning operational siting objectives to proactively balance development with environmental decision making. We also participate in the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on their waste management plans to address any gaps. In 2015 we generated approximately 252,900 tonnes of solid waste, more than 99 percent of which was deemed non-hazardous according to applicable regulations. This year-on-year increase in waste was primarily due to an extensive clean up and recycling of scrap metal (approximately 95,000 tonnes) that had accumulated onsite in North Dakota and at midstream assets over the course of several years. We also disposed of approximately 74,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota and Ohio assets at licensed disposal sites in 2015. Drill cuttings, as Mining and Metals and the Equator well as the discharges from our offshore Principles Association. This initiative brings facilities (discussed in the next section), the mining, oil and gas and financial are not included in our overall waste totals sectors together to develop and share Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Number of Spills 136 120 100 80 60 40 20 00 per IPIECA reporting guidance. good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. In 2014 the DISCHARGES CSBI published a timeline tool designed FROM OFFSHORE FACILITIES to help align project development, Discharges from our offshore facilities biodiversity impact management and include drilling mud, drill cuttings and financial timelines and milestones. produced water. These waste streams WASTE Our operations generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production operations. Wastes are managed according to the waste management plan specific to each location that we operate. Waste management plans are designed to comply with all applicable are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, discharged directly to the ocean or transported to shore for treatment and disposal. Offshore produced water discharges totaled an estimated 6.5 million cubic meters in 2015. Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 5,000 160 Volume of Spills (BBL) regulatory requirements and to protect 15 parts per million volume (PPMV), 140 4,000 human health and the environment. As 120 totaling 81 tonnes of oil discharged. This 100 outlined in the plans, Hess-operated 3,000 reflects an increase in average oil content 80 locations are expected to apply our waste and total oil discharged, compared to 2014. 2,000 60 40 minimization principles of “Remove, 20 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat 0 and Dispose” – with disposal being the least preferred option. As part of our global standards project, we rolled out the Hess Waste Management Standard at our assets in 2015. Our operated assets conducted gap assessments against the standard and are now in the process of revising SPILL PREVENTION Hess tracks LOPC events regardless of size and material, and reports spills following industry and applicable regulatory guidance. By proactively tracking all LOPC events, we are better able to analyze root causes, including those events that may be low in impact but high in frequency. The total number of spills (i.e., including worksite controls such as use Non-Hydrocarbon Spills hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon of fluid transfer checklists, expansion of combined) has remained relatively flat existing training and implementation of a 20,131 over the past three years. Of the total hose registry program in our Bakken 20,000 160 number of spills in 2015, 64 percent were drilling operations. To address spills that less than 10 barrels in volume, 26 percent result from corrosion and integrity issues 15,000 120103 Volume of spills (BBL) Number of Spills were between 10 and 100 barrels and 10 related to fluid injection and pipeline 99 100 percent were greater than 100 barrels. conveyance systems, two of our onshore 10,000 While we observed a decrease in the assets initiated projects focused on number of hydrocarbon spills in 2015, we improved inspection and surveillance 5,000 2,786 2,813observed an increase in the number of programs, upgraded external corrosion non-hydrocarbon spills and the volume of combined hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon spills. The increased volume of spills is attributable in part to the occurrence of infrastructure leaks and process safety events. In 2015 our two largest protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, and pipe replacement or redesign where 0 2015 2013 2014 needed. In addition, we undertook a detailed analysis of LOPC incidents that Volume of Spills Number of Spillsaimed to build on the work commenced in 2014. The project team conducted a gap assessment of our policies and Air Emissions programs, worked to identify common 100 mechanical integrity-related LOPC events root causes, and identified leading and Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) 90 80 70 60 65.2 50 40 30 20 10 13.7 0 amounted to 2,500 and 2,130 barrels lagging indicators for tracking LOPC (BBL) and occurred in our North Dakota performance that have since been and Permian assets, respectively. Both integrated into our incident reporting LOPCs occurred from brine water injection pipelines, and the causes were program. believed to be related to weld and repair To support a swift and effective response equipment failure. Loss of infrastructure for any LOPC incident, we maintain integrity and vandalism are believed to strong relationships with mutual aid and have resulted in other significant but emergency response organizations at the smaller-volume LOPCs at both assets. Hess also experienced a process safety event in North Dakota in 2015 that resulted in a significant spill. Operational observations and the incident investigation indicated that the primary and secondary aboveground well barriers failed. An estimated 3,250 barrels of oil and 9,000 barrels of produced water were released from the wellhead. Site incident control was immediately established along with spill containment coordination efforts. No injuries occurred as a result of the incident, and the release was contained onsite. In addition to the immediate actions taken to mitigate this release, we have implemented operational and management of change procedures to prevent reoccurrence. We are addressing the challenges in this area through a variety of measures, local, regional and global levels. More information about our emergency response program, including our memberships and partnerships with spill response organizations, is provided in the Safety and Health section of this report. AIR EMISSIONS The normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities results in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2). Product loading and storage is the primary source of air emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). In 2015 our normalized emissions of VOCs remained relatively consistent with previous years, while normalized emissions of NOX and SO2 increased compared to 2014. The increase in NOX can be partially attributed to 2015 being the first full year 2013  2014  2015 SO2 Intensity NOx Intensity VOC Intensity of operation for the expanded Tioga Gas Plant, compared to only a partial year of operation in 2014 – meaning that the inlet compressor engines for the plant, which produce combustion emissions including NOX, were operated for a longer period of time in 2015. The SO2 emissions increase is primarily due to a number of operational upset events we experienced at the Seminole Gas Plant in 2015, which were related to power supply problems at the plant causing unexpected shutdown events. We have an ongoing reliability program in place through which we continually seek to enhance facility operations to minimize such events in the future.