 OUR PEOPLE The heart of our company is our employees, and the culture in which they work each day is critical to our success. We are deliberate in shaping our work environment, focusing on quality leadership, continuous learning, employee engagement, and diversity and inclusion. The execution of Hess’ strategy has required significant changes in recent years, including the reshaping of our portfolio and a reduction in our workforce. In keeping with our imperative to remain an employer of choice, we have engaged our workforce during this transition through a new initiative called Life at Hess, which is discussed in more detail later in this section. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS Hess began last year with 2,075 employees, and as of December 31, 2018, we had 1,708 employees. At year’s end, approximately 86 percent of employees were located in the U.S. and 14 percent were in international locations. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies and training (for U.S..based managers), other human resources policies and our Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. Hess’ Inclusion and Diversity Council provides executive leadership and direction to our hiring, work environment and development activities. Internally, we are committed to fostering an inclusive work environment where each person is a valued team member who continually learns and grows. Our Life at Hess initiative, for example, is helping us to consider the various elements that create a high-quality experience for employees, and we continue to refine our policies to promote a flexible and dynamic work environment in which a diverse and multigenerational workforce can thrive. In 2018 we piloted Unconscious Bias training for our Houston-based senior leaders and Human Resources professionals, to highlight the natural biases we all have and equip us to think and act more inclusively. In 2019 we are expanding this training to all of our U.S. and international locations. Externally, we support professional organizations that are helping make our industry more diverse. In 2018, for example, our outreach efforts included engagement with organizations such as the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business Leadership Network, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Women’s Energy Network (WEN), Lean-In Energy, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue to support additional membership-based organizations that promote a diversity of expression and thought. The proportions of our female and minority employees – as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor – decreased slightly from 2017 to 2018. 2018 Employees by Region  Americas  1,475  86%  Asia-Pacific  140  8%  Europe  90  5%  Africa  3  0.2%  WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) JOB CATEGORY  Total Employees in Job Category  Number of Women  Percent Women  Executives and Senior Officers  31  5  16%  First and Mid-Level Managers  435  90  21%  Professionals  816  266  33%  Other  426  79  19%  TOTAL  1,708  440  26%  MINORITIES (U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEES) JOB CATEGORY  Total Employees in Job Category  Number of Minorities  Percent Minorities  Executives and Senior Officers  30  3  10%  First and Mid-Level Managers  360  66  18%  Professionals  707  188  27%  Other  378  63  17%  TOTAL  1,475  320  22%  *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor OUR PEOPLE We remain committed to fostering the professional growth of women and minorities at Hess. As an example, Women Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE) – a Hess networking group that grew to three chapters (Houston, New York and North Dakota) by year-end 2018 – has a vision to “help promote and cultivate leadership skills, business practices, career opportunities and personal contacts for women.” In 2018, WISE relaunched as a “Lean-In Circle,” utilizing workshop modules from Lean-In Energy, the newly formed industry chapter of the national organization based on Sheryl Sandberg’s bestselling book, Lean In. To underscore our commitment to gender equality, our Vice President, Offshore became a member of Lean-In Energy’s board of directors, and Hess was a sponsor of its new web-based mentoring platform. Our relationship with the Lean-In organization provides Hess employees with external opportunities for enrichment, development, networking and mentoring. Also new for 2018, we provided employees at all of our U.S. locations with a corporate membership to WEN; we sponsored WEN’s annual science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) Charity Luncheon in Houston; and we took part in the Forum on Women in Energy 2018 held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The forum was organized by the Malaysia Women in Energy group, in collaboration with the Malaysian Gas Association. In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number of employees is 100 or more. Overall, the percentage of local nationals, as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, has increased significantly at our international operations over the past five years. For example, the percentage of local nationals increased from 87 to 99 percent in Denmark and from 74 to 90 percent in Malaysia during this period. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hess takes a strategic and deliberate approach to talent development across the enterprise. We work to ensure that all employees receive development opportunities, and we continue to identify and grow future leaders. CareerManager, our human resources system, provides a common platform to manage talent development and offers a range of development tools. In 2018 we greatly simplified the electronic forms we use to assess performance and create individual development plans. We also introduced a streamlined approach to tracking performance feedback in CareerManager called Performance Notebook, which enables employees and managers to record the outcomes of real-time performance feedback and development conversations. Integrating Lean as a Way of Working In 2018 we continued to advance our goal of establishing a distinctive Lean culture across the enterprise. Our Hess Way of Working competencies outline multiple expectations for employee and leadership behavior that support Lean operating principles, organized around People, Direction and Results. Employees are encouraged to participate in training and engage in coaching and mentoring to support their development. Embedded Lean leaders – employees who are highly trained in this area – help ensure we put Lean principles into practice effectively. Learning and Development Hess supports continuous learning for the entire workforce. Our enterprisewide learning management system – CareerManager Learning – houses computer-based training modules and supporting materials for instructor-led courses. It also tracks and records employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations. In 2018 we launched our new Professional Development Program, building on a 2017 pilot. Among the practical skills employees learn in this new program are how to give presentations, manage projects, master new software and be a better supervisor. These classroom-based courses are offered in Houston on a regular basis and in other Hess locations based on employee need. Throughout the year, individual operating and support functions within Hess encourage knowledge-sharing through “lunch and learns” and other informal gatherings. Employees also regularly engage with trade associations, attend conferences and enroll in external courses. New Hires and Early-Career Programs Employees new to Hess benefit from our onboarding and orientation program, Passport to Hess. This program is designed to facilitate a smooth assimilation into the company through close interaction between supervisors and new employees. The experience begins with access to a pre-hire portal that enables new employees to learn about their work location prior to their first day on the job. After beginning their jobs at Hess, employees can access a structured, on-demand learning program that explains our culture and values. In addition, supervisors receive tools and coaching to guide them in helping new hires successfully integrate into their work teams. The Passport to Hess program intersects with our employee engagement activities (discussed on the next page) to help new hires get to know our senior leadership. Early-career engineers and geoscientists can also take part in our Foundation Program, which helps prepare them for their careers through focused training, mentoring and on-the-job assignments. The Foundation Program maintains relationships with universities that align with our values, standards and business operations. As a part of our commitment to education in the engineering and geosciences fields, Hess leaders serve as members of the academic advisory committees of some of these universities. BENEFITS Hess provided more than $91 million in benefits to our U.S. employees in 2018. During the year, we also restructured some of our benefit offerings as part of a long-term strategy to improve service and value for employees. We increased employee awareness of company-provided rewards through a new Total Rewards Portal and introduced more options in our savings plan to encourage retirement readiness. We also introduced new and improved short-term disability, long-term disability, maternity, and paid parental and family leave policies. We enhanced our employees’ user experience by moving the administration of our health savings account to the same financial platform as our savings and pension plans and our employee stock ownership programs. And, we continued to provide seminars on financial and health-related wellness topics. Finally, in celebration of our company’s 85th anniversary, every employee below senior executive level was granted 85 shares of Hess stock in 2018 – a gift intended to reward employees and engage them in the future success of the company. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Hess regularly shares information with and solicits feedback from employees about our business performance, programs and processes. We use a range of Hess Houston Corporate Run In 2018, Hess became title sponsor of the Hess Houston Corporate Run, a 5K event held at Memorial Park that raised $60,000 for the Memorial Park Conservancy through registration and sponsorship revenue. More than 150 companies and 4,150 people, including 191 Hess employees, participated in the event. The Memorial Park Conservancy maintains and manages Memorial Park in a public–private partnership with the Houston Parks and Recreation Department. engagement tools, including one-on-one and small-group discussions, focus groups, town hall meetings and interactive webcasts. We also utilize the company intranet and digital signage at our major locations to share information in a timely manner, and we conduct regular pulse polls to learn how we should check and adjust our internal communications. For example, our Chief Executive Officer and our President and Chief Operating Officer host small-group sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss enterprise opportunities and challenges. In 2018 Hess convened 34 Leadership Dialogue sessions at our Houston operational headquarters and at our regional offices in North Dakota and Malaysia, reaching more than 530 employees. In 2018 we held three global town hall meetings that were webcast to offices and offshore platforms in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Many more were held locally in Denmark, Houston, Malaysia and North Dakota. We use town halls to provide updates on business priorities and performance, reinforce strategy and values, share information about upcoming activities and answer questions from our workforce. As part of our Life at Hess initiative, 32 focus groups were conducted to help assess our employee value proposition and identify areas of strength and opportunity. More than 15 percent of our employees at nine locations around the world participated in the dialogue about rewards, career, culture and company reputation. After completing the focus groups, we made several changes in 2018 to help support and amplify our employees’ work – in the office and in our communities. We enhanced our Volunteer Policy, to formally allow employees, with manager approval, to participate in company-sponsored volunteer events during business hours, as well as our Matching Gifts and Volunteer Grants Policy, so that employees can request matching gifts of up to $5,000 annually for personal donations and up to $500 annually for qualified charities they support on their own time. Previously, matching gifts were only available for educational charities; now the list is much broader. We continue to make a lasting, positive impact on our communities through volunteering and giving. We designated the month of October in Houston as our Season of Giving – a time to bring all of our resources together to help those in need, with a special focus on our adopted “Hess Neighborhood,” the area around our Houston operational headquarters. The campaign raised more than $325,000 (in employee donations plus company match) and included nearly 1,000 hours of volunteer time. As part of this effort, employees sorted 30,000 books for 10 elementary schools and donated 500 pounds of canned food to the Houston Food Bank to feed the homeless. All told in 2018, our employees spent nearly 6,500 hours volunteering and donated more than $240,000 through our matching gift program. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Hess Climate Change Position Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires governments, businesses and civil society to work together on cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals. Hess supports the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. Hess’ Board of Directors and senior leadership have set aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, and over the past 11 years our company has reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions by approximately 64 percent. Hess is committed to developing oil and gas resources in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our Board is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior manage.ment to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. We are committed to transparency, and our strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have tested the robustness of Hess’ portfolio under the energy supply and demand scenarios from the International Energy Agency (IEA), including the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable Development scenario. Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve the Sustainable Development scenario, wherein oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting the world’s growing energy demand. Our current asset portfolio is resilient, and our pipeline of intended forward investments provides strong returns under the Sustainable Development scenario. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint consistent with the findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the aim of the Paris Agreement. We will continue to take steps to monitor, measure and reduce our GHG emissions through the following actions: • Setting and disclosing our targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations • Applying technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our operations • Accounting for the cost of carbon in significant new investments • Incorporating carbon risk scenario analysis into our business planning cycle • Working with government and industry partners to advance the development of a range of low-GHG emissions pathways,  including technological advancements EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT We engage with key stakeholders – including government agencies, investors, private landowners and communities – on select issues, including climate change, and we will continue to communicate our performance on these topics in our annual sustainability report and the sustainability section of our company website. Hess is an active member of IPIECA on sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are too complex for individual companies to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change-related topics. It enables collaborative work with stakeholders by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in providing innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and implement feasible future energy solutions. Hess has consistently been recognized as a leader in the oil and gas industry for our disclosure and transparency relating to sustainability, and we remain committed to our goal of top-quartile performance in this regard. In addition to preparing this sustainability report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards at the Core reporting level and establishing our alignment with the TCFD recommendations, we participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure. Hess has been recognized for climate change stewardship, achieving leadership status in the CDP’s 2018 Global Climate Analysis for the 10th consecutive year. Hess is the only U.S. energy company to achieve leadership status, earning an A-. As shown on the following page, the CDP Score Report allows companies to benchmark and compare their progress CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CDP Scoring Levels toward environmental stewardship against peers. Hess obtained an A- by earning high marks in many of the leadership categories critical to the TCFD, which confirms, through an external review, our alignment with TCFD recommendations. Access our latest CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/sustainability/climate.change-energy For the ninth consecutive year, we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America, which highlights public companies with outstanding performance across economic, environmental and social factors, including those related to climate change. Based on our disclosure through the DJSI survey, we received the additional distinction of being included in The Sustainability Yearbook 2018, meaning that Hess was in the top 15 percent of reporters in our industry. GOVERNANCE Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside senior management and actively oversees Hess’ sustainability practices, so that sustainability risks – including those related to climate change – are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee of the Board is tasked with assisting the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The Hess Board is routinely briefed by experts to ensure they remain climate change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies. Our Vice President of EHS also met regularly with the EHS Subcommittee in 2018, and will meet with the EHS Committee moving forward, to provide progress updates on climate change-related issues and strategic initiatives, to review external drivers for strategy and reporting and to prioritize ongoing and future actions. See the How We Operate section for more detail on governance. RISK MANAGEMENT Through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process, we have developed risk profiles for each of our assets that identify key risks – including those related to climate change. For each risk scenario, we estimate the likelihood and potential impact that the identified risks, including transition and physical climate change risks, could have on our business. We compile all identified risks on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. All new significant projects are rigorously screened for transition and physical risks (as described below) to verify they meet or exceed established threshold return-on-investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. Transition Risks Transition risks are the risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions aimed at the emission reductions, energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be needed to achieve climate-related aims. Evaluating the IEA’s GHG reduction scenarios in our carbon asset risk assessment enables us to take into account a broad range of transition risks. We conduct portfolio-specific carbon asset risk scenario planning, through which we apply the IEA’s carbon prices, which range from $8 per tonne in 2025 to $140 per tonne within the planning cycle, to evaluate the potential impact on our portfolio. The details of our first portfolio-specific analysis are discussed later in this section. Physical Risks Hess considers the physical risks associated with climate change – such as increased severity of storms, drought and flooding – for both new projects and existing operations through our ERM and value assurance processes. For example, meteorological and oceanographic studies undertaken for offshore developments include modeling that incorporates assumptions from the latest climate change science. Mitigations to address changing storm magnitude are incorporated into the design of our facilities, and severe weather management and business continuity plans are maintained for severe weather events such as Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 storm that caused widespread flooding and damage to the Houston area in 2017. We also assess how climate change may impact water availability and water stress in the areas we operate using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool. We also maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, for which we are self-insured. The amount of insurance covering physical damage is based on the asset’s estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Many corporations, lenders, investors and shareholders are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical and transition risks of climate change. Moreover, the TCFD is gaining momentum as the benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate-related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companies’ risk management and strategic planning processes. We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. The TCFD guidelines are very clear in laying out the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. TCFD FRAMEWORK: HESS’ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) • Elevate the Board of Directors’ EHS Subcommittee, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters, to the EHS Committee in 2019  Governance  • Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters, to help ensure they remain climate change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies • Maintain a Climate Change Position, and update as needed to align with internal initiatives and stakeholder expectations • Support the aim of the Paris Agreement • Continue to take proactive steps to measure and manage GHG emissions and evaluate emission  3, 11, 40  Strategy  reduction opportunities; set targets to reduce GHG emissions, methane and flaring • Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and the CDP Climate Change survey • Purchase renewable energy credits and carbon offsets to mitigate a portion of our annual Scope 1, 2 and 3 emission totals, increasing the scope of our investment in 2018 and 2019 • Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change-related risk • Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment, including applying a $40 per tonne carbon price  39–51  Risk  • Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (first published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that  12–13,  Management  evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the IEA • Conduct scenario planning to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions (the results of our first portfolio-specific scenario planning analysis are summarized later in this section) • Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess  40–45  Metrics  and Targets  progress against targets • Maintain our 25 percent GHG intensity reduction target (established in 2015), which is aligned with the IEA’s 2018 World Energy Outlook Sustainable Development scenario projection of a 21 percent carbon intensity reduction by 2030  46–51  