OUR PEOPLE Our success as a company depends on our people. To attract and retain the best team, we focus on making Hess a great place to work, by building a culture of quality leadership; fostering diversity, equity and inclusion; creating learning and engagement opportunities; driving innovation; and embracing Lean processes. Through our Life at Hess initiative, we seek to deliver a positive and fulfilling employee experience by emphasizing our company culture, managing the physical work environment and incorporating the use of new technologies. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS At the start of 2020, Hess had 1,775 employees. As of December 31, 2020, we had 1,621 employees; approximately 87% were in the U.S. and 13% were in international locations. 2020 Employees by Country  United States  1,405  87%  Malaysia  140  9%  Denmark  73  4%  Libya  3  <1%  EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION In 2020, we reduced our workforce headcount to better align with current activity levels. We focused our headcount decisions on retaining key capabilities and making our organization more effective to support ongoing top quartile performance and future growth. Employees who were not retained through the companyÕs restructuring were offered enhanced severance packages to help ease their transitions in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. We also provided outplacement services to support them with resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies. DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION In keeping with our company values and purpose, Hess has a longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in our workplace, which we believe creates value for all of our stakeholders and is essential to being a socially responsible and sustainable enterprise. DEI is among our most material issues. We continue to prioritize this area in our updated environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy (see page 11) and in the composition of our Board of Directors. The independent members of the Hess Board are 40% diverse, based on gender, race and/or ethnicity. HessÕ DEI Council provides executive leadership and direction to our hiring, work environment and development activities. In 2020, we expanded this council to include an executive sponsor from each of our employee resource goups (ERGs). (See pages 13Ð14 for more on our DEI efforts.) Our expectations for a diverse and inclusive workplace and a company culture of mutual respect and trust are spelled out in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as in our Equal Employment Opportunity, Harassment-Free Workplace and Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies and other human resources policies. These expectations are reinforced regularly with employees at every level of our company through training. We provide equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in all aspects of employment. We provide reasonable workplace accommodations for employees with disabilities, as well as for religious practice, family circumstances and other individual needs. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. Recruiting Diverse Hires In 2020, we continued to advance our efforts to attract more diverse job candidates. For example, we expanded use of a new recruiting technology, HireVue, to recruit for field positions in North Dakota and the Gulf of Mexico. HireVue helps us access a larger talent pool including Ð for example Ð expanding our recruiting to historically Black colleges and universities. We also began working with the Professional Diversity Network to gain access to their networks of diverse candidates. We continue to advance our relationship with the National GEM Consortium, which supports the development of diverse STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) talent at the masterÕs and doctoral levels. As part of the Genesys Works program, we welcomed two more high school level interns who represent diverse backgrounds. We are also supporting the Jackie Robinson Foundation by funding college scholarships and providing internships and mentoring support. Fostering Inclusion Hess is committed to fostering an inclusive work environment where all employees can reach their full potential. We also create opportunities in the communities where we operate, in our supply chain and in the oil and gas industry as a means to help address societal inequities. OUR PEOPLE In 2020, Hess leaders began hosting Hess VOICES listening sessions with small groups of underrepresented employees to better understand their experiences in society and at our company. Each member of our Chief Operating OfficerÕs operating committee attended at least one session. Based on the themes identified, we launched a series of actions to advance HessÕ culture. For example, we expanded our ERGs, which provide an opportunity for employees of similar background Ð gender, ethnicity, lifestyle or interest Ð to connect for personal and professional development. We now have ERGs for Asian, Black, Hispanic/Latinx, veteran, female, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) employees. We also enhanced our DEI training in 2020. Building on the unconscious bias training we rolled out to managers in 2019, WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) Total NumberJOB PercentEmployees in ofCATEGORY WomenJob Category Women Executives and Senior Officers  32  4  13%  First- and Mid.404 94 23%Level Managers Professionals 787 253 32% Other 398 66 17% TOTAL 1,621 417 26% MINORITIES (U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEES) Total NumberJOB PercentEmployees in of MinoritiesCATEGORY Job Category Minorities First- and Mid.328 66 20%Level Managers Professionals 686 183 27% Other 360 57 16% TOTAL 1405 310 22% we implemented a new training for all Hess employees, ÒFostering an Inclusive Environment,Ó that includes an online education module followed by a facilitated team discussion. A group of Hess leaders began training and discussions in the fourth quarter of 2020, and teams across the company completed this exercise by the second quarter of 2021. We also trained some employees to be small group facilitators for additional DEI training for all U.S. based employees in 2021. Hess was included in the 2021 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, which tracks and reports on public companiesÕ performance on gender equality and representation, as well as transparency in reporting on gender. We received an 85% score on the 2021 Human Rights Campaign FoundationÕs Corporate Equality Index, which ranks the largest U.S. businesses on their practices related to LGBTQ equity and inclusion. We remain committed to fostering the professional growth of women and minorities at Hess. We are a member of Lean In Energy, an industry group focused on providing women with opportunities for enrichment, development, networking and mentoring, and continue to provide U.S. employees with a corporate membership to the WomenÕs Energy Network. Tracking Our Performance We track HessÕ U.S. employee demographic metrics, including the proportions of our workforce that are female or minority (as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor). Despite reducing our workforce over the past several years, the percentage of our total female and minority employees has remained largely unchanged. We also track the number of local national employees in our international operations and report publicly where the number is 100 or more. Overall, the proportion of local nationals and of nationals holding managerial or professional positions has grown over the past five years. During this period, the percentage of local nationals increased from 85% to 97% in Denmark and from 84% to 91% in Malaysia. External Efforts We take part in external efforts and professional organizations that are helping to make our industry more diverse. We are a member of the Human Rights CampaignÕs Business Coalition for the Equality Act (see page 21). We also engage with groups such as the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business Leadership Network, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hess takes a strategic and deliberate approach to talent development so that our employees have meaningful opportunities and a clear path to develop within the company. In 2020, aligned with our efforts to help ensure inclusive and high quality succession planning, we had 217 internal promotions and 131 internal moves. Our talent management efforts also focus on promoting a Lean and innovative culture (see page 16). Learning and Development WeÕre committed to a culture of continuous learning. Our enterprisewide learning management system, CareerManager Learning, houses computer based training modules and supporting materials for instructor led courses. It also tracks employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations. In 2020, approximately 1,300 employees participated in CareerManager trainings, for a total of around 2,300 hours. This represents a decrease from 2019, *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor. since many of our third party facilitated trainings were not conducted in 2020 due to COVID-19. (These numbers do not include our mandatory safety and technical training, which is tracked and reported separately.) We were able to shift some of our training online in 2020, including virtual instructor led sessions for new supervisors. New Hires and Early Career Programs Passport to Hess is an onboarding and orientation program for our new employees designed to facilitate a smooth transition through close interaction with supervisors. After starting at Hess, employees can access a structured, on demand learning program that explains our culture and values. In addition, supervisors receive tools and coaching to help new hires successfully integrate into their work teams. With the onset of the pandemic, our onboarding teams quickly adjusted to the remote work environment, ensuring new workers had equipment before their first day and dedicated resources to assist in their transition. Early career engineers and geoscientists can take part in our Foundation Program, which helps prepare them for their careers through focused training, mentoring and on-the.job assignments. Over 60% of participants in this program are women and minorities. Hess has also continued to support the Job Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship program in North Dakota (see page 25). Since 2017, 27 apprentices have entered the JET program, 17 have completed the apprenticeship, and 12 have been brought onto Hess as new hires. BENEFITS We are committed to offering comprehensive benefits for employees and their families. In 2020, we provided more than $106 million in benefits to our U.S. employees and added voluntary benefit options, such as accident and critical illness insurance and identity theft protection, to broaden coverage options beyond traditional benefit programs. For our U.S. employees, we continue to extend all benefits coverage to spouses and partners and offer transgender benefits and equitable benefits for LGBTQ employees and their families. We provide an award winning wellness program focusing on emotional, social, physical and financial wellbeing to employees and their spouses and partners. Employees can earn company contributions to their Health Savings Accounts by participating in the wellness program. In 2020, we provided enhanced mental health support during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we award stock to new hires so that all Hess employees are shareholders. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We regularly share information with and solicit feedback from employees about our business performance, programs and processes through town hall meetings, webcasts and small group discussions, as well as the company intranet. In 2020, we increased our cadence of communications and leveraged more virtual platforms to help our workforce feel supported and connected in the midst of the pandemic and internal organizational changes. We also poll employees throughout the year to assess engagement based on their pride in our company, their enthusiasm about our future, whether they feel valued and if they believe Hess is a great place to work. In 2019 and 2020, we maintained a high employee engagement score (four on a five point scale) on these assessments. We continued our education assistance program in 2020, with 60 employees taking advantage of this benefit. Beginning in March 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, most office based employees began working remotely. During the pandemic, our employees continued to look for ways to make a positive impact on our communities through volunteering and giving. Our Volunteer Policy allows employees, with manager approval, to participate in company sponsored volunteer events during business hours. Employees can request matching gifts of up to $5,000 annually for personal donations, and qualified charities may receive a $500 grant on behalf of employees who support that charity on their own time. In 2020, our employees spent around 1,000 hours volunteering and donated more than $440,000 through our matching gift program. Additionally, our Houston Food Services contractors spent approximately 20,000 hours volunteering through nonprofit Second Servings in 2020, helping to distribute meals to hospitality workers and other Houstonians in need. Throughout the pandemic, Hess has implemented a variety of COVID-19 health and safety measures in consultation with suppliers and partners that include travel restrictions, health screenings for workers entering work sites, social distancing initiatives such as remote working, and the requirement to wear masks. To support employees' physical and mental wellbeing at this difficult time, we offered "ask the expert" webinars that were accessible on smartphones as well as computers. We also launched a remote work resource center including tips for maximizing online work tools, cybersecurity in a remote work environment, work life balance, leadership during remote working and in times of crisis, and answers to other frequently asked questions. We also increased leadership communications to keep employees informed about HessÕ response to COVID-19 and to share up-to-date, factual information about the pandemic. Midstream Operations, North Dakota CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY We see climate change as one of the greatest scientific challenges of the 21st century. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the same time providing the safe, affordable and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals. We support the aim of the Paris Agreement, as well as a global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. Governments, businesses and civil society must work together on cost effective policies. We support a carbon price to encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable. Our Board of Directors is climate change literate, and our BoardÕs Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, comprised of independent directors, has a mandate to identify, evaluate, monitor and report to the full Board on climate change issues, trends, risks and opportunities. This committee is actively engaged in overseeing HessÕ sustainability practices and works alongside senior management to evaluate climate change risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. Furthermore, the BoardÕs Compensation and Management Development Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the companyÕs EHS and climate change goals. Our climate strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), established by the G20 Financial Stability Board, and its implementation is led by senior members of our leadership team. Our efforts to support the transition to a low carbon economy and mitigate climate change in line with TCFD recommendations have been independently assessed by the Transition Pathway Initiative. We were the only U.S. oil and gas company to be awarded a Level 4-star rating in their September 2020 report. We set aggressive 2020 targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 25% and flaring intensity by 50% from our operated assets compared to 2014 levels, which we significantly surpassed (see page 46). As part of our updated EHS & SR strategy, Hess leadership and our Board have set new five year GHG reduction targets for 2025 (see page 46). These targets are designed to exceed the 22% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in the International Energy AgencyÕs (IEAÕs) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), which is consistent with the Paris AgreementÕs less than 2¡C ambition. Flaring reduction Ð particularly from our Bakken operations Ð is a key driver to reducing our overall GHG emissions intensity. For 2021, continued Bakken flaring reduction is one of the performance metrics in the companyÕs annual incentive plan. In addition to addressing our direct emissions, we also seek to fund innovation with the potential to mitigate societal emissions. In 2020, we announced a gift of $12.5 million over five years to help fund the Salk InstituteÕs Harnessing Plants Initiative, a research and development program aimed at developing plants with larger root systems that are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere (see page 49). We also address 100% of the indirect emissions from our purchased electricity through a combination of renewable energy generated from the grid and the purchase of renewable energy certificates. We account for the cost of carbon in significant new capital investment decisions. We conduct scenario planning that includes the SDS, developed by the IEA, to test the resilience of HessÕ portfolio against a range of energy supply and demand, environmental policies and market conditions. According to the IEAÕs 2020 World Energy Outlook (WEO), oil and gas are essential to meet the worldÕs growing energy demand through 2040 Ð even with the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEAÕs well below 2¡C scenario (the SDS). In 2020, we once again tested HessÕ portfolio under the SDS and confirmed the robustness of our portfolio and our inventory of forward investments. These 2020 IEA scenarios, although they are long term in nature, reflect the global impact of COVID-19 on short term energy supply and demand. We also consider potential physical risks associated with climate change, such as increased severity of storms, drought and flooding, for new projects and existing operations. We understand that a substantive climate strategy requires companies to look beyond a five year timeframe. We have established an executive led task force to consider our medium and longer term climate strategy. HessÕ strategic priorities Ð to grow our resource base, achieve a low cost of supply and sustain cash flow growth Ð are aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve the IEA SDS and position us well for the coming decades. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2¡C. EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT We engage with key stakeholders including government agencies, investors, private landowners and communities on select issues such as climate change, and we will continue to communicate our performance on these topics in this annual sustainability report and the sustainability section of our company website. Hess has consistently been recognized as a leader in the oil and gas industry for the quality of our performance and our disclosure relating to sustainability (see pages 41 and 65), and we participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure. Hess is the only U.S. oil and gas company to be awarded the highest rating (Level 4-star) by the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI), a global initiative that assesses companiesÕ preparedness for the transition to a low carbon economy and their efforts to address climate change. TPI complements and aligns with existing climate reporting initiatives and frameworks such as the TCFD. (Continued on page 41) CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY HessÕ Climate Change Actions, Aligned with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Many corporations, lenders and investors are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companiesÕ responses to the physical, reputational and transition risks of climate change, and the TCFD has become a leading benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companiesÕ risk management and strategic planning processes. We believe that HessÕ climate change strategy Ð fully reviewed and enhanced as part of our materiality assessment and EHS & SR strategy update in 2019Ð2020 Ð is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change related risks and opportunities on our organizationÕs operations, strategy and financial planning. We complete annual scenario based carbon asset risk assessments to evaluate HessÕ transition risks. We also examine physical and reputational risks, completing the necessary steps to be aligned with the TCFDÕs approach to analyzing climate related risks and opportunities. The TCFD guidelines describe the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. TCFD FRAMEWORK: HESSÕ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) Governance Strategy Risk Management Metrics and Targets ¥ Maintain the Board of DirectorsÕ Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters and aim to strengthen sustainability and climate governance through periodic reviews and updates to the Committee charter ¥ Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters to help ensure they remain climate change literate and that climate change related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies ¥ Evaluate alignment with our trade associations with respect to climate related issues ¥ Link employee compensation to EHS and climate initiatives, including flare reduction ¥ Maintain a Climate Change Position and update it as needed to align with internal initiatives and stakeholder expectations ¥ Support the aim of the Paris Agreement, as well as a global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050 ¥ Support a carbon price to encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable ¥ Set targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, methane and flaring; continue to take proactive steps to measure and manage emissions and flaring ¥ Apply technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our operations and continue to explore additional opportunities to do so ¥ Work with government and industry partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG emissions pathways and technological advancements ¥ Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change ¥ Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and the CDP Climate Change survey ¥ Purchase renewable energy credits, in combination with renewable energy generated from the grid, to address 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity and purchase carbon offsets to mitigate 100% of our business travel related emissions ¥ Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change related risk ¥ Use International Energy AgencyÕs (IEAÕs) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) carbon pricing as a sensitivity analysis for all significant new investment decisions to evaluate risk and return on investment ¥ Incorporate carbon risk scenario analysis into our business planning cycle to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions, including evaluation of the most ambitious IEA GHG reduction scenarios, where sufficient public data is available to conduct modeling ¥ Set and disclose targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations, applying the TFCD's considerations for target setting ¥ Design GHG reduction targets to exceed the 22% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in the IEAÕs SDS, which is consistent with the Paris AgreementÕs less than 2¡C ambition ¥ Reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 44% from a 2017 baseline to 17 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per barrels of oil equivalent by 2025 ¥ Reduce operated methane emissions intensity by approximately 52% from a 2017 baseline to 0.19% by 2025 ¥ Consider the medium and long term aspects of our climate change strategy through a new executive led task force 12, 17Ð18, 39, 41, 46 39Ð53 14Ð15, 41Ð45 46Ð53 We also achieved leadership status in CDPÕs 2020 Global Climate Analysis, a position we have held for 12 consecutive years. CDPÕs ranking recognizes our continued leadership in transparency and performance as we address climate related risks and opportunities. Hess is one of only two U.S. oil and gas producers to achieve leadership status in the 2020 analysis, earning an A-. We obtained an A- by earning high marks in many of the leadership categories critical to the TCFD. Access our latest CDP Climate Change response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/ sustainability/climate-change-energy GOVERNANCE HessÕ Board of Directors works alongside senior management and actively oversees HessÕ sustainability practices so that sustainability risks Ð including those related to climate change Ð are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The BoardÕs EHS Committee is tasked with assisting the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate, or our companyÕs business activities, performance or reputation. The Board is routinely briefed by experts to help ensure members remain climate change literate and that climate change related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies. Our Vice President of EHS continued to meet regularly with the BoardÕs EHS Committee in 2020 to provide updates on climate change related issues and strategic initiatives, to review external drivers for strategy and reporting, and to prioritize ongoing and future actions. (See page 12 of the How We Operate section for more detail on governance.) In late 2020, Hess established a new task force to lead our climate change strategy implementation and to evaluate the medium and longer term aspects of our strategy. The task force is comprised of nine senior executives from multiple disciplines throughout the company, with oversight provided by our Chief Operating Officer and members of his operating committee. The task force will evaluate three main areas: (1) GHG, methane and flare data reporting and metrics; (2) opportunities for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and flaring reduction; and (3) feasibility of achieving net zero GHG emissions by 2050.  INVESTMENT DECISIONS All significant new investment proposals, as presented for approval to senior management, incorporate the cost of carbon as set out in our planning guidance documentation. In geographies where there is an established regulatory framework in relation to carbon dioxide (CO2) cost, impacts are included in the base case of the investment analysis. Where there is currently no regulatory framework, we evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost as set out in our planning guidance. In April 2021, we updated our planning guidance to expand the evaluation for all significant investment decisions to include a sensitivity using the IEAÕs SDS carbon pricing. RISK MANAGEMENT Through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process, we have developed risk profiles for each of our assets that identify key risks including those related to climate change. For each risk scenario, we estimate the likelihood and potential impact that the identified risks, including physical, reputational and transition related climate change risks, could have on our business. We compile all identified risks on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. Transition Risks Transition risks are the risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions aimed at emissions reductions, energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be needed to achieve climate related aims. In order to assess a broad range of transition risks, and as an integral part of our planning cycle, we conduct an annual scenario based carbon asset risk assessment (see pages 43Ð45). CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Physical Risks Hess considers the potential physical risks associated with climate change Ð such as increased severity of storms, droughts and flooding Ð for both new projects and existing operations through our ERM and value assurance processes. For example, meteorological and oceanographic studies undertaken for offshore developments include modeling that incorporates assumptions from the latest climate change science. Mitigations to address changing storm magnitude are incorporated into the design of our facilities, where appropriate, and severe weather management and business continuity plans are maintained for severe weather events. See pages 30Ð32 of the Safety and Health section for details of our emergency preparedness and response efforts related to the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season, which was the most active on record with 30 named storms and 13 hurricanes across the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, and with seven storms impacting our Gulf of Mexico operations. We also assess how climate change may impact water availability and water stress in the areas we operate using the World Resources InstituteÕs Aqueduct Tool. In 2019, we began an evaluation of our approach to physical risk assessment to inform enhancements to how it is incorporated into our wider ERM process. As part of this effort, we undertook an in-depth assessment of our Gulf of Mexico operations, which considered the potential impact to the facilities and infrastructure we operate, as well as how these may be affected by predicted future climate change scenarios (e.g., increasing storm intensity and coastal flooding). This work identified potential risks associated with worker heat stress and flooding of coastal logistics infrastructure. However, none of the risks identified were unique to Hess and would also impact other operators in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2021, we will conduct an in-depth assessment of our Bakken operations utilizing geographical information system tools to incorporate climate modeling scenarios to evaluate changing vulnerabilities, such as the potential for heat stress and flooding. We also maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, for which we are self insured. The amount of insurance covering physical damage is based on the assetÕs estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. Reputational Risks The TCFD identifies climate change as a potential source of reputational risk or opportunity for companies. The TCFD further categorizes reputational risks and opportunities posed by climate change into three distinct categories: ¥ Shifts in consumer preferences ¥ Stigmatization of a sector ¥ Increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback In 2019, to address this potential risk as identified by the TCFD, Hess undertook an exercise to measure the potential impacts of changes in corporate reputation (driven by climate change risks and opportunities) on HessÕ market valuation. Our analysis attempted to use a Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) to calibrate the historical relationship between the stock price return of Hess to changes in our RepRisk exposure, oil prices and Standard and PoorÕs Oil and Gas Stock Price Index. RepRisk Ð a global data science company focused on due diligence of material environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks Ð produces a quantitative summary of the ESG risk exposure of a company, including climate related risks. RepRiskÕs assessment of the ESG risk exposure of a company is based on the companyÕs activities observed by media, stakeholders and third party sources and excludes information provided by the company itself. A companyÕs RepRisk ESG exposure is based on a combination of company specific ESG risk and country sector ESG risk determined by where the company operates. A company's RepRisk rating is a proprietary risk metric ranging from AAA to D, which captures and quantifies a company's risk exposure related to ESG issues. As of February 2021, HessÕ RepRisk exposure of BBB places our company in the lowest category of medium risk exposure, which is comparable to many other oil and gas companies. The goal of our 2019 analysis was to measure the potential impact of changes in RepRisk scores for Hess resulting from the publication of a series of historical news articles related to climate change risks and then correlate this impact to a change in market valuation for Hess. The CAPM model showed a moderately statistically significant correlation between our stock price and our RepRisk score when general market conditions were assumed to be held constant; however, this did not result in substantial changes in HessÕ market valuation. While we found this 2019 exercise helpful, we did not repeat this exercise in 2020 because we found that measuring and valuing reputational risks and opportunities is extremely challenging due to the difficulty of isolating the long term climate change related reputation impacts from other company specific, industry related and stock market fluctuations. In addition, we found that these types of climate related risks, for the most part, have already been identified through HessÕ ERM process and are being managed and mitigated through that process.