ENVIRONMENT Hess is committed to safeguarding the environment; this commitment is a key aspect of the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. Striving for continuous improvement in our environmental impacts – including water and energy use, air emissions, waste and spills – is a central focus of our work. We dedicate significant staff and resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments. To track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time, we use key performance metrics – including several factored into our annual incentive plan –  at the asset and enterprise levels. We sponsor and actively participate in the Bakken Production Optimization Program – a research program led by the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) and funded by the North Dakota Industrial Commission – that aims to improve Bakken system oil recovery and reduce the environmental footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. In 2018 we worked with the EERC to help form the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a consortium of oil and gas producers leading and funding research on innovative technologies to detect leaks and other pipeline integrity issues (see page 59). The iPIPE consortium is one of several initiatives we are sponsoring that is designed to help meet North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum’s challenge to achieve zero pipeline spills. Also in 2018, Hess joined the Gulf of Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program. The not-for-profit Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GoMA) is a public–private partnership that aims to enhance the ecological and economic health of the Gulf region by encouraging collaboration among government agencies, businesses, education providers and nongovernmental organizations. Investment through GoMA will be focused on improved habitat conservation, higher-quality water resources, increased natural resource stewardship and improved land use strategies. We also voluntarily sponsor and participate in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, a partnership among oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center that aims to develop science-based solutions to environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. WATER MANAGEMENT Water is an important resource for our onshore exploration and production operations, where we primarily use it for drilling and completions in our upstream operations and cooling in our midstream gas processing operations. We also know that water is critical for the communities and ecosystems in which we operate. In some areas, our water use may be restricted by local limitations on water supply and disposal. Accordingly, water management has been identified as a material issue for Hess, and it is a key element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. In 2018 we continued to develop our risk-based, lifecycle approach to   managing water and made associated improvements to our water data collection process. See the Shale Energy section online for more detail on our approach to water management in our shale operations: hess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters 8 7.7 7.6 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 . Groundwater .  Municipal Water . Surface Water 2018 Freshwater Use by  Facility/Business Function Thousand Cubic Meters .  North Dakota Drilling and Completions 2,889 . Tioga Gas Plant 359 . Ohio Drilling and Completions 291 . All Other Operations 308 Our total freshwater use for exploration and production in 2018 was less than in 2017, primarily due to the sale of our enhanced oil recovery assets in West Texas, which included the Seminole Gas Plant. In 2018, the largest driver of our freshwater use was our North Dakota drilling and completion operations. ENVIRONMENT Lifecycle Approach to Well Integrity Maintaining the integrity of our wells – that is, preventing the uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers or between geologic layers within the Earth – is fundamental to protecting the environment, the health and safety of our workforce and the communities in which we operate, and to safeguarding our product. For all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore, we take a lifecycle approach to integrity. In the initial design phase, we identify the appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout the well lifecycle. We establish these barriers during construction and maintain and monitor them through production, and then we add new barriers during abandonment. Our global drilling and completion standards outline the criteria for installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for commonly used barriers, and they require completion of a detailed well barrier diagram before undertaking activities in the field. An example well barrier diagram is shown below. We use a combination of barriers – such as casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout preventers, cement, packers and bridge plugs – that work together to prevent uncontrolled flow. For example, we use cement in the annular space between the production tubing and the underground formation as a key structural component to protect aquifers. Hess requires a minimum depth of annular cement above and below potential flow zones that meets, and in some cases exceeds, applicable regulations. We also require maintaining multiple and redundant barriers throughout the well lifecycle, and our minimum requirements for the configuration of blowout preventers on drilling rigs meet, and in some cases exceed, applicable regulations. WELL BARRIER DIAGRAM, BAKKEN DRILLING EXAMPLE COMPONENT CONDITIONS OF SATISFACTION Drill pipe safety valve  (inside blowout preventer) Drilling blowout preventer (BOP)  and choke and kill (C/K) valves Drill pipe float valves  Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation Pressure tested to 250 and 5,000 psi upon installation Inflow tested while drill pipe is being run in-hole  Drilling BOP  7-inch casing  Pressure tested to 1,500 psi prior to drilling out of the cement barrier  Wellhead  Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation  WELL BARRIER ELEMENT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA Rotary control device (RCD)   Pressure tested to 250 psi and 70 percent of working  and RCD spool  pressure upon installation  Wellbore fluid  Continuously monitored fluid system as identified by the drilling fluid program  Annular preventer (APR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation Variable bore ram (VBR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation Deepwater Assets Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields – the latter of which achieved first oil in early 2018. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify they are working as designed. For example, we run digital well logs to validate correct cement placement between production tubing and the formation before hydraulically fracturing our wells. In deepwater offshore wells, we verify cement installation with remotely operated vehicles for subsea wellheads. We also pressure test barriers and well components as part of the construction process, after first running computer models to confirm we will not overpressure a component during testing. We monitor each well’s integrity from the initial drilling activity through plugging and abandonment. Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of  well integrity issues; however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous monitoring system.  In 2018 we began a multiyear process of updating and enhancing our well integrity management system, which defines the organizational structure responsible for managing well integrity and the standards, procedures and risk management protocols that support well integrity. The enhanced system is expected to help us better manage integrity risks throughout the well lifecycle and help to ensure these risks are reassessed if material changes to a well’s design or changes to steps in the planned development process are identified or anticipated. We also began a multiyear process to improve documentation, data collection and reporting on key performance indicators to measure compliance with these procedures and to enhance the chain of communication as responsibility for the well passes from one Hess team to another.  The enhanced management system will help to ensure that each stage of the well lifecycle and associated field activity is supported by technical standards and procedures that specify minimum requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells, along with the elements critical to well integrity, including the barriers that prevent or stop the uncontrolled flow of well fluids. Moving to this structured and holistic approach to well integrity is in line with our commitment to operating safely and delivering value in our diverse global portfolio. See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale  operations, at hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-energy Water use for these activities increased in 2018, largely due to an increase in drilling activity during the year. We also changed our completions strategy to improve production, which required using more sand proppant, and therefore, more water to move that proppant. In 2019 we plan to continue ramping up activity levels and evolving our completions strategies in North Dakota, so we expect to see an increase in absolute water use this year. However, as our operational profile and practices continue to evolve, we are assessing the best ways to reduce water use impacts across our operations. For example, in North Dakota, our freshwater reduction strategy primarily involves reusing produced water – the nonpotable water that is released from deep underground formations along with produced oil and natural gas – for production maintenance. The total amount of water we need for our operations and our ability to reuse produced water varies based on the geology of the formation, production levels and changes in hydraulic fracturing technologies, among other factors. We remain committed, throughout our operations, to evaluating ways to reduce our water footprint. Hess participates in two industry forums focused on water management, to advance our own performance and contribute to industrywide knowledge-sharing and progress. First, we are active participants in the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 22 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe ENVIRONMENT and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production. In 2019 we will also continue our partnership with the EFD program to review beneficial uses of produced water in shale energy operations. BIODIVERSITY We are committed to conserving biodiversity and habitats in the places where we operate. We consider the protection of biodiversity in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production and closure at every Hess location around the globe. We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. We use the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments when the classification of species and habitats changes in areas where we operate. As part of our goal to improve biodiversity management at Hess’ global assets, we have been developing threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. We have completed guides for our Bakken asset and our Utica asset (now sold), with guides for other assets planned over the next few years. We monitor the addition of new species to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national endangered and threatened species lists. In addition, we identify locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and, where applicable, develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Also, where appropriate, we adjust drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species. Hess utilizes third-party software programs, such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with our operations. (See table below, which provides a snapshot of relevant species at the time of publication of this report.) The IUCN updates the Red List species classifications regularly based on new information and improved data from ongoing third-party studies, and we update our species list accordingly. We also identify IUCN protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2018 there were two such areas, both in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park). CATEGORY  SPECIES (COUNT)  Critically Endangered  10  Endangered  28  Vulnerable  140  Near Threatened  168  We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We also participate in the Endangered Species Working Group of the American Petroleum Institute (API) to discuss oil and gas development, with the goal of proactively balancing development with environmental decision making. We also participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. WASTE We generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production activities. For each Hess asset, we manage waste through specific waste management plans designed to comply with all applicable regulatory and Hess requirements for that location, as well as to protect human health and the environment. These plans, which are developed to align with the Hess Waste Management Standard, require the application of our waste minimization principles of “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and Dispose” – with disposal being the least-preferred option. In 2018 we generated approximately 47,000 tonnes of solid waste, approximately 96 percent of which was classified as nonhazardous according to applicable regulations. Our overall waste generation volume was lower in 2018 compared with 2017 due to portfolio adjustments and a decrease in asset retirement obligations. We also disposed of approximately 82,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota asset at licensed disposal sites in 2018. These drill cuttings, as well as the discharges from our offshore facilities (discussed in the next section), are not included in our overall waste Sea operations. We steadily increased Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea totals per IPIECA reporting guidance. reinjection volumes of produced water from an estimated 76 percent in 2014 100 40We have continued our efforts to reduce to 85 percent in 2017, and in 2018 87 Number of Spills Number of Spills Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) landfilled piping waste by decontami.18 20 17Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) we achieved reinjection of 94 percent. nating it (i.e., removing technologically 80 60 40 While reinjection is somewhat driven by 70 30enhanced naturally occurring radioactive regulations, we have gone beyond what material or TENORM) and recycling it is required, substantially reducing our instead. In 2018 we recycled 178 tonnes produced water discharges over time.    of nonhazardous piping waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. SPILL PREVENTION 10 See the Shale Energy section online for more Hess maintains spill preparedness and information on naturally occurring radioactive 20 13response plans and conducts emergency materials (NORM) and TENORM: hess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy response exercises at each of our assets. To support a swift and effective response 00 2016 2017 2018DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE to any loss of primary containment (LOPC) . Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) . Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) FACILITIES incident, we maintain strong relationships Discharges from our offshore facilities with mutual aid and emergency response include drilling mud, drill cuttings and organizations at the local, regional and Hydrocarbon Spills produced water. These waste streams are global levels. Hess’ international oil spill either reinjected for disposal or reservoir 350 200response needs are supported by our management, discharged directly to 308partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited 300 180 250 the ocean (when allowed by applicable (OSRL), an international, industry-funded Volume of Spills (Barrels) 245 regulations) or transported to shore for cooperative that responds to oil spills treatment and disposal or recycling. 200globally. Our domestic needs are supported In 2018 our offshore facilities discharged by Marine Spill Response Corporation, to sea approximately 11,000 tonnes of Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea Area nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, Spill Response Cooperative, Tri-State Bird 150 123 80 100 which included 112 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid. Offshore produced water discharges to sea totaled an estimated 1.3 million cubic meters in 2018. Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 10 parts per million volume (PPMV), totaling 13 tonnes of oil discharged. This 50 20Rescue and Research, Wildlife Center 0of Texas, and International SOS. Hess 0 2016 2017 2018 representatives serve on the board of . Volume of Spills directors of the OSRL and on the executive . Number of Spills committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit oil spill cooperative that supports Nonhydrocarbon Spills the Gulf of Mexico. 1,200 451,104 Our international subsea preparedness and 40 800 30 data reflects a year-on-year decrease in response capabilities are supported by the total oil discharged, mainly due to our Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild 2017 divestitures and ongoing initiatives.  Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we 1,000 Volume of Spills (Barrels) Volume of Spills (Barrels)25581are members and serve on the executive 600 For example, we have been steadily committee of the Marine Well Containment 20reducing the amount of produced water discharged to sea at our South Arne asset 400 Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant 200 113 by instead reinjecting it into our wells to stimulate production. By reinjecting the produced water, we are able to capabilities as well as equipment and 0 2016 2017 2018 personnel mutual aid. . Volume of Spills offset our use of seawater and reduce We are also active members of the Oil . Number of Spills the environmental footprint of our North Spill Response Joint Industry Project 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 ENVIRONMENT organized by IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, and we contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international assets. We served as chair of the API’s Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and Response Subcommittee in 2018. Hess also participates in the Area Planning Committee meetings for Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). We track LOPC events through our incident reporting system by size and material and report spills following applicable industry and regulatory guidance. We also use leading and lagging indicators to monitor LOPC performance, including continuing to tie LOPC performance to our annual incentive plan. In 2018 we changed our environmental spill definition to better align with global industry reporting practices. While our performance data previously included all spills greater than one barrel, we have restated our data to include only spills Air Emissions Tonnes per Million BOE 121.4 120 102.1 100 87.5 77.2 80 86.4 71.1 60 40 28.6 24.1 20 14.0 0 2016 2017 2018 . NOX Intensity . VOC Intensity . SO2 Intensity Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) greater than one barrel and not completely contained within secondary containment. It is worth noting, however, that we still include data on all reported spills and releases in our LOPC metric. In 2018, Hess continued a trend of year-over-year reductions in both hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon spills, even though our production increased compared with 2017. The number and volume of hydrocarbon  spills decreased by 44 percent and 50 percent, respectively. The number of nonhydrocarbon spills decreased by 9 percent in 2018 compared with 2017, and the volume of spills decreased by 80 percent. We have been working to implement a range of programs to continue our focus on spill prevention. To address spills that result from corrosion and integrity issues, for example, we continue to enhance our inspection and surveillance programs, upgrade external corrosion protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, and replace or redesign pipes. We have also continued to expand spill prevention training and spill-related worksite controls, such as fluid transfer checklists. In addition, we have enhanced the range of key performance indicators we use to track performance internally and increased internal transparency and reporting. AIR EMISSIONS The normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities results in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emission sources, including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions. We observed a decrease in absolute and normalized SO2 emissions in 2018, mainly due to divestitures in 2017 and 2018. In addition, our Bakken asset has been handling more “sweet” natural gas (i.e., with lower amounts of hydrogen sulfide), resulting in reduced emissions of SO2 from both natural gas-fueled sources and flaring. Absolute VOC emissions decreased slightly from 2017 to 2018; however, normalized VOC emissions increased somewhat due to lower production in 2018. Both absolute and normalized NO x emissions increased in 2018, primarily due to increased drilling activity and the associated combustion of diesel fuel (affecting absolute emissions) combined with lower production (affecting normalized emissions). REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Strengthening our regulatory assurance program is one of the six components of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance also helps us to ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. As part of our long-term compliance strategy, our regulatory team continued to expand the use of a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. assets in 2018. Key enhancements to the tool in 2018 included further refinement of a mobile application for field assurance personnel and synchronization of the application with our work order system. As mentioned in the Climate Change and Energy section, we continued our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program in 2018 across all of our U.S. onshore operations, as a way to achieve emission reductions as part of our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments and to comply with a prior Consent Decree in North Dakota. In our North Dakota production operations, the LDAR program helps to decrease the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections, and our formalized process for assigning work material flows to field personnel helps increase accountability and the efficiency of any needed repairs.  As an enhancement to our LDAR program in 2018, we implemented a preventive maintenance program for high-volume critical equipment, which includes subjecting certain fugitive emission components, as that term is defined by the U.S. EPA, to semiannual optical gas imaging inspections. This preventative maintenance program is helping to reduce the number of leaks identified during these inspections. For a detailed description of our LDAR program, visit hess.com/sustainability/ environment We are also continuing a multiyear effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is the evaluation and enhancement of our integrity management systems pertaining to pipelines. Environmental Expenditures Hess received 103 alleged violations totaling $75,000 in penalties during 2018. The majority of our expenditures on environmental fines and penalties in 2018 – $41,000 – were the result of an alleged water supply violation with respect to a now-divested asset. Other expenditures were related to one alleged offshore violation ($6,000) and various alleged violations from U.S. Department of Transportation and Bureau of Land Management field inspections. Production Operations, North Dakota Intelligent Pipeline Integrity In 2018 Hess helped form the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental Research Center – a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota – and the North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a total of $4 million (a $1.6 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from participating operators) over the next four years to research and demonstrate emerging technologies that can enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then encourage industrywide adoption of worthy technologies. Each year, iPIPE members will review a range of technologies and choose a few winners for additional investment and testing. In 2018, iPIPE members chose to support two technologies. The first is a miniaturized pipeline sensor that can be run through new and existing pipelines to detect potential obstructions, magnetic features, geometric defects, deposits, and corrosion and leak whistling. This type of sensor has the potential to help identify trouble spots or performance issues that could lead to pipeline leaks or spills and to allow companies to take steps to proactively eliminate or reduce the potential for incidents. The sensor may also provide an affordable option to better maintain pipeline performance and safety with no assessment-related downtime. The second focus technology uses low-orbiting satellites to collect data that could be used to identify pipeline leaks or other performance issues. This system includes proprietary algorithms and autonomous software to synthesize the massive amounts of data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into simple visualizations and actionable alerts. iPIPE member operators are supporting further testing and refinement of these technologies in their own operations over the next few years. 