OUR PEOPLE 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS > Continued to > Held leadership implement programs workshops for different to ease the transition levels of leadership for employees affected within the organization, by our corporate from early career reorganization in 2013 supervisors through senior management > Introduced a new career and performance management system  2015 GOALS > Progress initiatives in key programs, including employee engagement, onboarding, talent management, diversity and inclusion, process efficiency, reliability and data integrity Our success relies on a company culture and high quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns. The past several years have been a time of significant change at Hess as we transformed into a focused oil and gas exploration and production (E&P) enterprise and exited our downstream businesses. We also transitioned from a functional to an asset-based organizational structure and divested several E&P assets. In 2014 we renewed our focus on key human resources programs, including talent management, learning and development, diversity and inclusion and employee engagement, integrating these processes with our adoption of lean principles and tools as described earlier in the How We Operate section of this report. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS We began 2014 with about 12,100 employees and ended the year with approximately 3,045 employees. Divestitures of downstream businesses and the consolidation of operations drove this 75 percent reduction in employee headcount during the year. The sale of Hess Retail Marketing accounted for the majority of the decrease. Reductions in headcount among corporate and E&P personnel, primarily from the sale of the company’s Indonesia and Thailand businesses and the closure of our London office, resulted in approximately 425 fewer employees during 2014. By year end 2014, slightly less than half of employees were located in Houston, Texas, and 21 percent of employees were in international locations. EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION In light of the significant headcount reductions, the company developed and implemented an enhanced severance program to ensure that the transition was as smooth as possible for both the company and affected employees as they reentered the job market. Hess’ Human Resources (HR) function coordinated outreach to both individual employees and groups about their potential severance packages and the impact of the transition on their benefits going forward. This included individual meetings with each affected employee, group meetings with senior leadership and HR, ongoing updates via emails, and the creation of an internal Global Transition webpage, which housed relevant severance and benefit information. In addition, the company provided robust outplacement services to support employees with their resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies as they launched their new job searches. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, creed, national origin, 2014 Turnover and New Hires Number of Employees Africa Americas Asia-Paciﬁc Europe Male Turnover Female Turnover Male New Hires Female New Hires 2014 Employees by Region  United States  2,392  79%  Asia-Paciﬁc  239  8%  Africa  222  7%  Europe  192  6%  genetic information, disability, veteran status, or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment. We also consider more than 30 attributes of diversity, including elements such as cultural and physical differences, lifestyle, and diversity of background, experience and perspective. OUR PEOPLE We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action policies and training (for U.S.-based managers), other Human Resources policies (including the addition of domestic partners in health and welfare benefits coverage in 2014), and our Human Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies. In 2014 Hess continued its diversity outreach efforts with organizations that advocate for minorities, women, veterans and the disabled, including Equal Opportunity Publications, the National Business and Disabilities Council, the National Association of Black Accountants, the National Society of Black Engineers, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Foundation, the Women’s Energy Network, the Society of Women Engineers, the Association on Higher Education and Disability and the 100,000 Jobs Mission. We continue to support additional membership-based organizations providing a diversity of expression and thought. Our proportion of women and U.S. minority employees as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor decreased from 2013. However, the proportion of female new hires year-over-year increased significantly, from 23 percent to 32 percent of all new hires, and the proportion of U.S. minority new hires increased as well, from 23 percent to 30 percent. In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number is 100 or more. The percentage of local nationals as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, increased in Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia compared to 2013. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hess has used a comprehensive annual talent management process for several years to help us understand and assess our leadership and technical capabilities and develop succession and hiring plans. In 2014 we leveraged our global talent management process to assess talent and build succession plans in the new asset-based organizational structure. CareerManager, the performance management system we launched globally in 2013, provides an integrated platform for Individual Development Plans (IDPs), goal setting and performance evaluations. We utilized the new system in 2014 to encourage every employee to prepare an IDP, which is used to document actions and activities to develop career plans and individual skills. Also in 2014, as a follow-on to previous work on the company’s Annual Incentive Plan, a cross functional committee convened to review the effectiveness of our current performance management system. The committee’s recommendations included a change to the performance management calendar to ensure performance objectives are documented in CareerManager earlier in the year. The concept of cascading objectives was also introduced to ensure the alignment of employee effort top-to-bottom in the organization. The committee continues to meet to discuss additional opportunities for improving this system. Learning and Development Hess offers leadership development through a suite of three programs. Each is tailored to meet the competency development needs of different levels of leadership within the organization, from early career supervisors through senior leadership. During 2014 we conducted sessions of all three programs globally, reaching approximately 200 leaders within the United States, Europe, Africa and Malaysia. Training in leadership continues to be offered to all employees through our Learning Center, which provides access to more than 1,000 virtual and instructor led courses on many topics, ranging from technical to soft skills. Key disciplines, such as Exploration, Developments, and Drilling and Completions, have formed internal communities of practice and sponsor lunch and learns on technical topics to support ongoing professional development. Employees also have ongoing opportunities for professional development through external engagements that include trade associations, conferences and external courses. New Hires and Early Career Programs Hess has developed and implemented programs to accelerate the integration of new employees. A key focus of these programs is the development and integration of early career technical hires as skilled older workers choose to retire. Employees new to Hess benefit from our onboarding and orientation program known as Passport to Hess. The onboarding program facilitates close interaction between supervisors and new employees for the first 90 days at Hess, to ensure a smooth assimilation into the company. Following our reorganization in 2013, we updated the Passport to Hess program to reflect our new portfolio and organizational structure. The program now has an increased emphasis on our vision, values and culture. We have also increased leadership visibility for new hires through a Leadership Dialogues program hosted by CEO John Hess and COO Greg Hill. The Hess Global Foundation Program prepares early career engineers and geoscientists for challenging assignments through accelerated training, mentorship and on-the-job  assignments. Our Global Supply Chain function also offers enriched development opportunities for early career professionals. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Hess utilizes various mechanisms to engage employees, in order to be more transparent about our business performance and processes and receiving employee input. These mechanisms range from one-on-one discussions to small focus groups to global town hall meetings. They also include feedback surveys and communications infrastructure that 2014 National Employees Country  National Employees (percent of employees)  National Managers/ Professionals (percent of managers and professionals)  Denmark  87%  78%  Equatorial Guinea  77%  46%  Malaysia  74%  72%  enable the company to share information and connect with employees in a timely and meaningful way. In 2014 Hess’ chief executive officer and chief operating officer launched the Leadership Dialogues program, a series of small group employee engagement sessions. More than 40 sessions were conducted in 2014, with separate sessions for new hires and existing employees. The sessions with new hires provided early exposure to senior leadership in a discussion of the company’s culture, goals and history. The session for existing employees provided an opportunity to discuss organizational and business issues directly with senior leadership. Themes from the sessions were discussed and turned into actions by the Executive Committee. Additional sessions may be conducted in 2015.    A new annual incentive plan (AIP) was introduced in 2014. The AIP is an enterprise-first approach that rewards achievement and actions that drive the performance of the enterprise ahead of business unit, function, asset and work team. To ensure understanding and  improve the overall transparency of our pay programs, more than 40 interactive information sessions were held around the world by senior members of the AIP design team. As part of our social responsibility value, Hess employees at various locations have formed committees that choose and support local efforts in areas such as education, social services, youth sports and other endeavors. Support may include volunteering of time, small-scale funding and fundraising and in-kind donations. 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS  2015 GOALS  > Initiated a project to  > Reduced absolute  > Completed  > Complete our strategy  > Continue to expand  > Reassess our Scope 3  refresh our climate  greenhouse gas  expansion of our  refresh project  North Dakota  emissions inventory  and energy strategy  emissions (equity  Tioga Gas Plant,  gas gathering  and material Scope 3  to align with our  basis) by more than  which significantly  > Enhance discussion  infrastructure in  categories for reporting  transition to an  4 million tonnes  increased our  of carbon asset risk  2015 and 2016  exploration and  between 2008 and  gas processing  and methane leakage  production (E&P)  2014  capacity  in this year’s  company  sustainability report  There is no easy solution to meeting the long term global demand for energy while attempting to reduce our carbon footprint. According to an International Energy Agency forecast, energy demand is expected to increase 37 percent by 2040. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recently confirmed that the risks of climate change increase with increasing temperature. Hess acknowledges that rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and global temperatures pose risks to society and ecosystems that clearly warrant cost-effective policy responses that balance mitigation, adaptation and societal priorities. Interim Strategy and Progress For years, Hess has viewed climate change as a global challenge that will require cooperation between a significant majority of world leaders and industry to develop comprehensive energy and climate solutions. Hess is an active member of IPIECA, an international oil and gas industry association engaged in sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are too complex for individual companies to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members at the United Nations’ Conference of Parties meetings, engaging with governments on climate related issues. Hess is committed to help meet the world’s growing energy needs in an environmentally responsible manner by taking steps to monitor, measure and reduce our carbon footprint. We continue to meet our goal of top quartile performance in our sector for the quality of our climate change disclosures. For the sixth consecutive year, Hess was included in the CDP S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, and for the fifth consecutive year was also listed in the 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America. Our CDP responses contain more detailed information on the company’s climate change related risks and opportunities. See our CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange Account for the cost of carbon in all signiﬁcant future investment decisions. Completed  On target  Behind schedule Reduce ﬂaring rate at the wellhead in North Dakota to 10 percent by 2020 (North Dakota Industrial Commission regulatory requirement). Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions when designing production facilities. Implement select energy efﬁciency projects at an asset level. Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity for company operations from renewable sources. Purchase carbon credits to offset greenhouse gas emissions from employee business travel on commercial aircraft and by rail. Meet top quartile performance in our sector for the quality of our environment, social and governance disclosures. 2014 North Dakota wellhead ﬂaring increased to 28 percent; however, following completion of the Tioga Gas Plant  expansion project (April–December 2014), wellhead ﬂaring averaged 21 percent. During our strategy refresh, we will revisit the current cost of carbon being incorporated into the project planning process as a sensitivity analysis for major new investments. We incorporate energy efﬁciency considerations into the project planning process for major new investments. We collect and track monthly energy usage and spend data at the asset level. Select assets have initiated energy efﬁcien.cy projects. In 2014 we purchased 125,000 renewable energy certiﬁcates, equivalent to 14 percent of our E&P net electricity usage. In 2014 we purchased 25,000 carbon credits, offsetting more than 125 percent of the 19,800 tonnes of GHG emissions associated with 83 million miles of air and rail travel by company employees. In 2014 Hess was included in the CDP Leadership Index for climate change disclosures and listed in the DJSI North America Index. CARBON ASSET RISK REPORT The purpose of this section is to discuss the potential impact that future climate change regulation may have on Hess’ financial market valuation. Hess manages climate change risks, along with many other business risks, through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process. All projects are rigorously screened to ensure that they meet or exceed established threshold return on investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. We factor theoretical shadow carbon dioxide (CO2) prices into our economic evaluation process for significant new projects. This enables us to evaluate project viability in the event of future carbon constraints. As evidenced by recent reports, oil and gas companies will continue to play a significant role in providing an affordable and reliable source of energy to help advance modern living standards, economic growth and societal expectations. Meeting the long term growing global demand for energy will require the use of all forms of energy. The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) New Policy scenario (base case) estimates that in 2040, global energy demand will be 37 percent higher than today with demand in emerging market countries expected to increase steadily. In this scenario, the IEA anticipates 74 percent of 2040 energy demand to be met by fossil fuels, down from 82 percent today. In 2040, coal, oil, natural gas and renewables each account for approximately 25 percent of energy supply. Even in the IEA’s 450 Scenario, which is consistent with holding the long term global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius (2o C), energy demand would increase by 17 percent in 2040, with fossil fuels accounting for approximately 60 percent of energy supply. Over the past several years, the “stranded asset concept” has received considerable attention. This movement suggests that endowments, foundations and pension funds reevaluate investments in fossil fuel companies. This concept downplays the growing demand for fossil fuel resources in emerging markets, the categorization and timing of reserve development and how these reserves contribute to the market capitalization of a company, as well as the differing carbon intensities of coal, oil and gas. Proponents of this concept cite the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which states that the world will need to keep to a trillion tonne budget of carbon emissions, from the beginning of the industrial era to the year 2100, to maintain a greater than 50 percent chance of limiting the maximum global atmospheric temperature rise to 2o C. This would result in keeping two-thirds of recoverable fossil fuel resources trapped in the ground. This concept assumes that governments will unite now to enact climate change policies that will be implemented by 2020 in line with the 2o C goal. This would require an abrupt and unlikely change in the global energy system, due to technical, economic and political factors. We expect climate policy and technological advances to develop at a more moderate pace and stringency. Given the IEA projection that fossil fuel demand is expected to remain robust in the foreseeable future, looking at reserves and how they contribute to the market capitalization of an oil and gas company is instructive. The stranded asset proponents assume a very broad definition of proved reserves and, therefore, misstate how fossil fuel reserves are valued and how they contribute to the market capitalization of an oil and gas company. According to IHS Energy’s Sept. 2014 report Deflating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be monetized over the next 10 to 15 years. The Securities and Exchange Commission defines “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible – from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Stranded asset advocates use a much broader definition of “reserves” that includes those reserves with uncertain potential for development and commercialization. They argue that extractive companies will be left with stranded assets and reserves over the next 30–40 years, thus undercutting current valuations. Using this broad definition of a company’s reserves inflates the perception of a company’s near-term carbon asset risk. According to IHS Energy, while proved reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource base by volume, they account for 81 percent of the resource base that drives a company’s total valuation. Reserves that are expected to be produced beyond a 15 year time horizon have limited impact on a company’s valuation due to discounted cash flows. The stranded asset concept also assumes that coal, oil and gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting fossil fuels, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. Coal is the most carbon intensive fossil fuel, with a significantly larger carbon footprint than natural gas. Combined cycle natural gas turbines generate around half the greenhouse gas emissions of coal-fired power plants, on a life cycle basis. Coal is used primarily for power generation, for which there are alternative energy sources: renewables, nuclear and hydroelectric, which have minimal GHG emissions impacts. As a result, coal is the most likely fossil fuel to experience demand degradation in a carbon constrained economy. Conventional Unconventional Deepwater Acid Gas * Deepwater and acid gas are conventional resources but they are shown separately here to provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 Natural gas, the least carbon intensive fossil fuel, will benefit from coal to gas switching as countries seek to reduce GHG emissions. Oil, which is used primarily as a transport fuel, has few cost-competitive substitutes. There is also limited indication of a significant change in the current transportation infrastructure that would lead to a transition away from oil to alternative transport fuels. Hess will continue to do its part to help provide reliable, affordable energy to meet growing demand, while endeavoring to take actions to reduce its carbon footprint through investments in energy efficiency, flaring reductions, fuel switching and new and emerging technologies. 2014 Operated Greenhouse Gas  Emissions by Source (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Thousand Tonnes CO2e Flaring 2,959 Fuel Combustion 1,706 Indirect 640 Other 161 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes CO2e 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes CO2e 12 10.8 10 9.5 9.1 9.0 8.0 8 6.5 6.0 6 4 2 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Hess E&P Other Non-operated E&P HOVENSA JV MTJDA Block A-18 Samara-Nafta SonaHess JV Hess Marketing and Reﬁning/Other GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE We report GHG emissions from our oil and gas assets on an operated and net equity basis. The majority of our direct (Scope 1) emissions are associated with fuel combustion and flaring. We report indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Starting in 2014, Hess is using Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) based on the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report Values: Climate Change 2007 (AR-4). This is consistent with recent changes in U.S. regulatory programs and international acceptance of the AR-4 values. GHG data from prior years have not been restated because the impact on GHG emissions was not material (about 1 percent). Operated Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) In 2014, of the 5.5 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 4.8 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and slightly over 0.6 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions (gross) from purchased electricity. The increase in emissions over 2013 was primarily related to one-time additional flaring during the shutdown and re-start of the Tioga Gas Plant during its expansion. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion), flaring and indirect emissions (purchased electricity) accounted for 31 percent, 54 percent and 12 percent of GHG emissions, respectively. Net Equity Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Since 2007 Hess has also tracked GHG emissions from our operated and non-operated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. Our major sources of emissions from non-operated oil and gas assets in 2014 included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (MTJDA) and SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures. Total emissions from these assets accounted for approximately 1.8 million tonnes of our net equity emissions. In 2014 major sources of emissions from operated assets included those from our Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota assets and the Seminole and Tioga Gas Processing Plants, which altogether accounted for 3.4 million tonnes of net equity emissions. All of our other operated and non-operated assets made up the balance of net equity emissions of 0.8 million tonnes. The primary reason for the 0.6 million tonne decrease in emissions year-over-year is related to asset sales. Between 2008 (our baseline year) and 2014, we have reduced net equity GHG emissions from oil and gas operations by 4.8 million tonnes of absolute emissions or over 40 percent, primarily through a combination of improved operating processes, selective asset sales and shutting down refinery operations. If our 2008 baseline were restated for all collective asset sales, our GHG emissions reduction between 2008 and 2014 would be 3.7 million tonnes instead of 4.8 million tonnes. Scope 3 Emissions Our largest source of Scope 3 emissions is customer and consumer use of sold products. Our methodology for calculating product use emissions addresses the refined petroleum products that we sell, as well as the natural gas that we produce and sell for third party consumption. Due to downstream divestitures, use of sold products emissions have declined from 47 million tonnes in 2008 to 11 million tonnes in 2014, or by about 77 percent. In 2013 we evaluated the materiality and relevance of each of the 15 categories included in the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard. We joined the CDP Supplier Initiative for that year to improve our understanding of third party GHG emissions associated with purchased goods and services and transportation, and disclosed information on all 15 Scope 3 categories in our CDP Climate Change disclosure. As a result of this exercise, we eliminated nine categories that were not relevant. In 2014 we recalculated emissions from six Scope 3 categories based on available data for the full calendar year for E&P and for the nine months that Hess operated the Retail Marketing business before divesting. These categories, in order of magnitude of emissions, were Use of Sold Products, Purchased Goods and Services (refined petroleum products for resale), Processing of Sold Products (natural gas), Waste, Fuel and Energy Related Services and Business Travel. Hess has also been a participant in IPIECA’s Scope 3 Task Force, which has been developing sector-specific guidance. With the completion of our transformation to a pure play E&P company and the expected finalization of the IPIECA Scope 3 guidance by the end of 2015, we plan to revisit our evaluation of relevant and material Scope 3 categories based on our new company profile. We have purchased carbon credits annually since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent of business travel emissions. For the past three years we have purchased these credits from The Climate Trust. In 2014, combined emissions from employee business travel via commercial air carrier and rail was about 19,800 tonnes. We offset 125 percent of these emissions through the purchase of 25,000 carbon credits. EMISSIONS REDUCTION INITIATIVES We track and monitor changes in air emissions at each of our assets. We then examine opportunities at our largest emitting facilities, where it is technically and economically feasible within their operating rhythm to potentially reduce GHG emissions. Flaring In 2014 our gas flaring from operated assets increased to 36,000 million standard cubic feet (MMSCF), primarily due to temporary circumstances in Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota. In Equatorial Guinea, gas produced that is not used for running our operations or being stored in the formation for future use is currently being flared. In the third quarter of 2013, we brought a new oil well online with an unusually high associated gas content, which resulted in increased flaring in 2014. However, with the maturation of this Ceiba oil field, flaring thus far in 2015 has been considerably lower. Several years ago, our expansion by acquisitions in the Bakken formation included acreage in remote areas, where gas gathering infrastructure was not in place. This resulted in a significant increase in our flaring rates in North Dakota. To capture and monetize natural gas from our wells and minimize flaring, we are investing more than $1.5 billion in infrastructure in North Dakota. In March 2014 we completed the expansion of the 2014 Net Equity Emissions by Country Thousand Tonnes CO2e 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 U.S. 2,412 Malaysia 1,555 Equatorial Guinea 1,428 Algeria 240 Other countries* 149 Denmark 137 Thailand 68 *Other countries include China, Ghana, Libya, Norway, the U.K. and the U.S. Virgin Islands. North Dakota Flaring Rates at the Wellhead Percent of Natural Gas Production 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 2009    2010     2011    2012     2013    2014 Hess Industry Post-TGP Start-up Flaring rates for conventional and unconventional wells. Source: North Dakota Industrial Commission, Department of Mineral Resources Oil and Gas Division. 2014 Scope 3 Emissons Million Tonnes CO2e Use of Sold Products  11.5  Purchased Goods and Services  2.9  Other*  0.5  * Includes the following Scope 3 categories as set forth in the Green.house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard: Fuel-and-energy-related activities, waste generated in operations, employee business travel and processing of sold products. 