SAFETY AND HEALTH Hess’ first priority is the safety of our workforce. Our safety programs and practices are designed to promote a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job so that everyone across our operations returns home safe every day. Our commitment to occupational and process safety begins at the top of our organization and is reinforced at every level. We include key enterprisewide safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. We reinforce the importance of safety through annual Chief Executive Officer’s and President’s Awards for Safety Excellence, which recognize Hess teams and individuals who exemplify outstanding safety performance. We have also been working to enhance our safety leadership training program by developing operational leads as trainers, with pilots of the enhanced program planned for implementation at selected assets in 2018. We aim for continuous improvement in safety performance, with the ultimate goal of zero safety incidents. Hess’ 14-element Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility (EHS & SR) EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE IDENTIFYING AND ADDRESSING ROOT CAUSES THROUGH LEAN PRACTICES In line with Hess’ commitment to Lean practices, we held an enterprisewide “Go to Gemba” event in January 2017 to engage our workforce directly through open-ended conversations about pre-job planning. Gemba means “the real place” in Japanese and, in practice, “Going to Gemba” means having EHS and Lean experts travel to our worksites to observe safety behaviors and interview personnel. Hess asset and central function leadership conducted Gemba site visits at several of our operational locations in 2017, including those in Equatorial Guinea, Denmark, the Gulf of Mexico, Malaysia, North Dakota, Ohio and West Texas. Based on our learnings from the ﬁeld visits, we were able to identify root causes that have the potential to impact our safety performance and also develop countermeasures to address those root causes. One of the countermeasures, for example, was to develop a standard work instruction (SWI) to improve the pre-job planning process. The project team held a kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshop to collaboratively develop the SWI, which was ﬁeld tested and ultimately ﬁnalized later in the year. We are planning a follow-up exercise in 2018 to review the status of the SWI’s adoption by our operational locations. Management System Manual serves as a as well as the boards of several of our framework for managing and measuring joint-venture assets, as applicable. At the our safety performance. Tier II level, working collaboratively with assets, subject matter experts conductThrough our global EHS standards assessments to evaluate conformance project, we have been working to with corporate and asset EHS standards formalize and standardize many of our and procedures, as well as regulations, EHS practices across the company. Hess’ and assist assets in addressing identified safety standards and procedures address improvement opportunities. The Tier III key areas of safety risk — such as energy level constitutes routine self-assessments isolation, dropped objects and confined by assets against corporate EHSspace entry — and promote leadership, standards, corporate and asset-level awareness, consistency and accountability procedures, and regulations. across all levels of the organization. Hess’ Corporate Audit departmentIn 2017 we formalized our EHS assurance conducted EHS audits and advisories program for reviewing conformance with across the organization during 2017, in our external and internal obligations, accordance with an EHS Tier 1 Audit Plan, including regulations, standards and which was reviewed and approved by the procedures. The program operates in Board of Directors’ EHS Subcommittee. three tiers. At the Tier I level and as an Hess subject matter experts alsoindependent assurance function, Hess’ completed 83 percent of our scheduled Corporate Audit department conducts Tier II assessments in 2017, surpassing annual audits following a risk-based plan our goal of 80 percent completion. At that covers various EHS topics, including the Tier III level, self-assessments in the occupational safety, process safety, form of behavioral safety observations,management of environmental impacts leadership site visits, hazard observation and drilling process safety. Highlights cards and other mechanisms are ongoing from Tier I audits are reported to the Audit and happen throughout the year. Committee of the Board of Directors, SAFETY AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY We encourage a culture of ownership over occupational safety by tasking workers with identifying and mitigating the safety issues most relevant to their operations. As an example, our Behavioral Safety Observation Program (BSOP) has helped to advance our global safety performance by identifying specific at-risk behaviors through trend analysis and then providing feedback to our workforce on mitigation strategies. Employee and Contractor  Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.50 0.39 0.31 0.10 0.09 2015 2016 2017 Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Q Contractor TRIR Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.39 0.24 0.13 0.08 0.08 2015 2016 2017 Workforce TRIR Q Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) *Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals. As a peer-to-peer observation program, BSOP utilizes trained workers to observe their colleagues’ workplace behaviors and then provide constructive feedback on safe work practices. Behavioral safety programs have been in place at our U.S. onshore assets since 2011, and best practices developed at those assets were codified into an enterprisewide standard in early 2017. Later in the year, we began implementing this standard at the Gulfstar 1 production platform operated by Hess in the Tubular Bells Field (Gulf of Mexico). The 22 trained behavioral observers on Gulfstar 1 are obtaining valuable data to enable the platform’s leadership to focus their efforts to improve safe work practices. In 2018 we plan to extend BSOP implementation to the platforms operated by Hess in the Stampede and Baldpate Fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Transportation safety is another key focus of our occupational safety efforts at Hess, as safe driving practices are important to both our workers and the communities where we operate. Our Land Transportation Standard outlines the three pillars of land transportation safety at Hess: driver training and competency, the use of in-vehicle monitoring systems for company-owned or -operated vehicles, and journey management planning. Hess workers take proactive driver training before operating a motor vehicle on company business, with refresher training required every three years. Our key contractors are required to comply with Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, published by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). Our Land Transportation group publishes weekly safety bulletins that are sent to Hess assets globally and address key topics, such as distracted driving, safe parking and safety technology. Many of our bulletins are also provided to key contractors. In 2017 we began installing upgraded performance-monitoring systems in Hess-owned or -operated vehicles. Technological advancements enable the new monitors to collect driver performance data in greater detail than prior versions. The monitors provide direct feedback to drivers, and data from the monitors help managers promote continual improvement by allowing them to reinforce positive driving behaviors and directly address areas for improvement. Key Performance Metrics Our enterprisewide safety performance was strong in 2017, with improvements in key safety metrics. The total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for our workforce — which includes employees and contractors — decreased from 0.39 in 2016 to 0.24 in 2017. This 38 percent reduction was primarily driven by a significant decrease in contractor incidents, which allowed us to surpass our target of 0.34 for the year. Working with companies whose safety philosophy aligns with ours is critical, and we have been promoting Hess’ safety expectations with key contractors through implementation of our Contractor Management Standard, discussed later in this section. Also of note, we observed a positive trend in our workforce lost time incident rate, which decreased 38 percent — from 0.13 in 2016 to 0.08 in 2017. We experienced no workforce fatalities among either employees or contractors in 2017. We believe that tracking leading safety indicators — such as near-miss incidents that have potential high/severe consequences — is as important as tracking lagging indicators to improve safety performance. We require that information concerning near-miss incidents be reported internally and PROCESS SAFETY recorded into our incident management Hess’ process safety program aims to system. Hess’ enterprisewide annual prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss incentive plan metrics include targets of primary containment of any material, aimed at reducing the rates of severe including materials that are nontoxic and safety incidents and severe environmental nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, incidents; both rates include near-miss compressed air), that could result in an incidents with potential high/severe incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, consequences. toxic release or environmental impact. Our efforts focus on understanding and Our revised EHS Incident Reporting and identifying key points within process Investigation Standard, which took effect safety systems that could impact integrityat the beginning of 2017, provides tools and the safe and proper operation of and procedures for classifying incidents equipment, as follows:and near misses; standardizes notification . Design integrity – reducing risks in the requirements and action timelines for design and construction of facilitiesincidents and near misses; and sets forth the appropriate investigation technique . Technical integrity – inspecting, testing based on the severity of the incident. and maintaining hardware and software Tracking and reporting incidents and barriers near misses enables us to communicate . Operational integrity – working within lessons learned and take actions to operational design parameters address at-risk behaviors and observed workplace hazards. Our design integrity processes, which involve detailed risk analyses, have LOCAL EFFORTS: KNOWLEDGE SHARING IN THE BAKKEN At our Bakken asset, joint employee–contractor safety committees have become a successful aspect of our approach to safety. After convening these committees to address dropped object incidents in 2014, we expanded them to include consideration of a wide range of safety topics (e.g., energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, job safety analyses, etc.) throughout our Bakken operations. We now have three committees in the Bakken, representing the drilling and workover operations, completions, and construction and infrastructure groups. Each committee meets monthly to review key leading safety indicators and collaboratively decide how to manage opportunities for improvement. In addition to these joint safety committees, we have a formal Bakken Safety Committee — composed of leaders from our production reliability operations, drilling and completions, and construction and infrastructure groups — that meets monthly to discuss current leading and lagging metrics and address any issues observed based on trends in the data. Separately, we hold quarterly meetings with our key contractors to discuss topics such as our respective behavioral safety observation programs. During these sessions, we discuss trends in safety metrics and actions taken to correct unsafe behaviors and conditions. Among Hess employees, we also convene monthly BSOP meetings to discuss observations, scores (used to gauge the quality and effectiveness of the program), behaviors (safe and unsafe) and the removal of potential obstacles to safe work. These processes complement other safety activities in the region, such as job safety analyses, job task hazard hunts, safety stand downs and monthly communication of program metrics. As a testament to all of these activities, the Bakken Well Factory organization (i.e., well planning, construction, drilling and completions) observed no recordable incidents — as deﬁned by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration — from February 2016 to year-end 2017. been a key aspect of our recent and ongoing development projects, including the Stampede Project in the Gulf of Mexico; the North Malay Basin Full Field Development Project, offshore Malaysia; and the Hawkeye Gas Facility in North Dakota. These projects have applied various risk assessment and mitigation studies and tools — such as hazard and operability studies, layers-of-protection analyses, “bow tie” analyses and quantitative risk analyses — throughout the development process, as appropriate. Key Initiatives Across Hess operations, our approach to process safety involves identifying, managing and mitigating risks. We do this by raising awareness of risks among our workforce, providing strong safety leadership and maintaining a commitment to continuously improving our process safety procedures, systems and standards. In 2017 we completed several major efforts aimed at enhancing our practices. For example, we concluded an enterprisewide assessment of our process safety systems. We contracted an independent third party to review and benchmark Hess’ process safety organization, leadership, commitment and culture; process safety management system documentation; and process safety performance and metrics. The assessment involved a review of documentation and interviews with leadership and relevant subject matter experts, as well as field audits at facilities in our Bakken, Denmark, Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin operations. The team also audited the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area operated by the Carigali Hess joint venture, which operates under its own process safety organization and management system. These field audits focused, in varying SAFETY AND HEALTH degrees, on the integrity and reliability of specific safety critical equipment (e.g., the inspection and maintenance of fire systems, pressure relief valves, etc.), training and competency, management of change, contractor management, emergency response, risk assessment, stop-work authority, alarm management and incident investigation, among other key topics. The assessment was designed to identify improvement opportunities directly relevant to each asset, as well as systemic, enterprisewide opportunities. For the improvement areas identified, we reviewed alignment with current and planned future EHS initiatives. Recommendations and actions from the assessment will help inform our process safety and management system improvement programs from 2018 onward. The Carigali Hess joint venture will also utilize the assessment results to inform improvements to its process safety and management systems moving forward. Also in 2017 we concluded a comprehensive review of mechanical integrity at our assets as part of our ongoing integrity management program. These Asset Integrity Assessments (AIAs) involved detailed reviews of the mechanical integrity of wells, pressure equipment, piping, flow lines, injection lines, tanks, vessels and other equipment that is intended to avoid or mitigate a loss of primary containment. All Hess-operated production locations completed their AIAs by year-end 2017. We are using the results from the AIAs to augment our existing integrity risk management processes and provide us with a consistent baseline for future risk studies. In addition, we met our goal for establishing performance standards and maintenance and test plans for all integrity critical equipment (ICE), which acts as a barrier for the occurrence of incidents through isolation, containment, prevention, detection, control, mitigation or emergency preparedness and response. The standards set specific expectations and criteria for inspections and maintenance that help to ensure each barrier is effective. By systematically establishing performance standards for individual pieces of equipment, we have enhanced the maintenance programs previously in place for our production operations. For 2018 and beyond, we are building on this effort by formalizing our critical maintenance compliance program — that is, inspecting, testing and maintaining ICE to verify it is performing as expected and meeting the standards. We have also substantially finished addressing actions from a series of process safety health checks, which have provided a high-level, global assessment of process safety in our production and drilling operations. We completed 99 percent of the identified actions by the end of 2017 and are now closing out the few remaining items. A survey of existing Hess engineering standards and specifications identified 52 additional standards that could be issued to further improve process safety and operations by establishing consistent technical requirements across the enterprise. Utilizing a Lean project plan we issued 49 of these standards by the end of 2017. Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields — the latter of which achieved first oil in early 2018. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. Our Stampede Development Project provides a positive example of how process safety is integrated into design from the outset, helping to support strong process safety performance. On the platform, living quarters and other selected buildings are protected from fire and blast hazards, stored quantities of hazardous substances are minimized, and some chemicals are stored in the hull (instead of on the deck) with double containment to prevent leaks. In addition, pipelines and production flowlines are routed to provide maximum separation between the hydrocarbons and personnel, and are located away from marine traffic and loads lifted by cranes. The design also includes subsea isolation valves and boarding valves on the platform to protect both the facility and personnel in the event of an accidental release. At Stampede and our other offshore operations, “barrier thinking” has been a key part of our ongoing process safety efforts. Barrier thinking involves understanding the role of barriers in relation to hazards, threats, events and consequences. In 2017 we continued to use “bow tie” diagrams to help employees and contractors visualize threats, barriers and consequences. During the year we used bow tie models within our Gulf of Mexico organization, to test awareness of the presence, use and effectiveness of barriers (both preventative and mitigative) designed to guard against major accidents. Stampede’s bow tie models were developed and in place prior to first oil and were used to promote safe operations on the platform from day one of production. Similarly, while still our asset, Equatorial Guinea used bow tie models at the Ceiba and Okume facilities. Our South Arne and North Malay Basin assets’ bow tie project implementation is ongoing. Key Performance Metrics Hess collects information on process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety — Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports. We continued a positive trend in our process safety performance in 2017, in line with our goal to continually reduce our number of process safety events (PSEs). We experienced seven Tier 1 events in 2017, compared to 11 in 2016. Likewise, we had 22 Tier 2 events in 2017, down from 30 in 2016. 2015 2016 2017 Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are leading process safety indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. We use these KPIs to support continuous improvement at particular facilities or within company systems. For instance, our global drilling and completions function tracks Tier 3 KPIs specific to their operations, such as well control system performance and loss of power events. An example of a Tier 4 KPI is the implementation of performance standard tests for ICE (discussed on the previous page), which was an indicator included in the 2017 annual incentive plan bonus calculation for employees. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  AND RESPONSE Hess’ safety programs endeavor to prevent incidents from happening. At the same time, we diligently prepare to respond effectively to any emergency that may occur. We regularly participate in emergency preparedness and response drills with our contractors, ranging from notification drills to full-scale equipment mobilization exercises. In the event of an incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness and response program is designed to respond to injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to our assets and impacts to the company’s reputation — in that order of priority. The Hess Emergency Preparedness and Response Standard, which every Hess asset is working to fully implement by year-end 2018, establishes a framework through which we can further improve the effective management of emergency preparedness and response across our assets and defines company expectations for preparedness, training, exercises and continuous improvement. Preparedness focuses on our three-tiered response organization (illustrated below), engagement with officials and communities, emergency facilities and response plans. The training and exercise component defines and clarifies roles, HESS EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATION SAFETY AND HEALTH responsibilities and resources. Continuous improvement is an essential element of the standard by which we incorporate lessons learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness, training and exercises. Our emergency preparedness and response efforts were put to the test in 2017 when four hurricanes struck the Gulf of Mexico. The most challenging of these was Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 storm that made landfall in Texas on August 26. In response to this event, we activated our Gulf of Mexico Hurricane Response Plan, Hess Tower Hurricane Response Plan and Hess Tower Business Continuity Plan. During the storm, all three tiers of our emergency response organization were activated. The Tier 1 Emergency Response Teams de-manned four facilities — three platforms and one contract drilling rig — and shut-in the wells at two facilities. Our Tier 2 Incident Management Team (IMT) set the response objectives, tracked weather updates, provided status reports and monitored logistical support. The Tier 3 Incident Support Team at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston kept the Hess Executive Committee informed and stood ready to support the IMT as necessary. After the hurricane passed through, we focused on getting business back to normal. We were able to re-man all assets by September 1. Hess Tower in Houston closed for business until September 5, primarily to help prevent our employees and contractors from traveling through flooded water and in unsafe driving conditions. As discussed in the Social Responsibility section of this report, we formed the Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team to allow for a coordinated, holistic response to the needs of our employees and the greater Houston community. Also, our Global Supply Chain group identified and worked with contractors impacted by the hurricane, resolving all key supply chain issues by September 29. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT We rely on contractors — who comprise nearly 70 percent of our total workforce hours — to perform key tasks in our operations. Hess’ EHS management system helps us to keep contractors safe on the job. We use a recognized industry safety database to standardize our prequalification processes and contractor data management across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to more clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information more efficiently across Hess operations. Our Contractor Management Standard includes requirements for both current and potential new contractors to whom the standard applies. For example, we require compliance with the seven Hess Rules, which outline global safe work practices. We also require our U.S. onshore contractors to submit Hess-specific workhour and safety incident data for each of our asset locations. In addition, we expect our contractors to follow their own EHS programs and comply with local, state and federal requirements as well as applicable industry standards and best practices. For potential contractors subject to the Contractor Management Standard, we continue to conduct reviews of those who are considered higher risk, due to considerations such as the number of exposure hours for the job or the nature of the work they will perform (e.g., drilling and completions or offshore work). The prequalification process may also include an on-location audit. In addition, new contractors working on Hess-controlled worksites must take part in an enhanced onboarding process. Our contractor management process gives contractors a letter grade based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems. Contractors must earn a satisfactory grade. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade based on EHS criteria, the asset vice president or director or a more senior Hess employee must endorse a safety improvement action plan before that contractor may be approved for procurement. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight. In 2017 we began implementing our Contractor Management Standard across our international assets, and we continued our development of asset-specific procedures. For the evaluation of marine contractors and vessels, we use our enterprisewide marine assurance framework as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program, a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum. The program helps ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach. Also as part of the program, we rate our marine contractors’ performance and use the resulting scores to determine where improvement plans may be needed. HEALTH AND WELLNESS Hess strives to provide a healthy work environment for both employees and contractors. We provide annual on-site flu vaccines, first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation training, and health and wellness fairs for our workforce. Our health and wellness fairs bring local vendors directly to workers during business hours and provide many options for improving personal health, including meal plans developed by a nutritionist, exercise programs shared by personal trainers and outdoor events to increase physical activity. We maintain a random drug and alcohol testing program for employees and contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort includes the management of regulatory drug testing programs required by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard. In early 2018 we approved a Drug and Alcohol Testing Standard, which updates and expands upon our prior Drug and Alcohol Procedure. Over the past several years Hess has worked with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) — a branch of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — in order to promote the organization’s efforts to partner with the oil and gas industry to help ensure the industry is taking appropriate measures to keep workers safe. Through Hess’ partnership with NIOSH under the National Occupational Research Agenda, we have provided support to NIOSH in its conduct of in-depth, on-site studies on occupational health and industrial hygiene topics. These studies help raise awareness among Hess employees of best practices and opportunities for improvement, in addition to leading to industrywide recommendations. For example, this collaborative effort has led to the development of recommendations on topics such as manual tank gauging, levels of exposure to particulates and vapors during the drilling and completions process, and the effectiveness of personal protective equipment in preventing exposure to technically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials. We continually seek new ways to address potential health risks that may arise for our workforce. For example, in 2017 we completed a transition to truck-mounted Lease Automatic Custody Transfer (LACT) units. LACT units provide an automated way for employees to assess the amount and quality of oil in a tank, as manual tank gauging can potentially expose workers to harmful vapors if not performed properly. LACT units are now used at various locations throughout our Bakken and Utica assets. Midstream Control Room, North Dakota 