HOW WE OPERATE The activities in each phase are aligned with other enterprise processes, such as the value assurance and exploration excellence workflows. Full implementation of the refreshed WDX process, including health checks and measurement of key performance indicators, is ongoing. BUSINESS CONDUCT In the Hess Code of Conduct, we describe the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working for Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. To promote compliance across our global operations, the Code of Conduct has been translated in each of our countries of operation. Hess takes disciplinary actions for violations of our Code of Conduct and related policies. Our compliance policies and procedures all stem from our Code of Conduct. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces policies, procedures, processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Its aim is to promote an organizational culture that encourages commitment to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. To continuously improve compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations, anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs as well as other enterprise programs. The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General Counsel and informs the Board’s Audit Committee on a regular basis. Strengthening our regulatory assurance program is one of the six components of our EHS & SR strategy. Our Global Compliance team enforces policies and procedures to prevent and detect potential compliance violations. Internal assurance also helps us to manage the effectiveness of our management systems. As part of our long-term compliance strategy, our regulatory team has been piloting the use of a compliance tracking tool at our Bakken asset. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that encourages commitment to ethical business conduct and compliance. In 2015 Hess globally implemented an updated ABAC Policy and Procedure, as well as automated approval systems for the review and approval of higher-risk transactions. Noteworthy accomplishments also included the rollout of an online anti-corruption training program that was deployed to all Hess employees and select contracted staff across our global assets. This training has been completed by approximately 73 percent of global employees. As part of the online training campaign, we conduct audits and ongoing monitoring to achieve 100 percent completion. In addition, online Code of Conduct training was completed by 100 percent of our employees during 2015. Our Global Compliance team, through its dedicated investigation arm, investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team in 2015. Global Compliance continued to partner with other key functions such as EHS, Human Resources and Corporate Audit to review potential issues and put in place appropriate remediation steps. Progress on these global compliance initiatives will continue through 2016. POLITICAL SPENDING HessPAC In the U.S., federal election law permits corporations to establish political action committees (PACs), which may make political contributions. HessPAC, the political action committee of Hess’ employees, made its first member solicitation in 2015 and received $32,908 in member contributions for the year. HessPAC made $5,000 in federal political contributions in 2015 to candidates whose legislative agendas are consistent with Hess’ and are pro-energy. All distributions from HessPAC are publicly disclosed and accessible via the U.S. Federal Elections Commission website (www.fec.gov). As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds, resources and facilities were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC. Advocacy As a trusted voice on energy policy, there is great value in Hess having candid and honest dialogue with stakeholders regarding legislation and regulations that may impact our company both domestically and internationally. Hess actively engages in responsible discussions with elected and appointed government officials in order to mitigate risks to the company’s license to operate and to advocate for policies that promote our business goals. The company’s principles and values dictate that all of our political engagements are done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and that no direct political contributions are made by Hess employees using corporate funds. Hess’ commitment to transparency also assists the company in fully complying with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all substantial amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2015 the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $1,020,000. This included internal employee time associated with lobbying activities, payment to external consultants, and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes. Hess belongs to a number of trade associations, primarily to give the company access to the associations’ expertise in business, technical and industry best practices – an approach that is consistent with our industry peers. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for 33 percent of our total lobbying spend for 2015 (listed above) in accordance with Section 15 of Lobbying Disclosure Act Guidance (http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/ amended_lda_guide.html#section3). In 2015 none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of the trade associations for direct political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for express political advocacy. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2015 can be found on page 68. We recognize that our positions do not always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these organizations. To address concerns related to potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key sustainability issues in this annual sustainability report. The company has a strict internal policy that prohibits Hess employees from engaging with elected officials or regulators as an official representative of the company without the approval of the Vice President of Government and External Affairs. The policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. These policies help to ensure that Hess will continue to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remain compliant with all reporting requirements. As part of the regulatory assurance element of our EHS & SR strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities, to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. SUPPLY CHAIN Our relationships with business partners, suppliers and contractors are critical to Hess’ success and to reducing operational risks. Through engagement and collaboration with our supply chain, we are driving continuous improvement in performance and creating shared value. In 2015 we purchased more than $7 billion of goods and services from more than 4,000 suppliers, whose manhours comprised nearly 80 percent of our total workforce hours. Engagements with our suppliers are conducted so as to comply with applicable local laws and requirements, and practices may differ from those described below in certain instances. Management Approach We are building our capabilities to categorically manage our suppliers with a cross-functional team that works collaboratively to reach safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. Using this approach, our category management team members, who represent critical organizational functions such as operations, engineering and finance, each focus on a discrete category of spend. This enables them to leverage their procurement decisions companywide, creating efficiencies and driving down costs, while also building long-term, strategic relationships with key suppliers who provide goods and services that significantly influence Hess’ cost structure. HOW WE OPERATE We are also embracing Lean principles in collaboration with our suppliers. First in our shale oil and gas business and more recently at our deepwater assets, we are finding new ways of integrating our joint efforts to create win-win solutions that have sustainable benefits. Supplier Qualiﬁcations Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We have a centralized global system in place that houses contract templates and other key materials and manages the procurement process. We also use a central global electronic sourcing system to collect bids and evaluate suppliers. This system supports the efficient creation of online Requests for Proposals and encourages the use of best practices. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with the most qualified and safest suppliers. Prospective suppliers are given a clear scope of work and EHS expectations during the sourcing phase. Where appropriate, potential suppliers undergo a risk review, an ABAC and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our standards arise, the relevant department within Hess conducts an additional review and develops corresponding mitigation plans as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due either to the number of manhours the supplier will work for Hess or the scope of that work, automatically trigger an EHS Hess’ Stampede deepwater project is located in one of the largest undeveloped fields in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. It is highly complex, with some of the deepest projected wells in the world at reservoir depths of about 30,000 feet. Working collaboratively, Hess and our suppliers are leveraging Lean principles to deliver first oil on time and on budget in 2018. Working with a trusted supplier, for example, Hess used Lean problem solving techniques to transform the process for fabricating the blast wall, which is intended to shield the living quarters in case of an incident. Rather than building it onsite, the wall was assembled indoors, in a horizontal configuration as a single unit. This approach eliminated working at heights, reduced environmental impact and improved weld quality. The blast wall was completed two months ahead of schedule, with 50 percent fewer manhours and reduced EHS exposure. Our suppliers also achieved significant cost savings by applying Lean principles to the design and manufacture of umbilicals and related hardware. Umbilicals are the lifelines of subsea developments, providing electrical, hydraulic and fiber optic connections. Applying lessons learned through their previous assignments at Hess’ Tubular Bells field, the two firms introduced standardized design specifications, manufacturing and delivery to eliminate waste and simplify production planning – contributing to a cost savings of almost 19 percent. These and other collaborative efforts at Stampede are demonstrating how Lean principles can be applied in complex projects to deliver results safely, on time and on budget. They are also helping us to build trust and confidence with our suppliers to achieve continuous improvement, superior safety performance and long-term success for all parties. review in the procurement process. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for most major areas of operations, including in the U.S. and Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on our 14 EHS management system elements. The EHS review includes a review of training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response. Potential suppliers receive a grade based on this review; any supplier receiving an EHS grade that does not meet our requirements must develop an improvement plan before they can contract with Hess. These formalized improvement plans are housed internally at the asset level using our existing EHS data system. Should an operational situation occur (such as an emergency) that requires the use of a supplier that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the supplier, and asset management must provide increased oversight. Supply Chain Transparency and Compliance The companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with applicable laws and regulations in areas such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, conflicts of interest and anti-corruption laws, and must maintain any licensing or permitting requirements with respect to their activities. Suppliers are also required to abide by our Code of Conduct as well as Hess’ Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see page 23), where these activities are not regulated. Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure, quality and EHS. For activities deemed as high risk, we pursue bridging documents prior to contract execution where gaps exist between the supplier’s EHS management system and Hess’ EHS requirements. In addition, clauses that cover federal contractor requirements are included for suppliers supporting our U.S. operations. Contracts typically also include a requirement that suppliers allow access to all offices and facilities and cooperate fully with all audits and inspections. Security Services Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of local military or law enforcement personnel except where required by local authorities or in emergency situations. If the use of local military or law enforcement personnel is unavoidable, asset managers are required to seek prior approval from Hess’ Legal and Global Security functions. In operating locations where security services are necessary, we contract for these services locally with support from our Global Security and Global Supply Chain functions. Contracts with security service providers include clauses covering security and human rights expectations. These clauses detail our requirements that security providers adhere to applicable international law enforcement principles, humanitarian law and human rights law. They also require our security service providers to communicate our human rights, social responsibility and ethical expectations to their employees and subcontractors, as well as demonstrate compliance. The aim is to deliver a consistent message of performance expectations for security service providers and drive consistency across Hess operations. These expectations are also detailed in our enterprise-wide Security and Human Rights Policy. We have developed a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that can be used locally for training security personnel on human rights issues. In the event of a security incident with human rights implications, a report is made to the head of Global Security. Reports are also issued for those occurrences, such as peaceful community protests, that highlight potential future risk. We are not aware of any incidents where public or private security forces engaged community members in 2015, and no incident reports were filed. Global Security continues to leverage our existing incident tracking system for reporting of security incidents. Local Content Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary, but may include use of an approved supplier list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or workers. In Peninsular Malaysia, for example, we actively support local suppliers, local employment and the PETRONAS Vendor Development program. In this arrangement, Hess agrees to utilize an approved vendor list that includes Malaysian-owned companies, and we also commit to holding our suppliers accountable to hiring local staff. Another example is from Equatorial Guinea, where the local government requests that we use local suppliers whenever possible. We have designated staff to lead our coordination efforts with the government to identify local vendors and to coordinate and inform them of our tenders and selections. Supplier Engagement and Sustainability Hess continues to engage with suppliers on issues that are important to our industry and our stakeholders. Since 2009 we have worked with current and prospective suppliers of hydraulic fracturing services to define acceptable fracturing fluid systems, including restrictions on the selection and use of certain chemicals. We require suppliers to publish fracturing fluid chemical composition and quantities via the FracFocus website. While the majority of chemicals are identified by unique identification numbers issued by the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) and are listed on the publicly available CAS Registry, we allow our suppliers to use generic names for proprietary ingredients. See more on Hess’ expections and requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess.com LEAP Program, Edison Middle School, Houston, Texas COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Social responsibility (SR) is integrated into the way we do business, enhancing our ability to be an effective and trusted energy partner. Our approach to SR is centered on three focus areas: stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that facilitate direct and indirect local benefits. Proactively engaging with communities and stakeholders where we operate maximizes our business value, helps us manage social risks and impacts and creates opportunities for stakeholders. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Hess’ SR governance framework sets out our commitments to our employees and communities where we operate through every phase of our business activity. Our commitment to ethical and responsible business practices begins with the Hess Values and Code of Conduct. The Hess Value of Social Responsibility establishes our commitment to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. Our Code of Conduct describes the business conduct and behaviors that we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including our expectations regarding human rights. 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency: • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • United Nations Global Compact (Hess serves on the Board of the UNGC’s U.S. network) • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) These initiatives, which we collectively call our “Voluntary Commitments,” inform our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. As part of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are working to implement SR and Human Rights Global Standards. These standards, which will further integrate the management of social risk into our value assurance process, cascade from our policies and comprise the next level of our governance framework. The final level is made up of training, toolkits and local procedures. 2016 GOALS Organizational Structure Hess deploys SR resources across the organization. To do this effectively, we have a core SR team combined with local practitioners who are embedded with our assets and project teams. The role of the core team is to develop governance, advise executives, manage companywide social performance, provide technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provide assurance across these efforts. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK • Continued development of Social Responsibility (SR) and Human Rights • Continue to integrate SR considerations into enterprise business processes Global Standards • Proceeded with risk-based rollout of stakeholder engagement and Rights Global Standards grievance mechanism processes Approve, implement and track implementation of the SR and Human • Expand implementation of stakeholder engagement and grievance • Developed human rights training module for employees and contractors mechanism processes • Completed strategic review of social investment programs • Commence risk-based rollout of human rights training module at • Develop human rights content for contractor onboarding • Invested nearly $22 million in social programs throughout our portfolio selected assets 