Message from the CEO This year marks the publication of our 25th annual sustainability report, demonstrating our longstanding commitment to sustainability and the value it creates for all of our stakeholders. In keeping with our company’s purpose – to be the world’s most trusted energy partner – we are focused on building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine put a spotlight on energy security and the critical importance of oil and gas to the global economy. At the same time, the world is facing climate change, the greatest scientific challenge of the 21st century. The International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) latest World Energy Outlook provides multiple scenarios for addressing the dual challenge of growing the global energy supply by about 20% over the next 20 years and reaching net zero emissions by 2050. In all of the IEA scenarios, oil and gas will be needed and significantly more investment will be required in the years ahead – much more in renewables and much more in oil and gas. In a world that will need reliable, low cost oil and gas resources for decades to come, Hess is in a strong position. Our strategy is to deliver high return resource growth, a low cost of supply and industry leading cash flow growth – while at the same time maintain our industry leadership in environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and disclosure. Sustainability starts at the top of our company and is reinforced at every level. Our Board of Directors is actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) practices, working alongside senior management. Our 2021 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices into our strategy, goals, metrics and daily operations. Several key areas are highlighted below, with detailed information in this report and on our company website at www.hess.com. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the same time meeting the growing demand for affordable and secure energy, which is essential to ensure a just and orderly energy transition that aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Governments, businesses and civil society must work together on cost effective policies to meet this dual challenge. Our company supports transparent carbon pricing as an economically efficient method to encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable. Our climate strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board, and its implementation is led by senior members of our leadership team with oversight by our Board. We support the global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050 and the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit the global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. As part of our commitment to implement a substantive climate strategy, an executive led task force is currently developing a plan for our company to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Our Board and senior leadership have set aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction. After our company significantly outperformed our five year emissions reduction targets for 2020, we set new five year reduction targets for 2025, which are to reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 50% and methane emissions intensity by approximately 50%, both from 2017. We also have committed to achieve zero routine flaring from our operations by the end of 2025 and have endorsed the World Bank’s “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” Initiative. These targets are designed to exceed the carbon intensity reductions by 2030 in the IEA’s Sustainable Development and Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenarios, which are consistent with the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit the global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. Continued flaring reduction, particularly from our Bakken operations, is a key driver for reducing our GHG emissions intensity. For this reason, Bakken flaring reduction was one of the performance metrics in our company’s 2021 annual incentive plan with a target to achieve a 7% flaring rate from our operated Bakken wells and pads as reported to the North Dakota Industrial Commission. We surpassed this target, reducing our flaring rate to approximately 4% by the end of 2021. As part of our sustainability commitment, we are funding innovation to mitigate societal emissions through the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative, which aims to develop plants with larger root systems that are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere. We also address 100% of the indirect emissions from our purchased electricity through a combination of renewable energy generated from the grid and the purchase of renewable energy certificates. We test the long term resilience of Hess’ portfolio in a lower carbon economy using energy supply and demand scenarios developed by the IEA. Hess’ strategic priorities are consistent with the IEA’s less than 2°C scenarios, which envision a meaningful role for oil and natural gas as part of the global energy mix through 2050. More information about our annual scenario planning is on pages 45–48. We bring in subject matter experts to advise and inform our Board on climate and other sustainability issues to be considered in the development of company strategies and policies. The EHS Committee of our Board provides oversight and makes recommendations to the full Board with respect to Hess’ policies, positions and systems for EHS & SR, compliance and risk management. The Board’s Compensation and Management Development Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s EHS and climate change goals. SAFETY Hess’ safety programs and practices aim to maintain a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job and work together to continuously improve our performance. In 2021, our multidisciplinary emergency response team continued to oversee our plans and precautions to reduce the risks of COVID-19 in our work environment and ensure business continuity. In 2021, we achieved a 9% reduction in our workforce total recordable incident rate (TRIR) from 2020, driven by a year over year decrease in our employee TRIR. We reached a six year low in our severe and significant safety incident rate, achieving a 14% reduction from 2020. We continue to improve our process safety performance and between 2016 and 2021 have reduced the number of Tier 1 process safety incidents by 60% based on our current portfolio of operated assets. The safety performance of our contractors, who represent approximately 65% of our total workforce hours, is critical to achieving our safety goals. In 2021, we successfully completed a number of operational milestones where contractor engagement was vital to our strong safety performance. These included onboarding two drilling rigs in the Bakken and one in North Malay Basin and completion of the Tioga Gas Plant turnaround – all with zero recordable safety incidents. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In keeping with our company values and purpose, we have a longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in our workplace and through social investment programs that make a positive and lasting impact on the communities where we operate. For example, in 2021, we announced a $1.4 million grant to the Jackie Robinson Foundation to provide four year scholarships and internship opportunities to underrepresented college students and to support the new Jackie Robinson Museum that will serve as a venue for educational programming. In 2021, Hess also announced a $9 million financial commitment over three years as part of our Learning for Life Partnership to fund educational programs and support services in three underserved Houston communities. Our Learning for Life Partnership will benefit 22 schools and more than 13,000 children from prekindergarten through high school. In Guyana, Hess is supporting work by respected third party organizations to address development initiatives in healthcare, infrastructure, education and economic development that have been set as key priorities by the government with the aim of building shared prosperity for the people of Guyana. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance, including our continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided in our activities by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, which were considered as part of the development of our updated EHS & SR strategy in 2020. PEOPLE Our success as a company depends on having a world class workforce and a culture defined by our values. To attract and retain the best people, we cultivate a workplace culture that is guided by the Hess Values and reinforced by quality leadership; DEI; learning and engagement; and Lean and innovation processes. Our human capital strategy is led by Hess’ executive leadership and our Board of Directors. As part of our DEI commitment, in 2021 we hired a dedicated head of DEI and a dedicated expert to lead our supplier related DEI and sustainability efforts. Hess leaders continued hosting listening sessions with small groups of underrepresented employees to better understand their experiences and shape our actions to advance our company culture. In 2021, five new employee resource groups launched, and we expanded our DEI training and our efforts to attract more diverse job candidates. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE We see transparency in reporting as an important part of being a trusted energy partner. Our reporting aligns with a number of frameworks including oil and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and TCFD recommendations. Our sustainability report is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. We are proud of our company’s continued sustainability progress and honored to have been recognized throughout 2021 as an industry leader in our ESG performance and disclosure. Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, business partners, Board of Directors and shareholders for your support. Together we will continue to build a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s growing energy needs and makes a positive social impact on the world around us. John B. Hess Chief Executive Officer June 2022 About Hess Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 1,309  11  315,000  Million Barrels of Oil  Years of  Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day  Equivalent Proved Reserves  Reserve Life  Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced  • We safely added two operated rigs in the Bakken in 2021, supported by rising oil prices and increasing global oil demand. • Through the continued application of technology and Lean manufacturing techniques, we reduced our average drilling and completion costs in the Bakken to $5.8 million per well in 2021, down from $6.2 million in 2020. We continue to optimize the development of our Bakken acreage through a combination of well spacing and completion design. • On the Stabroek Block in Guyana, where Hess has a 30% interest, 2021 marked another year of extraordinary exploration success with five significant discoveries. • Our sanctioned oil developments on the Stabroek Block have world class economics, with a Brent breakeven oil price of between $25 and $35 per barrel. Guyana, which is the largest new oil province discovered in the last decade, is positioned to be one of the highest margin, lowest carbon intensity oil developments in the world according to Wood Mackenzie data. • In 2021, production from the Liza Phase 1 development on the Stabroek Block averaged 117,000 gross barrels of oil per day for the full year, compared with 74,000 gross barrels of oil per day for the full year in 2020. • Significant progress was made in 2021 at three other developments on the block: Liza Phase 2, which achieved first oil in February 2022; Payara, which is ahead of schedule and is now expected to come online in late 2023; and Yellowtail, which was sanctioned in April 2022 and is expected to come online in 2025. • In 2021, net production from the Hess operated North Malay Basin development project and the Carigali Hess operated Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) increased as demand recovered from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Development drilling at JDA recommenced in 2021 and we continued the drilling program at North Malay Basin with first gas for Phase 3 development expected in 2022. Hess Portfolio of Operations Production Midstream Developments Exploration PRODUCTION Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Liza Phase 1 and 2 developments offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. DEVELOPMENTS Activities are focused on nonoperated developments on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana. MIDSTREAM Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include a natural gas processing plant, a rail loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, crude oil and natural gas gathering systems and produced water gathering and disposal systems, all in North Dakota. Nonoperated assets include an additional natural gas processing plant in North Dakota. EXPLORATION Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests offshore Guyana and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. Creating Value for Society Hess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. We seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders and business partners, our employees and the local communities and economies where we operate – which in turn benefits society at large. We believe our company is well positioned, with our low cost of supply and high return investments, to deliver strong performance under a variety of market conditions. MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY’S GREATEST CHALLENGES We integrate sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship into our operations and long term strategy. Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is aligned with the SDGs that are most relevant to our business (see pages 8–9). Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards across the globe. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy transition to a lower carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry can play a vital role in helping to address these challenges. After our company significantly outperformed our five year emissions reduction targets for 2020, we announced new five year greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets for 2025 consistent with the Paris Agreement’s well below 2°C ambition (see page 49). We remain committed to doing our part to limit GHG emissions while supporting sustainable global development and the just and secure transition to a lower carbon economy. The following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2021. WORKFORCE COMMUNITIES We generate value through the jobs we create directly as well as those we support Our community investments are designed to make long lasting, positive impacts indirectly – both in our supply chain and in the broader economy, where the energy on the communities where we operate. We seek to develop the local workforce we produce is essential to industries across the globe. We extend our high ethical to enable upward mobility into higher paying jobs in our industry and supply chain and safety standards throughout our supply chain by requiring suppliers and (see pages 19, 24–25 and 36). contractors to abide by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary • $8.8 million in social investments directed toward communities in Louisiana,Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see pages 18–19). North Dakota and Texas • 1,545 Hess employees globally • $4.2 million in social investments by our joint venture in Guyana • $539 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.) • 18,800 hours of volunteering by our workforce, with the majority in Texas • 5,270 hours of learning and development • 92% local nationals employed in Malaysia • $2,120 million in total supplier spend across 3,020 suppliers • 93% of our total supplier spend was on purchases made within the same country in which we were doing business SHAREHOLDERS SOCIETY Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our shareholders. We continue We contribute value to society at large through the direct economic value we to successfully execute our long term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, generate, the affordable energy we produce and our commitment to operate focusing only on low cost, high return opportunities and providing increasing responsibly and advance sustainable development (see pages 8–9, 21–25 and 53). cash returns to our shareholders, while investing in our people and business. • $2,012 million in capital and exploration expendituresFurthermore, our efforts to lower our costs and our emissions intensity are aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve long term sustainable • $530 million in royalties, taxes and other remittances to governments development (see pages 49–50). • $15.7 million in social investments, including $4.5 million going toward the • Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative $311 million in dividends paid to investors • Three year total shareholder return of 52% for the 2019–2021 performance cycle at year end 2021, second among our 2019 peer group Approach to Reporting In this report, we provide descriptions of Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy and 2021 performance regarding material economic, social and environmental issues. Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information and can be found on our website. We provide further detail on our midstream operations, including segregated performance data, in a separate companion sustainability report available on the Hess Midstream LP website at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/ sustainability-report. Additional sustainability and investor information is available at hess.com/investors REPORTING STANDARDS This report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our reporting is also informed by the reporting guidance documents, templates and other engagements listed below. • Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry, which was jointly developed by IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for environmental and social issues), the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers • API Template for GHG Reporting, a set of greenhouse gas (GHG) indicators that API member companies, including Hess, have agreed represents the core, or foundational, indicators for individual company public reporting of companywide GHG emissions and mitigation activities • The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact’s Ten Principles • Recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Oil and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) • World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Core Metrics, a set of metrics drawn from existing voluntary standards and frameworks such as GRI, SASB and TCFD that is aimed at strengthening sustainability benchmarking for companies and investors, to which Hess has publicly committed • Key external environmental, social and governance ratings and scorecards An index of GRI, IPIECA, WEF, SASB and U.N.Global Compact reporting indicators is available at hess.com/sustainability/ sustainability-reports and our response to the API Template for GHG Reporting is available at hess.com/sustainability/ climate-change-energy MATERIALITY We determined the content for this report by applying the GRI’s reporting principles such as stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness of information. We conducted a materiality assessment in 2020, which considered our operations and performance in the wider context of sustainability issues as well as new and emerging issues important to our stakeholders. Engagement with Hess’ stakeholders – which include employees, suppliers, customers, communities, shareholders, government bodies, nongovernmental organizations, industry peers and academics – enables us to strengthen our license to operate and brings increased focus to our transparency goals. Our materiality assessment, facilitated by third party experts, helped us prioritize the key sustainability topics most relevant to our company. The assessment was consistent with approaches and guidance provided by leading standards bodies, including GRI, IPIECA and the International Organization for Standardization; it also considered the SASB materiality profile for the oil and gas industry as an additional reference point. The materiality assessment informed our forward looking EHS & SR strategy, which is described more fully in the section Strategy and Progress (see pages 8–9), and helped us define the boundaries of this report. This strategy is designed to address the eight most material sustainability issues for our company, which include: • Climate Related Risk and GHG Emissions • Community and Stakeholder Engagement • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion • Emergency Preparedness and Response • Occupational Health and Safety • Process Safety and Release Prevention • Supply Chain and Contractor Management • Water Management Approach to Reporting While these eight topics will be the focus of our strategic sustainability actions through 2025, many of the other relevant topics included in our materiality assessment are important to our stakeholders and our company and will continue to be addressed in Hess’ business processes and external reporting. As has been our practice, we plan to continue annual, document based assessments of key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operational and regulatory risks to validate our top material issues for our sustainability reporting and strategy. See reporting boundaries for each of these issues at hess.com/sustainability/ approach-to-reporting BOUNDARY SETTING The business units and assets operated by Hess Corporation and/or our subsidiaries during calendar year 2021 are included within the scope of this report, unless otherwise indicated. This includes Hess Midstream LP (also referred to in this report as Hess Midstream), although we publish an annual companion sustainability report for that entity with segregated midstream performance data. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. We report GHG emissions on both an operated and equity share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020), Module 3: Climate Change and Energy, as well as IPIECA’s 2016 report Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. Our workforce metrics include data for contractors whose hours we track. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10% of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We also review and adjust targets included as part of our annual incentive plan formula to account for divestitures as needed. This report includes partial year performance data (January–August 2021) for Denmark, as we divested our interests in that asset in August 2021. Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess.com/sustainability/climate.change-energy INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE Our internal information systems promote the centralized collection of data from Hess operated and joint venture assets around the world. In order to evaluate accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality assurance/ quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and asset and facility level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding. All currency references in the report are in U.S. dollars. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE This report, including our sustainability data and self declared GRI “in accordance” status, was assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) (see page 68). This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. In addition to providing assurance in relation to our sustainability report, ERM CVS also conducts a separate verification of the GHG emissions data provided in the report and in our CDP Climate Change response. Strategy and Progress Our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on our eight most material sustainability topics. Our related strategic actions are not the sum of all activities that will drive continuous improvement in each of these areas, but are instead the specific areas targeted to drive progress or to maintain or achieve leadership among our industry peers for each of our material issues. Our management approach, annual performance (including achievements and challenges in 2021) and forward plans for a broader set of issues relevant to our company and our stakeholders are described further in this report and on our website at hess.com/sustainability. The table below summarizes the initiatives, goals and targets that we have established as part of our 2025 EHS & SR strategy and indicates their alignment with and support of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Targets that are part of Hess’ annual incentive plan (AIP) performance metrics for 2022 are indicated with “AIP.”   Goal achieved as planned   Goal partially achieved or still in progress   Goal not achieved as planned   Goal not yet started in 2021 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand 