CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Hess’ position on climate change is that rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and global temperatures pose risks to society and ecosystems warranting cost-effective policy responses that balance mitigation, adaptation and societal priorities such as access to affordable energy. Hess is committed to helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in an environmentally responsible manner by taking steps to monitor, measure and reduce our carbon footprint. Hess’ updated environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy addresses climate change and the actions we can undertake to control and reduce our carbon footprint. We work with key stakeholders, including government agencies, private landowners and communities, among others, to obtain approval for these actions, including the plans and goals discussed in this section. Hess remains an active member of IPIECA on sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are too complex for individual companies to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members at the United Nations’ Conference of Parties meetings, engaging with governments on climate-related issues. In advance of the Conference of Parties meeting in 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS Paris in December 2015, IPIECA created a series of papers to address major issues our industry sees as necessary for tackling climate change. Collectively, these papers highlight the key role the oil and gas industry should play in terms of innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and provide credible future energy solutions. Hess continues to meet our goal of top-quartile performance in our sector for the quality of our climate change disclosures. For the seventh consecutive year, Hess was included in the CDP’s S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, and for the sixth consecutive year was also listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America. Our CDP responses contain more detailed information on the company’s climate change-related risks and opportunities. See our CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE We report GHG emissions from our oil and gas assets on an operated and equity basis. Our emissions estimates include carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide—reported in units of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). Starting in 2014, Hess began using global warming potentials based on the values in the Fourth Assessment Report: 2016 GOALS According to the 2015 World Energy Outlook New Policies Scenario (i.e., most likely case) developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA), worldwide energy use will grow by 32 percent between 2013 and 2040, with all the growth coming from developing countries. Energy demand for oil and gas will grow through 2040 with oil and gas each accounting for approximately 25 percent of the energy mix. In 2040 oil and gas will collectively account for 50 percent of the energy mix, down slightly from 52 percent in 2013. Even under the IEA’s 450 Scenario, which is consistent with limiting concentrations of GHGs in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million of carbon dioxide, energy demand will increase by 12 percent by 2040, with oil and gas accounting for approximately 44 percent of the energy mix. In this projected environment, coal would experience the largest demand degradation. Climate Change 2007 (AR-4) prepared by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to estimate CO2e totals. GHG data from prior years have not been restated, because the impact on historical values was not material (about 1 percent). (continued on page 45) • Updated climate change initiatives as part of our environment, health, • Create a working team with senior leader representation to further   safety and social responsibility strategy refresh   evaluate and recommend strategic actions with regard to climate change • Set new 2020 targets for reducing flaring intensity and greenhouse gas intensity • Continue to expand North Dakota midstream gas gathering infrastructure • Updated carbon price in our economic evaluation process for significant • Implement a project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had traditionally    new investments to include two scenarios – $20 per tonne and $40 per   been flared in our Okume operation to the Ceiba field to use as fuel gas   tonne – for implementation in 2016   to help power our operation • Reduced equity greenhouse gas emissions by more than 5 million    tonnes between 2008 and 2015 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY This section discusses the potential impact that future climate change regulation may have on Hess’ market valuation. Hess has established an enterprise risk management (ERM) process to manage all types of business risk, including climate change. All Hess assets have developed a holistic risk profile in which key risks are identified with the likelihood and potential impact to the business estimated. Critical risks – risks with higher likelihood and impact or those that are unlikely but would have significant impact if they were to occur – are placed on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. In addition, all new projects are rigorously screened to verify they meet or exceed established threshold return on investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. We factor theoretical carbon dioxide prices into our economic evaluation process for significant new projects, and we have recently updated the pricing scenarios to $20 and $40 per tonne. This enables us to evaluate project viability based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints. A select group of stakeholders and investors has raised concerns that energy companies may be overvalued in a future carbon-constrained world because these companies may not be able to produce a portion of their reserves, hence these reserves will be “stranded.” According to IHS Energy, the stranded asset theory underestimates the realities of the projected growing demand for hydrocarbon resources through 2040 as well as how the categorization and timing of reserve development contribute to the market valuation of a company. By using an extremely broad definition of proved reserves, stranded asset proponents misstate how reserves contribute to market valuation. According to IHS Energy’s September 2014 report Deflating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be monetized during the next 10 to 15 years. The Securities and Exchange Commission defines “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and gas that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can within reasonable certainty be estimated to be economically producible – from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Stranded asset advocates argue that extractive companies will be left with stranded reserves over the next 30 to 40 years, thus undercutting current valuations. According to IHS Energy, while proved reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource base by volume, they account for 84 percent of the 2014 resource base that drives a company’s total valuation. Therefore, reserves that are expected to be produced beyond a 15-year time horizon have limited impact on a company’s valuation. The stranded asset theory also assumes that coal, oil and gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting energy sources, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. Coal is the most carbon-intensive energy source, with a significantly larger carbon footprint than natural gas. As a result, coal is most likely to experience demand degradation in a carbon-constrained economy. The production of natural gas will be promoted as part of the transition to a lower-carbon environment. We will continue to do our part to help provide reliable, affordable energy to meet growing demand, while endeavoring to take actions to reduce our carbon footprint through investments in energy efficiency, flaring reductions, fuel switching and new and emerging technologies. 2015 Hess Proved Reserves by Resource Type* Conventional (including Acid Gas) Unconventional Deepwater *Deepwater is a conventional resource but it is shown separately here to provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 feet of water depth. 2015 Hess Proved Reserves by Region* 1,086 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent *Proved reserves consist of 76 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, condensate and natural gas liquids) and 24 percent natural gas. Approximately 97 percent of Hess’ direct (Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are from stationary combustion sources such as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. The factors used to estimate emissions for these sources enterprise wide are those prescribed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart C). The remaining 3 percent of our operated GHG emissions are from a variety of non-combustion and fugitive emission sources such as storage tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic pumps and valves. For such sources at onshore facilities, we use the emission factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). Subpart W does not provide factors for fugitive GHG emissions from offshore facilities; therefore, Hess uses other appropriate U.S. EPA or industry-specific factors to estimate fugitive emissions for those facilities. We also report indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) We believe it is our responsibility to operate more efficiently by reducing GHG emissions per unit of production as we continue to expand our business. Therefore, in keeping with our EHS & SR strategy, we have established a new 2020 GHG intensity reduction target for our current portfolio of operated assets. Our target is to reduce GHG emissions intensity by 25 percent for the current portfolio of assets that we operate by 2020 versus a 2014 emissions baseline. In 2015, of the estimated 5.6 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 5.1 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and 0.5 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion) and flaring accounted for 33 percent and 63 percent of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, respectively. In 2015 absolute GHG emissions increased over 2014 by an estimated 0.2 million tonnes, due primarily to increased activity in North Dakota; however, on a GHG intensity basis (i.e., tonnes of emissions per 1,000 barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)), emissions decreased by 18 percent versus our 2014 baseline. Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG emissions from our operated and non-operated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. Between 2008 and 2015, we reduced equity CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY 2015 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse  Gas Emissions by Source Thousand Tonnes CO2e 4% GHG emissions from our oil and gas operations by over an estimated 5 million tonnes of absolute emissions, primarily through a combination of improving operating practices, selling assets and shutting down refinery operations. If our Development’s GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard, which includes 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions. Historically, only three of the Scope 3 emissions categories – Purchased Goods and Services (emissions generated from refined 2008 baseline were restated for all of the petroleum products sold), Use of Products collective asset sales, our GHG emissions (emissions generated from our natural gas reduction between 2008 and 2015 would sales) and Processing of Sold Products be approximately 4 million tonnes instead (emissions generated from energy used to Flaring 3,203 Fuel Combustion 1,654 of over 5 million tonnes. refine petroleum products) – were material Other 225 to Hess. With our transformation to an Our major sources of emissions from exploration and production company, the Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions  non-operated oil and gas assets in 2015 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Purchased Goods and Services category included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint 5.4 5.6 is no longer applicable. Although not GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE) Development Area and the Gassi El Agreb material, we track and report emissions 50 40 30 (GEA) project in Algeria. Our interest in associated with employee business travel. GEA was sold in late 2015. Total emissions from these assets accounted for The table on the following page details our approximately 1.7 million tonnes of our Scope 3 emissions. In 2015 we sold 485 equity emissions. million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural gas which, when Million Tonnes CO2e 20 10 In 2015 major sources of emissions from 0 burned by customers, accounted for an operated assets included those from our estimated 9.7 million tonnes of GHG Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota emissions. We sold 254 thousand barrels GHG Intensity and 2020 Target Note: 2014 data excludes 0.2 million tonnes from discontinued downstream assets. Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Country Million Tonnes CO2e 12 10.8 10 9.0 8 6.6 6.0 5.5 6 4 2 0 2008 2011 2013 2014 2015 U.K. Ghana Thailand Norway Libya China Denmark Azerbaijan U.S. Algeria U.S. Virgin E.G. Russia IslandsIndonesia Gabon Malaysia assets and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants, which together accounted for an estimated 3.2 million tonnes of equity emissions. All of our other operated and non-operated assets made up the balance of equity emissions of an estimated 0.6 million tonnes. Scope 3 Emissions To assess our Scope 3 GHG emissions, we use the Petroleum Industry Guidance for Corporate Value Chain Accounting methodology. Scope 3 emissions are emissions generated from corporate value chain activities that are not accounted for and reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. The Petroleum Industry Guidance is based on the World Resources Institute’s and the World Business Council for Sustainable per day (MBPD) of crude oil which, when processed by refiners, accounted for another 4.3 million tonnes of GHG emissions, for an estimated total of 14 million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions. In addition, combined emissions from employee business travel via commercial air carrier and rail in 2015 was about 10,000 tonnes. As an element of our climate change strategy, we have purchased carbon credits annually since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent of business travel emissions. In 2015 we purchased approximately 15,000 carbon credits from The Climate Trust, which more than offset the GHG emissions we estimate were generated from employee business travel. EMISSIONS REDUCTION INITIATIVES We track and monitor air emissions at each of our assets. We then examine opportunities at our largest emitting facilities to potentially reduce GHG emissions where it is technically and economically feasible to do so, and where we are able to achieve stakeholder approval. Flaring A key component of our climate change strategy is to reduce flaring. In 2015 our gas flaring from operated assets was essentially flat compared to 2014, at 99 MMSCFD. We have set a new 2020 target to reduce flaring intensity (i.e., standard cubic feet per barrel of oil equivalent, or SCF/BOE) by 50 percent for the current portfolio of assets we operate, compared from 100 to 250 MMSCFD and increased the liquids processing capacity almost tenfold, from 260,000 to 2.5 million gallons per day. We anticipate that expansion of the midstream gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities and natural gas liquids and gas gathering lines, will continue into 2016. These midstream infrastructure projects leave Hess well positioned to significantly reduce flaring over the next several years. Natural Gas Capture We anticipate that large-scale reductions in flaring will be addressed through our long-term 2020 flare intensity reduction target. In the interim, however, we are also mitigating flaring in our shale energy plays by exploring ways to capture gas at 2015 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Country Thousand Tonnes CO2e 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 U.S. 3,885 Equatorial Guinea 1,488 Denmark 174 Malaysia 89 Hess Flaring Rates 99 99to a 2014 baseline. This flaring reduction the wellhead for use in our drilling 100 will result from major stakeholder-operations and for conversion to natural 80 approved initiatives in Equatorial Guinea gas liquids (NGL). and our Bakken asset in North Dakota. Bi-Fuel Rigs and Boiler Flaring (MMSCFD) 60 40 20 Conversions At our Equatorial Guinea asset, we have In 2013 in North Dakota we launched a invested more than $30 million in a bi-fuel installation project in which we project to pipe gas that has been 0retrofitted diesel engines to gas/diesel traditionally flared at our Okume operation to the nearby Ceiba field, to use as fuel gas to run our operations. This 2014 2015 2020 engines on several of the drilling rigs North Dakota operating for Hess in the Bakken. The Equatorial Guinea Othernew bi-fuel engines capture and use Flaring Intensity and 2020 Target natural gas at the wellhead, which project is a win-win, as it is expected to substantially reduce both flaring and reduces fuel costs due to fewer diesel costs associated with fuel purchases. delivery truck trips and lowers air emissions from the cleaner burn of Use of Sold Products  9.7  Processing of Sold Products  4.3  Total  14.0  To capture and monetize natural gas from our wells and minimize flaring, we have invested more than $1.9 billion in infrastructure in North Dakota between 2012 and 2015. As part of this, in March 2014 we completed the expansion of the Tioga Gas Plant, one of our major infrastructure projects. This expansion more than doubled the plant’s capacity natural gas compared to diesel. As part of this project, nine boilers were also converted to operate exclusively on natural gas during winter operations. In 2015 this project saved 529,000 gallons of diesel fuel, reduced GHG emissions by an estimated 1,532 tonnes and resulted in 66 fewer truck deliveries. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Natural Gas Liquids In 2013 in North Dakota we partnered with GTUIT, a designer, manufacturer and operator of well site gas capture and NGL extraction equipment, to recover high-BTU (British thermal unit) gas from locations that were producing NGLs and flaring. This project provided dual economic and environmental benefits by converting gas into marketable products as well as reducing the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions. The project addressed two significant challenges: • Developing equipment that adapts to the ever-changing flow conditions of the well and the changing chemistry of the associated gas (e.g., BTU content, water content) • Developing reliable unmanned, mobile and modular equipment The equipment that was developed to address these challenges consisted of patent-pending flow control with gas compression and refrigeration that lowers the gas stream to -40 degrees Fahrenheit, resulting in the creation of a stream of NGLs and conditioned field gas. By the second quarter of 2015, we had installed a total of 15 mobile units with a capacity of 10 MMSCFD. An estimated 8.2 million gallons of NGLs were captured in 2015, resulting in more than 526 MMSCF of gas that was not flared, reducing GHG emissions by an estimated 51,084 tonnes and saving about 16,000 tonnes of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from entering the atmosphere. In September 2015 the World Bank Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership presented an award of excellence to Hess and our partner, GTUIT/Caterpiller Oil and Gas, for successful use of GTUIT’s well site gas capture and natural gas extraction technology to reduce flaring in the Bakken region in North Dakota. Power Generation Power generation utilizing Bakken gas was piloted by Hess in 2014. This project involved replacing diesel generators with gas generators and was implemented at a stranded site that is utilizing eight 170 kilowatt gas generators. As a result of the project, the site is now using 140 thousand standard cubic feet per day (MSCFD) of gas to directly power its electrical needs, replacing 8,600 barrels of diesel fuel that was previously burned and reducing GHG emissions by 1,046 tonnes in 2015. This pilot project will be expanded to two additional North Dakota sites, which will use approximately 100 MSCFD each, by mid 2016. Additional sites are being evaluated, with a goal to replace all diesel generators in North Dakota with gas generators. To further help reduce flaring emissions, the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, Gulf Coast Green Energy and ElectraTherm partnered with Hess to test the ElectraTherm Power+ Generator™, a leading distributed waste-heat-to-power technology, at a Hess North Dakota well site. The pilot project captures the natural gas to generate electricity and reduces or eliminates onsite flaring. ElectraTherm’s Power+ Generator™ captures the waste heat and provides clean methane utilization without capital-intensive gas cleanup. At the well site, natural gas that would otherwise be flared is instead used to fuel a low-emission industrial boiler. The boiler heats water to run the Power+ Generator™ and produces clean energy that is used for onsite processes, offsetting the cost of electricity from the grid. The pilot system operated with an estimated on-stream reliability of greater than 98 percent and showed average estimated reductions in carbon monoxide of 98 percent, nitrogen oxides of 48 percent and VOCs of 93 percent, compared to flaring. Transportation In 2013 at our North Dakota asset we began using flexible hose for freshwater transport instead of trucks. This type of hose collapses flat when not in use, like a fire hose, and can be used to pipe water directly from the water source to our wells. Use of these flat hoses offers several benefits – they eliminate the need for trucks to haul water, resulting in less noise and lower GHG emissions, transportation costs and risk of vehicle accidents. In 2014 we piped 43 percent (4.5 million barrels) of the water used for fracturing via these hoses. In 2015 we exceeded our goal of 65 percent by piping 72 percent, or 6.9 million barrels, of the water used for hydraulic fracturing, which resulted in a reduction of 63,000 truck deliveries, 2.3 million miles driven and 5,010 tonnes of GHG emissions. During winter operations, by using line heaters we were able to deliver 75 degree Fahrenheit water to locations through flat hose into insulated tanks, eliminating the on-location heating of water. We plan to continue to utilize flat hose for water transport in 2016. See our CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange ENERGY USE Monitoring and managing our energy use is an important part of Hess’ Lean approach because it has the dual benefit of reducing both costs and GHG emissions. We make and purchase energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2015 energy consumption from Hess-operated assets was approximately 36 million gigajoules (GJ), 5 percent higher than the previous year. However, our 2015 energy intensity (GJ/ barrels produced) declined by 18 percent as we became more efficient through our Lean approach to operations. Seventy-six percent of Hess’ energy use was directly generated from our operations, primarily at the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants and at our production facilities in North Dakota, Denmark and Equatorial Guinea. The remaining 24 2015 Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules 3% U.S. 28,428 Equatorial Guinea 4,333 Denmark 2,305 Malaysia 1,083 2015 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source Thousand Gigajoules Natural Gas 23,991 Diesel 3,514 Energy Use Thousand Gigajoules 40,000 36,148 34,42633,850 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 2013 2014 2015 Direct Indirect CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY percent was indirect energy (energy burned by utilities to provide net purchased electricity) purchased for the Seminole (West Texas) and North Dakota production operations and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants. Our 2015 electricity usage was essentially flat compared to 2014. Coal  524  56%  Natural Gas  207  22%  Wind  125  13%  Nuclear  39  4%  Conventional Hydroelectric  35  4%  Other Non-Renewables  4  <1%  Biomass, Solar, Other Renewables  2  <1%  Note: Approximate figures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration 2014 state electricity generation profiles. In 2015 our U.S. operations accounted for all (approximately 936,000 megawatt hours) of our purchased electricity. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 14 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. In addition, as part of our climate strategy, we use renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs), equivalent to at least 10 percent of the net electricity used in our operations. In 2015 we purchased 135,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 135,000 megawatt hours or about 14 percent of our purchased electricity from our exploration and production operated assets. Overall, between the portion of our electricity generated through renewable grid sources and the purchase of RECs, approximately 28 percent of our indirect energy use came from renewable sources. The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years has resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural gas. The clean burning characteristics of natural gas can play a critical role in the transition toward a low-carbon economy. Although natural gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce its climate benefits. Methane emissions have a stronger global warming potential than the carbon dioxide emitted when natural gas is combusted, thus methane emissions may have the potential to offset many of the benefits of natural gas as a clean fuel. Over the past two or three years there has been increasing stakeholder scrutiny around this issue. In January 2015 the U.S. announced plans to cut methane emissions from oil and gas operations by 45 percent by 2025 from 2012 levels. This has resulted in several federal regulations (some final and some under development) aimed at reducing methane emissions. The industry maintains that these regulations are largely unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of growth in natural gas production and because it is in the industry’s best interest to monetize gas to generate additional revenue. ONE Future One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue voluntary reductions in methane emissions in advance of potential new regulations. As a result, Hess became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a group of companies from across the natural gas industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield continuous improvement in the management of methane emissions associated with the production, processing, transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, flexible approach to managing methane emissions that is expected to yield significant reductions in such emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than one percent of gross methane production across the value chain by 2025. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/ loss rate of one percent or less across the natural gas value chain provides immediate GHG reduction benefits. To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value chain: production (0.36percent), processing (0.11 percent), transmission and storage (0.30percent), and distribution (0.22 percent), which cumulatively total to the one percent target. Hess has activities in two sectors, production and processing. In 2015 our methane emissions rate for production was 0.11 percent and our emissions rate for processing was 0.11 percent, both of which are already well below the industry averages and meet the 2025 ONE Future targets. Additional Performance Improvement Efforts Although Hess has already met our ONE Future sectoral targets, we are committed to further improving our performance. We are currently expanding the leak detection and repair (LDAR) programs gathering infrastructure and processing plants. This study is one of 16 studies sponsored by EDF and its industry partners to quantify natural gas emissions across the value chain. Researchers found wide variations in the amount of methane being emitted at various sites – especially in the gathering sector. The study found that less than one percent of the methane that passed through natural gas gathering and processing facilities in the U.S. is leaked, but that roughly one-third of gathering facilities account for 80 percent of methane emissions. The study indicated that variations among facilities were being driven by differences in inlet and outlet pressure and abnormal process conditions. Overall the study provided valuable insight into potential gaps within the current national GHG inventories and reporting protocols. It is anticipated that results from the study will help to inform the implementation of new U.S. EPA reporting rules in 2016. Methane Emission Rate (ONE Future Protocol)* 0.56 0.6 0.5 0.44 0.30 0.26 0.3 from our gas plants and Ohio production operations to our North Dakota production operations. We are also working to change out our remaining high-bleed pneumatic controllers. These measures, together with the steps we are taking to reduce flaring in North Dakota (described previously), will, if approved by applicable stakeholders, help to further reduce our methane emissions. Methane Emissions Rate (%) 0.4 0.36 0.19 0.2 0.11 0.11 0.11 0.1 We are also supportive of efforts to improve methane monitoring technologies. Hess is collaborating with other oil and gas companies, the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) and the Southwestern Research Institute in the Methane Detector Challenge, which tasks technology developers and engineers with developing low-cost methane monitors that can help the oil and gas industry better detect, and ultimately reduce, methane emissions. Hess, together with a number of other oil and gas companies, also collaborated with Colorado State University and EDF to study methane emissions associated with the natural gas industry’s 0  Production  Processing  Transmission & Storage  Distribution  Natural Gas Value Chain 2012 Hess 2015 ONE Future 2025 Target  *The methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane produced or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.-operated assets. Production Operations, North Dakota 