ENVIRONMENT Protecting the environment is a core commitment for Hess and a central part of the work we perform every day. We strive to reduce our footprint across the range of our potential environmental impacts, including water and energy use, air emissions, waste and spills. We dedicate significant staff and resources to this effort to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments. We have developed key performance metrics to track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time at both the enterprise and asset levels. Some of these metrics are also factored into our annual incentive plan, helping to further advance our culture of environmental stewardship. We collaborate with peers, governments and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to help drive environmental performance improvements across our industry. We sponsor and actively participate in the Bakken Production Optimization Program, a research program led by the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) and funded by the North Dakota Industrial Commission, that aims to improve Bakken system oil recovery and reduce the environmental footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. In 2020, we continued working with the EERC as part of the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a consortium of oil and gas producers leading and funding research on innovative technologies to detect leaks and other pipeline integrity issues (see page 61). The iPIPE consortium is one of several initiatives we are sponsoring that are designed to help meet North Dakota Governor Doug BurgumÕs challenge to achieve zero pipeline spills. We also voluntarily sponsor the Houston Advanced Research Center, which aims to develop science based solutions to environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. WATER MANAGEMENT The communities and ecosystems where we operate depend on water to thrive. Hess operations have the potential to impact water resources, primarily through our use of fresh water and possible impacts on water quality that could occur due to well integrity issues, spills or discharges. We continue to employ a risk based, lifecycle approach to managing water through which we carefully assess and work to mitigate any potential impacts on water resources in both our onshore and offshore operations. Water management, in particular reducing the potential for impacts to freshwater resources, continues to be one of our most material sustainability issues. In 2020, we updated our stressed water resource analysis in the Bakken region Ð the primary region where we use fresh water for our operations Ð and confirmed that we are not operating in any high baseline water stress areas. While the potential for us to impact fresh water is therefore limited, we know this is an issue of importance to our stakeholders and generally for safeguarding the environment. Engaging with stakeholders on water management issues is central to our approach. In the Bakken region, we have developed our water use strategy based on engagement and feedback with local stakeholders, including local governmental authorities. We are active members of the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 20 oil and gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production. We also engage with a variety of nonprofit organizations focused on water issues. For example, Hess is a member of the Gulf of Mexico AllianceÕs Gulf Star program. The Gulf of Mexico Alliance is a nonprofit, publicÐprivate partnership that aims to enhance the ecological and economic health of the Gulf region by encouraging collaboration among government agencies, businesses, education providers and NGOs. In 2020, we continued to support projects focused on water quality and citizen science engagement. For example, we worked with the Gulf Offshore Research Institute and the Barataria-Terrebonne National Estuary Program, which focus on cultivating native plants and grasses to restore the function and habitat of critical Gulf Coast wetlands. See the Shale Energy section online for more detail on our approach to water management in our shale operations: hess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy Freshwater Use Most of our freshwater use occurs in our onshore operations, where we primarily use it for drilling and completions in upstream operations and for cooling in midstream gas processing. We also need fresh water offshore for some drilling ENVIRONMENT Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters 5.0 5 4  3.8  3.6  3  2  1  0  2018  2019  2020  ÷ Groundwater ÷ Municipal Water ÷ Surface Water  2020 Freshwater Use by Facility/Business Function Thousand Cubic Meters 3% operations and to supply potable water to personnel on offshore rigs; however, we primarily meet these needs by using reverse osmosis to make fresh water from seawater. When necessary, we bring fresh water from onshore river systems to offshore rigs. HessÕ total freshwater use in 2020 decreased by 28% compared with 2019. The largest driver of this decrease was a reduction in freshwater use in our Gulf of Mexico drilling operations (specifically fresh water brought in from onshore river systems rather than made from seawater). Our freshwater use for onshore drilling and completions operations in the U.S. was 29% lower than in 2019. This decrease was largely the result of reduced activity because we drilled 88 fewer wells and hydraulically fractured 47 fewer wells in 2020 than in 2019. As our operational profile and practices continue to evolve, we remain committed to assessing the best ways to reduce water use impacts across our operations. In 2021, we plan to continue evaluating completion strategies to maximize product recovery while focusing on effective utilization of water resources. The total amount of water we need for our operations and our ability to reuse produced water varies based on the geology of the formation, production levels and changes in hydraulic fracturing technologies, among other factors. In North Dakota, our freshwater reduction strategy primarily involves reusing produced water Ð the nonpotable water that is released from underground formations along with produced oil and natural gas Ð for production maintenance. During 2020, we used 142,541 cubic meters of produced water to replace fresh water in our operations Ð less than in 2019 due to reduced production and completions activity, which decreases our opportunities to use produced water. Water Quality Our onshore operations have the potential to affect water quality, primarily through releases that could occur due to well integrity issues or spills. Offshore, potential water quality impacts are related to releases that could occur from well integrity failures, other oil spills or produced water discharges. We have implemented rigorous management practices to help mitigate the potential for impacts on water quality, including continuously improving our approach to well integrity and to managing produced water, our primary source of wastewater. In 2020, we initiated several projects to better understand and mitigate our potential to affect water quality. We began two pilot projects focused on produced water management: one testing new tools to improve the measurement and tracking of produced water collection, reuse and disposal; and the other assessing new approaches to treat and reuse produced water during completions. We also initiated a project to evaluate potential microplastics pollution from offshore drilling; this project involves testing for microplastics in seawater near the three platforms we operate in the Gulf of Mexico, in our discharge water, and in all of the chemicals used in the processes at those platforms. We discuss responsible produced water management in more detail online at hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale.energy; we discuss release prevention, a central element of our efforts to protect water quality and one of our top material sustainability issues, on page 57. Discharges from Offshore Facilities Discharges from our offshore facilities, including drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water, have the potential to impact water quality. These waste streams are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, discharged directly to the ocean (when allowed by applicable regulations) or transported to shore for treatment and disposal or recycling. In 2020, our offshore facilities discharged to sea approximately 1,500 tonnes of nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, which included 80 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid. Offshore produced water discharges to sea totaled an estimated 1 million cubic meters in 2020, with an average oil content of 5 on the board of directors of OSRL and parts per million volume (PPMV) for a total on the executive committee of Clean Gulf Oil in Produced Water of 9 tonnes of oil discharged. This data Associates, a nonprofit oil spill cooperative Discharges to Sea reflects a year-on-year decrease in PPMV that supports the Gulf of Mexico. 18 18and tonnes of oil discharged. Our international subsea well control 16Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) At our South Arne asset, we have preparedness and response capabilities significantly reduced the amount of are supported by Wild Well Control. produced water discharged to sea by Hess is a member of the OSRL Global instead reinjecting it into our wells to Dispersant Stockpile and the Capping stimulate production. By reinjecting the Stack agreements that would support our produced water, we are able to offset international assetsÕ well control activities, our use of seawater and reduce the if needed. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are environmental footprint of our North members of and serve on the executive 14 12 10 8 6 44 22 Sea operations. We steadily increased committee of the Marine Well Containment 00 2018 2019 2020reinjection volumes of produced water Company. These organizations provide from an estimated 76% in 2014 to 88% in well capping, containment and dispersant Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) Oil Concentration in Production Water (PPMV)2019; we maintained an 88% reinjection capabilities, as well as equipment and rate in 2020. While reinjection is somewhat personnel mutual aid. driven by regulations, we have gone beyond Hydrocarbon SpillsWe are active members of the what is required, substantially reducing our 160 35Oil Spill Response Joint Industryproduced water discharges over time. 123 152 30 Project organized by IPIECA and the Volume of Spills (Barrels) Volume of Spills (Barrels) International Association of Oil & Gas 120 SPILL PREVENTION Number of SpillsNumber of Spills Producers, and we contribute to the The prevention of releases is one of HessÕ top material sustainability issues. We IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international assets. maintain spill preparedness and response We are also a member of the Oil Spill plans and conduct emergency response 80 40Emergency Preparedness and Response exercises at each of our assets. To support Subcommittee of the American Petroleum a swift and effective response to any loss of primary containment (LOPC) incident, we maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. HessÕ international oil spill response needs are supported by our partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an industry funded cooperative. International and domestic travel, medical and security Institute (API). In addition, we participate in Area Planning Committee meetings for Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We track LOPC events through our incident reporting system by size and material, and we report spills following applicable industry and regulatory guidance. We also use leading and lagging indicators to monitor 0 ÷ Volume of Spills ÷ Number of Spills Nonhydrocarbon Spills Nonhydrocarbon Spills 800 776 50 45671 700 40 600 500 30 LOPC performance, including continuingincident responses are covered by our to tie LOPC performance to our annualagreements with International SOS and incentive plan.Global Guardian. Our domestic needs for 400 300 20oil spill response are supported by the In 2020, the number of hydrocarbon 200 Marine Spill Response Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, the Sakakawea Area Spill Response Cooperative, Tri-State Bird spills decreased by 31% compared with 100 113 2019, and the volume decreased by 69%. 0 2018 2019 2020The number of nonhydrocarbon spills Rescue and Research, and the Wildlife decreased by 17% compared with 2019, ÷ Volume of SpillsCenter of Texas. Hess representatives serve Number of Spillsand the volume decreased by 14%. ENVIRONMENT We continued to implement a range of programs focused on spill prevention in 2020. To address spills that result from corrosion and integrity issues, we continued to enhance our inspection and surveillance programs. For example, in the Bakken we implemented enhanced, real time, remote monitoring systems for equipment, including integrity critical equipment, that track alignment with applicable operating parameters to help us identify and prioritize maintenance planning and response. We also undertook engineering studies and mitigation efforts to protect facility pipeline equipment from residual fracturing proppants, which can impact reliability and integrity. In addition, we continued to enhance the range of key performance indicators we use to track performance internally and increase internal transparency and reporting. We are also continuing a multiyear effort through the APIÕs Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is the evaluation and enhancement of our integrity management systems pertaining to pipelines. LIFECYCLE APPROACH TO WELL INTEGRITY Maintaining the integrity of our wells Ð that is, preventing the uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers Ð is fundamental to protecting the environment, the health and safety of our workforce and the Deepwater Assets Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land based wells. In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal governmentÕs Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. communities where we operate and to safeguarding our product. For all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore, we take a lifecycle approach to integrity. In the initial design phase, we identify the appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout the well lifecycle. We establish these barriers during construction and maintain and monitor them through production and maintenance, and then we add new barriers during abandonment. Our global standards for well integrity outline the criteria for installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for barriers to be used through the lifecycle of the well, and they require completion of a detailed well barrier diagram before undertaking activities in the field; an example well barrier diagram is shown on our website at hess.com/sustainability/environment. We use a combination of barriers Ð such as casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout preventers, cement, packers and bridge plugs Ð that work together to prevent uncontrolled flow. For example, we use cement in the annular space between the casing and the underground formation as a key structural component to protect aquifers. We require a minimum length of annular cement above and below potential flow zones that meets or exceeds applicable regulations. We also require maintaining multiple and redundant barriers throughout the well lifecycle, and our minimum requirements for the configuration of blowout preventers on drilling rigs meet or exceed applicable regulations. We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify they are working as designed. For example, we pressure-test barriers and well components during construction, after first utilizing computer models to confirm we will not overpressure the component during testing. We utilize techniques including well logging that either meet or go beyond applicable regulatory requirements to validate correct cement placement between the production casing and the formation before completing our wells. In deepwater offshore wells, we use remotely operated vehicles to verify cement installation and proper isolation of wellbore fluids from the environment. We monitor each wellÕs integrity from initial drilling through plugging and abandonment. Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of well integrity issues; however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous monitoring system. In 2020, we updated and enhanced our well integrity management system, which defines the organizational structure responsible for managing well integrity and the standards, procedures and risk management protocols that support well integrity. The enhanced management system establishes a framework of technical standards and procedures for each stage of the well lifecycle and associated field activity that specify requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells. The standards require the identification and assessment of elements critical to well integrity, including the barriers designed to prevent or stop the uncontrolled flow of well fluids. Moving to this structured and holistic approach to well integrity is in line with our commitment to operating safely and delivering value in our diverse global portfolio. Moving forward, we will continue to enhance our system based on ongoing reviews of field activity and will reassess integrity risks throughout the well lifecycle if we identify or anticipate any material changes to a wellÕs design, construction or eventual operation. We are also continuing to improve documentation, data collection and key performance indicator reporting to measure compliance with applicable technical standards and procedures and to enhance the chain of communication as responsibility for the well passes from one Hess team to another. See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale operations athess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy BIODIVERSITY We are committed to conserving biodiversity and habitats in the places where we operate. We consider biodiversity protection in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production and closure at every Hess location around the globe. We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies, as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. We use the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments when the classification of species and habitats on the IUCN Red List changes in areas where we operate. As part of our goal to improve biodiversity management at HessÕ global assets, we have developed threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. We also have a standard work instruction ENVIRONMENT We also identify IUCN protected areas  in field activity related to the ongoing  (categories IÐIII) adjacent to our operations.  COVID-19 pandemic.  In 2020, there were four such areas, all in  CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT) We also disposed of approximately North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area, 61,100 tonnes of drill cuttings from our Critically Endangered 21 Fort Union Trading Post National Historic North Dakota asset at licensed disposalEndangered 50 Site, Two Top and Bit Top Mesas and sites in 2020. These drill cuttings, as well as Vulnerable 160 Theodore Roosevelt National Park). the discharges from our offshore facilities Near Threatened 164 for all projects involving field activities to help ensure we take appropriate steps to protect natural resources across our operations. We monitor the addition of new species to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife ServiceÕs national endangered and threatened species lists. Through these efforts, we identify locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and, where applicable, develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Also, where appropriate, we adjust drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species. During the 2020 construction season, a total of 31 onshore pipeline projects in the Bakken region required environmental evaluation. Of those 31 projects, 25 required field studies. Based on those field studies, 13 projects required mitigations or adjustments to protect species habitat, including that of the threatened Dakota skipper moth, and 17 projects included wetlands mitigations. We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We participate in the APIÕs Endangered Species Working Group, with the goal of proactively balancing oil and gas development with environmental decision making. We also participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. WASTE We generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production activities. For each Hess asset, we manage waste through specific waste management plans designed to comply with all applicable regulatory and Hess requirements for that location, as well as to protect human health and the environment. These plans, which are developed to (see page 56), are not included in our overall waste totals per IPIECA reporting guidance. We have continued our efforts to reduce landfilled piping waste by decontaminating it (i.e., removing technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive material, or TENORM) and then recycling it. In 2020, we recycled 150 tonnes of nonhazardous piping waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. See the Shale Energy section online for more information on NORM and TENORM: hess. com/sustainability/environment/shale.energy AIR EMISSIONS The normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities result in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emissions sources, Air Emissions 121 35,000 120 align with the Hess Waste Management Hess utilizes third party software programs, Standard, require the application of our 30,000 100 such as the Integrated Biodiversity 9087 Emissions Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE) waste minimization principles of ÒRemove,Assessment Tool, to identify protected Emissions (Tonnes)25,000 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat 70areas and key biodiversity areas, as well 20,000 and DisposeÓ Ð with disposal being theas specific species listings. We maintain a least preferred option. list of IUCN Red List species with habitats 15,000 that overlap with our operations. (See In 2020, we generated approximately 10,000 table above, which provides a snapshot of 43,000 tonnes of solid waste, approximately 5,000 relevant species at this reportÕs publication 98% of which was classified as time.) The IUCN updates the Red List 0 2018 2019 2020nonhazardous according to applicable species classifications regularly based on regulations. Our overall waste generation ÷ NO NO Intensity xx new information and improved data from ÷ VOC VOC Intensity volume was lower in 2020 compared ÷ SO2 SO2 Intensity ongoing third party studies, and we update with 2019 due to a decrease in asset our species list accordingly. retirement obligations and a reduction including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions. In 2020, absolute emissions of NOx, SO2 and VOCs decreased and, compounded by increased oil and natural gas production compared with 2019, intensities of these three pollutants decreased as well. We observed a decrease in absolute and normalized NOX emissions in 2020 due in part to decreased consumption of fuel gas at compressor stations and decreased flaring. The newer compressor stations that have come online in recent years utilize electric driven compressors, replacing natural gas fired engines. Additionally, in 2020, flaring was reduced and operations were optimized at the Tioga Gas Plant, meaning that electric compression was prioritized ahead of natural gas fired engines.  Absolute SO2 emissions in 2020 were significantly reduced compared with 2019. This is mainly attributable to the phaseout of processing legacy gas containing hydrogen sulfide and decommissioning of the sulfur recovery unit, both at the Tioga Gas Plant. Both absolute and normalized VOC emissions decreased slightly from 2019 to 2020, primarily attributable to reduced flaring. Leak Detection and Repair As mentioned in the Climate Change and Energy section, we continued our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program in 2020 across all of our U.S. onshore operations. LDAR helps us to achieve emissions reductions as part of our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments. In our North Dakota production operations, the LDAR program helps to decrease the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections. The program Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program in North Dakota Hess continues our active involvement in the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental Research Center Ð a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota Ð and the North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a total of $9 million (a $2.6 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from participating operators) over a period of four years to research and demonstrate emerging technologies that can enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then encourage industrywide adoption of worthy technologies. Participating operators have also contributed more than $2.5 million in additional in-kind donations as part of their support of the research projects.  Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few for additional investment and testing. In 2020, iPIPE members supported the following three projects: ¥ Continued funding and testing of Direct-C technology, a pipeline coating that can act as a sensor to detect leaks. ¥ Continued assessment of a low orbiting satellite based leak detection system that is able to synthesize data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into simple visualizations and actionable alerts of potential leaks. In 2020, the assessment was expanded to test the systemÕs ability to identify leaks in colder weather and to identify vapor methane and liquid leaks. Controlled small releases of liquids and methane were used to test the leak detection capabilities of the satellite technology compared to mid and long wave optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras, fixed wing aircraft and drone leak detection devices. The results suggested that the satellite based remote methane detection was effective. ¥ Funded and laid the groundwork to test a new satellite based leak detection technology with different detection methods and opportunities for identifying leaks compared to the technology previously assessed, which will launch in 2021. We will continue to test the effectiveness of these systems compared to our current standard OGI camera based LDAR systems, maintaining our current LDAR practices until remote sensing systems are further improved and accepted as regulatory best practice. has a formalized process for assigning Environmental Expenditures work material flows to field personnel, Hess received 10 alleged violations for which helps to increase the accountability various administrative activities regarding and efficiency of any needed repairs. timing on submittals, well status changes and procedural reporting activities. Of the For a detailed description of our LDAR 10 alleged violations, seven resulted in program, visit hess.com/sustainability/ environment penalties totaling $34,000 during 2020. REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND The majority of our environmental fine LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and penalty expenditures ($31,000) in Assuring compliance with external 2020 were from a 2018 spill that reached regulations is an important element of the state waters in North Dakota. Other Hess Operational Management System. expenditures were related to an alleged Internal assurance also helps us to ensure transfer delay of a waste storage drum the effectiveness of our management from one of our facilities to the waste systems. As part of our long term disposal facility (no releases or impacts compliance strategy, our regulatory team occurred) and a well pad stormwater uses a compliance tracking tool for our collection bypass valve that was U.S. assets. determined to be improperly closed. 