COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE The asset and project practitioners report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset- or project-specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between the core team at our operational headquarters in Houston and asset-based practitioners across the globe. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our industry faces many challenges in the pursuit of sustainable oil and gas exploration and production, including social considerations. Effectively engaging with stakeholders in our host communities is critical to our ability to access the resources we require as an international energy company. We aim to create value through mutually beneficial opportunities with our stakeholders, which include communities, employees, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS Stakeholder Engagement Process We understand that our success is dependent on our ability to mitigate the risks associated with our activities, which have the potential to impact stakeholder relationships and public perception. Stakeholder engagement is a critical aspect of operational success across the life cycle of our business, from the earliest phases of our new country entry process through the decommissioning of an asset. Proactive, two-way and ongoing stakeholder engagement helps to establish a mutual understanding of expectations between Hess and those who live and work nearby. Our stakeholder engagement process focuses on the proactive relationship-and trust-building opportunities created by meaningful engagement, as well as the business value engagement brings when it is integrated as a part of project risk management. Consistent with continuous improvement methodology, we follow the “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” cycle to direct our stakeholder management efforts. As the expectations, priorities and concerns of our stakeholders evolve, we adjust our approach to align with their needs and our business activities. Building on our earlier efforts, in 2015 we continued to enhance our stakeholder engagement process and associated tools by integrating stakeholder issues and engagement into our enterprise risk workshops, value assurance reviews and asset business plans. We identify and map our stakeholders and work with the assets to develop engagement plans as needed. We completed a stakeholder engagement plan for our North Dakota operations in 2015 and began developing plans for other assets. We will continue to develop and implement asset-specific plans following a risk-based approach, as part of our EHS & SR strategy. Grievance Mechanisms Formal grievance mechanisms provide stakeholders with a means for sharing feedback with companies on their operational impacts, while also helping companies respond to and act on that feedback through an established process. Grievance mechanisms help to ensure that people see Hess as a valued and trusted partner. We maintain an internal database – the stakeholder management system (SMS) – to support the implementation and management of our stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes. The database provides a central repository for information and allows for task tracking. To enhance our ability to listen and respond to stakeholders, we have been piloting a component of the SMS with our Bakken Surface Land Team. The Hess Community Connection, which is the local name for our grievance mechanism in North Dakota, is a process for reporting, investigating and resolving issues and concerns raised by people who believe they are impacted by Hess operations. When we are alerted to a potential issue, our response team draws employees from various disciplines within (continued on page 26) 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for community service agencies and indigenous groups. A few recent benefiting our host communities while improving our business and examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders – from local landowners and governments to to keep them apprised of Hess’ progress in the area. COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Agricultural Program in Equatorial Guinea Hess, in consultation with the Equatorial Guinean Ministry of Agriculture, the Professional School of Agriculture, and local communities, engaged the Spanish agrarian company Dalmau in 2013 to design and implement an agricultural development project for two small farming cooperatives in Equatorial Guinea. The primary objectives of the project are to create employment and a market economy, decrease rural flight and improve the quality of life of cooperative members and their communities. Our efforts have focused on providing basic equipment, financial support (both funding and financial advice), guidance and training tools, and technical support to the cooperatives so they can become fully operational and sustainable. In 2015, the first full year of production, the two cooperatives produced eight different food crops, totaling over 4,300 kilograms and resulting in sales of $3,900. Both cooperatives have already begun expanding their acreage, and their initial success is inspiring other communities and individuals to replicate the concept. Wau Kite Safety Campaign in Malaysia Near Hess operations in the North Malay Basin, families enjoy the local pastime of flying traditional wau kites. Although regulations ban the flying of kites near the Kota Bharu airport, operators were finding kite twine in helicopter rotors, and pilots were concerned about the inability to see the kites when flying in the area. To address these concerns, we led a community campaign, with help from our partner PETRONAS and other industry participants including Repsol, Petrofac and Westar Aviation, to increase safety awareness concerning helicopters used in oil and gas operations. In 2015 we helped to organize a series of talks at community centers as well as a wau safety-themed folk music competition at the annual Kelantan International Kite Festival. Hess employees helped judge the competition and assisted in giving away prizes. The festival was well attended by locals and was successful in communicating our message. Pilots have reported back to the campaign team that they have seen significantly fewer kites flying in the restricted zone. Hess such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance and civil construction in order to reach a resolution. Our response team strives to complete their investigation within 14 days of the original report. As a final step before closing the case, we contact the stakeholder to ensure they feel the issue has been adequately addressed. We received a total of 214 grievances during the pilot phase, including feedback related to roads, dust, maintenance, land reclamation, weeds and EHS concerns. With this pilot, we are setting the stage to embed new business processes and standard operating procedures into our routine operating rhythm. We aim to build upon this pilot to create a set of guidance and accompanying tools, so that we can continue to strengthen our relationships with other communities and respond more effectively to their concerns. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT When entering a new country, commissioning a new development or expanding an existing facility, we engage with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities where we operate. As part of our strategic planning process for these activities, we examine the social, political and economic environment to identify non-technical risks and mitigation activities. We address human rights considerations throughout the process, including during the due diligence phase and during the social risk mitigation and management step, when we provide training on our Security and Human Rights Toolkit. Risk mitigation measures are driven by the value assurance process and conducted on an as-needed basis. In 2015 we conducted a social baseline study for our Gulf of Mexico assets; the baseline will be used to influence social programs and investments for the region. We also began working toward a social and environmental impact assessment for our Ghana asset. Human Rights At Hess, we understand that although it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, companies like ours must build trusted partnerships and treat all citizens with dignity and respect wherever we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by engaging with stakeholders to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. We continue to align our business practices with our SR, Security and Human Rights, and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at all phases of our business activities, beginning with new country entry. SR, along with other functions, contributed to our new country entry process refresh in 2015, through which we reviewed current practices and made necessary changes to our human rights due diligence. The new country entry process helps inform our strategy and approach. We also began a third-party review of the human rights-related risks associated with our assets. This global assessment includes security-related risk and will update our existing analysis of Hess’ global human rights risk profile. Through this review, we aspire to gain an external perspective of our potential impacts on human rights. Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights as well as raising internal awareness of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). Over the years, we have invited external experts to provide human rights training to our employees around the globe. In an effort to provide more systematic training, in 2015 we finalized an online human rights training module for employees that explains the concept of human rights and why they are important for Hess, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. We will continue to roll out that training over the coming year, focusing on assets in high-risk environments. We have also developed an internal SharePoint site focused on Hess SR policies and initiatives that covers Hess’ Voluntary Commitments, including the Voluntary Principles. Through that internal site, Hess employees can link to the Voluntary Principles website and key components of the Hess security and human rights governance framework. This internal SharePoint site is intended to be augmented over time with additional reference materials, presentations, internal examples of security and human rights best practices, and the Hess Security and Human Rights Toolkit. In Equatorial Guinea in 2015 we conducted training on human rights and the Voluntary Principles for a number of our employees, including our country manager. The training built on previous security and human rights-related courses carried out in Equatorial Guinea by incorporating an introduction to our Security and Human Rights Toolkit. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING Hess maintains our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen by creating mutually beneficial relationships with our host communities. We design our programs to create shared value in local communities and help create a favorable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets create, maintain and implement strategic social investment programs tailored to each operation and community. We continue to evaluate our programs to ensure a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations so that we evolve along with the changing COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2015 Social Investment Spending by Country $ Thousands U.S. $12,136 Equatorial Guinea $8,807 Ghana $422 Norway $186 All Others* $294 *Includes Algeria, Denmark, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Malaysia and the U.K. 2015 Type of Investment $ Thousands <1% 1% <1%<1%1% Education $18,108 Community $3,120 Arts and Culture $231 Health $165 In-kind $101 Environment $85 Disaster Relief $35 Note: These charts include all social investments in 2015, including those associated with joint venture operations. development needs of the communities where we operate. In 2015 we completed a strategic review of our social investment programs to better align them with our business and social risks, as identified through gap analyses, stakeholder engagement, social baseline studies and independent research. As a result, we will focus on established partnerships with key organizations, projects best aligned with business and social risks, and projects identified from social assessments. We will continue our efforts in future years by integrating the new strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees. Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in the supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. Our programs generally fall into two categories: corporate-led, multiyear and multimillion-dollar flagship programs and asset-based projects with moderate funding levels. In 2015 our social investments totaled nearly $22 million, with more than $18 million going toward education projects. Another $3.6 million was earmarked for economic development, health and capacity building. Flagship Investments in Education Hess continues to show progress with two flagship social investment programs focused on developing secondary education systems and capacity. PRODEGE II Our Program for Education Development of Equatorial Guinea, or “PRODEGE II,” is a partnership with the Equatorial Guinean government that aims to strengthen preschool, primary and junior secondary education in that country. The five-year, $50 million program achieved significant results in 2015: • Provided active learning training for more than 2,700 primary-level teachers and children’s development training for an additional 2,700 preschool teachers • Distributed related teaching aids and learning materials to all primary     schools (grades 1–3) • Conducted a gap assessment of secondary education students and designed a plan to address gaps through an active learning approach • Created opportunities for out-of.school youth to complete ESBA, the current secondary education curriculum framework • Strengthened the capacity of the education sector to manage and sustain the project’s momentum through 2019 • Assisted the Education Ministry’s Statistical Unit in data collection to chronicle PRODEGE II activities in 2014–15 and provided a critical data analysis tool We also continued to work in partnership with FHI 360, a nonprofit human development organization, to provide technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation of the PRODEGE II program. Succeed 2020 We initiated the Succeed 2020 program in partnership with the state of North Dakota and FHI 360 with a $25 million grant in 2012. The five-year program aims to improve the transition from secondary school to higher education and the workplace by supporting college and career counseling for students, professional development for teachers, and tutoring and online learning. We continued to see significant progress from the program’s participants in 2015. Approximately 4,500 students participated in career fairs and nearly 1,200 students gained hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) through summer camps and robotics competitions. A total of 57 students qualified for scholarships in 2015, more than double the number in 2014. Businesses have also been engaged; more than 300 businesses supported students through career fairs, job shadows and internships. In one area alone, 14 internships and 25 job-shadowing opportunities were provided to students. Businesses also hosted teacher tours and advised on program development, while the number of teachers reporting progress in the teaching of state standards nearly doubled. Local Program Highlights Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment opportunities focused on education and community development. Belmont College We continued our partnership with Ohio’s Belmont College in 2015 by providing scholarships for local students pursuing post-secondary education. When selecting scholarship recipients, the Belmont College Scholarship Committee and Office of Student Financial Aid give special consideration to non-traditional students – displaced workers returning to college in order to further their education and regain employment. Our focus is to encourage continued education in STEM fields, so that students gain the technical skills needed to succeed in the oil and gas industry. Also, 2015 marked the second year we have supported the development of local emergency responders through Belmont College’s Utica Shale Safety Institute. We measure the success of these programs through several key performance metrics, including scholarship recipient demographics, completion rates and job placement data (when available), as well as data on the overall status of the energy programs at Belmont College. Ghana Scholars Program With Ghana National Petroleum Corporation (GNPC), we established the Hess GNPC Scholars Program, a multiyear initiative to provide secondary, vocational, technical and health education to underprivileged students in Ghana’s six coastal districts. The scholarships we provide cover three years’ cost of tuition and administrative fees, books, kits and uniforms, plus a stipend for the term. The first group of scholars graduated in 2015 with an 85 percent pass rate. This successful program has grown over the years, from an initial enrollment of 71 scholars in 2012 to a current enrollment of 318. Initially accessible in the three coastal districts of Jomoro, Ellembelle and Nzema East, it was expanded to Shama and Ahanta West in 2015 with further plans to include Sekondi in 2016. Five schools currently participate in the program, although we are planning to add two more secondary schools for the fifth intake in October 2016. In addition to the direct benefit to the participating students, the program has a number of indirect benefits, including the development of good relations with the local fishing communities and positive relationships with local, regional and national government stakeholders. LEAP In 2015 we continued our engagement with LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) — a three-year, $4.3 million pilot program aimed at dropout prevention for at-risk middle school students in Houston. Hess is one of five program partners working collaboratively to provide support to students who are English language learners and over age for their grade level. Our support has been focused on two middle schools in the Houston Independent School District, which is one of largest school districts in Texas. The LEAP initiative showed steady progress in its second year, through improved attendance and engagement among its targeted student population. Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico SAFETY AND HEALTH Working safely is a top Hess priority. Safety is central to our culture – each individual is personally responsible for supporting our ultimate goal of zero incidents. Our commitment to personal and process safety begins at the top of our organization. We include key safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees, and we invest in systems and programs designed to deliver continuous improvement. To reinforce the importance of workforce safety practices, our annual Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and President’s Awards for Safety Excellence recognize Hess teams and individuals that exemplify outstanding and sustainable safety performance. PERSONAL SAFETY Our personal safety programs focus on leadership, awareness and accountability across all levels of the organization. To further advance our global safety performance and continue our efforts to drive down personal safety risk and exposure, we began developing a standardized, behavior-based safety (BBS) program in 2015. BBS is a peer-to-peer observation program through which trained Hess employees and contractors observe other workers’ safety behaviors and provide feedback. It is one of several safety observation programs used at Hess. Our assets in North Dakota, Ohio and Texas have 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS been following BBS processes since 2011 with positive results. We are building on these efforts to develop core procedures that can be adapted across the enterprise. In July 2015 during a Hess Global Town Hall, the CEO’s Award for Safety Excellence was presented to our U.K. Decommissioning Team, which achieved a rolling Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of zero during a complex well plug and abandonment program, including removal of subsea equipment, in the North Sea. In addition, two Hess employees were presented with President’s Awards for Individual Safety Leadership. One was our Global Supply Chain Logistics Team Lead, who is accountable for the safe operation of the Fourchon Supply Base and supports our passenger activity at the Bristow Heliport in Louisiana. The heliport achieved 33 years and 1.9 million work hours without a recordable incident or lost time injury. The other individual was our Manager of Completions Operations in North Dakota, who was recognized for championing workplace safety within our North Dakota asset, as well as for leading the implementation of BBS and overseeing integration of contractor BBS programs. Our overall safety performance continued to improve in 2015. The TRIR for our full workforce (employees and contractors) was 0.36, a 10 percent 2016 GOALS Full Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.52 0.36 0.14 0.12 2013 2014 2015 Workforce TRIR      Workforce LTIR *Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. We use occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees in our companywide safety totals. Employee and Contractor  Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.60 0.45 0.24 0.20 0.20 2013 2014 2015 Employee TRIR  Contractor TRIR • Achieved a 10 percent improvement in workforce Total Recordable Incident • Continue to progress our efforts in integrity management   Rate and a 33 percent improvement in workforce Lost Time Incident Rate • Meet a workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate target of 0.31 or below • Meet a safety High Potential Incident Rate target of 0.15 or below • Reached 86 percent completion of action items identified through process safety health checks and are on target to close the remaining items by 2017 • Made progress in a multiyear program to enter integrity critical equipment Continue to make improvements in our process safety management    system and process safety standards   performance standards into SAP to facilitate systematic implementation and • Begin implementation of companywide tiered competency assurance   validation of this equipment   program SAFETY AND HEALTH Hess safety programs and practices are designed with the goal of having everyone across our operations return home safe every day. In late 2014, after identifying an increase in high potential (HiPo) incidents resulting from dropped objects, we implemented a campaign to reverse this trend. A HiPo event is an incident (including near miss incidents, which are discussed further below) with high severity and actual or potential consequence. Dropped object hazards, which can result from the improper storage or securing of tools and equipment, have the potential to harm people and property during operations. Our campaign gained significant momentum in 2015 when, through engagement with our contractors, we developed the Hess Dropped Object Prevention Scheme (DROPS). DROPS had three primary objectives: documenting our program expectations and requirements, engaging our workforce on dropped object prevention, and increasing assurance and sharing of lessons learned. DROPS was launched in January 2015 at our North Dakota asset. Our workforce at this asset engaged in a series of stand downs, through which executives and senior managers visited worksites to talk about safety issues with frontline supervisors and workers. A steering committee progressed the program through biweekly “hazard hunts,” during which employees and contractors were asked to identify potential dropped object hazards and suggest mitigation solutions. We also provided frontline leaders with tools to enhance their selection of preventive and mitigation controls and identified workforce champions to act as local subject matter experts with regard to DROPS objectives. In order to communicate expectations to our workforce, we implemented a comprehensive education program and provided weekly updates of leading and lagging metrics focused on dropped object incidents and hazard analyses. Through this comprehensive approach we achieved a significant reduction in the number of dropped object incidents in our North Dakota asset. Similar DROPS efforts were initiated across our onshore and offshore operations throughout 2015. Together these initiatives contributed to a 63 percent reduction companywide in the number of HiPo incidents due to dropped objects in 2015 compared to 2014. To help sustain this progress, we completed the Dropped Object Prevention Standard, which establishes requirements for addressing observed dropped object hazards. This standard will help us conduct assurance activities and drive continuous improvement. improvement from 2014. Our full workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) was 0.08, a 33 percent improvement  from 2014. We experienced no employee or contractor fatalities in 2015. Our contractor-only TRIR decreased in 2015, from 0.45 to 0.39. By contrast, our employee-only TRIR increased to 0.24. Various incidents appear to have resulted from established procedures that were not being followed, indicating a potential root cause for this increase. As we continue to build out our EHS management system and associated standards, we remain focused on the competency and training of our workforce. Although lagging indicators are an important way to track performance, Hess also tracks leading indicators related to safety in an effort to prevent incidents. We require that information concerning near miss incidents, which are a leading indicator of injury events, be reported companywide into the same incident management system as injury and illness cases. By tracking and reporting near misses we are able to communicate lessons learned and take actions to address at-risk behaviors and observed workplace hazards. Near misses are also an important indicator of potential process safety events, discussed below. PROCESS SAFETY We have resources dedicated to process safety to help prevent a loss of primary containment of any material, including those that are non-toxic and non.flammable, that could result in an incident such as a fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. Effective process safety management at Hess means focusing on understanding and identifying process safety vulnerabilities that impact integrity, as follows: • Design integrity – reducing risks to as   low as reasonably possible in the   design and construction of facilities • Technical integrity – inspecting, testing   and maintaining our hardware and   software barriers •Operational integrity – working within   operational design parameters We understand that to promote integrity assurance in these areas we must also focus on enhancing process safety leadership and increasing awareness of process safety with key people across the organization. Our goal is to minimize the likelihood of process safety events through the effective management of process safety risks by our workforce. Recognizing that process safety is an important issue, we established strategic objectives and developed action plans as part of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy update, which is discussed in the How We Operate section of this report. These actions include enhancing our management systems and standards, implementing integrity critical equipment and barrier management processes, and building upon our current competency and training efforts. For example, in 2015 we continued to develop standards that relate to process safety, including our enterprise Management of Change (MOC) Standard. Once fully developed, this standard will establish minimum requirements for functional and regional MOC procedures so as to mitigate EHS risks during changes in people, documents or operations. As part of our larger global standards effort, our assets completed desktop gap assessments and began implementation of our Energy Isolation, Process Safety Information and Vehicle Entry Standards. Through these assessments, we analyzed current practices and developed implementation plans to help close identified gaps. Please see the How We Operate section for more detail on the global standards project. We also worked to strengthen our process safety program in 2015 through the ongoing implementation of performance standards for integrity critical equipment (ICE). ICE is defined as equipment that acts as a barrier for the prevention of accident events through isolation, containment, prevention, detection, control, mitigation or emergency preparedness and response. Although our production operations were already conducting regular maintenance of ICE, we advanced our program in 2015 by focusing on the systematic implementation of performance standards for each piece of ICE. The standards set specific expectations and criteria that help to ensure each barrier is effective and that the ICE will operate as intended. Process safety continues to be a focus at our deepwater assets. Hess currently operates two production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico in the Baldpate and Tubular Bells fields and has initiated the Stampede field development project. Risks related to deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can be greater than those of land-based assets because they tend to operate much deeper wells under greater pressure and also present unique challenges related to containment of accidental discharges. Our Gulf of Mexico deepwater assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System (SEMS) regulations, which provide for a systematic approach to the identification and effective management or mitigation of hazards. SAFETY AND HEALTH In 2015 we enhanced our approach to barrier management as part of our continuous effort to improve process safety risk management. Our offshore production operations team is piloting the use of “bow tie” diagrams as an integrated approach to barriers, their relationships to hazards, threats and consequences, and the support systems required to manage them. It is our expectation that operating with a visual and holistic understanding of the relationship of barriers to these factors will ultimately help lead to improved process safety management. We also continued to manage a number of ongoing process safety initiatives in 2015. These included the completion of actions identified during our 2013 process safety health checks, which provided a high-level global assessment of our production and drilling operations. We completed 86 percent of identified actions by the end of 2015 and are on target to close the remaining items on schedule by 2017. SAMPLE BOW TIE DIAGRAM Hess collects information on process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers’ (IOGP) Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprise-wide level in both internal and external reports. Our goal is to continually reduce our number of process safety events (PSEs). We conducted a detailed analysis of our PSE data from 2013 to 2015 and determined that, although the number of Tier 1 incidents has increased slightly year over year, this change does not indicate a statistically valid trend. We will continue to enhance our process for tracking, reporting and investigating incidents, including near misses and PSEs, which will allow for consistency in how these events are classified and will help to provide us with a high-quality dataset. Tier 1  PSE Count  18  20  21  Tier 2  PSE Count  48  49  43  Note: Tier 1/Tier 2 criteria and PSE events are based on definitions  from the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers,  Process Safety - Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. We also track Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are leading indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. We use these KPIs to support continuous improvement at particular facilities or within company systems. For instance, our global drilling and completions function tracks Tier 3 KPIs specific to their operations, such as blowout preventer performance and loss of power events. An example of a Tier 4 KPI is the implementation of performance standard tests for integrity critical equipment, which was included in the 2015 annual incentive plan bonus calculation for employees. HAZARD Offshore Safety Performance Hess delivered exceptional safety performance in 2015 at our offshore operations in Equatorial Guinea. Prompted by an upward trend in HiPo incidents at this asset, we focused on our established controls such as hazard observations, risk assessments, toolbox talks and visible leadership in the field. In addition, we heightened awareness of process safety management through workforce engagement and training on losses of primary containment and dropped object hazards. These initiatives helped the asset to achieve its best safety year ever, with a TRIR of just 0.08 and only two HiPo incidents, down from seven in 2013. Pre-Job Contractor Management In 2015 we initiated an innovative contractor engagement process for work on our facility in the Baldpate field in the Gulf of Mexico. We took our onboarding process to contractors’ sites, where we met face to face with leaders and workers and obtained a firsthand look at the equipment that would supply a particular project. We also shifted our pre-work project meeting from a Hess-led presentation to a collaborative dialogue that capitalized on the expertise of each project contractor. This innovative approach resulted in highly effective communication and collaboration prior to mobilization, which contributed to safe project execution ahead of schedule and below budget. Reducing Workforce Health Risks Through one of our contractors, we introduced a “sandbox system” for transporting proppant sand to a number of our Bakken wells in 2015. During traditional truck unloading, blowers blast sand out of the truck, spreading dust. The sandbox system uses gravity to transfer sand from the container to the conveyor, eliminating the need for blowers to blast sand out of a hauling trailer. This switch has increased operational efficiency, reduced operational costs and improved site safety. SAFETY AND HEALTH EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Although we are primarily dedicated to preventing incidents, we also diligently prepare so that we can respond effectively to any emergency that may occur. In the event of an incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness and response program is designed to respond to injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to our assets and impacts to the company’s reputation – all in that order of priority. Our emergency response organization is composed of teams positioned at the asset, regional and global levels. We conducted multiple exercises in 2015, including one full-scale exercise to enact the highest level of our three-tiered preparedness response plans. In 2015 we created a global Emergency Preparedness and Response Standard. The standard establishes a framework through which we can effectively manage emergency preparedness and response across our assets and defines company expectations for preparedness, training, exercises and continuous improvement. Preparedness focuses on the tiered response organization, engagement with officials and communities, emergency facilities and response plans. The training and exercise component defines roles, responsibilities and resources. Continuous improvement is an essential element of the standard by which we incorporate lessons learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness, training and exercises. Another development in 2015 was the completion of an Emergency Response Stakeholder Engagement Guidance document. This document provides our assets with the tools they need to effectively and efficiently engage relevant stakeholders should an incident occur. Emergency Preparedness and Response Partnerships Hess’ international oil spill response needs are supported by our partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an international, industry-funded cooperative that responds to oil spills globally. Our domestic needs are supported by Marine Spill Response Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea Area Spill Response Mutual Aid, Tri-State Bird Rescue and Research, Control Risks and International SOS. Hess representatives serve on the Board of Directors of the OSRL and on the Executive Committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit oil spill cooperative that supports the Gulf of Mexico. Our international subsea preparedness and response capabilities are supported by the Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are members of the Marine Well Containment Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant capabilities as well as equipment and personnel mutual aid. We are also active members of the Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA and the IOGP. Hess participates in several of the American Petroleum Institute’s preparedness and response efforts, including the Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and Response Subcommittee, the Pandemic Planning Working Group, and the Oil-Rail Emergency Response Joint Working Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international businesses. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT Because contractors comprise nearly 80 percent of our total workforce hours, contractor management is a fundamental element of our EHS management system. As part of the procurement process, we conduct reviews of contractors who are considered higher risk, either due to the number of exposure hours they will work or the nature of the work they will perform, such as drilling and completions or offshore work. We utilize a recognized industry safety database management system to standardize our prequalification processes and contractor data management across multiple sites for most major areas of our operations. This provides us with the ability to clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information efficiently across Hess operations. In line with our new Contractor Management Standard, which was approved in early 2016, we are implementing a process through which potential U.S. contractors receive a grade based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems as well as fulfillment of insurance requirements. The asset director or a more senior Hess employee must endorse a safety improvement action plan for contractors who receive a low grade before that contractor may be approved for procurement. The prequalification process may include an on-location audit. In addition, new contractors working on Hess-controlled worksites will take part in a comprehensive onboarding process. In 2015 we made significant strides in managing our marine contractors. We developed and implemented a marine assurance framework that established enterprise-wide guidelines for the evaluation of marine contractors and vessels. We also subscribed to the Offshore Vessel Management and Self Assessment program, a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum. This tool allows us to both provide clear and consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors as well as review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach to assessing a contractor’s compliance with safety and quality standards. We expect this framework will help us reduce costs and realize enhancements in marine contractor procurement. HEALTH AND WELLNESS Our health and wellness strategy includes several elements: • Health risk assessment and planning • Industrial hygiene and control of   workplace exposures •Medical emergency management • Management of health in the   workplace, fitness for task assessment   and health surveillance • Health impact assessment • Health reporting and record   management • Public health interface and promotion   of good health Our employee programs include free preventive medical services, international travel vaccinations and flu shots for employees and family members. Employees at our Houston operational headquarters have access to wellness rooms – private areas where employees can rest if they are not feeling well during the work day. These rooms are monitored by occupational health professionals who are available to respond if needed. Our mobile medical surveillance program for Hess’ U.S. workforce continued in 2015. Through this initiative, annual medical exams covering employee fitness for duty and exposure programs (e.g., noise, respiratory) were centrally coordinated and tracked. Centralization helps us to remain compliant with requirements of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and increases efficiency across our assets. We continued to expand random drug and alcohol surveillance of our employees and contractors at our U.S. operations in 2015. This effort included the establishment of drug testing programs for compliance with U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard requirements. In 2015 we provided first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external defibrillator training for employees at our North Dakota and Ohio assets. We also transitioned to an online training module provided by the American Heart Association (AHA) at our assets and our operational headquarters in Houston. AHA’s Heartsaver e-learning program offers cost-effective online training followed by hands-on testing with an AHA instructor. Kuala Lumpur Office, Malaysia 38 O U R P E O P L E Our workforce is vital to Hess’ continued success, and we are committed to cultivating a company culture that fosters innovation, leadership and continuous learning. With our transformation into an exploration and production company complete, in 2015 we renewed our focus on key human resources programs, including talent management, learning and development, diversity and inclusion and employee engagement. The same Lean principles we applied to our operations – including a deep respect for people and an ethos of problem solving – are also being utilized to enhance our human resources programs. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS We began 2015 with 3,039 employees and ended the year with 2,770 employees. By year’s end, 79 percent of our employees were located in the U.S., including 67 percent in Texas, and 21 percent were in international locations. As the price of crude oil steepened its decline in late 2015, we scaled back activities and further reduced our headcount to address increasing budget pressures. We targeted workforce reductions in areas where activity had declined and in positions that were largely held by contractors. We redeployed employees where possible to preserve the management and technical capabilities we will need to respond effectively when the price of oil recovers. 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION Employees who were not retained were offered severance packages to help ease their transitions. The company also provided outplacement services to support them with resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies as they launched their search for new employment. This approach is consistent with Hess’ values, which include treating people with fairness, honesty and respect. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policies and training (for U.S.-based managers), other human resources policies and our Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. • Increased focus on employee engagement through a variety of actions • Continued leadership development workshops for early career supervisors through senior management • Introduced new online compensation management and learning   management modules • Conducted review of strategic human resources initiatives through a series of enterprise-wide focus groups 2015 Turnover and New Hires Number of Employees 400 338 300 200 131 100 50 42 40 30 29 20 13 11 4 10 30 Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Europe Female Turnover Female New Hires Male Turnover Male New Hires Americas  2,198  79%  Asia-Pacific  237  9%  Africa  169  6%  Europe  166  6%  In 2015 we continued our diversity outreach efforts with organizations that advocate for minorities, women, veterans and the disabled, including Equal Opportunity Publications, the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business • Continue focus on employee engagement • Advance initiatives and process efficiency in the annual compensation process, performance management, talent management and learning and development • Refine usage of CareerManager, our integrated human resources system, through continuous improvement in data integrity, reporting and use of analytics OUR PEOPLE Country  Category*  2013  2014  2015  National Employees  83%  87%  85%  Denmark  National Managers/ Professionals  75%  78%  77%  National Employees  74%  77%  78%  Equatorial Guinea  National Managers/ Professionals  41%  46%  54%  National Employees  72%  74%  75%  Malaysia  National Managers/ Professionals  70%  72%  73%  *The percent of national employees is equal to the number of national employees in that country divided by the total number of employees in that country. The percent of national managers/professionals is equal to the number of national managers/ professionals in that country divided by the total number of managers/professionals in that country. Leadership Network, the Women’s Energy Network, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue to support additional membership-based organizations that promote a diversity of expression and thought. Our proportion of women and U.S. minority employees, as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor, remained relatively flat in 2015 compared to 2014. We are committed to fostering women’s professional growth in all areas of the company. In 2015 several employees launched a networking group at our operational headquarters in Houston called Women Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE), with the vision “to help promote and cultivate leadership skills, business practices, career opportunities and personal contacts for women.” The group held several successful events in 2015 and continues to grow in membership. In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number is 100 employees or more. The percentage of local nationals overall, as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, has increased between 2013 and 2015. TALENT MANAGEMENT We utilize a comprehensive talent management process to understand and assess our leadership and technical capabilities, which aids us in developing succession and hiring plans. Identifying employees with leadership potential early in their careers enables us to develop talent in support of Hess’ strategic goals. CareerManager, our integrated human resources system, provides a common platform for Individual Development Plans (IDPs), objective setting and performance evaluations. We leverage the system to encourage every employee to prepare an IDP as a roadmap for setting and achieving career goals, developing capabilities and maximizing career opportunities. As a continuation of work from prior years, we convened a small team of human resources professionals in 2015 to improve the company’s annual performance management and compensation process by applying Lean principles. The team’s recommendations resulted in a more streamlined process better suited to the size of our company and with an increased emphasis on performance. We plan to build on this progress in 2016 by exploring additional opportunities for improvement. Learning and Development We launched a new enterprise-wide learning management system in 2015, CareerManager Learning, which houses a variety of computer-based training modules and supporting materials for instructor-led courses. It also tracks and records employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations. In 2015 we continued our practice of developing employees who are new to supervisory management through focused training for first-time leaders. Employees who participated in our training program built skills that they can leverage to execute day-to-day responsibilities and enhance the performance of their team members. Program topic areas included setting performance expectations, motivating team members, providing effective feedback, coaching for success and improvement, accomplishing work efficiently through team members and managing change. Throughout the year, internal operating functions such as exploration, developments, and drilling and completions, as well as support functions such as Human Resources, Environment, Health and Safety and Information Technology, encouraged knowledge sharing through “lunch and learns” and other informal gatherings. Employees were also active in a variety of professional development opportunities, including engagement with trade associations, attendance at conferences and enrollment in external courses. New Hires and Early Career Programs Employees new to Hess benefit from our onboarding and orientation program, Passport to Hess. The program is designed to facilitate a smooth assimilation into the company through close interaction between supervisors and new employees. In 2015 the Passport to Hess program was extended from 90 days to a full year, with a substantial focus on engagement with senior executives. We introduced a Leadership Engagement Series through which new employees are invited to quarterly meetings led by senior vice presidents to discuss business unit and functional strategies and objectives. We also implemented an onboarding portal, which is designed to help minimize the uncertainty often experienced by new hires by enabling them to learn about their work location prior to their first day on the job. Hess remains committed to our Foundation Program, which prepares early career engineers, geoscientists and supply chain professionals for challenging assignments through focused training, mentoring and on-the.job assignments. The program maintains relationships with key universities that align with our values, standards and business operations. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our employee engagement activities in 2015 focused on business strategy, performance and culture. We conducted a mid-decade review of our vision and roadmap – including our strategic human resources initiatives – through a series of enterprise-wide focus groups representing every major location, business, function and level across the company. We sought employee feedback on the past five years and on our future and presented the resulting themes to the Hess Executive Committee. One of the outcomes of this review was a greater emphasis on creating a distinctive Lean culture to drive performance by eliminating waste and inefficiency. Hess regularly shares information with and solicits feedback from employees about our business performance and processes. We use a range of engagement tools, including one-on-one and small-group discussions, focus groups and global town hall meetings and webcasts. We also utilize the company intranet, digital signage at our major locations and feedback surveys to share information and connect with employees in a timely and meaningful manner. As an example, in 2015 our Chief Executive Officer John Hess and Chief Operating Officer Greg Hill continued to host small-group sessions called Leadership Dialogues, launched in 2014, to discuss enterprise opportunities and challenges to achieving our strategic vision. In 2015 we held 27 Leadership Dialogue sessions, reaching more than 700 employees (25 percent of all employees). Themes from these sessions were presented to the Executive Committee and turned into actions. We also held three global town hall meetings, which were webcast to all company locations, and multiple local workforce gatherings to communicate business updates, reinforce strategy and values and answer questions. Each meeting was followed by a pulse survey to solicit feedback on key company issues and measure the meeting’s effectiveness. Our employees continue to participate in activities at various locations that demonstrate the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. These employees volunteer their time, conduct fundraising and make in-kind donations in areas such as education, health and social services. Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea 