CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Climate change is a global challenge that actions we can undertake to control and EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT requires government, business leaders reduce our carbon footprint. We engage with key stakeholders — and civil society to work together on cost-including government agencies, private Hess will continue to take cost-effective, effective policy responses that recognize landowners and communities — on appropriate steps to monitor, measure  the vital role safe, affordable and reliable select issues, including climate change-and reduce emissions through the energy plays in ensuring human welfare, related issues, and we will continue following actions:economic growth and security. to communicate our performance on . Setting targets to reduce the carbon these topics in our annual sustainabilityOil and gas are essential to meet intensity of our operations report and the sustainability section the world’s growing energy demand, of our company website (hess.com/and we are committed to developing . Accounting for the cost of carbon in sustainability).these resources in an environmentally significant new investments responsible and sustainable manner. . Applying innovation and efficiency to Hess is an active member of IPIECA on Our environment, health, safety and reduce energy use, waste and emissions sustainable development issues such social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy across our operations as climate change, biodiversity impacts incorporates climate change into our risk and access to energy — issues that are management process and addresses too complex for individual companies ALIGNMENT WITH THE TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), an outgrowth of the G20 Financial Stability Board, issued its ﬁnal recommendations on how the ﬁnancial sector should take account of climate-related issues. The TCFD structured its recommendations around the four core elements of how an organization operates: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. We believe that our strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s businesses, strategy and ﬁnancial planning. The table below highlights the TCFD’s four core elements and the actions Hess is taking or will take to integrate these elements into the way we do business. TCFD FRAMEWORK: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS HESS EHS & SR STRATEGY: CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) . Maintain the EHS Subcommittee of the Board of Directors, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters . Continue to have a climate change subject matter expert brief the Board of Directors, to help ensure they are climate change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies . Maintain a Climate Change Position (Policy) Statement . Continue to take proactive steps to measure, manage and mitigate emissions; set targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, methane and ﬂaring . Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and the CDP Climate Change survey . Purchase renewable energy credits and carbon offsets to mitigate a portion of annual emissions totals . Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management (ERM) process to manage climate change-related risk . Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment . Factor carbon pricing of $40 per tonne into signiﬁcant new project evaluations . Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (ﬁrst published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the International Energy Agency . Plan a carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise for execution during the 2018–2019 timeframe . Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets Governance Risk Management 3, 11 12, 38–40 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change-related topics. It enables collaborative work with stakeholders and governments by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in providing innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and implement feasible future energy solutions. Hess has consistently been recognized as a leader in the oil and gas industry for our disclosure and transparency relating to sustainability, and we remain committed to our goal of top-quartile performance in this regard. In addition to preparing this sustainability report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards at the Core reporting level, we participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure. In 2017 we were recognized on the prestigious CDP Global Climate List as a leader in addressing climate change-related risks and opportunities. Hess earned leadership status, the highest category, for the ninth consecutive year and was among the top-ranking energy producers on the list. Also, for the eighth consecutive year we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America, which highlights public companies with outstanding performance across economic, environmental and social factors, including those related to climate change. Access our latest CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change.energy RISK MANAGEMENT Through our ERM process we have developed risk profiles for each of our assets that capture key risks identified — including those related to climate change. For each risk scenario, we estimate the likelihood and potential impact that these risks could have on our business. We compile all risks we identify as critical on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. All new significant projects are rigorously  screened to verify they meet or exceed established threshold return-on-investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. In addition, we actively evaluate viability for significant projects based on potential future carbon constraints. We apply a theoretical carbon price of $40 per tonne of carbon dioxide — based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimate (under the Obama Administration) of the social cost of carbon — in economic evaluations for significant new projects. Factoring carbon dioxide prices into our valuation process enables us to evaluate project viability based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints. Hess has a physical risk management framework in place that includes severe weather management plans and procedures, and we utilize business continuity plans that address severe weather events. We maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property. The amount of insurance covering physical damage is based on the asset’s estimated replacement value or the estimated loss. As part of our ERM process, each Hess asset maintains an emergency response plan that details procedures for potential emergency scenarios. In addition to our own experts, Hess has established strategic relationships with third-party specialists who are experienced in emergency response and crisis management. We also have regional  and worldwide mutual aid agreements  and relationships with emergency response organizations that have strategically positioned equipment and personnel to supplement and support our response efforts. See the Environment section for a listing of these organizations. CARBON ASSET RISK ASSESSMENT Our stakeholders have expressed an interest in understanding how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be impacted by a transition to a lower-carbon economy. In particular, a select group of stakeholders and investors has raised concerns that energy companies may be overvalued in a future carbon-constrained world because these companies may not be able to produce a portion of their reserves and, hence, these reserves will be “stranded.” Since 2013, in our annual sustainability report, Hess has been providing an assessment of our company’s view on climate change-related risks and opportunities that might result from a potential transition to a lower-carbon economy. In order to evaluate any potential exposure to our portfolio in a lower-carbon environment, we ﬁrst consider the long-range outlook for energy supply and demand. Hess uses the International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2017 to examine various supply and demand scenarios through 2040 (see www. iea.org/weo2017/). The World Energy Outlook 2017 contains three main scenarios, as follows: . Current Policies – the business-as-usual case . New Policies – incorporates existing energy policy as well as an assessment of the results likely to stem from the implementation of announced policy intentions (chieﬂy the Nationally Determined Contributions — i.e., the emission reductions agreed to by individual countries under the Paris Accord) . Sustainable Development – reﬂects a pathway to achieving key energy-related components of the United Nations Sustainable Development Agenda, including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and measures to improve poor air quality The charts below show world energy demand and carbon dioxide emissions under the IEA’s three main scenarios. Hess’ focus is on the New Policies scenario, which we, along with the IEA, view as the most likely environment in which we will operate. While the Sustainable Development scenario would be extremely challenging to achieve, as discussed in more detail below, we also consider that scenario in examining potential risks and opportunities associated with our oil and gas portfolio in a low-carbon environment. In the New Policies scenario, worldwide energy use will grow approximately 28 percent between 2016 and 2040. In this scenario, energy demand for oil and gas is projected to grow by 24 percent during the same period and account for 52 percent of the energy mix in 2040, down slightly from 54 percent today. According to the IEA, in this New Policies scenario, the oil and  gas sector requires cumulative investment of some $21 trillion between 2017 and 2040, three-quarters of which is in the upstream sector. Upstream capital spending needs to average around $640 billion every year to avoid potential mismatches between supply and demand. This ﬁgure takes into account the need to meet growing oil and gas demand while compensating for underlying declines in existing sources of production. Annual investment in the upstream sector alone under this scenario needs to increase from $435 billion in 2016 to about $535 billion per year through 2025 and then to $710 billion per year through 2040 to balance oil and gas supply and demand. This would represent a 25 percent per year increase from current investment levels through 2025 and a 60 percent increase from current investment levels from 2025 through 2040. World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario Current Policies New Policies Sustainable Development 25 50 2000 2016 2025 2040 2000 2016 2025 2040 2000 2016 2025 2040 . Coal . Oil . Gas . Nuclear . Renewables Carbon Dioxide Emissions CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CARBON ASSET RISK ASSESSMENT CONTINUED The IEA states that “the impact of the near-record lows of new conventional oil projects receiving approval in recent years has yet to be fully seen” and stresses the dangers of a possible shortage of supply in the future (World Energy Outlook 2017, p. 155). Even in the Sustainable Development scenario (which is consistent with a 50 percent chance of limiting the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million), worldwide energy use is projected to grow by 2 percent through 2040 and oil and gas is expected to account for 48 percent of the energy mix in 2040, down slightly from 54 percent today. The IEA has indicated that the challenges of achieving the Sustainable Development scenario are substantial, requiring a major reallocation of energy-sector investment capital. The IEA states that “even in the carbon-constrained world of the Sustainable Development scenario, upstream oil and gas investment remains a major component of a secure energy system” (World Energy Outlook 2017, pp. 27–30). Therefore, Hess has no reason to assume widespread stranding of upstream assets. Furthermore, according to IHS Energy’s September 2014 report Deﬂating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be monetized during the next 10 to 15 years. According to IHS Energy, the stranded asset theory underestimates the realities of the projected growing demand for hydrocarbon resources through 2040 as well as how the categorization and timing of reserve development contribute to the market valuation of a company. By using an extremely broad deﬁnition of proved reserves, stranded asset proponents misstate how reserves contribute to market valuation. The Securities and Exchange Commission deﬁnes “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and natural gas that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can within reasonable certainty be estimated to be economically 2017 Hess Proved Reserves by Region* 1,154 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Stranded asset advocates argue that extractive companies will be left with stranded reserves over the next 30 to 40 years, thus undercutting valuations. According to IHS Energy, while proved reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource base by volume, they account for 84 percent of the 2014 resource base that drives a company’s total valuation. Therefore, reserves that are expected to be produced beyond a 15-year time horizon appear to have limited impact on a company’s valuation. The stranded asset theory also assumes that coal, oil and natural gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting energy sources, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. Coal is the most carbon-intensive energy source, with a signiﬁcantly larger carbon footprint than natural gas. As a result, coal is most likely to experience demand degradation in a carbon-constrained economy, while the production of less carbon intensive natural gas is being promoted as part of the transition to a lower-carbon environment. Based on the IHS study and the IEA positions cited in this section, Hess believes there is a high likelihood our reserves will be monetized and that markets are currently valuing our carbon assets rationally. However, in order to further evaluate any potential climate change-related risks and opportunities associated with Hess’ portfolio, senior management has approved a carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise to test the resilience of our portfolio against the IEA’s main scenarios. This exercise will establish a range of energy supply, demand, oil price and emissions estimates that are projected to prevail under different publicly available, long-term scenarios for environmental policy and market conditions. We anticipate this exercise will allow us to qualitatively assess any areas of potential stress on Hess’ portfolio in a lower-carbon environment. We expect to conduct this scenario planning exercise in 2018 and publish the results in 2019. 2017 Hess Proved Reserves by Resource Type* . Conventional (Including Acid Gas) . Unconventional . Deepwater *Deepwater is a conventional resource, but it is shown separately here to provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 feet of water depth. METRICS AND TARGETS nitrous oxide — reported in units of 2017 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source As part of Hess’ climate change strategy, carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). In Thousand Tonnes CO2e we established three targets aligned with 2014 Hess began using global warming the TCFD’s criteria for target-setting. We potentials based on the values in the have committed to: Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared by the . Reduce our GHG emissions intensity Intergovernmental Panel on Climate by 25 percent for our 2014 portfolio of operated assets, by 2020 (versus a 2014 emissions baseline) . Reduce our flaring emissions intensity by 50 percent for our 2014 portfolio of operated assets, by 2020 (versus a 2014 emissions baseline) . Lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the U.S. natural gas value chain by 2025 During the second half of 2017, Hess Change, to estimate CO2e totals. GHG data from 2013 and prior have not been restated, because the impact on historical values was not material (about 1 percent). Approximately 94 percent of Hess’ direct (Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are from stationary combustion sources such as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. The factors used to estimate emissions for these sources enterprisewide are those prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Q Flaring 1,918 Q Fuel Combustion 1,579 Q Other 226 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) 6 5.6 50 45 5 40 GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE) 3 divested several assets, including our Part 98, Subpart C). The remaining Million Tonnes CO2e4interests in Equatorial Guinea and 6 percent of our operated GHG emissions enhanced oil recovery assets in the are from a variety of noncombustion and Permian Basin in West Texas. These fugitive emission sources such as storage divestitures may impact our 2020 flaring tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic 2 15 10 1and GHG intensity reduction targets, pumps and valves. For such sources at which were established in 2014 with an emissions baseline that included these now-divested assets. In 2018 we plan to restate our 2014 baseline and evaluate the potential impact of these divestitures on our current targets. If necessary, we will adjust these targets and present onshore facilities, we use the emission factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other appropriate regulatory or industry-specific factors to estimate fugitive emissions for all other facilities. 5 00 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity 2020 Target 2017 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Country (Scopes 1 and 2) We also report indirect emissions Thousand Tonnes CO2e revised targets in our next sustainability report. It is not anticipated that our methane emissions reduction target, which relates to U.S. assets, will be impacted by these divestitures. Our performance against our three established targets is detailed in the next section. GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE We report GHG emissions from our oil and associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Operated Emissions  (Scopes 1 and 2) In 2017, of the estimated 4.1 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 3.7 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and U.S. 3,178   Equatorial Guinea 628 gas assets on both operated and equity approximately 0.4 million tonnes were  Denmark 201 bases. Our GHG emissions estimates Scope 2 emissions, from purchased   Malaysia 140 include carbon dioxide, methane and electricity. Process operations (primarily 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions  by Country Million Tonnes CO2e 12 10.8 10 8 6.0 6 5.5 4.2 4.0 4 2 0 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 Q U.K. Q Gabon Q Indonesia Q  Norway  Q  Ghana  Q  Malaysia  Q  Denmark  Q  Libya  Q  Thailand  Q  Algeria  Q  Azerbaijan  Q  U.S.  Q  Equatorial  Q  Russia  Q  U.S. Virgin  Guinea  Islands  fuel combustion) and flaring accounted for 42 percent and 52 percent of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, respectively. In 2017 our absolute GHG emissions decreased by 0.5 million tonnes compared to 2016, due primarily to reduced flaring in Equatorial Guinea related to a decline  in production. Our GHG emissions intensity (i.e., tonnes of emissions per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)) decreased by 23 percent in 2017 versus our 2014 baseline. This cumulative improvement brings us close to achieving our 25 percent emissions intensity reduction target for 2020. Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG emissions from our operated and nonoperated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. Between 2008 and 2017, we reduced our absolute equity GHG emissions by over 6 million tonnes, achieving a GHG emissions intensity of 37.5 tonnes per thousand BOE, primarily through a combination of improving operating practices, selling assets and shutting down refinery operations. Our major source of emissions from nonoperated oil and gas assets in North Dakota Equatorial Guinea Other Flaring Intensity 2020 Target equity emissions. Our other operated and nonoperated assets made up the balance of equity emissions at an estimated 0.6 million tonnes. Scope 3 Emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions are those generated from corporate value chain activities that are not accounted for and reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. To assess our Scope 3 emissions, we use the Petroleum Industry Guidance for Corporate Value Chain Accounting methodology. The Petroleum Industry Guidance is based on the World Resources Institute’s and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard, which includes 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions. Only two of the Scope 3 emissions categories — Use of Products (emissions generated from our natural gas sales) and Processing of Sold Products (emissions generated from energy used to refine petroleum products) — are material to Hess. Hess Flaring Rates The table at left details our Scope 3 emissions. In 2017 we sold 503 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural gas which, when burned by customers, accounted for an estimated 10.0 million tonnes of GHG emissions. We sold 182 thousand barrels per day (MBPD) of crude oil, which, when 2017 was the Malaysia/Thailand Joint processed by refiners, accounted for Development Area. Our equity emissions another 3.1 million tonnes of GHG99 99 300 from this asset were approximately  emissions, for an estimated total of 1.3 million tonnes. Major sources of 13.1 million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions.Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE) 250 Flaring (MMSCFD) emissions from operated assets in 2017 200 Although not material, we also trackincluded those from the Equatorial Guinea 150 and report emissions associated with production asset and the Seminole Gas employee business travel. Combined100 Plant (both now sold), as well as the North emissions from employee business 50 Dakota production asset and the Tioga travel via commercial air carrier and rail 0 Gas Plant, which altogether accounted in 2017 were about 4,600 tonnes of for an estimated 2.1 million tonnes of CO2e, down 14 percent compared to last year, representing a continued effort by management to limit employee travel. As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, we have purchased carbon credits annually since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent of business travel emissions. In 2017 we purchased 5,300 tonnes of carbon credits from First Climate Markets AG, for the retirement of offsets related to a landfill gas recovery project in Nebraska. This contribution more than offset the GHG emissions we estimate were generated from employee business travel. EMISSION REDUCTION INITIATIVES In support of our GHG emission and flaring intensity reduction targets, we track and monitor air emissions at each of our assets and undertake a variety of emission reduction initiatives. Our efforts focus on our largest emitting facilities and on opportunities that are technically and economically feasible and where we are able to achieve stakeholder approval. In 2017 ongoing reduced oil and natural gas production related to the continued low price of oil again presented us with a reduced pool of emission reduction opportunities. We have, however, been able to continue achieving emission reductions through a number of ongoing programs. Flaring In 2017 flaring from Hess-operated assets — which totaled 60 MMSCFD — was down 18 percent compared to 2016. On an intensity basis, we continued to make progress toward our 50 percent reduction target by reducing our cumulative flaring intensity by 38 percent through 2017, compared to our 2014 baseline. We expect to continue to make progress as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives in our Bakken asset in North Dakota. Over $2.6 billion has been invested in midstream infrastructure in North Dakota between 2012 and 2017 to capture and monetize natural gas produced from our operations and minimize flaring. The processing capacity of the Tioga Gas Plant — 250 MMSCFD of natural gas and 2.5 million gallons per day of liquids — is helping us to achieve our reduction target by processing gas that was previously flared upstream. In addition, the new Hawkeye Gas Facility is operating as designed and is resulting in significantly reduced flaring in the region. We anticipate that expansion of the Bakken midstream gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities and natural gas liquids (NGLs) and gas gathering lines, will continue into 2018. These midstream infrastructure projects will leave Hess well positioned to reduce flaring by 2020 in  line with our target. Natural Gas Capture Using technology developed through our partnership with GTUIT — a designer, manufacturer and operator of well site natural gas capture and NGL extraction equipment — we are recovering high-BTU (British thermal unit) gas from locations in North Dakota that were previously flaring this raw, rich natural gas. The GTUIT equipment successfully addresses some of the technical challenges associated with capturing NGLs from the Bakken gas — the units are modular and mobile, they can operate reliably unmanned and they can adapt to the ever-changing flow conditions of the well and the changing chemistry of the associated gas. In 2017 we operated 15 of these mobile units, allowing us to capture 7 million gallons of NGLs. As a result, we avoided more than 470 MMSCF of gas flaring, reduced CO2e emissions by an estimated 43,600 tonnes and saved about 14,200 tonnes of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from entering the atmosphere. We are planning to install additional mobile units in 2018, increasing our capacity by 4 MMSCFD. This project provides dual economic and environmental benefits, as it converts gas into marketable products as well as reduces the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions. See additional examples of emission reduction initiatives at hess.com/sustainability/climate.change-energy/emission-reduction-initiatives CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Energy Use Thousand Gigajoules 40,000 38,246 36,148 35,000 33,121 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 2015 2016 2017 Direct   Indirect 2017 Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules 3% Q U.S. 25,387 Q Equatorial Guinea 3,656 Q Denmark 3,092 Q Malaysia 986 2017 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source Thousand Gigajoules Q Natural Gas 21,248 Q Diesel 4,584 ENERGY USE Reducing our energy use has the dual benefit of lowering costs and GHG emissions, and it is a central focus of both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean approach to managing the business. We generate and purchase energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2017 energy consumption from Hess-operated assets was approximately 33 million gigajoules (GJ), 13 percent lower than in 2016. Seventy-eight percent of Hess’ energy use was directly generated from our operations, primarily at the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants and at our production facilities in North Dakota, Denmark, Equatorial Guinea and the Gulf of Mexico. The remaining 22 percent was indirect energy (energy used by utilities to provide net purchased electricity) purchased for the West Texas and North Dakota production operations and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants. In 2017 our U.S. operations accounted for all of our purchased electricity — approximately 790,000 megawatt hours (MWh), or a 12 percent reduction from last year. This reduction is mainly attributable to the sale of our interests in the Permian Basin, including the Seminole Gas Plant. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 19 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. We also support renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to at least 10 percent of the net electricity used in our operations. In 2017 we purchased 90,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 90,000 MWh or about 11 percent of the electricity purchased for our operated exploration and production assets. In  total, including the RECs, approximately 30 percent of our indirect energy use came from renewable sources. See more detail on our purchased electricity use at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change.energy/energy-use MANAGING METHANE EMISSIONS The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years has resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural gas. The clean-burning characteristics of natural gas can play a critical role in the transition toward a low-carbon economy. Although natural gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce its climate beneﬁts. Stakeholder interest in this issue has continued in recent years, and in 2016 the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management ﬁnalized several regulations aimed at controlling fugitive methane and VOC emissions. However, those regulations are now subject to administrative reconsideration as well as litigation challenges. Industry maintains that these regulations are largely unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of growth in natural gas production and because it is in industry’s best interest to monetize gas to generate additional revenue. One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue voluntary reductions in methane emissions. As a result, Hess became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a group of companies from across the natural gas industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield continuous improvement in the management of methane emissions associated with the production, processing, transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, ﬂexible approach that is expected to yield signiﬁcant reductions in methane emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the value chain by 2025. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of 1 percent or less across the natural gas value chain provides immediate GHG reduction beneﬁts. To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value chain: production (0.36 percent), processing (0.11 percent), 1. Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil Production Sources: Participants will implement monitoring and timely repair of fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing detection methods and technologies such as U.S. EPA Method 21 or optical gas imaging cameras. 2. Program to Replace, Remove or Retroﬁt High-Bleed Pneumatic Controllers: Participants will replace, remove or retroﬁt high-bleed pneumatic controllers with low- or zero-emitting devices within ﬁve years. 3. Program for Manual Liquids Unloading for Natural Gas Production Sources: Participants will minimize emissions associated with the removal of liquids that, as a well ages, can build up and restrict natural gas ﬂow. In addition to these programs, the Environmental Partnership will provide a platform for industry to collaborate with stakeholders and learn from one another. In order to meet both our ONE Future and Environmental Partnership commitments, we continued implementation of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program across all of our production facilities (existing and new) in North Dakota and Ohio and at the gas plants in West Texas and North Dakota. Further detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment section of this report and at hess.com/sustainability/environment Methane Emissions Rate (ONE Future Protocol)* 0.6 0.56 0.5 0.47 0.19 0.2 0.14 0.13 0.13 transmission and storage (0.30 percent) and distribution (0.22 percent), which cumulatively total to the 1 percent target. Hess has activities in two sectors, production and processing. In 2017 our methane emissions rate for production was 0.13 percent, and our emissions rate from processing was 0.14 percent. Our combined methane emissions rate from the production and processing sectors was 0.13 percent, which is well below the ONE Future combined target of 0.47 percent for those two sectors. Methane Emissions Rate (%) 0.4 0.3 0.1 In a related voluntary effort, in 2017 Hess became one of the initial participants in the American Petroleum Institute’s Environmental Partnership. A key activity of the Environmental Partnership is furthering action to reduce air emissions, including methane and VOCs, associated with natural gas and oil production. To accomplish this, the Environmental Partnership has developed three separate Environmental Performance Programs for participating companies to implement and phase into their operations starting January 1, 2018. Hess has agreed to implement all three programs, which are not required for participation in the Partnership. They include the following: 0  Production  Processing  Upstream (Production and Processing)  Natural Gas Value Chain 2012   Hess 2017   ONE Future 2025 Target  *The methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane produced or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.-operated assets. Drilling Operations, North Dakota ENVIRONMENT Safeguarding the environment is a key aspect of the Hess Values, which set the framework for how we operate. Managing environmental impacts — including water and energy use, air emissions, waste and spills — is an important aspect of the work we do every day. We dedicate significant staff and resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments. To track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time, we use key performance metrics — including several factored into our annual incentive plan — at the asset and enterprise levels. Hess sponsors and actively participates in the Bakken Production Optimization Program — a research program led by the Energy and Environmental Research Center and funded by the North Dakota Industrial Commission — that aims to improve Bakken system oil recovery and reduce the environmental footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. Through this program, Hess has supported research on issues such as TENORM (technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive material) disposal, flaring reduction and produced water and hydrocarbon spill remediation. We also voluntarily sponsor and participate in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, a partnership among oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations and coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center that aims to develop science-based solutions to environmental issues associated with  oil and gas development. WATER MANAGEMENT Water management is one of our material issues and a key element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. Water is a critical resource for our onshore exploration and production operations, where it is used primarily for cooling purposes in both our upstream and midstream operations, as well as for drilling and completions, including hydraulic fracturing. We know water is also an important resource for the communities and ecosystems in which we operate. In some areas where we operate, our water use may be restricted by local limitations on water supply and disposal. We are committed, throughout our operations, to evaluating and reducing our water footprint. In 2017 we continued development of our risk-based, lifecycle approach to managing water, as well as associated improvements to our water data collection process. Our total freshwater use for exploration and production in 2017 was essentially flat compared with 2016. The Seminole Gas Plant in West Texas, which uses water primarily for process cooling, remained our largest single user of fresh water. The rate of freshwater use at the plant increased in 2017 because the facility resumed normal operational levels after experiencing downtime for various reasons in 2016. Due to the sale of our interests in the Permian Basin — including the Seminole Gas Plant — we expect our drilling and completions activities in North Dakota and Ohio to account for the majority of our freshwater use going forward. We are assessing a range of projects to reduce our freshwater use in North Dakota and Ohio, where it is primarily used for hydraulic fracturing. For example, we continue to use small quantities of brackish groundwater for reservoir management in North Dakota. In 2018 we will be ramping up activity levels in these regions, so we expect to see an increase in absolute water use in the short term. However, as our assets and operational profile continue to change, we are assessing the best ways to reduce water use impacts across our operations. Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters 10 8.9 8 7.7 7.6 6 4 2 0 2015 2016 2017 Groundwater   Municipal Water  Surface Water 2017 Freshwater Use by Facility/Business Function* Thousand Cubic Meters Q  Seminole Gas Plant 5,649  Q  North Dakota Drilling and Completions 1,302  Q  Tioga Gas Plant 318  Q  All Other Operations 383  *There was no freshwater use by Ohio Drilling and Completions in 2017 as there was no drilling activity there during the year. Hess participates in two industry forums focused on water management to advance our own performance and contribute to industrywide knowledge-sharing and progress. First, we are active participants in the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 18 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream ENVIRONMENT SHALE ENERGY Advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have resulted in signiﬁcant and rapid growth in shale oil and gas development in the U.S. Hess has made signiﬁcant investments in two unconventional oil and gas plays — the Bakken Formation in North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil plays, and the Utica Formation in Ohio. Oil and gas from these plays constitute about 44 percent of Hess’ total operated production. We recognize that some stakeholders have concerns about the potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. The practices we use are well established and, in most cases, have been employed in conventional oil and gas development for many years. We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impact and, as discussed in the Social Responsibility section, we seek to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our performance and enhance our license to operate. All assets undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow us to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help us protect the environment, the communities in which we operate and the safety of our workforce. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes the identiﬁcation and ranking of environmental considerations as well as technical review and value assurance activities. We also perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis. Well Integrity Whether for conventional or unconventional resource production, a key to protecting groundwater is well integrity — that is, working to ensure physical barriers between the wellbore and the surrounding rock and underground aquifers. While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwater-bearing zones at shallower depths. Before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and conforms to regulatory requirements and Hess standards. Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the contents of the wellbore. Where applicable, we submit this information in applications for well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Well designs can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, the management of drilling risks and the application of technology. To help ensure well integrity, our drilling process for new shale wells is to line wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Speciﬁcally: . A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval to isolate the freshwater zone, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well and the strata containing the groundwater being protected. . Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and cemented in place, and an acoustic cement bond log is employed to conﬁrm that the cement barrier meets regulatory requirements, where applicable. . The well completion is performed through a ﬁnal casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate ﬂuids within the well. . To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference — that is, stimulating one well and having it result in hydraulic communication in nearby wells — existing offset oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity. In addition, the wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being shut-in or additional equipment is installed on wellheads  that can safely operate within proper distances. . During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to operate surface and downhole equipment within their design parameters. Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground injection wells has not been an issue for our operations in North Dakota. In Ohio, regulators have implemented measures through the permitting process to address seismicity concerns in the state. Hess follows a monitoring methodology and an operational control process for performing hydraulic fracturing in areas of known faults or areas where previous seismic activity greater than 2.0 magnitude has occurred. Well integrity continues to be an important issue for safeguarding the subsurface long after the construction and initial hydraulic fracturing has been completed. At the end of well life we follow similar measures to ensure the wells are permanently plugged and abandoned in compliance with Hess, regulatory and industry standards. See the expanded Shale Energy section at hess.com/sustainability/ environment/shale-energy unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production. In 2018 Hess will partner with the EFD program to review beneficial uses of produced water in shale energy operations. BIODIVERSITY We are committed to conserving biodiversity and habitats in the places where we operate. We consider the protection of biodiversity in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production and closure at every Hess location around the globe. We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. We use the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments when the classification of species and habitats changes in areas where we operate. As part of our goal to mature biodiversity management at Hess’ global assets, we have been developing threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. We have completed guides for our Bakken and Utica assets, as well as our Permian asset (sold in 2017), with guides for other assets planned over the next few years. We monitor the addition of new species to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national endangered and threatened species lists. In addition, we are identifying locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Already, we have adjusted drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species. Hess utilizes third-party software programs, such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with our operations. (See table below, which provides a snapshot of relevant species at the time of publication of this report.) The IUCN updates the Red List species classifications regularly based on new information and improved data from ongoing third-party studies, and we update our species list accordingly. CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT) Critically Endangered 22 We also identify IUCN protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2017 there were two such areas, both in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park). We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We also participate in the Endangered Species Working Group of the American Petroleum Institute (API) to discuss oil and gas development with the goal of proactively balancing development with environmental decision making that aims to minimize biodiversity impacts. We also participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. WASTE We generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production activities. For each Hess asset, we manage waste through specific waste management plans designed to comply with all applicable regulatory and Hess requirements for that location, as well as protect human health and the environment. These plans, which are developed to align with the Hess Waste Management Standard, require application of our waste minimization principles of “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and Dispose” — with disposal being the least-preferred option. In 2017 we generated approximately 157,000 tonnes of solid waste, more than 98 percent of which was classified as nonhazardous according to applicable regulations. Our overall waste generation volume was higher in 2017 compared to 2016 due to an increase in asset retirement obligations. We also disposed of approximately 39,700 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota asset at licensed disposal sites in 2017. These drill cuttings, as well as the discharges from our offshore facilities (discussed in the next section), are not included in our overall waste totals per IPIECA reporting guidance. We have continued our efforts to reduce landfilled piping waste by decontaminating it (i.e., removing the TENORM) and recycling it instead. ENVIRONMENT Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea In 2017 we recycled 3,561 tonnes of International SOS. Hess representatives nonhazardous piping waste in North serve on the board of directors of the Number of Spills Number of Spills Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Dakota due to these efforts. OSRL and on the executive committee87 90 3081 Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE 70 25 oil spill cooperative that supports the Gulf FACILITIES of Mexico. Discharges from our offshore facilities include drilling mud, drill cuttings and Our international subsea preparedness and produced water. These waste streams are response capabilities are supported by the either reinjected for disposal or reservoir Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild management, discharged directly to Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we the ocean (when allowed by applicable are members and serve on the executive regulations) or transported to shore for treatment and disposal or recycling. In 2017 our offshore facilities discharged to sea approximately 6,700 tonnes of nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, which included 600 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid. committee of the Marine Well Containment Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant capabilities as well as equipment and personnel mutual aid. We are also active members of the Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project 60 18 20 17 50 15 15 30 10 5 00 2015 2016 2017 Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Hydrocarbon Spills 6,000 200 5,130 180 5,000 2,000 60 160 organized by IPIECA and the International Offshore produced water discharges 140 Volume of Spills (Barrels) Association of Oil and Gas Producers. 4,000 to sea totaled an estimated 5.7 million120 Hess also participates in several of thecubic meters in 2017. Produced water 3,000 10085 API’s preparedness and response efforts, 80 discharges had an average oil content66 including serving as the chair of theof 17 parts per million volume (PPMV), Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and 984 40 1,000 626 totaling 70 tonnes of oil discharged. Response Subcommittee, the Pandemic Planning Working Group and the Oil-Rail 20 This data reflects a decrease in both the 0 2015 2016 2017 concentration and total oil discharged Emergency Response Joint Working compared to 2016. Volume of Spills Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA Number of Spills Nonhydrocarbon Spills 25,000 200 180 20,131 20,000 160 140 SPILL PREVENTION Hess maintains spill preparedness and response plans and conducts emergency response exercises at each of our assets. To support a swift and effective response to any loss of primary containment (LOPC) incident, we maintain strong relationships Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international businesses. We track LOPC events through our incident reporting system by size and material and report spills following applicable industry and regulatory guidance. We also use leading and lagging indicators to monitor 15,000 120 Volume of Spills (Barrels) with mutual aid and emergency response LOPC performance, including continuing organizations at the local, regional and to tie LOPC performance to our annual global levels. Hess’ international oil spill incentive plan. response needs are supported by our 100 10,000 8061 60 27 partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited Hess continues to have a trend of year.5,000 40 2,667 20 (OSRL), an international, industry-funded over-year reductions in overall (hydrocarbon 600 0 cooperative that responds to oil spills and nonhydrocarbon combined) spills. In 2015 2016 2017 globally. Our domestic needs are supported 2017 our number of hydrocarbon spills Volume of Spills by Marine Spill Response Corporation, increased slightly, but the volume of spills Number of Spills Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea Area decreased. The number and volume of Spill Response Mutual Aid, Tri-State Bird nonhydrocarbon spills decreased in 2017 Rescue and Research, Control Risks and compared to 2016. Our overall decrease in 2017 can be attributed in part to a reduction in activity during the year and an increased focus on improvement. We realize that in order to maintain this positive trend, we will have to remain diligent in our spill prevention efforts as activity continues to ramp up in 2018. We have been working to implement a range of programs to continue our focus on spill prevention. To address spills that result from corrosion and integrity issues, for example, we continue to enhance our inspection and surveillance programs, upgrade external corrosion protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, and replace or redesign pipes. We have also continued to expand spill-related worksite controls, such as fluid transfer checklists, and spill prevention training. The process safety assessment completed in 2017 and the asset integrity assessments we have been pursuing (see the Safety and Health section) should also help to drive improved LOPC performance. AIR EMISSIONS The normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities results in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emission sources, including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions. In 2017 our normalized emissions of VOCs and NOX increased compared to 2016.The upward trend in VOC emissions intensity may be attributable to the initial quantification of VOC leaks as determined by our newly implemented leak detection and repair (LDAR) program for upstream facilities in the Bakken. The upward trend in NOX emissions intensity is attributable in part to a continued increase in drilling activity — and the associated increase in the use of diesel-powered equipment — at Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Malay Basin. We observed a decrease in normalized SO2 emissions for 2017, mainly due to reduced flaring at the Seminole Gas Plant (which had experienced a number of operational upset events leading to increased SO2 emissions in recent years) and the Tubular Bells Field (which was being commissioned in 2016 and therefore had relatively higher flaring and lower production during that year). REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Hess, as well as a number of other Bakken operators, entered into a Consent Decree with the North Dakota Department of Health (NDDoH) in 2017 resolving alleged noncompliance with state air pollution laws and provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Hess helped lead the consultative process within the industry, which was foundational for individual company discussions with the NDDoH. The majority of our expenditures on environmental fines and penalties in 2017 — $798,850 of the total $841,600 — were the result of this agreement. We worked quickly to make our operations compliant with the agreement, and the amount paid represents a reduced penalty based on our meeting compliance dates within the Consent Decree. Other expenditures were related to various alleged offshore violations ($32,750) and an alleged water discharge permit exceedance at a remediation system within our discontinued operations ($10,000). As mentioned in the Climate Change and Energy section, we have established an LDAR program across all of our U.S. operations as a way to achieve reductions as part of our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments, in addition to complying with the Consent Decree in North Dakota. For a detailed description of our LDAR program visit hess.com/sustainability/environment Air Emissions 102.1 100 86.483.1 77.2 80 72.8 71.1 60 40 28.6 23.6 24.1 20 0 2015 2016 2017 SO2 Intensity  NOX Intensity  VOC Intensity Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) Strengthening our regulatory assurance program is one of the six components of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance also helps us to ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. As part of our long-term compliance strategy, our regulatory team continued to expand the use of a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. assets in 2017. Key enhancements to our compliance tool in 2017 included the addition of a mobile application for field assurance personnel and synchronization with our work order system. We are already seeing benefits from this enhancement in North Dakota, where we have decreased the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections. We have also formalized the process for assigning work material flows to field personnel — with the goal of increasing accountability and efficiency of any repairs that are needed. In addition, we are working through the API’s Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is the evaluation and enhancement of our integrity management systems pertaining to pipelines. 