OUR PEOPLE Our employees are critical to Hess’ success. We seek to maintain a company culture that emphasizes leadership, continuous learning, employee engagement and diversity and inclusion. In line with our strategy to deliver significant long-term value to shareholders, we divested our interests in assets in West Texas, Equatorial Guinea and Norway in 2017 in order to focus the company’s portfolio and allocate capital to our higher-return assets. As a result, we had to make some difficult choices about continuing to reduce our workforce in line with Hess’ portfolio going forward. Our decisions were grounded in the Hess Values, with a focus on long-term sustainability and growth without compromising our focus on safety. The company’s restructuring and associated staff reductions took place in January 2018 and will not be reflected in our employee totals until next year’s sustainability report. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS Hess began last year with 2,304 employees, and as of December 31, 2017, we had 2,075 employees. At year’s end, approximately 85 percent of employees were located in the U.S. and 15 percent were in international locations. EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION Employees who were not retained through the company’s restructuring in 2017 and early 2018 were offered severance packages to help ease their transitions. The company also provided outplacement services to support them with resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies as they launched their search for new employment. This approach is consistent with Hess’ values, which include treating people with fairness, honesty and respect. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies and training (for U.S.-based managers), other human resources policies and our Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. In 2017 we created the Hess Inclusion and Diversity Council to provide executive leadership and direction to our inclusion and diversity initiatives. The council develops strategies that align with our overall business objectives and measures progress on the strategies’ implementation throughout the organization. Last year the group focused on better alignment of Hess policies and practices, with the ultimate goals of attracting the best available talent and more fully utilizing the potential and contributions of all employees. Through this effort we aim to better engage employees from across the organization to foster the innovation that often comes from different ideas and experiences. Also in 2017 we continued our diversity outreach efforts with organizations that advocate for minorities, women, veterans and the disabled, including the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business Leadership Network, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Women’s Energy Network, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue to support additional membership-based organizations that promote a diversity of expression and thought. Our proportion of women and U.S. minority employees, as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor, remained relatively flat in 2017 compared to 2016. We are committed to fostering the professional growth of women and minorities throughout Hess. As an example, Women Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE) — an internal networking group formed WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) Total  JOB  Employees  Number of  Percent  CATEGORY  in Job  Women  Women  Category  MINORITIES (U.S.- BASED EMPLOYEES) Total Employees Number of Percent in Job Minorities Minorities Category OUR PEOPLE in 2015 at our operational headquarters in Houston — has a vision to “help promote and cultivate leadership skills, business practices, career opportunities and personal contacts for women.” WISE expanded to include a chapter in North Dakota in 2017 and has grown to more than 270 members companywide. The group held monthly lunch meetings, and its members attended external conferences and networking events in the Houston area throughout the year. In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number of employees is 100 or more. Overall the percentage of local nationals, as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, has increased significantly at our international operations over the past five years. In particular, the percentage of local nationals increased from 83 to 99 percent in Denmark and from 72 to 92 percent in Malaysia during this period. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hess’ comprehensive talent management process helps enable our employees to develop the skills they need to perform their current jobs and to take on more responsibility as their careers progress. It also enables the company to develop succession and hiring plans and develop talent in support of Hess’ strategic goals. CareerManager, our integrated human resources system, provides a common platform for Individual Development Plans (IDPs), objective setting and performance evaluations. We encourage every employee to prepare an IDP as a roadmap for setting and achieving career goals, developing capabilities and maximizing career opportunities. In 2017 we implemented additional succession-planning functionality to the system to further enhance the availability of talent data, assessments and career-planning tools. These improvements give us the ability to analyze critical information about our organizational capabilities and bench strength. In 2018 we will drive the usage of our talent tools deeper into the organization to provide additional guidance and resources to employees to support their individual career development. We regularly seek out opportunities for continuous improvement in our talent management practices. In 2017, for example, we convened a project team to streamline and further integrate our performance, compensation and talent management practices to better enable us to reward and retain our critical talent. Integrating Lean as a Way of Working In 2017 we advanced our goal of establishing a distinctive Lean culture across the company. Notably, we developed and launched a new Lean-based behavioral model we call the Hess Way of Working, which represents an evolution in our leadership model and also builds on the Hess Values. The Hess Way of Working outlines multiple expectations for employee and leadership behavior, organized into three categories: people, direction and results. In the people category, as one example, the model states that we expect leaders to focus on the needs of others before they consider their own. To support this new model, we introduced compulsory, computer-based training for all employees, to set Lean expectations and introduce core Lean skills that employees can apply immediately in their own work. Going forward, we will use this model to assess the annual performance of every employee. In addition to launching the Hess Way of Working, we have embedded Lean in our operations by continuing to train select employees to teach Lean and apply its concepts and tools to specific improvement projects in their work areas. We also assigned our most experienced Lean practitioners to facilitate a number of high-value enterprise projects. Hess will continue to build on these efforts moving forward. Learning and Development Our enterprisewide learning management system — CareerManager Learning — houses a variety of computer-based training modules and supporting materials for instructor-led courses. It also tracks and records employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations. In 2017 we piloted a new learning program focused on professional development. The training covered topics such as delivering presentations, improving individual productivity and project management. We also continued to offer focused training for employees who are new to supervisory roles. Program topics in this course include setting performance expectations, motivating team members, providing effective feedback and more. Throughout the year, individual operating and support functions within Hess encouraged knowledge-sharing through “lunch and learns” and other informal gatherings. Employees also took part in professional development opportunities, including engagement with trade associations, attendance at conferences and enrollment in external courses. New Hires and Early-Career Programs Employees new to Hess benefit from our onboarding and orientation program, Passport to Hess. This year-long program is designed to facilitate a smooth assimilation into the company through close interaction between supervisors and new employees. The experience begins with access to a pre-hire portal that enables new employees to learn about their work location prior to their first day on the job. After beginning their jobs at Hess, employees can access a structured, on-demand learning program that explains our culture and values. In addition, supervisors receive tools and coaching to guide them in helping a new hire successfully integrate into a work team. The Passport to Hess program intersects with our employee engagement activities (discussed at right) to help new hires get to know our senior leadership. In 2017 we launched an early-career development program for engineers in our Drilling and Completions function. The program is designed to help these individuals develop the skills and proficiencies needed to succeed in their current and future jobs. Early-career engineers and geoscientists can also take part in our Foundation Program, which helps prepare them for their careers through focused training, mentoring and on-the-job assignments. The Foundation Program maintains relationships with universities that align with our values, standards and business operations. As a part of our commitment to education in the engineering and geosciences fields, Hess leaders serve as members of the academic advisory committees of some of these universities. BENEFITS Hess provided more than $112 million in benefits to our U.S. employees in 2017. During the year, we also updated some of our benefit offerings as part of a long.term strategy to provide better service for employees. In particular, we introduced new short-term disability, maternity and sick leave policies. We simplified the administration of our benefits and health and welfare programs by changing our vendors that provide these services, and Malaysia, where we connected with we moved our savings and pension plans another 400 employees. to the same financial firm that administers We also held three global town hall our employee stock ownership programs. meetings in 2017. The town halls were EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT webcast to all company locations and Hess regularly shares information with sought to communicate business updates, and solicits feedback from employees reinforce strategy and values and answer about our business performance questions. Each meeting was followed and processes. We use a range of by a pulse survey to solicit feedback on engagement tools, including one-on-key company issues and measure the one and small-group discussions, focus meeting’s effectiveness. groups and town hall meetings and Our employees continue to participate inwebcasts. We also utilize the company volunteer activities that demonstrate theintranet, digital signage at our major Hess Value of Social Responsibility. All told, locations and feedback surveys to share the data we gathered for 2017 show that information and connect with employees our employees volunteered approximately in a timely and meaningful manner. 6,700 hours during the year. We are As an example, our Chief Executive especially proud of their efforts to help Officer and Chief Operating Officer the Houston community in the aftermath continue to host small-group sessions, of Hurricane Harvey, as described below. called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss Employees also raised funds during the enterprise opportunities and challenges. year through activities such as the MS 150 In 2017 Hess convened 24 Leadership bike ride and the Easter Seals Walk. In May, Dialogue sessions, reaching more we held a volunteer fair at our Houston than 400 employees at our Houston operational headquarters where a dozen operational headquarters. Additional nonprofit groups set up tables and talked sessions were held at our regional offices to employees about volunteer needs in North Dakota, Denmark, Norway and and opportunities. RESPONDING TO HURRICANE HARVEY When Hurricane Harvey hit Houston in August 2017, Hess joined ﬁrst responders, city ofﬁcials and neighbors in responding to the disaster and providing relief — including sending money, preparing meals, providing transportation and starting the process of rebuilding. Through Hess’ Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team, we created a Qualiﬁed Disaster Relief Plan to provide recovery assistance to employees who were personally impacted by the storm. The plan included four formal assistance programs: cash disaster relief, temporary accommodations, transportation and loans. Sixty-six employees received assistance through these programs. To provide employees enough time to volunteer if they wished, Hess developed and announced guidance for Harvey-related volunteering that included paid time off for up to two days per month through year-end 2017. In total, Hess employees volunteered about 1,290 hours of time in 2017 related to Hurricane Harvey response and recovery, including at local nonproﬁts such as the Avenue Community Development Corporation and the Houston Food Bank. Hess employees were also generous with donations, contributing $143,000 to the American Red Cross and Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund. In addition, our annual United Way campaign was accelerated and received a total employee contribution of $170,000. With the employer match, Hess’ and our employees’ total contribution to these three organizations (not including Hess’ separate $1 million gift to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund) was $645,000. Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota 