OUR PEOPLEAt Hess, we value our employees and know they are critical to our success. We are committed to maintaining a company culture that emphasizes leadership, continuous learning, employee engagement and diversity and inclusion.Throughout 2016, in response to the continued low price of oil and related budget pressures, we further scaled back activities and reduced headcount accordingly. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we realigned the organization to better reflect our portfolio and long-term priorities, leveraging human resources programs to help ensure the retention of individuals with key competencies. Our decisions were grounded in the Hess Values, with a focus on long-term sustainability and growth, without compromising our focus on safety.EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICSWe began last year with 2,770 employees and as of December 31, 2016, had 2,304 employees. At year’s end, approximately 83 percent of employees were located in the U.S., including 59 percent in Texas, and approximately 17 percent were in international locations.2016 EMPLOYEES BY REGION Americas 1,909 83% Asia-Pacific 183 8% Europe 128 5% Africa 84 4% EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITIONEmployees who were not retained through our organizational realignment were offered severance packages to help ease their transitions. The company also provided outplacement services to support them with resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies as they launched their search for new employment. This approach is consistent with Hess’ values, which include treating people with fairness, honesty and respect.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIONHess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment.We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies and training (for U.S.-based managers), other human resources policies and our Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. In 2016 we continued our diversity outreach efforts with organizations that advocate for minorities, women, veterans and the disabled, including the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business Leadership Network, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Women’s Energy Network, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue to support additional membership-based organizations that promote a diversity of expression and thought.Our proportion of women and U.S. minority employees, as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor, remained flat in 2016 compared to 2015. We are committed to fostering women’s professional growth in all areas of the company. Hess’ Women Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE) – an internal networking group formed in 2015 at our operational headquarters in Houston – has a vision “to help promote and cultivate leadership skills, business practices, career opportunities and personal contacts for women.” The group grew to over 200 members in 2016 and held monthly lunch meetings and other events throughout the year.In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number of employees is 100 or more. Overall the percentage of local nationals, as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, increased between 2014 and 2016.TALENT MANAGEMENTHess’ comprehensive talent management process helps us to understand and assess our leadership and technical capabilities, which in turn aids in developing succession and hiring plans. Identifying employees with leadership potential early in their careers enables us to develop talent in support of Hess’ strategic goals.CareerManager, our integrated human resources system, provides a common platform for Individual Development Plans (IDPs), objective setting and performance evaluations. We leverage the system to encourage every employee to prepare an IDP as a roadmap for setting and achieving career goals, developing capabilities and maximizing career opportunities. In 2016 we began implementing additional succession-planning functionality to the system to further enhance the availability of talent data, assessments and career-planning tools. This gives us the ability to analyze critical information about our organizational capabilities and bench strength.We regularly seek out opportunities for continuous improvement in our talent management practices. In 2016, for example, a small group of key senior leaders identified options and offered recommendations for increased effectiveness and efficiency. The group’s recommendations have been accepted, and we expect to see positive impacts from their implementation over the long term.Learning and DevelopmentCareerManager Learning, our new enterprisewide learning management system, houses a variety of computer-based training modules and supporting materials for instructor-led courses. It also tracks and records employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations.In 2016 we continued our practice of developing employees who are new to supervisory management through focused training for first-time leaders. Employees who participated in our training program built skills that they can leverage to execute day-to-day responsibilities and enhance the performance of their team members. Program topic areas included setting performance expectations, motivating team members, providing effective feedback, coaching for success and improvement, accomplishing work efficiently through team members and managing change.Throughout the year, internal operating functions such as Exploration, Developments, and Drilling and Completions, as well as support 
functions such as Human Resources, Environment, Health and Safety, Information Technology and Legal, encouraged knowledge-sharing through “lunch and learns” and other informal gatherings. Employees were also active in a variety of professional development opportunities, including engagement with trade associations, attendance at conferences and enrollment in external courses.New Hires and 
Early-Career ProgramsEmployees new to Hess benefit from our onboarding and orientation program, Passport to Hess. This year-long program is designed to facilitate a smooth assimilation into the company through close interaction between supervisors and new employees. Through the Leadership Engagement Series, new employees are invited to quarterly meetings led by senior vice presidents to discuss business unit and functional strategies and objectives. We also utilize an onboarding portal that enables new hires to learn about their work location prior to their first day on the job.In 2016 we created a new early-career development program for engineers in our Drilling and Completions function. The program, which launched in early 2017, is designed to help new engineers develop the skills and proficiencies they need to succeed in their jobs.Hess remains committed to our Foundation Program, which prepares early-career engineers, geoscientists and supply chain professionals for challenging assignments through focused training, mentoring and on-the-job assignments. The program maintains relationships with key universities that align with our values, standards and business operations.EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTOur employee engagement activities in 2016 focused on business strategy, performance and culture. In 2015, we conducted a mid-decade review of our progress toward achieving our long-term strategic vision and adjusted the roadmap accordingly. As a follow-up to this review, in 2016 we advanced our goal of establishing a distinctive Lean culture across the company through a number of initiatives. For example, we began training 78 employees to teach Lean and apply those concepts and tools to specific improvement projects in their work areas, with their training to be completed later in 2017. We also assigned our most experienced Lean practitioners to facilitate a number of high-value enterprise projects, and have integrated Lean into the behavioral model we will use to assess annual performance for every employee beginning in 2017. Hess will continue to build on these efforts as part of a multi-year change management plan.Hess regularly shares information with and solicits feedback from employees about our business performance and processes. We use a range of engagement tools, including one-on-one and small-group discussions, focus groups and global town hall meetings and webcasts. We also utilize the company intranet, digital signage at our major locations and feedback surveys to share information and connect with employees in a timely and meaningful manner.As an example, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer continue to host small-group sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss enterprise opportunities and challenges to achieving our strategic vision. In 2016 Hess convened 37 Leadership Dialogue sessions, reaching more than 1,200 employees, which represents a 71 percent increase from 2015. Themes from these sessions were presented to the Executive Committee and turned into actions.We also held four global town hall meetings, which were webcast to all company locations, and multiple local workforce gatherings to communicate business updates, reinforce strategy and values and answer questions. Each meeting was followed by a pulse survey to solicit feedback on key company issues and measure the meeting’s effectiveness.Our employees continue to participate in activities at various locations that demonstrate the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. The data we gathered for 2016 show that our employees volunteered nearly 4,000 hours during the year. Among their volunteer efforts in 2016, employees donated toys for foster children, sent care packages to members of the U.S. military and participated in the MS 150 bicycle ride for multiple sclerosis. In addition to volunteering their time, Hess employees also raised funds for nonprofit organizations and made in-kind donations in areas such as education, health and social services.2016 Turnover and New HiresNumber of Employees.  Female Turnover   .  Female New Hires.  Male Turnover       .  Male New Hires2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS. Continued to foster employee engagement. Advanced initiatives and process efficiency in the areas of annual compensation, performance management, talent management and learning and development. Refined usage of CareerManager, our integrated human resources system, through continuous improvement in data integrity, reporting and use of analytics. Created a new early-career development program for drilling and completions engineers2017 GOALS. Promote a culture of engagement and continuous learning; embed the Hess Way of Working into more of our people processes (e.g., performance management form and leadership development programs). Continue to simplify and streamline talent management processes to deliver targeted development and succession plans. Continue to align our structure and strategy to provide appropriate promotion and development opportunities and leverage each person’s capability