MESSAGE FROM THE CEO“We believe sustainable business practices create value for our shareholders and support our mission 
to be a trusted energy partner.”Our company has more than a decade of visible production growth with an expanding resource base, declining operating and development costs and strong leverage to oil prices, all of which positions us to deliver improving financial returns and significant value to our shareholders. We achieved strong operational performance in 2016 even as we reduced activity in the low oil price environment – driving operating efficiencies, reducing cash operating costs, advancing our offshore developments and achieving major success with our focused exploration program. Production growth, which is set to resume beginning in the second half of 2017, is underpinned by the Bakken, the North Malay Basin and Stampede developments, and offshore Guyana, where we have participated in one of the industry’s largest oil discoveries in the past 10 years.Our strategy is to maintain a portfolio that is balanced between onshore and offshore, unconventional and conventional, and U.S. and international, allocating capital for the best long-term value and risk-adjusted returns. Sustainability practices are a fundamental part of our business strategy and operations and align with Hess’ Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. Through our Code of Business Conduct, we translate these Values into decisions that guide the way we do business.We believe sustainable business practices create value for our shareholders and opportunities to continuously improve business performance. This belief supports our mission to be a trusted energy partner and our commitment to helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. Sustainability issues are examined by our Board of Directors and taken into account in formulating our company strategy.Our 2016 Sustainability Report shows how sustainable business practices are integrated into our short-term goals and long-term strategy. Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on several key areas for our operations including process safety, social responsibility and climate change, which are described below. Detailed information on our programs and performance, including progress in the implementation of our EHS & SR strategy, is provided in this report and on our company website at hess.com. SAFETYWe believe sustainable performance and operational excellence begin with our unwavering dedication to safety. Regarding personal safety, our employees and contractors share a goal of reaching zero safety incidents – what we describe as “everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe.” In 2016 we once again worked to address incidents that have the potential for severe consequences, and we reduced our employee recordable incident rate by 58 percent compared with 2015. However, our workforce total recordable incident rate rose compared with the prior year due to an increased rate of contractor incidents. We are addressing this increase in part through implementation of a new Contractor Management Standard that includes enhanced measures for procurement prequalification, comprehensive onboarding and ongoing monitoring of safety performance. Hess’ process safety programs aim to prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire or environmental release. Our efforts focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment. In 2016 we achieved a four-year low in the number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events. Even with this performance improvement we remain vigilant in our focus on reducing these events. We embarked on an external review of our process safety management systems and also began a review of mechanical integrity at our onshore and offshore locations in 2016, as part of our ongoing asset integrity management process. We expect to complete both reviews in 2017.SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYSocial responsibility is one of our company values and fundamental to the way we do business at Hess – because part of being a trusted energy partner is making a positive impact on the communities where we operate. We are guided by our commitments to international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance. Along with our other voluntary commitments, Hess continues to support the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. Stakeholder engagement processes were further integrated into our enterprise risk workshops, value assurance reviews and asset business plans in 2016.In 2016 our social investments totaled nearly $20 million, 
with $16 million going toward education projects and the balance directed toward economic development, health 
and capacity building.CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE ENVIRONMENTClimate change is a global challenge that requires government, business leaders and civil society to work together on cost-effective policy responses that recognize the vital role that safe, affordable and reliable energy plays in ensuring human welfare, economic growth and security. We understand oil and natural gas are essential to meet the world’s growing energy demand and are committed to developing energy resources in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Climate change and environmental risks are considered by our Board of Directors in the development of company strategies and policies.In support of our 50 percent flaring intensity reduction target and our 25 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, we track and monitor air emissions at each of our assets and undertake a variety of emission reduction initiatives. Through 2016, we have reduced flaring and greenhouse gas emissions intensities by 29 percent and 20 percent, respectively, against our 2020 targets. We expect continued progress against these targets as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives and infrastructure investments particularly in Equatorial Guinea and our Bakken asset in North Dakota.Safeguarding the environment through the responsible management of environmental impacts – including water use, 
air emissions, waste and spills – is an essential component of our drive for operational excellence and an important part of how we do business every day. We also dedicate significant resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments.Hess was once again recognized in 2016 by several third-party organizations as a leader in the oil and gas industry for the quality of our environmental, social and governance performance and disclosure.PEOPLEOur company’s special culture and strong performance are a reflection of our people. Their talent and dedication are further enhanced by our application of Lean manufacturing principles or what we now call the Hess Way of Working, which fosters teamwork and continuous improvement to overcome challenges, eliminate wasteful operational processes and create value. As part of our Values, we are committed to fostering a workplace that values diversity and inclusion, learning and development, engagement and innovation – with the recognition that our employees hold the key to our company’s continued success. With this in mind, we regularly share business updates, reinforce our strategy and direction and listen to the views of our workforce through a robust program of employee engagement and communications. In response to market conditions, we have reduced headcount as we scaled back operating activity. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2016, we realigned our organization to better reflect our portfolio and long-term priorities. Throughout these changes, our employees have stayed true to our Values and committed to our mission to be a trusted energy partner. We are proud of the progress made in driving our company’s growth in a challenging business environment, and excited to continue building a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for our stakeholders and the world around us. Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, business partners and investors for their ongoing support and partnership. 2John B. Hess
Chief Executive Officer32016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABOUT HESSHess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas.HESS PORTFOLIO OF OPERATIONS2016 HIGHLIGHTS. Through Lean manufacturing techniques, our Bakken team reduced average drilling and completion 
costs to $4.8 million per operated well, compared with $5.8 million per 
well in 2015.. In offshore Guyana, the Liza oil discovery in the Stabroek Block – in which Hess has a 30 percent working interest – has been confirmed as one of the largest in the world in the past 10 years. Sanction of the first phase of development of Liza is expected in 2017, with first production by 2020.. At the North Malay Basin project in the Gulf of Thailand, which is targeted for completion in 2017, progress continued on full field development with the drilling of 13 wells.. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Hess continued to advance the Stampede development project, with first oil on track for 2018.. We acquired a 33 percent nonoperated participating interest in the Kosmos Energy-operated Block 42, offshore Suriname. Production: Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; the Utica in Ohio; Permian Basin in West Texas; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; Okume and Ceiba in Equatorial Guinea; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico, Valhall in Norway and the Waha Concessions in Libya.Midstream: Assets include a natural gas processing plant, rail-loading terminal and associated rail cars, crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems in North Dakota; and a natural gas processing plant, crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, carbon dioxide assets, and pipelines in West Texas.Developments: Activities include North Malay Basin in the Gulf of Thailand and Stampede in the Gulf of Mexico.Exploration: Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests in offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico.Note: The groupings of assets above include Hess operated and nonoperated assets. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report can be found in the Approach 
to Reporting section.2016 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS$ Millions . Recordable Supplier Spend (Exploration & Production) $5,511 . Income Tax Expense $2,222 . Capital and Exploration Expenditures $2,154 . Wages and Benefits (U.S.) $707 . Dividends $350 . Interest Expense $338 . Royalties and Other Payments $330 . Social Investments $20 . Carbon and NOx Taxes $1 A portion of capital and exploration expenditures may include payments to suppliers. 322,000Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced1,109Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent Proved Reserves9.2Years Reserve Life4APPROACH TO REPORTINGWithin this report, we provide descriptions of the company’s 2016 strategy and performance regarding material economic, environmental and social issues. Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information; these documents can be found on our website.  Additional sustainability and investor information 
is available at hess.com/investorsREPORTING STANDARDSThis sustainability report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and associated Oil and Gas Sector Supplement. The report is also based on the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting document jointly developed by IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for environmental and social issues), the American Petroleum Institute and the International Oil and Gas Producers Association, as well as the 10 principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. A GRI Content Index, cross-referenced with IPIECA indicators and the UN Global Compact principles, is provided on pages 56–58.  An expanded GRI Index is available at 
hess.com/gri-indexMATERIALITYConsistent with GRI G4 materiality guidance, we prioritized new and emerging issues important to our stakeholders when developing the content for our sustainability report. Through a survey of select industry peers and a subset of priority external stakeholder groups, we identified the 10 most material issues for our company:. Regulatory Assurance. Water Management. Transportation Impacts. Emergency Preparedness and Response. Process Safety and Spills. Community Engagement. Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. Stakeholder Engagement. Transparency in Business Conduct. Human Rights and SecurityOverall, our material issues include environmental, social and governance concerns reflecting diverse external stakeholder priorities and Hess’ operational and regulatory risk focus. These issues have informed our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy and helped to define the boundaries of this report.  A table mapping our material issues to GRI 
G4 reporting criteria and identifying the 
reporting boundaries for each is available at 
hess.com/sustainability/approach-to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issuesBOUNDARY SETTINGIncluded within the scope of this report are the principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries during calendar year 2016, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise.We report some quantitative environment, health and safety data on a normalized basis to facilitate year-on-year comparisons. We report GHG emissions on both an operated and equity share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (2nd edition, May 2011).We also report our social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest.RESTATEMENTSWe completed our transformation to an exploration and production company in 2014 after exiting our downstream business, which included refining, retail, energy marketing and energy trading. Historical safety and environmental data from 2013 and prior were restated to reflect the upstream (exploration and production) business only. However, individual divestitures that did not meet the materiality threshold for removal from our new 2014 GHG emissions baseline – as delineated in the Hess GHG Protocol – are included in the restated data.  See our expanded performance data at 
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/
key-sustainability-metricsASSURANCEOur internal information systems promote the centralized collection of data from Hess-operated and joint venture assets around the world. In order to evaluate accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality assurance/quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and facility-level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding. All currency found in this report is in U.S. dollars.This sustainability report has been assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS), a third party that annually reviews our sustainability data and self-declared GRI “in accordance” option. This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. The Independent Assurance Statement is provided on page 59 of the report.52016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPROGRESS AND GOALSThis section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2017 will build on our progress to date.Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2016 and select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress and goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed.