Our People Hess’ success as a company depends on our people. To attract and retain the best, we cultivate a workplace culture that is guided by the Hess Values and reinforced by quality leadership; diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI); learning and engagement; and Lean and innovation processes. Our human capital strategy is led by Hess’ executive leadership and our Board of Directors. We strive to deliver a positive and fulfilling work experience for employees through our Life at Hess initiative, which encompasses programs, policies, practices and a listening system that draws on leadership dialogues, pulse polls and data analytics to help leaders understand employee perspectives and assure the health of our company culture. This approach enabled us to quickly adapt to the changing needs of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS At the start of 2021, Hess had 1,621 employees. As of December 31, 2021, we had 1,545 employees; approximately 91% were in the U.S. and 9% were in international locations. We hired 103 new employees during the year. The reduction in employees during 2021 was due in part to the sales of our interests in Denmark and our Little Knife and Murphy Creek nonstrategic acreage interests in the Bakken in North Dakota. 2021 Employees by Country  United States  1,400  91%  Malaysia  142  9%  Libya  3  <1%  DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION Hess has a longstanding commitment to DEI, an issue we have prioritized in our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy (see pages 8–9). We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce creates value for all of our stakeholders and is essential to being a socially responsible and sustainable enterprise. Our expectations for a diverse and inclusive workplace and a company culture of mutual respect and trust are spelled out in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as in our Equal Employment Opportunity, Harassment Free Workplace, Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies and other Human Resources policies. These expectations are reinforced with employees at every level of our company through training. We provide equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in all aspects of employment. We provide reasonable workplace accommodations for employees with disabilities, as well as for religious practices, family circumstances and other individual needs. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. In 2021, we took an important step forward in our DEI efforts by hiring a Head of DEI. This position plays a key role in guiding our DEI strategy and leads our newly created DEI Center of Excellence, a robust DEI ecosystem of people, programs and practices. We also hired an expert to lead our supplier related DEI efforts (see page 19), leaving us well positioned to launch the next phase of our DEI strategy in 2022. Hess’ senior management is actively engaged in our DEI plans and programs, with oversight by our Board of Directors. Hess’ DEI work is supported by our DEI Council, which is comprised of the executive sponsors of our employee resource groups (ERGs) and other Hess executives. The Council provides leadership to advance DEI while helping ensure alignment with business priorities. Workforce activity and trends such as employee turnover, promotions, diversity and leadership development metrics, along with qualitative information such as program development and progress, are considered by the Council. We prioritize diversity both in our workforce and in the composition of our Board of Directors. The Board updated its Corporate Governance Guidelines and has instructed its third party recruitment firm engaged in recruiting new Board members to include diverse individuals in the list of candidates. At present, 45% of the independent members of the Hess Board are diverse based on gender or race and ethnicity. Hess’ Board is also actively engaged in guiding and reviewing our DEI efforts and receives updates on this work at least annually. Recruiting Diverse Hires In 2021, we continued to advance our efforts to attract more diverse job candidates and expanded our requirements for diverse interview slates. Hess continued to use HireVue recruiting technology to help access a larger talent pool; expanded our recruiting efforts at historically Black colleges and universities and reached more diverse candidates through the Professional Diversity Network and a partnership with the Greater Houston LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) Chamber of Commerce; and advanced our relationship with the National GEM Consortium to develop diverse talent in science, technology, engineering and math at the master’s and doctoral levels. As part of the Genesys Works program, we welcomed five more high school interns who represent diverse backgrounds. We are also supporting the Jackie Robinson Foundation by funding college scholarships and by providing internships and mentoring support (see page 25). Fostering Inclusion Hess is committed to fostering an inclusive work environment where all employees can reach their full potential. Our People We also create opportunities in the communities where we operate and our supply chain as a means to help address societal inequities. In 2021, Hess leaders – including members of our President and Chief Operating Officer’s (COO’s) operating committee – participated in seven Hess VOICES listening sessions with small groups of underrepresented employees to better understand their experiences in society and at our company. Based on the themes identified through these sessions, we initiated a series of actions to advance Hess’ culture. This included launching five new ERGs, which provide an opportunity for employees to connect for personal and professional development. In addition to Women Inspiring Success and Excellence, an existing ERG, we now have Asians for Professional Excellence, Black Employees and Allies Community Network, Hess Vets, Spirit for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) employees and Hispanic Organization for Leadership and Advancement. During the first half of 2021, we continued to expand the rollout of our “Fostering an Inclusive Environment” online training module to help bring awareness to unconscious bias; 99% of our employees completed this online module. We trained a number of employees to be small group facilitators for additional DEI training sessions, which were attended by 96% *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor. of our employees when hosted later in the year. We also launched an Inclusive Leadership training pilot to build inclusive habits and capabilities needed to lead in a dynamic and diverse environment. We remain committed to the professional growth of women. In 2021, we renewed our membership with Lean In Energy and continued to provide U.S. employees with membership in the Women’s Energy Network (WEN), both of which offer opportunities for enrichment, development, networking and mentoring. We also continued to support WEN’s Young Women Energized program, which provides scholarships and mentoring to exemplary female high school students in the Houston area. Tracking Our Performance We track employee demographic data including gender, race and ethnicity and publish our U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission EEO-1 Report to enhance transparency. In 2021, women represented 27% of our global employees and people of color accounted for 24% of our U.S. employees, a year over year improvement of approximately 4% and 9%, respectively. Among new hires, women and people of color together accounted for 55% of our employees, up from 28% in 2020. We also track the number of local national employees in our international operations and report publicly where the number of employees is 100 or more. In Malaysia, the proportion of local nationals holding managerial or professional positions has grown over the past five years and the percentage of all employees who are local nationals increased from 91% in 2020 to 92% in 2021. 2021 Women  and People of Color* Represen tation  Women (U.S. and International)  People of Color (U.S. Based Employees)  Job Category  Total Number %Employees in of Women Women Job Category  Total Employees in Job Category  Number of People of Color  % People of Color  Executives and Senior Officers  32 5 16  32  6  19  First and Mid Level Managers  388 91 23  335  67  20  Professionals  779 261 34  699  207  30  Other  346 65 19  343  55  16  Total  1,545 422 27  1,409  335  24  In 2021, Hess again earned external recognition for our DEI performance. We were included in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, which tracks and reports public companies’ performance on gender equality and representation and related disclosures. Additionally, after receiving a score of 85% on the 2021 Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index (CEI), we raised our score to 100% on the 2022 CEI. This index ranks the largest U.S. businesses on their practices related to LGBTQ equity and inclusion. For a comprehensive list of awards and recognition received in 2021, see page 69. External Efforts We endeavor to take a leadership role in our external efforts to help make our industry more diverse. We are a member of the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for the Equality Act. We also engage with groups such as Disability:IN, the Greater Houston LGBT Chamber of Commerce, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. In 2021, Hess was among the first companies to pledge support for One Houston Together, a set of racial equity principles for the Houston business community aimed at reforming systems of bias and strengthening underserved communities. TALENT MANAGEMENT Hess takes a strategic and deliberate approach to talent development so that our employees have meaningful opportunities and a clear development path within the company. In 2021, we facilitated 159 internal promotions and 83 internal moves that created career development opportunities for 242 employees. Aligned with our efforts to help ensure inclusive and high quality succession planning, 25% of those promoted were women and 21% were people of color. Our People Learning and Development We’re committed to continuous learning. Our enterprisewide learning management system, CareerManager Learning, houses computer based training modules and materials for instructor led courses, tracks employee training and measures training effectiveness. We more than doubled employee training hours in 2021, in part due to a renewed focus on DEI. Over 1,500 employees participated in approximately 5,300 hours of training, or an average of 3.4 hours per employee, during the year. New Hires and Early Career Programs Passport to Hess is an onboarding and orientation program for new employees designed to facilitate their smooth transition. This includes a structured, on demand learning program that explains our culture and Hess Values. Supervisors are given tools and coaching to help new hires integrate into their teams. We have maintained our three year Foundation Program to recruit college graduates and develop their careers. Approximately 35 early career engineers and geoscientists currently benefit from focused training, mentoring and on the job assignments. The diversity of participants in the program continues to increase and at the end of 2021 more than 75% were women or people of color. Hess continues to support the Job Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship program in North Dakota (see page 25). Since 2017, 31 apprentices have entered the JET program, 17 have completed the apprenticeship and 16 have become Hess employees. BENEFITS Hess’ compensation and benefits programs are focused on attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce. We validate the competitiveness of these programs by reviewing them annually through industry specific surveys to identify and address compensation inequities, including pay parity based on gender, race and ethnicity in the U.S. In 2021, we enhanced our annual pay parity evaluation process by leveraging new technology to identify and review remediation for outliers, as appropriate, and continued to educate the workforce about our rewards strategy. In 2021, we provided $100 million in benefits to our U.S. employees and their families, and extended coverage to offer equitable benefits for LGBTQ employees. We maintained our policy of awarding stock to new hires, which we view as an important benefit and incentive for supporting our long term success. We provide an award winning wellness program focusing on emotional, social, physical and financial wellbeing to employees and their spouses and partners. We contribute to our employees’ Health Savings Accounts and offer employees an additional contribution that they can earn by participating in the wellness program throughout the year. Based on a review of aggregated, anonymized data of our employees’ medical needs, we added two new valuable health benefits in 2021 for employees and family members. Livongo offers digital diabetes management to help control blood sugar levels and prevent future health complications. Hinge Health offers digital physical therapy exercises and education to address chronic lower back pain and other musculoskeletal conditions. We also continued our education assistance program in 2021, with 53 employees taking advantage of this benefit. In 2021, we established the Hess Severe Weather Texas Employee Relief Plan to support employees whose homes were damaged during Winter Storm Uri. It covered reasonable and necessary expenses not covered by insurance or another party and provided benefits including up to $5,000 to cover short term essentials and up to three months of temporary housing and car rental. See an overview of our benefits at hessbenefits.com EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We regularly share information with and solicit feedback from employees about our business performance, programs and processes through town hall meetings, webcasts and small group discussions, as well as the company intranet. During 2021, our CEO and our President and COO hosted three town hall webcasts and shared an outlook on the external business environment, strategic priorities and business performance. In 2021, we expanded the use of an online employee communications platform called Workplace. About 80% of employees now regularly use the platform to keep in touch with each other, follow the latest Hess news and participate in more than 100 groups dedicated to recognition, wellness, ERGs, business initiatives, community activities and more. We also poll employees throughout the year to assess engagement based on pride in our company, enthusiasm about our future, whether they feel valued and if they believe Hess is a great place to work. For the past three years, we maintained a high employee engagement score (four on a five point scale) on these assessments. We also piloted a new survey tool in the Bakken to provide deeper insight into employee sentiment and plan to deploy it across the company in 2022. Throughout the year, our employees helped to make a positive impact on our communities through volunteering and charitable giving. Our Volunteer Policy allows employees to participate in company sponsored volunteer events during business hours. Our workforce spent nearly 18,800 hours volunteering in 2021, including approximately 17,000 hours distributing meals to Houstonians in need due to the pandemic through the nonprofit Second Servings. Employees can also request 1:1 matching gifts of up to $5,000 annually for personal donations, and qualified charities may receive a $500 grant on behalf of employees who support that charity on their own time. Our employees donated approximately $481,000 through our matching gift program in 2021. Drilling Operations, North Dakota Climate Change and Energy We see climate change as the greatest scientific challenge of the 21st century. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the same time meeting the growing demand for affordable and secure energy, which is essential to ensure a just and orderly energy transition that aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Governments, businesses and civil society must work together on cost effective policies to meet this dual challenge, and we support transparent carbon pricing to encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable. We review the climate positions of our major advocacy organizations on an ongoing basis and, in the event that those positions appear misaligned or become misaligned with Hess’ positions, we will share our viewpoint in an attempt to more closely align their position with ours. We support the global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050 and the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. Our climate strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, as established by the G20 Financial Stability Board, and its implementation is led by senior members of our leadership team with oversight by our Board of Directors. As part of our commitment to implement a substantive climate strategy, an executive led task force is currently developing a plan for our company to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Our Board of Directors is climate change literate, and we periodically bring in subject matter experts to advise our Board on climate and other sustainability issues to be considered in the development of company strategies and policies. Our Board’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, comprised of independent directors, has a mandate to identify, evaluate, monitor and report to the full Board on climate change issues, trends, risks and opportunities. This committee is actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices and works alongside senior management to evaluate climate change risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. For example, the committee has been providing oversight of the executive led task force that is working on the elements of our Low Carbon Transition Framework, including a plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Furthermore, the Board’s Compensation and Management Development Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s EHS and climate change goals. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. As we work to develop our net zero emissions plan, our Board and senior leadership have set aggressive short and medium term greenhouse gas reduction targets. These targets are designed to exceed the carbon intensity reductions by 2030 in the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) and Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE), which are consistent with the Paris Agreement. As part of our sustainability commitment, we seek to fund innovation with the potential to mitigate societal emissions, including the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative, which aims to develop plants with larger root systems that are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere (see page 53). In 2020, we announced a $12.5 million gift to the Salk Institute, and in 2021, we announced another $3 million gift. We also address 100% of the indirect Scope 2 emissions from our purchased electricity through the purchase of renewable energy certificates. We account for the cost of carbon in significant new capital investment decisions. We conduct scenario planning that includes the SDS and NZE to test the resilience of Hess’ portfolio against a range of energy supply and demand, environmental policies and market conditions. According to the IEA, the world is not investing enough to meet its future energy needs, and uncertainties over policies and demand trajectories create a strong risk of a volatile period ahead for energy markets. In 2022, we tested Hess’ portfolio under the IEA’s four scenarios, including the SDS and NZE. We have concluded that Hess can continue to monetize our reserves and deliver strong performance under a wide range of market conditions, including under the aggressive conditions assumed in the SDS. Under the NZE, a normative scenario that reflects a narrow pathway for the global energy sector to achieve net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2050, we could still monetize the majority of our reserves but would expect lower cash margins. We also consider potential physical risks associated with climate change, such as increased severity of storms, drought and flooding, for new projects and existing operations. Hess’ strategic priorities – to deliver high return resource growth, a low cost of supply and industry leading cash flow growth – are aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve the IEA SDS and position us well for the coming decades. HESS’ LOW CARBON TRANSITION FRAMEWORK Many corporations, lenders and investors are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical, reputational and transition risks of climate change, which has become the leading approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate related risks and opportunities are meant to become integrated into companies’ risk management and strategic planning processes. We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy is aligned with the TCFD’s 2017 guidance, which contained recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change related risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. We are continuing to advance the elements of our TCFD related disclosures so that they are aligned with the revised guidance issued in October 2021. On the following pages, we detail our Low Carbon Transition Framework, aligned with the four core TCFD elements: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. We will continue to update this framework as we develop our net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions plan. Climate Change and Energy Hess’ Low Carbon Transition Framework  Governance — Key Disclosures and Actions  References  Board Oversight of Climate Related Risks and Opportunities Approval: Hess’ climate related actions and targets are reviewed and approved by senior leadership and executives, the Board of Directors’ Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee and the full Board. Oversight: The Board’s EHS Committee is tasked with assisting the full Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies (including climate change). Oversight is provided by the Board’s EHS Committee and the full Board. Organizational Expertise and Training: The Board is briefed by external climate change experts and by our Vice President of EHS on climate related risks, opportunities, strategies and policies. Management’s Role in Assessing and Managing Climate Related Risks and Opportunities Incentives: Employee compensation is linked to EHS and climate initiatives, including flaring reduction. Monitoring, Reporting and Review: • Our Vice President of EHS monitors monthly progress toward various elements of Hess’ climate strategy, including progress toward our short and medium term goals and development of our long term objectives. • Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and production data is collected, monitored and reported through various data management systems, enabling Hess asset and business function leaders to track progress toward GHG performance targets. • Each business unit revisits its GHG emissions and production forecast for the life of its assets on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. • Our Vice President of External Affairs evaluates alignment with our trade associations with respect to climate related issues and this analysis is shared with Hess senior executives and the Board’s EHS Committee. Accountability: • Our CEO has broad oversight of climate related issues. • An executive led task force is leading implementation of our climate change strategy, with oversight provided by our Chief Operating Officer and members of the Hess operating committee. • Senior executives have accountability for execution of this strategy and members of the Hess workforce have appropriate levels of authority and access to resources to effectively execute the strategy. Transparency: Hess provides transparency to external stakeholders on transition planning goals and performance, including performance against targets and impacts on our business and financial results, in our annual sustainability report and reporting to third parties (e.g., responses to the CDP climate change questionnaire and the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment). Assurance: Hess’ sustainability report, including our performance data for key sustainability metrics, is assured annually by an independent third party.  Pages 11, 39, 42  2021 Form 10-K, pages 28–29  EHS Committee Charter  2022 Proxy, page 27  Pages 11, 16–17, 39, 42, 51–53  Pages 11, 39, 42  Pages 49–57  Page 68  Strategy — Key Disclosures and Actions  References  As an important aspect of its 2021 guidance, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) encourages companies to set their own strategy time frames according to the lifecycle of their assets and the profile of climate related risks they face. Hess has chosen to define our climate strategy time horizons as follows: Short Term Strategy (2021–2024) Our short term strategy (0–3 years) primarily addresses near term business decisions required for operational budgetary and planning purposes. • Endorse the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative • Set annual targets to support our medium and longer term GHG, methane and flaring objectives (e.g., Bakken routine flaring intensity reduction target) • Purchase renewable energy certificates (RECs) and/or offsets to address 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity and purchase carbon offsets to mitigate 100% of our business travel related Scope 3 emissions • Apply technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our operations and continue to explore additional opportunities to do so • Work with government and industry partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG emissions pathways and technological advancements • Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change on a societal level Medium Term Strategy (2025–2031) Our medium term strategy (4–10 years) primarily addresses project level changes at our various assets. • Set interim targets to continue reducing GHG and methane emissions and flaring in support of longer term objectives • Purchase RECs and/or offsets to address Scope 2 GHG emissions • Engage joint venture partner companies on their climate strategies, plans and targets for our nonoperated assets • Continue to evaluate opportunities to apply technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our operations, work with partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG emissions pathways and technological advancements, and invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change on a societal level Long Term Strategy (2032+) Our long term strategy (10+ years) will primarily address changes in energy supply and demand and related policies, as well as the emergence of new technologies, that could alter the company's overall portfolio. We are developing a plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions and are focused on examining additional opportunities to address the remainder of our GHG emissions through a combination of operational practices, energy efficiency projects and advanced technologies still in development, along with the purchase of carbon offsets.  Page 8  Page 49  Pages 49–50  Page 51  Climate Change and Energy Hess’ Low Carbon Transition Framework, continued  Risk Management — Key Disclosures and Actions  References  Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying, integrating and managing risks of all types, including climate change, across our operations. We develop a holistic risk profile for the enterprise based on the risk registers, risk assessments and heat maps for our assets and projects, and climate related risks are considered in both enterprise and functional risk assessments. Risks are considered significant when the potential financial impact is greater than $100 million and the likelihood of occurrence is medium or greater (based on a number of risk categories). We track identified risks and corresponding mitigation scenarios on an integrated risk register. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) framework enables Hess’ Board of Directors and executive leadership to strengthen the consistency of risk consideration in making business decisions. Our Board has oversight of the ERM framework and is charged with understanding the key risks affecting the company’s business and how those risks are managed. Energy Transition Risks Hess examines energy transition risks, which are risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions aimed at emissions reductions, energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be needed to achieve climate related aims. • We incorporate carbon risk scenario analysis into our business planning cycle to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions, including evaluation of the most ambitious International Energy Agency GHG reduction scenarios, where sufficient public data is available to conduct modeling. • Results of our annual scenario based carbon asset risk assessment are published in our sustainability report. • Our annual scenario analysis is verified against our internal scenario analysis guidance by a third party. Physical Risks Hess considers potential physical risks associated with climate change, such as increased severity of storms, droughts and flooding, for both new projects and existing operations through our ERM and value assurance processes. • Meteorological and oceanographic studies undertaken for offshore developments include modeling that incorporates assumptions from the latest climate science. • Mitigations that address changing storm magnitude are incorporated into the design of our facilities, where appropriate. • We maintain severe weather and business continuity plans. • We maintain asset and company level emergency response teams and conduct training and exercises against our plans. • We assess how climate change may impact water availability and water stress in areas where we operate. Reputational Risks The TCFD identifies climate change as a potential source of reputational risk, categorized by shifts in consumer preferences, stigmatization of a sector and increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback. • Hess undertook an exercise to measure the potential impacts to Hess’ market valuation from changes in corporate reputation driven by climate related risks, which did not produce a statistically significant correlation. • As of March 2022, Hess’ RepRisk rating of A classifies our company as having low ESG risk exposure, which is comparable to many of our peers. • We find that these types of climate related reputational risks are being managed and mitigated through our ERM process. • We will continue to monitor and mitigate our exposure to reputational risk.  Pages 12–13, 45–48  Page 43 2021 Form 10-K, pages 19–23  Page 43 2021 Form 10-K, pages 19–23  Page 44  Metrics and Targets — Key Disclosures and Actions  References  The TCFD’s October 2021 guidance document, Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, defines seven cross industry climate related metrics that companies should disclose in their sustainability reports. We have addressed three of those metrics in this sustainability report, and are working toward disclosure of the other four. We have also defined the time frames for our climate related targets in line with our short, medium and long term strategy, as detailed below. TCFD Cross Industry Climate Related Metrics Disclosed in This Sustainability Report • GHG emissions • Carbon price(s) • Remuneration TCFD Cross Industry Climate Related Metrics under Development We are developing appropriate methodologies to track the following metrics and anticipate reporting them in a future sustainability report: • Transition risks • Physical risks • Climate related opportunities • Capital deployment Hess Short Term Climate Related Targets (2021–2024) • Achieve a 7% flaring rate from Bakken wells and pads, as reported to the North Dakota Industrial Commission, in 2021 (goal achieved in 2021) • Reduce Bakken operations’ routine flaring rate to 5% in 2022 Hess Medium Term Climate Related Targets (2025–2031) • Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our operated assets to 17 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per BOE by the end of 2025 • Reduce the methane emissions intensity of our operated assets to 0.19% by the end of 2025 • Achieve zero routine flaring at our operated assets by the end of 2025 Hess Long Term Climate Related Targets (2032+) Our long term targets will be established by the executive led task force that is developing a plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions.  Pages 51–57  Pages 42–48  Page 49  Pages 49–50  Page 51  EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT identify, evaluate, monitor and report to the climate initiatives, including flare reduction. We engage with key stakeholders including government agencies, investors, private landowners and communities on issues such as climate change, and we will continue to communicate on these topics in our annual sustainability report and the sustainability section of our company website. We participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure, and Hess has consistently been recognized as a leader in the oil and gas industry for the quality of our performance and our disclosure relating to sustainability (see page 69). In 2021, Hess achieved the highest level rating (Level 4-strategic assessment) by the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI), a global initiative that assesses companies’ preparedness for the transition to a low carbon economy and their efforts to address climate change. TPI complements and aligns with existing climate reporting initiatives and frameworks such as the TCFD. We also achieved leadership status in CDP’s 2021 Global Climate Analysis, a position we have held for 13 consecutive years. CDP’s ranking recognizes our continued leadership in transparency and performance as we address climate related risks and opportunities. Hess is one of only two U.S. oil and gas producers to achieve leadership status in the 2021 analysis, earning an A-. We obtained an A- by earning high marks in many of the leadership categories critical to the TCFD. Access our latest CDP Climate Change response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/ sustainability/climate-change-energy GOVERNANCE Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside senior management and oversees Hess’ sustainability practices so that sustainability risks and opportunities are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The Board’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee has a mandate to full Board on climate change issues, trends, risks and opportunities. This committee is actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices and works alongside senior management to evaluate climate change risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. The Board is periodically briefed by experts to help ensure members remain climate change literate and that climate change related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies. Our Vice President of EHS facilitated three EHS Committee meetings in 2021 to provide updates on climate change related issues and strategic initiatives, to review external drivers for strategy and reporting, and to prioritize ongoing and future actions. (See page 11 for more detail on governance.) In late 2020, Hess established a task force to lead our climate change strategy implementation and to evaluate the medium and long term aspects of our strategy. The task force is comprised of nine senior executives responsible for various functions throughout the company, with oversight provided by our Chief Operating Officer and members of his operating committee. The task force was instrumental in Hess’ endorsement of the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative (ZRF) and our commitment to achieve zero routine flaring by the end of 2025. The task force is also charged with developing our plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The task force will continue to monitor, enhance and evaluate Hess’ progress toward these objectives, as well as assess emerging technologies with emissions reduction potential.  As an added measure to incentivize Hess employees and executives to continue to support our industry leading performance in sustainability, we link employee compensation to EHS and The annual incentive plan (AIP) payout is primarily determined based on enterprise performance results that align with the company’s business strategy and applies to all employees. The EHS component of the total AIP metric is 20%, and our climate related AIP target accounts for 5% of the total AIP. Access our 2022 Proxy Statement at investors.hess.com/Financial-Information/ SEC-Filings INVESTMENT DECISIONS All significant new investment proposals, as presented for approval to senior management, incorporate the cost of carbon as set out in our planning guidance documentation. In geographies where there is an established regulatory framework in relation to carbon dioxide (CO2) cost, impacts are included in the base case of the investment analysis. Where there is currently no regulatory framework, we evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost as set out in our planning guidance. In 2021, we updated our planning guidance to expand the evaluation for all significant investment decisions to include sensitivities using the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) carbon pricing in one of its most stringent scenarios, the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS). RISK MANAGEMENT Through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process, we have developed a holistic risk profile for the enterprise based on the risk registers, risk assessments and heat maps for our assets and projects. For each risk scenario, we estimate the likelihood and potential impact that the identified risks, including physical, reputational and transition related climate change risks, could have on our business. We track all identified risks on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. Energy Transition Risks Energy transition risks are the risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions aimed at emissions reductions, energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes related to climate related objectives. In order to assess a broad range of energy transition risks, and as an integral part of our planning cycle, we conduct an annual scenario based carbon asset risk assessment (see pages 45–48). Physical Risks Hess considers the potential physical risks associated with climate change – such as increased severity of storms, droughts and flooding – for both new projects and existing operations through our ERM and value assurance processes. For example, meteorological and oceanographic studies undertaken for offshore developments include modeling that incorporates assumptions from the latest climate change science. Mitigations to address changing storm magnitude are incorporated into the design of our facilities, where appropriate, and severe weather management and business continuity plans are maintained for severe weather events. (See page 32 for details of our emergency preparedness and response efforts related to the 2021 Atlantic hurricane season.) We also assess how climate change may impact water availability and water stress in the areas we operate using the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) Aqueduct Tool (see page 59). In 2019, we initiated a phased program of climate related physical risk assessments to inform our wider ERM process on potential climate impacts. These assessments consider the potential impact to the facilities and infrastructure we operate, as well as how these may be affected by predicted future climate change scenarios. The geospatial output from these assessments allows us to overlay climate variables such as extreme heat stress, extreme cold, rainfall, water stress, fire, storm intensity and coastal flooding projections and create heat maps showing the changes from the baseline values for our current and planned operations. We have adopted a flexible approach to these assessments that will enable us to reevaluate climate impacts as the science evolves and as our operations change and adapt. We completed the first assessment on our Gulf of Mexico operations in 2020 and the second on our Bakken operations in 2021. We identified potential risks associated with worker heat stress and flooding of coastal logistics infrastructure related to our assets in the Gulf of Mexico. However, these risks are not unique to Hess and would also apply broadly to the oil and gas industry and other industrial sectors and would necessitate mitigation at a state and national level. For our Bakken operations, we identified a potential increase in extreme heat stress, decrease in extreme cold, mild increase in rainfall and negligible change in extreme drought, all compared with the baseline. Furthermore, the Bakken assessment projected water stress to be at a medium risk in the future compared with the baseline generated using the WRI Aqueduct tool. We will continue to monitor and assess these potential impacts and to determine what mitigations and adaptations may be required. We plan to conduct further assessments across our portfolio in 2022 and 2023. We also maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, for which we are self insured. The amount of insurance covering physical damage is based on the asset’s estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. Climate Change and Energy Reputational Risks The TCFD identifies climate change as a potential source of reputational risk or opportunity for companies. The TCFD further categorizes reputational risks and opportunities posed by climate change into three distinct categories: • Shifts in consumer preferences • Stigmatization of a sector • Increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback In 2019, to address this potential risk as identified by the TCFD, Hess undertook an exercise to measure the potential impacts of changes in corporate reputation (driven by climate change risks and opportunities) on Hess’ market valuation. Our analysis used a Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) to calibrate the historical relationship between the stock price return of Hess and changes in our RepRisk exposure, oil prices and S&P’s Oil and Gas Stock Price Index. RepRisk – a global data science company focused on due diligence of material environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks – produces a quantitative summary of the ESG risk exposure of a company, including climate related risks. RepRisk’s assessment of the ESG risk exposure of a company is based on the company’s activities observed by media, stakeholders and third party sources and excludes information provided by the company itself. A company’s RepRisk ESG exposure is based on a combination of company specific ESG risk and country sector ESG risk determined by where the company operates. A company’s RepRisk rating is a proprietary risk metric ranging from AAA to D, which captures and quantifies a company’s risk exposure related to ESG issues. As of March 2022, Hess’ RepRisk rating of A classifies our company as having low ESG risk exposure, which is comparable to many of our peers. Due to our exit from downstream businesses with more exposure to end users, our ESG risk exposure, as measured by RepRisk, has continued to decline over time. The goal of our analysis was to measure the potential impact of changes in RepRisk scores for Hess resulting from the publication of a series of historical news articles related to climate change risks and then correlate this impact to a change in market valuation for Hess. The CAPM model showed a moderately statistically significant correlation between our stock price and our RepRisk score when general market conditions were assumed to be held constant; however, this did not result in substantial changes in Hess’ market valuation. While we found this exercise helpful, we have not repeated it because we found that measuring and valuing reputational risks and opportunities is extremely challenging due to the difficulty of isolating the long term climate change related reputation impacts from other company specific, industry related and stock market fluctuations. In addition, we found that these types of climate related risks, for the most part, have already been identified through Hess’ ERM process and are being managed and mitigated through that process. 