Sustainable business practices are essential to ensuring our license to operate, managing risks, operating efficiently and developing growth opportunities. John B. Hess 
Chief Executive OfficerHess is committed to help meet the world’s growing energy needs while making a positive impact on the communities where we do business. We strive each day to be a trusted energy partner that ensures the safety of our workforce and host communities and protects and preserves the environment. Sustainable business practices are essential to ensuring our license to operate, managing risks, operating efficiently and developing growth opportunities. Our company’s long term vision for the future is based on the 
Hess Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. We operationalize our Values through our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which guides the way we do business and helps us develop trusted relationships with our stakeholders, including communities, employees, customers, business partners and shareholders. Earlier this year we announced the final phase of a strategy that will transform Hess into a pure play exploration and production company. This strategy, which includes fully exiting our downstream businesses, will result in a portfolio of higher growth, lower risk assets. We believe we will have the financial flexibility to pursue growth at the same time that we increase current returns to shareholders and generate significant future value. As an energy provider, we help play a critical role in economic development. As living standards rise in emerging economies, world demand for fossil fuels continues to grow. While alternative and renewable energy is needed and should be encouraged to help meet long term energy demand and reduce carbon emissions, hydrocarbons will continue to supply the majority of demand for the foreseeable future.Stakeholder expectations are rising for the energy industry to increase transparency, promote human rights, minimize adverse environmental and socioeconomic impacts, combat corruption, responsibly manage suppliers and provide clean energy options. These issues present challenges and opportunities for our industry and our business. Across our company in 2012, we engaged in intensive efforts 
to drive operational excellence, capital discipline, risk management, innovation, trusted partnerships and the professional development of our people. We further integrated environmental and social considerations into our enterprise risk management, new country entry and investment processes. 
We established the role of Chief Compliance Officer to improve our compliance related controls and incorporate best practices.Climate change is a global challenge that must be met with collective action. We have spoken openly about the need for United States and world leaders to work with industry to develop comprehensive energy and climate policies that will help meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Transparent and equitable carbon price signals should be given serious consideration as the domestic and global economies recover from the sustained recession. In the United States, the dual application of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing has made the production of natural 
gas and crude oil from low permeability geologic formations economically feasible, which has significantly improved the nation’s energy security. The challenge is to produce this energy responsibly and transparently. Shale gas has resulted 
in relatively low natural gas prices, lowering the costs of both 
raw materials and energy. Natural gas continues to capture a growing share of electricity generation and industrial and commercial energy demand. Combined with improvements in energy efficiency and growth in renewable energy, U.S. energy related carbon emissions are now below 2005 levels. We participate in and support key international multi-stakeholder frameworks that inform and guide our approach to transparency, human rights and the environment. These include the United Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. We endorse and uphold the international standards set out in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Overall workforce safety performance at Hess improved in 
2012 by 13 percent, our best result ever, and we further enhanced our process safety program. The programs we introduced in response to the deterioration in contractor safety performance in 2011 have proven effective in addressing the challenges we faced in our growing United States shale energy business. Tragically, we suffered two separate fatalities in 2012, our first since 2008. These fatalities serve to remind us that our work to keep our people safe can never stop as we continue to strive to eliminate all accidents from our business.Strategic social investment advances our goal of making a measurable, positive social impact where we operate and is 
a valuable tool for community and stakeholder engagement. 
We focus on education and health because we rely on a well-educated and highly skilled workforce. In 2012 we 
invested $40 million in education, health and community development projects in more than 20 countries. We launched 
a Hess Scholars program in Ghana to increase access to secondary education for promising low-income students. In Equatorial Guinea we concluded the first phase of our program to improve the quality of primary education and prepared to launch a program to improve education for secondary school students. In North Dakota, we started Succeed 2020, a program to improve school to career transition. We approved a new Hess Security and Human Rights Policy in early 2013. This policy formalizes expectations that our security providers adhere to applicable international law enforcement principles, international humanitarian law and international human rights law in a manner that is consistent with the Voluntary Principles. We put new contract clauses in place that require 
our security contractors to communicate our ethics, human rights and social responsibility expectations to their employees and subcontractors, as well as demonstrate compliance.We continued to implement our five year climate change strategy based on a 2008 baseline. We achieved our 50 
percent combined flaring reduction target for Algeria and Equatorial Guinea ahead of schedule. While we will not achieve our five year net equity greenhouse gas emissions intensity target due to significant portfolio changes, we expect absolute emissions to be three to four million tonnes lower in 2013 
than in 2008. In 2012 we integrated the cost of carbon in all significant future capital investment decisions, began planning for our next generation climate change strategy, and focused 
on reducing flaring in our operations in North Dakota. We aim 
to be transparent about our climate change programs and performance, and we were included in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Global 500 and S&P leadership indices for the fourth straight year for the quality of our disclosures. We also developed a corporate policy on climate change and energy that will be introduced in 2013. Essential to Hess’ future success is a strong culture and high quality workforce that will continue to innovate, lead and learn. 
In 2012 work teams gathered information, conducted focus groups and externally benchmarked other companies to inform these improvement initiatives as part of a multiyear planning process. Areas examined by these teams include the Hess culture, the Hess environment for innovation, attracting and retaining our talented workforce, diversity and inclusion, and the ways in which we promote learning, development and leadership. Throughout this report, we describe our short and medium term goals and long term vision, our challenges and opportunities and our performance. With the ongoing support of our communities, employees, customers, business partners and investors, we are confident that we are building a sustainable enterprise that will continue to make a positive impact on the world around us.John B. Hess
Chief Executive OfficerPROGRESS AND GOALSPROGRESS AND GOALSIt is an ongoing challenge for our industry and our company to meet society’s growing need for energy in a profitable way that is environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and safe. At Hess we recognize that non-technical risks (NTR)associated with communities, stakeholder relationships 
and public perception can impact project outcomes and business success. The sustainability goals and targets we have established indicate our commitment to improve performance across a range of material issues and address challenges facing Hess today.2012 PROGRESSDuring 2012 we took steps to improve how we understand and manage NTR in our day-to-day operations. Early in 
the year we conducted a gap analysis of our operations against increasing stakeholder expectations and expanding voluntary reporting requirements. Using the results, we formed an internal cross-functional task force to develop formal action plans based on their impact to long term organizational strategy.Policies and GuidelinesTo manage these risks more effectively, we develop and implement policies and standards across our operations. Examples include a new corporate policy on Security 
and Human Rights, an improved contractor management program and development of guidelines for planning stakeholder engagement at all project sites. ProcessesWe continue to enhance systems for managing potential impacts across each project’s life cycle. We have increased the number of high level risk assessments conducted across our assets. We also introduced a new country entry process that incorporates a full assessment of NTR into country entry decision making.MetricsIn 2009 we established a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity target (equity basis) of a 20 percent reduction against a 2008 baseline. The higher carbon intensity of exploration and production operations, combined with reduced production and throughput from asset sales and facility closures, mean that our normalized target is no longer achievable. However, since 2008 we have reduced absolute GHG emissions (equity basis) by 26 percent (2.8 million tonnes) through 2012. 2013 GOALSWe strive for continuous improvement and top quartile performance. In 2013 we will expand our corporate sustainability goals beyond climate change and energy to include policies, processes and metrics across our business that will help to address the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. These goals build on our progress to date and are informed by our 2012 gap analysis, our stakeholder materiality assessment and valuation of environmental and social risk factors for capital projects.Policies and GuidelinesTo drive consistency and continuous improvement in 2013, we will begin rolling out our new Global Standards and will begin to develop a standardized process for conducting environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs), 
due diligence, and baseline assessments. We will further enhance process safety management by fully aligning with industry guidance on process safety indicators.ProcessesTo reduce our flaring rates over the long term, by 2014 we will complete four gas gathering projects to increase capture at our largest shale energy assets in the Bakken formation. To mitigate long term social risk, we are piloting a grievance mechanism and updating our reporting system to track and address community incidents.MetricsWe will evaluate setting a new GHG reduction target for 2014-2019, taking into account the restructuring of Hess into a pure play exploration and production company. SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND TARGETS TARGET 
DATE DISCUSSION(PAGE #) How We Operate Begin phased rollout and implementation of new Global Standards 2013 4, 35, 55 Continue to integrate sustainability into enterprise risk functions 2013 13-14 Community and Social Performance Pilot test a grievance mechanism at one of our assets and roll out site-specific 
grievance mechanism guidance  2013 27 Update our companywide incident reporting system to include a mechanism for 
reporting community incidents 2014 25-27 Further integrate human rights and freedom of association risk considerations into the supply chain via prequalification screening and human rights clauses in contracts and investment agreements 2014 27 Pilot a Security and Human Rights Toolkit for country managers 2013 29 Safety and Health Further develop and deepen leadership engagement  2013 31 Enhance process safety management and fully align with industry guidance on 
process safety indicators 2013 34-35 Aim for top quartile personal safety performance as measured by total recordable 
injury/illness rate 2013 30-32 Strengthen contractor management 2013 32-34 Global Workforce Continue multiyear Hess Culture initiative by defining goals with respect to leadership 
behaviors, performance management and professional development 2013 40-41 Climate Change and Energy Achieve an absolute GHG emissions reduction of 3 million to 4 million tonnes 
(equity basis) 2013 45-46 Complete four gas gathering projects in North Dakota to monetize associated gas 
and reduce flaring 2014 47-48 Update five year GHG and energy efficiency strategy and targets 2014 45-46 Environment Develop a global, standardized process for conducting ESIAs, due diligence and 
baseline assessments 2013 54 Conduct two asset-level reviews to determine performance against the Environmentally Friendly Drilling Scorecard  2013 55 ABOUT HESSABOUT HESSHess has made significant progress 
in our transformation from an integrated 
oil and gas company to a focused, higher growth, pure play exploration and production (E&P) company. In 2012 the company operated in the E&P and the Marketing and Refining (M&R) segments. E&P is involved in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. In M&R we purchase, market and trade refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. Hess 2012 Portfolio of Operations Exploration     Production     Development*As of December 31, 2012EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Our E&P strategy has shifted from high impact exploration to development of shale resources, exploitation of existing discoveries and a more focused and higher growth exploration program.ExplorationExploration locations include 
offshore Ghana and the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq.DevelopmentsDevelopments are underway at several assets, including multi-phased developments at South Arne in Denmark, Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, the North Malay Basin in Malaysia and the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) in the Gulf of Thailand.ProductionProduction operations are ongoing globally. Key production assets include the Bakken in North Dakota, Okume and Ceiba in Equatorial Guinea, South Arne, Valhall and JDA.2012 Highlights.	55 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) were converted from proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves.	North Dakota year-over-year production increased 
87 percent to 56,000 BOE/D.	Four successful exploration wells were drilled 
on the Deepwater Tano/Cape Three Points block, offshore Ghana Proved Reserves (Million BOE)406,000BOE/D Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced141%Replaced Production10.3YearsReserve Life1,553Million BOE 
Proved ReservesECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONSIn 2012 our direct economic contributions exceeded $20 billion, including capital and exploration expenditures, payments to suppliers, wages and benefits, taxes and royalties, interest, dividends and social investments.Economic Contributions$ Millions Capital and Exploration Expenditures $8,265 Recordable Supplier Spend $8,020 Income Tax Expense $1,675 Wages and Benefits (U.S.) $1,045 Royalties and Other Payments $920 Interest Expense $419 Dividends Paid $171 Social Investments $40 Carbon and NOx Taxes $6MARKETING AND REFININGIn 2012 Hess operated terminals and retail gasoline stations, most of which include convenience stores. Through February 2013, Hess also manufactured refined petroleum products. In January 2012 HOVENSA, a 50 percent owned 
joint venture in the U.S. Virgin Islands, shut down 
its refinery in St. Croix. In February 2013 we ceased operations at our Port Reading facility and announced our intention to sell our terminal network. In March 2013 the company announced its intention to fully exit all downstream businesses, including retail, energy marketing and energy trading. Until 
that process is complete, we will continue our long-standing commitment to our customers to deliver a secure product supply, competitive prices and high quality service.Retail Marketing1,361 gasoline stations in 16 states in the Eastern U.S. and the District of ColumbiaRefining and TerminalsA fluid catalytic cracking facility in Port Reading, N.J., 19 U.S. East Coast terminals and one St. Lucia terminal with combined capacity of 38 million barrels Energy MarketingLeading energy marketer in the Eastern U.S., supplying fuel oil, natural gas and electricity to more than 21,000 commercial, industrial and small 
business customersElectricity Operations512-Megawatt (MW) joint venture Bayonne Energy Center serving New York City$1,123Million in Convenience 
Store Sales2,300,000MCF/D* Natural 
Gas Sales*Thousand cubic feet/day389,000BOE/D Refined Petroleum Product Sales4,500MW-RTC* Electricity Sales*Megawatt – round the clockAPPROACH TO REPORTINGAPPROACH TO REPORTINGThis report provides information on our sustainability policies, programs and performance in 2012. Additional sustainability information is available at hess.com/sustainability. Financial and governance information, including our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and our proxy statement, is available at hess.com/investors. 
All financial data are reported in U.S. dollars.REPORTING STANDARDSWe report our sustainability performance on an annual 
basis in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) G3.1/Oil & Gas Sector Supplement guidelines to an 
A+ application level. We also follow the IPIECA, American Petroleum Institute and International Oil and Gas Producers Association Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting. A GRI Content Index, cross-referenced with the IPIECA indicators and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact), is provided at the end of this report.BOUNDARY SETTINGThe scope of this report includes principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries and joint ventures through 2012, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities and third party activities where Hess has overall responsibility as specified in contractual arrangements. Health, safety and environment data for joint ventures where we have significant influence, as defined by the GRI’s guidance on boundary setting, are reported separately in the performance data table at the end of this report. These joint ventures include SonaHess (Algeria) and Carigali Hess Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area Block A-18. For our former subsidiary in Russia, Samara-Nafta, we include net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) data and social investment spending.We report some quantitative environment, health and safety data on a normalized basis to facilitate year-on-year comparisons. We report GHG emissions on an operated basis for Hess operated assets, and on a net equity share basis for operated facilities, joint ventures and non-operated facilities in which we hold an interest. Data for the joint venture Bayonne Energy Center, which began operation in June 2012, will be reported once a full year of data is available.RESTATEMENTS AND ADDITIONSThere have been no material restatements of information from our previous reports.INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCEWe have internal documentation and information systems in place to promote consistent and reliable data collection and aggregation from all of our Hess operated and joint venture assets. We conduct corporate and business level Quality Assurance/Quality Control reviews and validation to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of facility specific and aggregated data. Due to rounding, individual numbers in the charts and tables may not sum to the total amounts shown.EXTERNAL ASSURANCEERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducts annual third party assurance of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility data management systems to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. ERM CVS also undertakes a third party check of our self-declared 
GRI G3.1 Application Level. The Independent Assurance Statement is provided on page 70 of this report. Materiality DeterminationOur sustainability report describes the company’s strategy and performance regarding significant topics for Hess and our key stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, customers and consumers, communities, shareholders, governmental and non-governmental organizations and industry peers. Topics were chosen and prioritized through 
a materiality assessment process that identifies issues for reporting based on the level of internal and external stakeholder interest, relevance to our operations and level of potential risk and impact. Low Priority
Non-Material Medium
Priority High
Priority1. Shale Energy2. Governance3. Process Safety4. Climate Change and GHG Emissions5. Water6. Communities7. Social Risk8. Compliance9. Enterprise Risk Management 10. Energy11. Human Rights 12. Public Policy13. Suppliers14. Effluents and Waste15. Anti-corruption and Bribery16. Diversity and Inclusion17. Workforce Training and Development18. BiodiversityOur Commitment to Transparency and PerformanceWe are committed to transparent communication about our environment, health, safety and social responsibility performance. To enhance our reporting against evolving external expectations, in 2012 we conducted a gap assessment of our 2010 reporting against new GRI G3.1 and Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) guidelines. 
In line with our assessment, the diagram below indicates our key areas for development, when we seek to report 
on our progress and the anticipated level of effort to do so. Level of Effort:    Low     Medium     High  2012 2013 2014 Economic . Increased our understanding of infrastructure investments for local benefit . Include international employees in total employee wages and benefits (currently U.S. only) . Report on significant indirect economic impacts. Develop a local content policy Environment . Communicated and refined our flare reduction strategy. Furthered our understanding of significant transportation impacts . Begin process of updating our five year GHG and energy efficiency strategy and targets . Develop a standardized process for conducting Environmental and Social Impact Assessments, due diligence, and baseline assessments. Communicate new GHG and energy strategy Human Rights . Released new corporate policy on Security and Human Rights. Developed a Security and Human Rights Toolkit and stakeholder mapping tool . Pilot test a grievance mechanism . Pilot the Security and Human Rights Toolkit . Integrate human rights into supplier management . Complete corporate-wide rollout of human rights training Labor Practices . Improved contractor management program . Report the percentage of employees receiving reviews using new career management system . Further our talent development programs Society . Further clarified the elements of our no-political-contributions policy and reported on our adherence 
to this standard . Pilot an External Sustainability Advisory Panel . Update reporting systems to include community incidents  Bakken Multi-Well Pad, North DakotaWe are committed to delivering long term sustainable value to all of our shareholders, meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship and creating a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. Our long term vision and six core Hess Values provide a foundation for how we do business. The Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct) and 
our Social Responsibility, Human Rights and Environment, Health and Safety policies build on our values to define 
our internal expectations for sustainable management 
and performance. We are evolving our Management System Framework 
in response to changes in the industry, stakeholder expectations and our evolving strategy and portfolio. 
We acknowledge that there are always opportunities 
for improvement. We are in the early stages of developing and implementing 
an enhanced framework of policies and standards to formalize corporate expectations and accountabilities and drive an enterprise-wide rigorous and systematic approach to environment, health, safety and social risk management. This systematic approach is consistent with broadly recognized international standards and guidelines that 
focus on managing health, personal and process safety, 
and social and environmental risks. We expect in 2013 to begin applying the Management System Framework and 
the upgraded standards. Environment and safety performance metrics are also components of the 
bonus formula for executives and employees. Internal reviews and audits and third party assurance 
guide our conformance with internal requirements, compliance with legal and other requirements and disclosure of reliable information to the company’s 
directors and stakeholders. In keeping with a 
precautionary approach, identified risks are evaluated 
and mitigation plans are developed and implemented.Hess supports international voluntary initiatives to respect human rights, protect the environment and encourage financial transparency across our operations. We endorse and support the United Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also participate in several sector-specific and multi-stakeholder associations. This enables us to learn from sector peers and others. It also allows us to grow internal capacity and engage with external stakeholders.ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT We recently revised and updated our Code of Conduct, which sets the standard for how we operate, to explicitly align with the Hess Values and reflect new regulations and societal expectations. The Code of Conduct is publicly available at hess.com/codeofconduct.The Code of Conduct describes the business conduct behaviors that Hess expects of its employees, officers, directors and contractors. In 2012 we distributed the new Code of Conduct throughout the company with a sign-and-return requirement. We expect that our suppliers, agents and business partners will follow similar principles when working for Hess and its subsidiaries. The Hess anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy, Executive Directive 26 (ED26), aligns with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. These include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act. The Code of Conduct has been translated for each of our countries of operation outside the U.S.In 2012 there were no legal actions, fines or sanctions relating to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-competitive behavior or antitrust or monopoly laws or regulations. 
The company takes disciplinary actions for violations of 
the Code of Conduct, including termination of employment or services. There were no substantiated allegations of corruption in 2012.Training and AuditThe Hess audit team systematically conducts annual companywide anti-corruption risk assessments to determine our potential exposure to corruption and identify employees who could benefit from additional anti-corruption training. An introduction to the Code of Conduct is part of our onboarding process for non-Retail and salaried employees. Onboarding also includes anti-corruption training. We provide ED26 anti-bribery and anti-corruption training 
to employees based on their job responsibilities and countries of operation. In 2012 the company provided classroom anti-corruption training in accordance with our FCPA audit and training policy, which included training for approximately 20 percent of relevant managers and 20 percent of relevant non-managers. Additional anti-corruption training on the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act is scheduled for 2013. Hess senior leaders and employees of foreign operations 
are required to annually review and sign off on ED26, the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and the Code of Conduct.Confidential HotlineThe Hess confidential hotline, managed by an independent third party, includes both telephone and web based reporting capabilities. Employees, business partners and customers can report allegations of Code of Conduct violations and workplace concerns in more than 12 languages. Employees who in good faith report known or suspected violations of company policy or make a complaint are protected from retaliation. We thoroughly, confidentially and promptly investigate allegations related to the Code of Conduct or potential violations of law or company policy. Disciplinary actions range from counseling and formal correction action plans to termination of employment or services. Political ContributionsHess policies prohibit political contributions using corporate funds, whether in cash or in-kind, even if the laws of certain jurisdictions may permit them. In 2012 there were a handful of political contributions made by Hess employees using corporate funds, against our policy. Hess is addressing this through increased efforts to educate employees on compliance with ED26 policies. Our Code of Conduct and our anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy, ED26, prohibit the use of Hess facilities or property for campaign activities. We do not make payments directly or indirectly to influence the outcome of ballot measures. Because our policies prohibit political contributions, there are no managers in charge of related spending decisions, or independent audits. The Chief Compliance Officer will oversee enterprise programs to report on non-compliance on our Code of Conduct going forward. The work of the corporate compliance group will be reported on an annual basis to the Audit Committee of the Hess Board of Directors.It is the company’s policy not to coerce political contributions from employees, directly or indirectly reimburse an employee for a political contribution or channel a contribution through an employee to disguise its origin. Hess does not have an employee funded PAC. Employees wishing to engage in the political process may do so as private citizens.We annually report and confirm our adherence to our policies on corporate political spending to the public. For more information, please refer to the Training and Audit and Global Compliance Organization sections in this report and our Code of Conduct online at hess.com/codeofconduct.Revenue TransparencyHess supports revenue transparency through participation 
in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative that includes oil and mining companies, governments, civil society groups, international non-governmental organizations and investors. As a Supporting Company of the EITI, Hess endorses the initiative’s objective to improve governance through transparency of company payments to governments. We support the EITI’s efforts to attract more countries 
to the initiative. In past years we participated in the EITI 
in Equatorial Guinea (EG), whose candidacy to the 
initiative was not successful. We support EG’s efforts to improve revenue transparency. During 2012 we met 
with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) to discuss their work with Equatorial Guinea on transparency initiatives. As an operating company of record, we support the EITI 
in Indonesia, which is a Candidate country that is progressing toward compliant status. In EITI Compliant or Candidate countries where we had equity interests in 2012 but were not the operator, including Azerbaijan, Norway 
and Peru, we complied with the disclosure practices of the operating company, in addition to complying with country laws and regulations. To comply with EITI revenue reporting and disclosure requirements in the countries where we do business, Hess discloses requested payments based on accounts audited to international standards. Hess attended the 2012 EITI plenary meeting in Ottawa, Ontario and plans to attend the EITI plenary in 2013 in Sydney, Australia. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENTOur company’s evolving enterprise risk management program is helping us identify and evaluate a range of key potential business risks, including those driven by social, safety and environmental factors. At Hess, asset leaders attend risk management workshops where one of the goals is to identify business risks and their underlying drivers. Once we identify a risk, leaders evaluate possible approaches to develop effective plans that recognize and address potential gaps 
and issues. As a result, we are better able to protect and enhance the value of our company and confidently pursue new business opportunities. We include social and environmental issues, as well as other potential risk areas among the factors considered during risk assessments. In 2012, for example, we improved our social and environmental risk metrics because of increased collaboration across functions and among internal subject matter experts who help us improve our understanding of environmental, health, safety, human rights and community engagement risks. We continue to advance a common framework for the potential risks we identify and share them across functional areas to facilitate risk prioritization, ensure consistency and improve internal alignment. This framework and associated tools provide us the means to better recognize, understand and prioritize key risks that impact our business. KEY MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONSOur memberships in industry and business associations further our knowledge, understanding and ability to 
address issues that impact our business. They enable us 
to benchmark and share best practices with sector peers, contribute to guidance documents on environmental and social issues and access tools to manage them.Hess’ key memberships include IPIECA, the global oil and gas association for environmental and social issues, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Council on Foreign Relations, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the National Foreign Trade Council, the National Association of Manufacturers, the National Association of Convenience Stores, the Retail Energy Supply Association, the Conference Board, the Corporate Council on Africa, 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the 2012 U.S. Global Leadership Conference and the Business Roundtable. Within IPIECA we are represented on the Executive Committee and participate in the biodiversity, climate change reporting and social responsibility working groups. We are also represented on the greenhouse gas initiatives, water, supply chain and human rights task forces, the occupational health committee and the strategic planning group.We are members of and contribute deepwater and emergency response expertise to national and international organizations such as the Clean Gulf Cooperative (CGC), 
the Offshore Operators Committee, API, the Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), OGP and IPIECA.To address international spill prevention, well capping response and spill response capacity we participate in the Marine Well Containment Company, the Helix Well Control Group, the CGC, OSRL, and the Subsea Well Response project (SWRP) consortium. To understand trends in regional markets, we belong to regional industry and business associations such as the Independent Power Producers of New York, local chambers of commerce, building associations and state petroleum 
and gas associations. We provide funding above routine membership dues to associations in recognition of the value they provide to 
our industry. We do not earmark this funding for lobbying. We recognize that our positions do not always align with 
all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement 
of the entire range of activities undertaken by these membership organizations. To address concerns related to potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key sustainability issues in our Corporate Sustainability Report.SUPPLIERSThe company spent more than $8 billion on products and services with approximately 14,000 vendors, of which 73 percent were based in the U.S. Small, Diverse and Local SuppliersIn 2012, 37 percent of our U.S. suppliers were small, 
diverse and local, and 12 percent were minority- and women-owned. Small and diverse suppliers accounted 
for 24 percent of our U.S. supplier spend. In U.S. Exploration and Production (E&P), small and diverse businesses comprised 38 percent of U.S. vendors but accounted for only 18 percent of spend since a high proportion of our budget was for major capital projects. 
E&P conducted business with more than 3,700 international vendors in 2012. Outside the U.S., E&P often prioritizes the inclusion of local suppliers in production sharing contracts with host countries. These agreements often include local spend thresholds and names of government-approved local vendors.Hess’ supplier diversity practices are a key part of our Marketing and Refining (M&R) strategy. Since launching 
the Hess Supplier Diversity Policy in 2010, M&R continues 
to grow its Supplier Diversity Program, which provides opportunities to small and diverse suppliers as part of the procurement process. As a result of these efforts, we have achieved an “outstanding” rating for supplier diversity from the U.S. Small Business Administration. In 2012 our M&R business spent $490 million for products and services from small and diverse suppliers, an increase from $372 million in 2009. Small and diverse businesses now account for 46 percent of M&R supplier spend. Our dedication to supplier diversity is helping us drive our government customer base and meet U.S. federal government supply chain diversity subcontracting requirements. Supplier EngagementHess continues to engage suppliers on issues that are important to our industry and our stakeholders. Since 2009 we have worked with current and prospective suppliers of hydraulic fracturing services to define acceptable fracturing fluid systems and we have encouraged suppliers to publicly disclose fracturing fluid chemical composition data. Supplier Qualifications and ComplianceOur contractor management program addresses prequalification, selection, monitoring and review of our contractors, with particular focus on contractors engaged 
in higher risk activities. For additional information about 
this and other supplier initiatives, refer to the Community 
and Social Performance and Safety and Health sections 
later in this report.Hess conducts quarterly reviews of its suppliers to ensure compliance with the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Patriot Act. Contracts for goods and services typically include requirements for supplier compliance with applicable laws and regulations in areas such as safety, health, environment, process safety, drug and alcohol use, business ethics, conflicts of interest, the FCPA and labor practices.Global Compliance OrganizationIn 2012 Hess added a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) position to strengthen our Global Compliance Program. The Global Compliance Program establishes, maintains and enforces policies, procedures, processes and initiatives to prevent 
and detect compliance violations. Its aim 
is to promote an organizational culture that encourages commitment to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The CCO reports to our General Counsel and briefs the Audit Committee 
of the Hess Board of Directors.Our compliance policies and procedures all stem 
from the Code of Conduct. To continuously improve compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Compliance organization addresses three key areas: Enterprise Programs, Internal Investigations and Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption. The group expects to increase engagement in 2013, providing expanded online training, as well as targeted training for specific internal organizations to ensure greater knowledge and global compliance. Enhanced tracking and reporting mechanisms for employees 
will also promote greater access and transparency. Wellhead Platform A, Offshore Pangkah, IndonesiaAnti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Audit and Training
Frequency (Years)Country CPI* Audit Training 5.0-10.0 3 3 3.0-4.9 1-2 2 <3.0 1 1 * Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is 
one of the determining factors for country-specific training and 
audit frequency. New Country Entry In 2012 we implemented a formalized country risk assessment process to enhance the quality of information we review before engaging in E&P operations in a new country or region. As part of the process, Hess subject matter 
experts provide background on the legal, social, environmental, commercial and compliance risks of operating in the subject country. We evaluate this information at key decision points. In 2012 we followed the new process to evaluate our potential entry into three new countries. The key social risks now addressed during our new country entry evaluation include but are not limited 
to indigenous peoples’ rights, sources of existing conflicts and country reputation for implementing 
the State Duty to Protect Human Rights. The current process includes a review of expert opinions from governmental sources such as the U.S. State Department, as well as leading non-governmental organizations. We also conduct a high level review 
of media reports. Our country risk assessments help us understand 
the potential risks that can impact our project, as 
well as the risks our project might present to local area communities. As there is a cost to mitigating risks, the exercise also informs project economics.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTOur goal is to understand the expectations, priorities and concerns of stakeholders who may be affected by our 
company and who in turn may affect us. We aim to interact and openly communicate with stakeholders to identify opportunities that will improve our business operations and strengthen our license to operate. Some examples of 
our 2012 stakeholder engagement can be found below.COMMUNITIESConsultation, town halls, advisory panels  . In Dinarta in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Hess conducted cultural awareness training for staff and held meetings with local representatives before conducting seismic surveys.. In Beetaloo, Australia, our aboriginal affairs advisor created training materials on indigenous stakeholder engagement for Hess employees and contractors. EMPLOYEESTown halls, surveys, 
intranet, safety 
committees . Hess CEO John Hess hosted several employee engagement events, including a Global Town Hall in which he reviewed strategy and performance and answered employee questions. . Using results from surveys and benchmarking exercises, we analyzed key aspects of our corporate culture and identified areas for improvement. SUPPLIERSLocal content and mentoring programs, business-to-business relationships . Hess plays a leading role in the National Technological Hydrocarbon Institute of Equatorial Guinea, which trains nationals for employment.. In our shale energy business we require contractors to complete a proprietary Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility induction training module which outlines Hess’ expectations.  CUSTOMERSCustomer service organizations, surveys . Following Superstorm Sandy, hessexpress.com posted real-time fuel inventory data for retail sites in the New York tri-state area, directing customers affected by the storm to visit sites with sufficient fuel supplies.. Hess Energy Solutions advises business customers on energy efficiency solutions, renewable energy projects and energy optimization. GOVERNMENTS 
AND MLIs*Consultation, negotiation, legislative and regulatory advocacy, voluntary initiatives . Hess engaged with World Bank, IMF, and U.S. and Equatorial Guinea government representatives to advocate resuming the EG revenue transparency initiative. . We engaged with government stakeholders on legislative and regulatory 
issues in North Dakota, contributing operational knowledge to the state’s investment efforts. CIVIL SOCIETYPartnerships, voluntary initiatives, funding . Hess participates in the Ceres Working Group, Reducing Environmental Risks from Shale Gas, to research and promote water management practices.. Hess joined business, government and civil society representatives at the first 
UN Forum on Business and Human Rights.  SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORSDialogue, consultation, annual meeting, surveys and conferences  . Hess regularly speaks with the environment, social and governance 
investment community.. Hess meets semiannually with each of its 50 largest investors and regularly 
hosts investor lunches and breakfasts for institutional shareholders. INDUSTRY SECTORTrade and professional associations, 
benchmarking . Hess participates in multi-stakeholder forums to foster sustainable water use 
in shale oil and gas resource extraction. Examples include the Energy Water Initiative and Colorado School of Mines Modeling Consortium. *Multi-lateral institutions International Supplier Spend by Country$ MillionsSmall Business Supplier Spend (U.S.) Minority     Women     Small Businesses Equatorial Guinea $628 Denmark $392 Indonesia $353 U.K. $344 Australia $339 Ghana $227 Malaysia $128 Norway $56 Other $87Women and minority data shown above represent percentages of total small business spend. Data are based on the October 1, 2011-September 30, 2012 timeframe.SHALE ENERGYThe presence of vast quantities of oil and natural gas in formations with low permeability, including deep shale, 
has been known for decades. It is now economically 
feasible to recover shale oil and gas due to a combination 
of sophisticated horizontal drilling and completions technologies and improvements in a proven well stimulation method referred to as hydraulic fracturing.In 2012 we conducted development and production activities in the Bakken formation of North Dakota and the Eagle 
Ford formation in south Texas, as well as appraisal activities in the Utica Shale formation in Ohio. We publicly report on our shale energy operations, including drilling, development and production, and the efforts we take to manage the inherent risks associated with the business. We recognize stakeholders’ concerns about the impact shale energy operations have on safety, the environment and public health. We continue to develop and implement processes to 
identify and address the environmental and social risks of our shale energy business. During the past few years, we have completed one or more high level risk assessments using our enterprise risk methodology at each of our shale oil and gas assets. In 2012 risk assessment workshops were held at our North Dakota, Texas and Ohio assets. In early 2013 an enterprise risk workshop was held to update the shale energy business unit’s high level risk assessment. Further, we continue to identify and address stakeholder concerns that may risk our license to operate. Risk assessments of our shale energy operations in North 
Dakota and the ensuing plans to manage local stakeholder expectations and concerns, such as flaring, truck traffic 
and land use, helped us establish similar plans at other 
Hess shale energy assets. Management Practices Our shale energy development preparations include detailed, operations-focused risk assessments and risk mitigation planning, environmental and social impact assessments and management plans as appropriate, stakeholder identification and engagement, and regulatory reviews. We also conduct contractor screening, selection, onboarding and training and emergency response planning, drills and training. We formed an Above Ground Risk Steering Team in 2012 
to identify potential non-technical risks related to shale energy operations, including those driven by social and environmental factors. The team developed key risk mitigation strategies to address environmental, health 
and safety, social, contractor and other commercial 
issues related to our license to operate. The team has taken the lead in developing guidelines 
that define expected operating practices to manage key above ground risks in areas including the environment, workforce and public health, safety, social impact and commercial and partnership risks. We expect these 
operating practices will be finalized and implemented 
in 2013. Examples of 2012 management practices are summarized in the table below. PerformanceIn 2012 our ongoing efforts to improve operations and 
our investments in infrastructure in the North Dakota Bakken formation resulted in better resource efficiency 
and safety performance. Water and Chemical UseUnconventional production presents resource challenges given the need for large volumes of fresh, locally sourced water used to extract hydrocarbons. We seek to minimize the use of fresh water for hydraulic fracturing and analyze water sources, including fresh water, saline water, wastewater and frac fluid flowback, to assess their suitability for hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing accounted 
for about 14 percent of the company’s total fresh water consumption in 2012, of which our Bakken wells accounted for 98 percent.In 2012, our efforts to reduce costs for our North 
Dakota drilling and completions led to more efficient 
use of water and chemicals for hydraulic fracturing. Midway through 2012 we reduced the resource intensity and costs of hydraulic fracturing in the Bakken through technological advances in our well completions design. 
As a result, we decreased the average volume 
of fresh water used for each hydraulic fracturing job 
by approximately 35 percent.The decrease in water use reduced our need for other frac fluid components, including propping agents and chemical additives. We also saw fuel efficiency gains per frac job because we made fewer truck trips and had shorter pumping times and lower pumping rates. Our Exploration and Production Technology (EPT) organization includes subject matter experts who focus on optimizing cost-effective water and chemical use in oil and gas operations and recommend technology applications to minimize the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing. 
In 2012 EPT issued frac fluid water quality and reuse guidelines and conducted pilot studies to find non-potable water sources suitable for fresh water substitution. While work is ongoing, frac fluid returns are generally very low, ranging from 5 percent in Utica wells to 20 percent in Bakken wells one to two weeks after the frac job is finished. In the Bakken, EPT efforts resulted in an approximate 75 percent reduction in the cost of an additive used in frac fluids. This additive can be used at a lower dosage and is more environmentally favorable than the one previously used. Pilot tests are ongoing to evaluate non-chemical biological treatment of frac fluids. Other efforts included formulation and field implementation of a custom biodegradable surfactant and completion of a field evaluation and economic assessment of a solid proppant-based scale inhibitor.Groundwater Protection Well integrity is crucial to contain drilling fluids, frac fluids and produced oil, gas and water. To protect groundwater, our wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the deepest fresh water zones. This approach isolates fresh water from fluids or gas in the well that could impact the groundwater. In 2012 Hess used real-time microseismic monitoring of selected hydraulic fracturing jobs. This technology allows 
us to map fractures in the rock to confirm that we remain within the targeted formation and pose no risk to local groundwater or nearby wells.Air EmissionsHess aims to continue reducing flaring and greenhouse gas emissions across our operations as discussed in the Climate Change and Energy section of this report. Our primary sources of air emissions are fuel combustion and flaring. Historically, our North Dakota production operations have had the lowest flaring rate for conventional wells in the industry. We have achieved this with a flaring rate of less than 0.5 percent by consistently expanding the infrastructure necessary to gather and commercialize natural gas associated with oil production. However, in North Dakota the rapid growth of our shale energy business resulted in an 87 percent year-over-year increase in oil production from the Bakken formation and flaring of associated gas. In the short term, flaring remains a significant challenge. The company has acquired a number of sites that are remote. For now, these sites lack the infrastructure to implement gas gathering. To address the issue, we continue to build the necessary infrastructure to mitigate long term flaring rates. We are investing more than $1.2 billion to capture and monetize natural gas from our shale energy wells, building gas gathering systems and expanding capacity at our Tioga Gas Processing Plant. We also spent more than $50 million in 2009 and 2010 to construct a new gas gathering system and extend the Red Sky natural gas pipeline to interconnect with a third party gas processing plant. We plan to complete four major gas gathering projects by 2014. We expect to add as much as 60 million standard cubic feet per day (MMscf/d) of capacity. In addition, we expect to complete our Tioga Gas Plant expansion in late 2013, increasing its capacity to 250 MMscf/d. To mitigate flaring, we are exploring long term and short 
term options for natural gas capture at the wellhead and accessing third party infrastructure and gas processing capacity through contracts and trading agreements. We are engaging with two of our three drilling contractors to convert some drilling rigs to dual fuel (natural gas and diesel) to allow use of natural gas at the well site and to achieve cost savings. Other mitigation measures include piloting third party services at the well site to capture, compress and transport stranded gas and light liquids. We have also formed a team of subject matter experts to study best practices for reducing flaring and monetizing stranded gas.We report on GHG emissions for our U.S. production assets 
in accordance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule. We estimate that in 2012 fugitive methane emissions from North Dakota and Eagle Ford, Texas production operations were about 91 tonnes and 19 tonnes respectively, based on EPA-mandated emissions factors and the number and types of piping components and pneumatic devices in natural gas service.At our Bakken assets we employ dedicated crews and equipment to separate solids, liquids (water and oil) and 
gas in frac fluid flowback. The flowback is separated in a closed system. To avoid venting of methane, natural gas is contained and flared or sent to a gas gathering system if available. The closed loop system helps safeguard the containment of the liquids and solids.The oil and gas industry and the state of North Dakota have worked together to establish methodologies that may be used to estimate vapor control emissions from storage tanks, wells and central facilities and identify acceptable control technologies. Hess has executed an Administrative Consent Agreement with the North Dakota Department of Health to resolve potential air pollution control law violations relating to our oil and gas production operations in North Dakota. The Administrative Consent Agreement requires Hess to retrofit some existing facilities and to pay a penalty of $418,500.Land Use Our approach is to minimize land use and reduce the number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. During 2012 we began to move from held by production drilling (drilling a single well per pad to uphold the lease) to multi-well pad drilling where as many as six wells are clustered 
on a single well pad and share surface facilities. We plan 
to continue this transition in 2013. To minimize the impact on the environment and streamline permitting, we introduced a geographic information systems (GIS) tool for use during our Utica Shale appraisal activities in Ohio. The tool incorporates environmental and social baseline data as GIS layers and is used to identify sensitive areas and select well pad locations.Contractor ManagementWe work with contractors and industry partners to 
improve overall safety performance in North Dakota. 
Our company undertakes systematic pre-qualification, selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract 
review of contractors to ensure they meet our expectations for management of environment, health and safety. When 
a contractor does not fully meet our criteria, management approval and risk mitigation plans must be in place before work can proceed. In 2012 engagements between Hess 
and key contractors continued to reinforce the importance of contractor environment, health, safety and social performance to our business. More information on contractor management and safety performance can be found in the Safety section of this report.CommunitiesWe recognize that the rapid and concentrated development of shale energy operations can create unintended issues and social impacts. To better identify and understand local stakeholder concerns and their causes in the communities where we operate, we completed a social baseline at our Utica Shale asset in 2012 and intend to undertake one in North Dakota in 2013. During the year we also laid the groundwork to pilot the IPIECA grievance mechanism in 2013. After the pilot is complete we will develop Hess-wide guidance on grievance mechanisms. The Community and Social Performance section of this report contains detailed information on our social investments and social and human rights risk management for our shale energy assets.Hydraulic Fracturing: Bakken Example 123FractureConductor CasingFreshWater AquiferWater + Sand 
+ AdditivesCementSurface CasingFrac StringProductionCasingDrawing is not to scale and numbers are approximate1) In the Bakken, an average Hess well is more than 10,000 feet deep. The underground formation is separated from the deepest fresh water aquifer by many thousands of feet of overlying rock. 2) Wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the aquifer, preventing fluids or gas from seeping from the well into the groundwater. Dedicated tubing, referred to as a frac string, is used during hydraulic fracturing as an additional groundwater protection measure. 3) A mixture of water, sand and special purpose additives are pumped under high pressure into the underground formation to create fractures. The fractures are propped open by the sand, allowing oil to flow into the well.Management Practices Topic Practice Water Quality Monitoring . Conduct baseline surface water and groundwater quality monitoring of domestic water wells 
within a minimum 2,500-foot radius of each well site.*. Conduct water quality analyses in accordance with state regulations and FracFocus Chemical Disclosure Registry guidance, and for any known local contaminants. Fresh Water Use . Identify fresh water substitutes for hydraulic fracturing and well maintenance.. Follow internal fracturing (frac) fluid water quality and reuse guidelines.. Publish individual well data for frac water use on the FracFocus website. Chemical Use . Encourage efficient use of functional, cost effective chemical additives in frac fluids.. Encourage suppliers to use the least toxic chemical formulations available, develop less toxic additives and disclose chemical ingredients.. Publish frac fluid chemical composition and quantities on the FracFocus website.  Groundwater Protection . Use well designs that ensure casing and cementing isolate fresh water zones. . Use closed-loop fluid containment systems for drilling fluids and frac fluid flowback.. Dispose of drill cuttings onsite in a lined impoundment or offsite at authorized third party facilities.. Develop and maintain spill prevention plans for all facilities and implement spill prevention and mitigation measures. Air Emissions . Update and install emissions controls on tank batteries such as vapor recovery units, combusters and high efficiency flares.. Implement gas gathering projects, third party commercial arrangements and natural gas capture 
at the wellhead to monetize natural gas and reduce flaring.. Green completions include containment of frac fluid flowback and natural gas emissions controls. Land Use . Build multi-well pads where possible to minimize land use and leverage operational efficiencies.. Encourage baseline assessments for population, archaeological, biological and environmental impacts to be conducted in accordance with internal guidelines. Contractor Management . Undertake systematic pre-qualification, selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract review of Hess contractors.. Apply formal, consistent and auditable standards for contractor management that include 
health, safety, environment and social responsibility. Community Engagement . Host open houses for leaseholders and public meetings for members of the community.. Meet routinely with community members and leaders where the company has an 
established presence.. Collaborate with community partners and state officials to ensure adequate infrastructure funding, with a specific focus on roads, to improve traffic safety and support road maintenance. *The exception to this practice is in North Dakota, where the state operates an established network of groundwater monitoring wells.