SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our company has integrated social responsibility (SR) into the way we do business every day, proactively engaging with communities and stakeholders in all our areas of operation. Hess’ approach to SR centers on three focus areas: stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that facilitate direct and indirect local benefits. These efforts help us to maximize our business value, manage social risks and impacts and create opportunities for stakeholders. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Hess’ commitment to ethical and responsible business practices begins with the Hess Values and Code of Conduct. The Hess Value of Social Responsibility commits us to meet the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. Our Code of Conduct describes the business conduct and behaviors that we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including our expectations regarding human rights. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. We collectively call these our “Voluntary Commitments.” They include: . The Universal Declaration of Human Rights . The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work . The United Nations (UN) Global Compact . The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights . The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) These Voluntary Commitments inform our Voluntary Commitments, to align them with SR, Human Rights, and Security and our changed asset portfolio and risk profile. Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, Organizational Structure for example, obligates us to demonstrate Hess deploys SR resources across the high standards of ethics and integrity and organization. To do this effectively, we have outlines our commitments to communities a core SR team combined with local and our workforce. Our Human Rights resources who are embedded with our Policy specifically prohibits child labor, assets and project teams. The role of the forced labor and workplace harassment  core team is to develop governance, advise in our operations; it also covers key executives, manage companywide socialissues relating to our supply chain and performance, provide technical and community engagement. Our Security functional support to the assets and project and Human Rights Policy sets forth teams, and provide assurance across these guidelines governing the use of force by efforts. The asset and project resources Hess employees and private security report into the business line management contractors employed by Hess, when structure and are responsible for such security is needed. These policies developing and executing asset- orare supported at the local level through project-specific SR plans. SR activities are training, toolkits and procedures specific integrated and aligned between the core to the needs of our operational locations. team at our operational headquarters in In early 2018 we initiated a review of the Houston and global locations. company processes that support our THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS United Nations member countries have adopted a set of 17 goals — called the Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs — as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is widely recognized that governments, civil society and the private sector must all play a role in achieving these ambitious goals. In 2017 Hess undertook a mapping exercise to review alignment between our current practices and the SDGs. The exercise revealed that our contributions align with eight of the 17 goals, with the greatest positive impact on the following two: Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning Our ongoing commitment to supporting quality education is evident through our ﬁnancial support for educational programs for young people, including Succeed 2020 in North Dakota, PRODEGE II in Equatorial Guinea, English literacy in Malaysia and LEAP 2.0 in Houston, all of which are discussed later in this section. While the ﬁrst two of these programs came to a close in 2017, education will continue to be a focus of our social investments. We invested more than $8 million in education in 2017, representing 54 percent of our overall social investment spend. Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth We prioritize hiring local workers across our areas of operation, and we purchase from local vendors where practicable. In Denmark and Malaysia, for example, local nationals represent 99 and 92 percent of employees at those locations, respectively. In 2017 we spent approximately $4 billion on local suppliers, or 85 percent of our total supplier spend for the year. In the U.S., we are supporting the development of local resources through the Job Experience Training program (discussed later in this section), as well as supporting current Hess employees through an early-career development program for engineers. Hess’ joint venture in Guyana also seeks to employ local nationals and support local suppliers. We plan to further evaluate the alignment of the SDGs with our material issues in 2018. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Effectively engaging with stakeholders in our host communities helps Hess to responsibly access the resources we require as an international energy company — from the earliest phases of our new country entry process through the decommissioning of an asset. Proactive, two-way and ongoing stakeholder engagement helps to establish a mutual understanding of expectations between Hess and those who live and work in our areas of operation. We understand that our success is in part tied to our ability to mitigate the potential risks associated with our activities, which could impact stakeholder relationships and public perception. We aim to create value through mutually beneficial opportunities with our stakeholders, which include communities, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors. Stakeholder Engagement Process Our stakeholder engagement process focuses on the proactive relationship- and trust-building opportunities created by meaningful engagement, as well as the business value that engagement brings when it is integrated as a part of project risk management. Consistent with our continuous improvement methodology, we follow a “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” cycle to direct our stakeholder management efforts. As the expectations, priorities and concerns of our stakeholders evolve, we adjust our approach to align with their needs and our business activities. In 2017 we reviewed our stakeholder engagement process and associated tools at our Bakken asset as part of the regular planning cycle. The result was a refreshed and robust engagement strategy, which will be integrated into the asset’s 2018 business plan. We will also continue to integrate stakeholder issues and engagement into our enterprise risk workshops and value assurance reviews. We are working with our other assets, as part of implementing our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, to develop STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS individualized plans for engaging with their priority stakeholders. Our Gulf of Mexico, Denmark and Ghana assets developed engagement plans in 2017, and our other assets are in various stages of developing their plans. Grievance Mechanisms We believe that developing strong and transparent relationships with communities and addressing potential issues early — before they may grow into more severe or widespread problems — helps to avoid incidents. At the same time, formal grievance mechanisms provide stakeholders with a means for sharing feedback with companies on their operational impacts, while also helping companies respond to and act on that feedback through an established process. Through the use of our grievance mechanisms, we aim to strengthen our relationships with communities and respond more effectively to their concerns. At our Bakken asset in North Dakota, we maintain a grievance mechanism called Hess Community Connection. Launched in 2015, this system accepts complaints (anonymously, if desired) through several access points, including via our Grievance Officer, Hess Owner Solutions team, North Dakota front desk staff and Surface Land department. We have reached out to community members through forums such as community meetings to share information about this grievance mechanism and explain how to contact us if they perceive a problem. Hess Community Connection receives and addresses concerns relating to employee or contractor performance, behavior and activities toward external stakeholders. We may also receive feedback on workplace, procurement, EHS and supplier issues. The most commonly raised topics include issues such as road conditions, erosion, land EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders — from local landowners and governments to community service agencies and indigenous groups. Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. CATEGORY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Residents, landowners, Land Users/Landowners commercial land interests, farmers, ranchers Continued to work through the Hess Community Connection to increase communication with stakeholders. Conducted annual meetings with landowners. Developed a new process for monitoring pipelines after construction to prevent potential issues. Donated funds to landowners who are ranchers and farmers to help feed their livestock during a drought. Integrated our Stakeholder Management System with Hess’ Owner Relations function, enabling us to improve information sharing between systems and decrease the turnaround time for answering questions and resolving grievances. Also, improved the user interface and accessibility of the website for owners. Hosted the governor of North Dakota and his staff on a ﬁeld tour of Hess facilities in the Bakken, to increase awareness of our operations, technology and safety. Hosted the director of the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston, to tour Hess’ Emergency Operations Center and brief him on safety measures and procedures in relation to severe weather and the impact on offshore operations. Also, a Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership. Implemented the Job Experience Training program in North Dakota, providing valuable work experience to students from Bismarck State College. Also, a Hess representative was appointed by the North Dakota governor to sit on the Innovative Education Task Force Advisory Committee, which is aimed at helping colleges meet the state’s workforce needs. Through our joint venture in Guyana, hosted open houses for key business associations and launched an oil and gas literacy series through the newly opened Centre for Local Business Development. Also through the joint venture, opened an online supplier registration portal aimed at providing greater opportunities to Guyanese suppliers. A Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. Leaders of Hess’ EHS and SR functions actively participated in IPIECA and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused on topics such as social responsibility, water, climate change, environment, health, safety and sustainability reporting. A Hess representative also served on the advisory board for the University of North Dakota’s Petroleum Engineering Program, the board of directors for the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce and the executive committee and board of directors for the North Dakota Petroleum Council. Participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the EITI and the UN Global Compact, to advance responsible business practices globally. A Hess representative served on the board of the North Dakota Outdoor Heritage Fund, a governor-appointed position. Helped to fund the construction of a mountain bike trail in Theodore Roosevelt National Park in North Dakota. Continued to sponsor the Scholars Program in Ghana, which has provided secondary, vocational, technical and health education to underprivileged students since 2012. Distributed food supplies, stoves and electrical equipment to almost 500 families affected by monsoon ﬂooding in Malaysia, where we work with nonproﬁt groups to identify and respond to community needs. Donated signiﬁcant funds and volunteer time to Hurricane Harvey relief efforts in Houston. Continued engagement with local ﬁshing villages in Ghana, through their Paramount Chiefs and community members, including providing updates on Hess business activities. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reclamation, fencing, cattle guards  and weeds. In 2017 we received 281 grievances through Hess Community Connection. When alerted to a potential issue, our response team draws employees from various disciplines within Hess such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources in order to reach a resolution. For example, safety concerns are forwarded to Hess’ EHS department; individual worker complaints are handled by Human Resources; and business integrity or ethics complaints are referred to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, we are able to escalate management of the grievance upward in the company as necessary to help resolve the issue. We maintain an internal database — the stakeholder management system (SMS) — to track these grievances from start  to completion. (The SMS also supports our stakeholder engagement process, described previously.) The response team strives to complete their investigation within 14 days of the original report and provide a response and/or resolution within 30 days. As a final step before closing a case, we contact the stakeholder to confirm they feel the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership Team as part of our weekly operating rhythm. As we continue to work toward the integration of formal grievance mechanisms at additional assets, we are relying on our existing manual tracking process at those assets to resolve issues in a timely manner. Separately, we maintain a grievance mechanism for landowners and mineral rights holders associated with all of our U.S. onshore assets. Specifically, we have a telephone hotline, webpage and email address through which these individuals can ask questions and share concerns and complaints. Our Owner Relations and Owner Support teams manage this system, and in 2017 they began using the SMS to track open issues and ensure they are resolved. During the year, we received more than 16,000 emails and 3,000 phone calls through this mechanism, approximately 2,500 of which developed into SMS cases to be tracked and addressed. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT When Hess enters a new country, commissions a new development or expands an existing facility, we engage with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities where we operate. As part of our strategic planning processes for these activities, we examine the social, political and reputational environment to identify nontechnical risks and mitigation activities. We address human rights considerations throughout the process, including during due diligence and social risk identification, mitigation and management. We also have a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that we utilize locally for training security personnel on human rights issues. In North Dakota, risk assessment and impact management are ongoing as we expand operations and choose new well pad locations. Elsewhere around the world, our business cycle is such that assessments have been completed in past years, with potential risks taken into account, incorporated into management plans and mitigated. Human Rights While we believe it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, we know that companies like ours must build trusted partnerships and treat all citizens with dignity and respect wherever we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by engaging with stakeholders to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. We have worked to align our business practices with our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at all phases of our business activities, beginning with new country entry. Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights as well as raising internal awareness of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). Over the years, we have invited external experts to provide human rights training to our employees around the globe. We also utilize an online human rights training module for employees that explains the concept of human rights and why they are important for Hess, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. We developed an internal SharePoint site focused on Hess’ SR policies and initiatives that covers our Voluntary Commitments, including the Voluntary Principles. Through that site, Hess employees can link to the Voluntary Principles website and key components of our security and human rights governance framework. The internal SharePoint site is updated periodically with additional reference materials, presentations and internal examples of security and human rights best practices. While we had planned to conduct security and human rights training for employees in Equatorial Guinea last year, the event was canceled due to the sale of that asset. Instead, we focused on due diligence related to that transaction during the latter portion of 2017. Implementation of the Voluntary Principles and human rights-related questions were part of the due diligence process. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING At Hess, we seek to be a responsible corporate citizen and to create positive, mutually beneficial relationships with our host communities. Our programs are focused on creating shared value in local communities and a favorable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets create, maintain and implement strategic social investment programs tailored to each operation and community. We evaluate our programs to confirm  a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us evolve along with the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations, projects best aligned with business and social risks and projects identified from social assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees. Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in our supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. Our programs generally fall into two categories: corporate-led, multi-year, larger-scale programs and asset-based projects with moderate funding levels. In 2017 our social investments totaled $15.7 million, with $8.5 million going toward education projects. Another $5.9 million was earmarked for economic development, health and capacity building. The remaining $1.3 million was for disaster relief efforts, mainly related to Hurricane Harvey recovery. Flagship Investments in Education Hess has been supporting two flagship social investment programs focused on developing secondary education systems and capacity: PRODEGE II and Succeed 2020. While these programs have been  an important cornerstone of Hess’ educational investment over the past five to eight years, we concluded our involvement in both programs in 2017 and are working to develop our forward-looking educational investment strategy in 2018. PRODEGE II The Program for Educational Development of Equatorial Guinea, or PRODEGE II, has been a partnership between Hess and the Equatorial Guinean government aimed at strengthening preschool, primary and junior secondary education in that country. This $50 million, public–private partnership has sought to increase the capacity of the education sector and improve the work of teachers, school directors and public officials in their policy making. Over the past eight years, PRODEGE has accredited almost 1,000 teachers and reached more than 135,000 students. The following are the program’s most significant results: . Launched a new professional development program to certify up to 1,500 preschool and primary school teachers; when fully implemented, this will decrease the number of unaccredited teachers by 33 percent. . Developed a new nationwide professional development program, focused on reinforcing active learning methods, for approximately 7,500 teachers in a peer-support network. 2017 Social Investment Spend by Country ($ Thousands) 67% U.S. $10,455 Equatorial Guinea $3,444 Guyana $1,365 Ghana $308 All Others* $98 *Includes Denmark, Malaysia and Norway. 2017 Social Investment Spend by Type of Investment ($ Thousands) 1% 1% 2% <1% Education $8,492   Community $4,302   Disaster Relief $1,281  Environment $877  In-Kind $348  Arts and Culture $194  Health $102  Civic and Employee $75 Note: These charts include all social investments in 2017, including those associated with joint-venture operations. . Developed the first Education Management Information System in the country, to accurately identify weaknesses in the educational system and make data-based policy decisions. . Assisted the Education Ministry’s Statistical Unit in annual data collection; this data has since been used to produce the census and educational reports of several international organizations, including the World Bank, the UN and UNICEF. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY . Developed the interventions needed by secondary schools to strengthen school management and improve the quality of teaching, including training more than 750 school directors and master teachers in instructional leadership and active learning, and training lead teachers and department heads at 137 public secondary schools in updated and innovative teaching methods for mathematics. We have transferred our role in the PRODEGE II program to the new operator of the Equatorial Guinea asset. We feel confident that the progress made during our participation will continue to pay dividends for the country’s education system for years to come. Succeed 2020 In North Dakota, we initiated the five-year Succeed 2020 program in 2012 with a $25 million grant to FHI 360, a nonprofit human development organization that ran the program. Succeed 2020 was implemented through the state’s Regional Education Associations (REAs). The program’s overarching goal was ambitious: The successful transition of all North Dakota students from secondary education to college and careers. The program sought to achieve this goal by implementing activities supporting access to and success in rigorous academic and career and technical education (CTE) programs, ongoing college and career counseling and planning, and targeted and coordinated support for students needing additional help. In 2017, the last year of the program, FHI 360 and the REAs assessed progress over the preceding five years and prepared for the transition to post-Succeed 2020 operations. Program outcomes revealed by the assessment include an 8 percentage point increase in the number of state scholarships and a 1 percentage point increase in high school completion rates. More than 90 percent of educators surveyed who took part in Succeed 2020’s professional development programs reported a positive change in their teaching practices and in student learning. Ninety-three percent of students surveyed reported knowing more about careers after taking part in the program. In addition, five REAs developed strategic plans and created or updated their human resources policies. During the 2016–2017 school year alone, more than 1,000 students took CTE courses and nearly 3,000 took part in career fairs, job shadows, internships and other career exploration activities. Overall, Succeed 2020 has served as a foundation and springboard for future advancements in North Dakota’s education system, with the REAs now poised to build on their accomplishments and continue helping students complete their educations and start their careers. We are currently evaluating inroads from Succeed 2020 and where future investment in education can link with Hess’ business needs, as demonstrated in the Job Experience Training program described in the next section. Local Program Highlights Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment, capacity building and infrastructure improvement opportunities in 2017. Continued Commitment to Education As illustrated in the previous two examples, Hess has long supported educational opportunities for children and young adults around the world. In 2017 Hess also teamed up with the British Council on a one-year project aimed at improving English literacy in three rural primary schools near our operations in Malaysia. While children in urban regions in Malaysia often go to special classes to learn English, those in rural areas do not always have that opportunity. With funding support from Hess, this project is helping to set up libraries in the three schools, conduct teacher training and mentor teachers to ensure the project’s sustainability. During the year, Hess Asia team members visited each of the three schools to meet with children and parents and assess the program’s progress. In the Houston area, Hess previously supported LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) — a three-year pilot program that sought to prevent at-risk middle school students from dropping out. That program concluded in 2016, so in 2017 Hess launched LEAP 2.0 in collaboration with the Greater Houston Community Foundation. LEAP 2.0 is a three-year program that will engage students at three elementary schools, one middle school and one high school. Among other activities, the program will give books to the elementary-aged students; offer a summer program for middle school students that focuses on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM); and provide college- and career-readiness training to high school students. Hess is contributing more than $500,000 annually to the program. Growing with Guyana Through our joint venture with Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited (EEPGL), Hess is focusing on three key areas of social investment in Guyana — spending with local suppliers, developing local resources and investing in the community. A key achievement for the joint venture in 2017 was the opening of the Centre for Business Development, which aims to further the capabilities of local Guyanese businesses by helping them build their capacity and improve their competitiveness; providing opportunities for procurement, as well as mentoring, coaching and financial support; and providing information on safety and technical standards. Through EEPGL, Hess will contribute approximately $460,000 to the Centre over a period of three years. EEPGL also hosted several training events for potential suppliers and employees in 2017. Two of the training events, which were open to government agencies and private-sector groups (including EEPGL waste contractors), focused on waste management and included both classroom SUPPORTING HURRICANE HARVEY RECOVERY IN HOUSTON In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Hess convened the cross-functional Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team (HHRT) to allow for a coordinated, holistic response to the needs of our employees and the greater Houston community. Hess’ HHRT executed a variety of actions to meet the following key objectives: . Implement an employee assistance program . Identify and mitigate business continuity issues . Deliver communications to stakeholders to help the workforce recover, meet business objectives, minimize disruption and enhance our reputation . Prioritize and implement a social responsibility program to support community recovery efforts . Capture lessons learned from the HHRT to develop standard work for future recovery efforts To address the needs of the community, we donated $1 million to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund (administered by the Greater Houston Community Foundation). This fund provided emergency supplies such as food, water and medicine, in addition to longer-term recovery assistance to help impacted individuals recover and rebuild. We also established a matching gift program for employees worldwide who wanted to make a personal donation to one of three relief organizations that our company would match, and we accelerated the annual United Way fundraising campaign in our Houston operational headquarters. These efforts raised $645,000, which was disbursed as follows: . $250,000 to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund . $55,000 to the American Red Cross . $340,000 to the United Way of Houston In addition, our Houston kitchen staff prepared 10,000 hot meals for evacuees and ﬁrst responders. We also donated 19,000 Hess Toy Trucks to ﬁrst responders for their holiday toy drives and to schools near our Houston ofﬁce to brighten the holidays for children impacted by the hurricane. The immediate emergency response efforts are discussed further in the Safety and Health section of this report, and the employee assistance program is further detailed in the Our People section. and field components. The summer apprenticeship program for reliability session covered general waste operators and craft personnel developed management principles and practices in collaboration with Bismarck State (i.e., waste management strategy and College. Driven by the need for qualified planning, waste management technologies personnel in North Dakota, we established and cost recovery), while the fall session the JET program to train potential focused on landfill design and operation. employees in our corporate culture and Other environmentally-focused trainings way of operating while also teaching them have covered oil spill management and the basics of several key Hess roles. The protected species observer certification. students, for their part, gain valuable job Hess is working closely with EEPGL to experience and earn academic credits. develop social investments planned for Four students took part in the first year the coming years. of the JET program; three of them were subsequently hired by either Hess or our Apprenticeships in North Dakota contractors. Although it began as aIn May 2017 our Bakken asset launched one-year pilot, JET is primed to continueJob Experience Training (JET), an  in 2018 with a new set of students. 