COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCESucceed 2020 Program, North DakotaSocial responsibility is a core value at Hess and fundamental to how we operate our business. We are committed to creating long lasting, sustainable relationships by engaging with and managing the impact we have on communities where we operate. We approach community investments strategically and continue to strengthen our focus on management systems for social opportunities and risks. In 2012 we conducted a workshop for our social responsibility practitioners in Asia Pacific to share experience and best practices in that region. A workshop for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region took place in early 2013. At our assets, staff members have received training in stakeholder engagement, social risk identification and management, strategic social investment and Hess voluntary commitments. Effective management of social responsibility positively affects our performance by increasing external stakeholder support and reinforcing the Hess culture internally.In 2012 we began to update our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Human Rights policies. We also developed a new Security and Human Rights Policy, which was launched in early 2013. These documents detail our commitments, through every phase of our business activity, to employees and the communities where we operate. 
They also set expectations for employees and contractors. Looking ahead, we are exploring ways to more firmly align our business practices with our CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy and Security and Human Rights Policy. For example, before Hess commences exploration activities in a country, our risk analysis now includes social responsibility and human rights as clear business risks that must be 
assessed. We recognize the need to rigorously manage social responsibility expectations in our relationships with suppliers and contractors and will continue to address this area as our internal programs evolve. We are starting to incorporate social responsibility awareness when we onboard new contractors.We strive to support the efforts of communities to 
improve their socioeconomic and environmental conditions. By building local capacity, we are able to contribute to sustainable development. To this end, we pursue support of various educational, vocational and economic development initiatives, which we will discuss in this section of the report. SOCIAL INVESTMENTS OVERVIEWWe recognize that strategic social investment enhances community and stakeholder engagement. It is central to advancing our goal to have a measurable, positive social impact in the communities where we operate. Education 
and health are key focus areas. Companies like ours rely on a well-educated workforce, and we recognize education and health are fundamental to sustainable economic development and building transparent and democratic societies.Hess works with communities where we operate to identify social impacts, contribute to economic development and support efforts that build long term value for residents and for Hess. Our investments in social projects are meant to improve quality of life, especially for those who live and work near our operations. In Thailand we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our multiyear social investment program during 2012, examining the types and amounts of investments that were made since work began there in 2005, and analyzing the measurable outcomes of those efforts. The study, which incorporated input from stakeholders, suggested ways to enhance several ongoing projects and strengthen stakeholder relationships. 
These recommendations included promoting knowledge sharing from past and ongoing projects within the local communities, maintaining a monitoring program to encourage dialogue with the communities, and continuing to identify the right strategic partners for each project. The study also identified the need for better communication around our social investments and emphasized the importance of appropriate human and financial resources to ensure the sustainability of social investment programs. We plan to incorporate the general findings from Thailand into our management of social investments across our portfolio.In 2012 our social investment and in-kind contributions totaled $40 million. More than $18 million of our investment went toward education projects in communities where we operate. We invested nearly $9 million in community 
projects aimed at economic development, health and capacity building. We also invested approximately $3.5 million for in-kind donations of products, primarily Hess Toy Trucks donated to Toys for Tots® and other social service agencies during the holiday season and in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy in the New York City Metropolitan Area.MAJOR INITIATIVESSucceed 2020We continued our support of education in North Dakota, where we have been a major producer of oil and gas for 
60 years. Succeed 2020, a five year, $25 million program, assists students as they prepare for college, careers and 
the workplace, beginning in the middle school grades. 
The statewide program supports college and career counseling for students, professional development for teachers, distance learning to expand access to career 
and technical education, tutoring and other approaches 
that address specific regional objectives. This far-reaching program is an investment in the future of North Dakota communities and the sustainability of the workforce there.We have already committed $5 million to support planning and implementation activities within each of the eight Regional Education Associations (REAs) in North Dakota. Through our non-profit partner, FHI 360, the initiative has enabled REAs 
to hire staff to manage the program, coordinate stakeholder involvement and monitor progress. Implementation of new educational programs such as enhanced teacher training 
and development of business partnerships will begin in several parts of the state during 2013. More information is available at NDSucceed2020.org.PRODEGEOur flagship social responsibility project in Equatorial Guinea (EG) is PRODEGE (Programa de Desarrollo Educativo de Guinea Ecuatorial). Phase 1 of this initiative, completed in 2012, resulted in significant improvements in primary education, establishing model classrooms for active learning in 54 schools nationwide and providing teacher training and certification opportunities for nearly 1,000 primary school teachers. Along with our non-profit partner, FHI 360, a global leader in educational development, PRODEGE has contributed to the ability of the country’s Ministry of Education to collect and analyze data on student achievement and teacher capacity and to develop effective education strategies.Phase 2 will build on these successes, using the practical experience gained from the first five years of the initiative. Hess has committed an additional $25 million for the period 2013 through 2017. The Government of EG is also providing $25 million. Phase 2 will focus on improving the quality of secondary education through teacher training and the development of instructional materials. The program will also continue to build management capacity at the Ministry of Education. Some resources will be dedicated to sustaining key achievements of Phase 1 and ensuring that children enter school ready to learn. The program plan states that by 2017 the Ministry of Education will sustain PRODEGE through the in-house capacity and expertise developed through the program.SOCIAL RISKWe recognize that a responsible business must manage its impact on people, the environment and financial performance. For the global oil and gas industry, above ground risks such as stakeholder opposition, environmental concerns and safety issues can contribute to delaying large capital projects.During 2012 we examined in detail these risks and the opportunities they offered at eight Hess projects. Our 
aim was to assess financial value erosion associated 
with non-technical risk. These efforts showed the value 
of continuing to integrate social risk management into our corporate enterprise risk processes, while also highlighting the benefit of maintaining a good corporate reputation and strong stakeholder relationships.Major Hess operations are required to map stakeholders and develop an engagement plan. We also encourage each of our sites to develop, maintain and implement a strategic social investment program to help address the management of these risks and opportunities. In 2012 we conducted a high level risk assessment in North Dakota and an environmental and social impact assessment for our Utica Shale project in Ohio, including a high level quantitative analysis of several risk factors. These included screening for potential risks associated with cultural heritage sites and artifacts.HUMAN RIGHTSWhile it is governments’ responsibility to protect human rights, companies like Hess must act with care and respect for the human rights of all citizens wherever they operate. 
The Hess Values and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct) provide a foundation for our commitments to ethical and responsible business practices. We revised our Code of Conduct in 2012 to include specific reference to human rights. As discussed earlier in this report, we began updating the Hess Human Rights and CSR policies in 2012. The new Security and Human Rights Policy, approved in early 
2013, established our commitment to engage security providers in a manner that is consistent with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. We have also drafted human rights-related contract clauses for high 
level investment agreements with the goal of eventually incorporating this language consistently into future agreements. Similar language is already being incorporated into supplier contracts.Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by engaging with the community to proactively address potential issues. We operate in complex environments that can be politically and physically challenging. This presents us with 
an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law and social and economic development. To that end, we have initiated a process to establish formal mechanisms for reporting grievances at each of our operations. We drafted 
a guidance document to help users develop their own site-specific mechanism and will begin a pilot grievance mechanism program in 2013, in partnership with IPIECA, at one of our North American assets. We plan to incorporate lessons learned from that pilot into the business plans of 
all Hess assets.There were no instances of involuntary resettlement 
during 2012.Voluntary InitiativesHess has endorsed or formally joined a number of international voluntary initiatives that pledge to promote human rights, protect the environment and encourage financial transparency:. United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas 
of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
is a multi-stakeholder initiative involving governments, companies and non-governmental organizations that promotes implementation of a set of principles that guide oil, gas, and mining companies on providing security for their operations while respecting human rights.. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative is an 
effort to strengthen implementation of the principles to 
increase transparency of payments and revenues in 
the extractive sector.. United Nations Declaration on Human Rights was issued by the United Nations in 1948 and represents the first global expression of rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled.. International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work is an expression of commitment by governments and employers’ and workers’ organizations to uphold basic human values.We are active in IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. We 
served in a leadership role as co-chair of IPIECA’s Voluntary Principles task force in 2012 and in 2013 we will assume 
the role of co-chair of the Social Responsibility Working Group. In addition, we engage within our industry and across other business sectors on CSR matters and business and human rights policy and implementation.Risk AssessmentsPrior to pursuing project opportunities in new countries, 
or substantially expanding operations into a new region, Hess undertakes a review and analysis process called New Country Entry to examine both technical and non-technical risks. In 2012 we updated the New Country Entry process and incorporated security and human rights issues more formally into the analysis. We also contracted with an independent global risk analysis consultant to commission country risk reports that include an examination of security and human rights issues at assets in our current portfolio, 
as well as for prospective areas of interest.In potential high-risk areas Hess commissions third party human rights risk assessments. Conducted on the ground, these assessments identify risks to Hess projects and staff, as well as to the surrounding communities. A third party human rights risk assessment is currently underway for 
our operations in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Previous assessments have been completed in Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Algeria and EG.Training and AwarenessWe educate our employees on the importance of respecting human rights and are committed to raising internal awareness of the Voluntary Principles and other voluntary initiatives. We have developed an online training module for all employees that explains human rights and why they are important to our business. The training course reviews the company’s Human Rights Policy, offers employees guidance on integrating respect for human rights into their daily work and provides direction on how to report suspected human rights violations. We are implementing a phased rollout of the online module in 2013. Every new employee will be required to review the module within 90 days of hire.In 2012 we established an intranet site focused on all of our voluntary commitments, with links to the relevant policies and Code of Conduct. We plan to expand the site with additional reference materials, presentations and guidance during the coming year. CSR staff made presentations and held formal discussions on human rights and Hess’ voluntary commitments at several global locations during 2012, including Australia, Indonesia, EG and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, as well 
as our U.S. offices in Houston, Woodbridge, N.J. and 
New York City. We participated in the Voluntary Principles December 2012 workshop in Jakarta, Indonesia, which provided guidance and tools for implementing the principles as part of our regular business practices. Hess staff who attended the December 2012 workshop shared the information with those on the Indonesia staff who could 
not attend.SecurityThe Code of Conduct prohibits the use of military or 
police personnel services except where required by local authorities or in cases of emergency. We contract for security services from private contractors in those areas where such services are required. Our operations contract for these services locally with support from our global security and global supply chain functions.We expect security providers to adhere to applicable international law enforcement principles, humanitarian law and human rights law. Hess introduced new contract clauses in 2011 covering security and human rights expectations to its upstream business. The new contract clauses require our security contractors to communicate our human rights, social responsibility and ethical expectations to their employees and subcontractors, as well as demonstrate compliance. The aim is to ensure delivery of 
a consistent message of performance expectations for security contractors and drive consistency across Hess’ operations. In 2013 we plan to work together with our global supply chain colleagues to review our progress and identify measures for implementation and assurance in this area.In the event of a security incident with human rights implications, a report is made to the head of global security. Reports are also issued for those occurrences that highlight potential future risk such as peaceful community protests. We are not aware of any human rights violations in 2012. Labor PracticesHess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, creed, national origin or disability. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, Human Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies.The company has not identified significant risk in our global workforce for child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or violations of the right to freely associate and bargain collectively. We do not permit the employment of underage children or the use of forced labor in our global workforce. This is also enforced in our contract language on labor practices. We recognize and respect our employees’ rights to join associations and engage in collective bargaining in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules, regulations and local customs. Freedom of AssociationWhen commissioning country risk reports from our third party vendors, risks associated with labor rights, including freedom of association and collective bargaining, are included and reviewed.Hess employs unionized and non-represented workers 
in hourly job classifications. In 2012 approximately 6 
percent of employees were represented by 19 collective bargaining agreements. For major operational changes, such as layoffs and facility closures, we comply with advance notification requirements specified in collective bargaining agreements and labor regulations. These notices are typically 60 to 90 days for locations with 50 or more employees and 14 to 28 days 
for locations with fewer than 50 employees.Social Investment by Country $ ThousandType of Investment$ Thousand Education $18,570 Community $8,763 Disaster Relief $5,013 In-Kind $3,491 Arts & Culture $1,944 Health $1,712 Environment $88 U.S. $20,630 Equatorial Guinea $6,381 Malaysia $5,151 Peru $3,862 Russia $1,323 Libya $525 Indonesia $455 St. Lucia $306 Ghana $219 All Others $729GHANAEducation Program Hess partners with the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, the national oil company of Ghana, and Montrose, a third party international development services company, to annually provide scholarships to promising students, with a particular emphasis on education for girls and women. Young people from three school districts in western Ghana are eligible for the awards. Criteria for selection include a quantitative assessment score, recommendations from the community, financial need and gender. The scholarship covers the cost of tuition, fees, textbooks and uniforms at specific vocational and nursing schools that have been selected to participate. As long as a scholarship recipient maintains high achievement, the scholarship continues for the duration of the student’s academic program, either two or three years. Representatives from the Scholars’ Program staff monitor the educational offerings at the schools and follow the students’ progress to optimize the effectiveness of grants.This initiative was created as a result of a baseline needs assessment conducted by Hess in 2011 with input from stakeholder groups. During its first funded year, the Scholars’ Program supported 71 Ghanaian students, among them 35 females.Hess-sponsored Scholarship Program, GhanaCOMMUNITY ACTIVITIESUNITED STATESSuperstorm Sandy Relief EffortsIn the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, the severe storm that swept through the New York metropolitan area in October 2012, Hess Corporation donated $5 million for recovery efforts. The funds were split evenly between the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City and the Hurricane Sandy New Jersey Relief Fund. Employees also had the opportunity to donate to these two organizations, with Hess matching their contributions. Our gifts included approximately 50,000 Hess Toy Trucks that were donated to children in families affected by the storm.KURDISTAN REGION OF IRAQSupporting Local TraditionsStakeholder relationships have been especially important in our ability 
to identify and develop community projects in Kurdistan. Hess cooperated with local government officials to select opportunities where we could help improve public access to scenic spaces and picnic facilities. We are constructing 75 tables with bench seating, as well 
as 15 waste bin structures at three sites in our Dinarta license area. These improvements will allow many families to enjoy the outdoors while pursuing a popular local tradition of picnicking. The local governments have committed to regular waste pickups at the sites.EQUATORIAL GUINEAPromoting BiodiversityBioko Island, off the coast of Equatorial Guinea, is home to diverse species of wildlife, including the endangered leatherback sea turtle and drill monkey. Hess invested $75,000 during 2012 to support a variety of wildlife conservation projects conducted through an academic partnership with Drexel University in Philadelphia and the National University of Equatorial Guinea in Malabo. The multi-faceted program provides educational materials for children, collects data on turtle nesting sites and trains residents to monitor and protect the turtles during nesting season.COMMUNITY ACTIVITIESLIBYAIMC Nurse TrainingFollowing a civil war that began 
in 2011, Libya experienced a shortage of medical supplies 
and skilled medical professionals, especially nurses. Hess is supporting International Medical Corps as it increases the number of Libyan nurses and enhances the quality of training and professional standards. Hess contributed $500,000 in 
2012 and has committed another 
$1 million for 2013.THAILANDFuel from BiogasWe fund a project in three small Thai villages to obtain biogas from livestock manure. The gas is used as cooking fuel. The Thai government piloted the project 
and in 2012 Hess supported its expansion to provide biogas to 42 families. The initiative reduces fuel costs, improves environmental conditions by better managing animal waste and involves close cooperation with villagers in program planning and execution.INDONESIAApprenticeship ProgramIn 2012 we continued to support an apprenticeship program at our Indonesia assets. The curriculum 
and instruction were provided by Hess operations and human resources 
staff. We offered a six-month training program for recent university graduates so they could gain valuable skills through on-the-job assignments, supplemented by classroom learning and mentoring. The 2012-2013 class included 15 apprentices. Corporate Social Responsibility Workshop, Jakarta, IndonesiaCountry Manager Toolkit on Security and Human Rights The creation of our Country Manager Toolkit on Security and Human Rights was a major advancement in 2012. The Toolkit guides the field-level implementation of the Voluntary Principles. Given the nature of the oil and gas industry and the broad range of locations and cultures in which we operate, we recognized the need for specific guidance to help our employees address challenging situations regarding security and human rights. The Toolkit covers key topics, including stakeholder mapping and engagement, risk assessments and relations with public and private security. It includes tools and templates for employees to use in identifying and tracking potential security and human rights risks. Specific guidelines cover how to interact with public sector and private security providers. The Toolkit also includes a section devoted to managing transfers of equipment and supplies when interacting with either public or private security providers, to minimize security and human rights risks.We will pilot the Toolkit during 2013 in a broad, multidisciplinary process that includes each of the key functions that contribute to effective implementation of the Voluntary Principles.SAFETY AND HEALTHStena Forth Drillship, Gulf of MexicoHess strives for safe and incident free operations for the safety and wellbeing of our workforce, the environment and the communities where we do business. This goal is fundamental to our company’s culture and integral to our strategy, values and business decisions. We believe no task is so important that we cannot do it safely.The inherent hazards in the activities of the oil and gas industry, ranging from the operation of drill rigs to the management of all our facilities and transportation are routinely identified, assessed and managed. Systematically managing these risks is essential to safe operations. We have developed a comprehensive set of Hess Rules for our employees and contractors. The Hess Rules focus on control of seven high fatality risk activities associated with our industry. The Hess Rules are mandatory. Everyone associated with the Hess organization is expected to comply, regardless of the type or location of his or her work.Our approach to management of health and safety risks extends beyond activities under our operational control to our supply chain and partnerships. We seek to ensure that our partners’ safety and health systems and programs align with ours. We insist on transparency from our partners and we undertake appropriate reviews to ensure commitments are being met. We monitor a range of leading and lagging safety and health metrics across the enterprise, consistent with available industry guidance and standards. These metrics are regularly reported to the appropriate levels of management within the organization. Locally, leading safety and health metrics are tailored to address the challenges presented by our diverse lines of business and their operating environments.To gauge our performance against industry peers we conduct periodic formal benchmarking exercises. We learn from others’ best practices and share our best practices with members of our industry. We strive for continuous improvement of performance while acknowledging areas that pose challenges.We know that an engaged and informed workforce is essential to safer work environments. Workforce safety committees at Hess play a lead role in ongoing site safety culture improvements at operating and office locations. The composition of each safety committee varies by location and type of operation, but typically includes managers, salaried and hourly employees including those represented by collective bargaining agreements, contractors and safety professionals. Committee responsibilities typically include developing site safety goals, identifying and prioritizing safety activities and reviewing safety issues, incidents, near misses and related investigations.SAFETY LEADERSHIPAt Hess leaders at all levels drive our safety culture, working under the philosophy of “no harm now or ever.” During 
2012 we further strengthened our safety culture across all business levels.Hess is working with third party subject matter experts to develop an Executive Safety Leadership Program to further embrace safety, engage and energize the organization and make improvements that are visible companywide. During 2012 a group of 23 senior leaders participated in a safety leadership reflection and planning exercise. We have increased discussion of safety leadership among members of our management team and can now develop effective goals for the future.We expect every employee and contractor to be a safety leader. In our Exploration and Production (E&P) business 
we are taking steps to improve safety performance by implementing a peer-to-peer behavior-based program in 
our North Dakota and West Texas operations. Workers 
are trained to observe each other on the job and provide feedback regarding “safe” and “at risk” behaviors. In 2011 we implemented a North Dakota Safety Improvement Program in response to an increase in safety incidents. 
In 2012 we reevaluated and advanced our North Dakota contractor management program. By increasing leadership presence in the field, contractor engagement and targeted process improvements, we achieved a 36 percent improvement in our North Dakota workforce (employee and contractor) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2012. With a strong presence in the shale energy business, we are working with contractors and industry partners to improve overall safety performance in North Dakota.PERSONAL SAFETYTragically, we suffered two fatalities during 2012. A male contractor working at our Eagle Ford asset in Texas died during rig move operations and a female employee working at a retail store in Carlisle, Pa., was shot and killed during a robbery. These events remind us that we must continuously strive to maintain a safe working environment for everyone 
at Hess. The following personal safety metrics, as defined by the 
U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), are tracked by each of our operations and reported at the corporate level: TRIR, Lost Time/Restricted Duty Incident Rate (LT/RD), Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and fatalities 
(all rates are per 200,000 hours*). In addition, local assets track first aid cases, near misses and unsafe acts in support of their local programs and continuous improvement. Our TRIR of 0.63 was a 13 percent year-on-year improvement. However, we fell just short of achieving our annual safety target for the total workforce (employees 
and contractors). This improvement demonstrated the effectiveness of measures put in place in 2011 to address 
a decline in contractor safety performance, and continuous improvement in our Retail Marketing business. Our 2012 TRIR, the company’s best since we began tracking workforce data in 2004, was achieved at a time when total workforce hours increased 19 percent, mainly in our shale energy business. The U.S. shale energy business, which tends to have higher incident rates, now accounts for 32 percent of our total workforce hours and continues to grow. In 2012 we improved the employee component of our total workforce safety by nearly 30 percent, surpassing our 2011 record for best companywide TRIR. The safety performance of our contractors improved by 4 percent in 2012, even though contractor hours increased 31 percent during the same time period due primarily to the continued growth of our U.S. shale energy business.During 2012 our E&P business undertook a “Serious Injury and Fatality” study. The study helped identify underlying factors associated with the most serious incidents we have experienced and enabled us to focus our programs and resources on reducing their likelihood.CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENTContractors comprise 60 percent of the company’s total workforce and 81 percent of the workforce in our E&P business. As a result we maintain a particular focus on contractor management.In recent years the company established a contractor management program to address the fundamentals of contractor prequalification, selection, monitoring and review, with an emphasis on those contractors in our business who are engaged in activities with the highest risk potential.During prequalification, we engage recognized industry prequalification organizations when they are available, particularly in the U.S. and the U.K. Where recognized industry prequalification organizations are not available, we use in-house prequalification processes, including a full review of safety programs, safety performance and regulatory track record. Subsequently we select contractors following a thorough assessment and verification of bid submissions, 
with evaluation outcomes integrated into overall bid selection criteria alongside commercial and technical assessments.In response to declining contractor safety performance within our North American shale energy business, 
we further strengthened our program. Our four-step 
contractor Onboarding and Engagement Program was 
fully executed, ensuring: 1) Expectations are clearly defined and understood 2) The person in charge and communication routes are 
clearly identified 3) Job-related hazards and risks are assessed and communicated 4) Contractor performance is monitored and reviewed while work is performed A senior leader contractor engagement program was developed and tracked through 2012. For our contractors whose workers engage in the highest risk activities, the program connects our senior leaders with theirs on managing the key risks associated with these operations.PROCESS SAFETYLike our industry peers we continue to focus on and strengthen our approach to process safety. Hess uses the American Petroleum Institute (API) and OGP guidance definition of process safety: “A disciplined framework for managing the integrity of hazardous operating systems and processes by applying good design principles, engineering and operating and maintenance practices.” In practice this means we employ:. Design integrity – ensuring that we design and build our facilities so that the risks are as low as reasonably practical . Technical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining 
our hardware. Operational integrity – ensuring that we work within the operational design parameters. Process safety leadership – ensuring that our leaders are equipped to manage the risk of catastrophic eventsIn early 2011 Hess launched an Operational Excellence Action Project whose aim was to evaluate and reduce the risk of catastrophic events at E&P and Marketing and Refining (M&R) locations worldwide. The project established a clear vision for the company based on practices seen downstream in the petrochemicals industry. It is our vision that process safety is an essential element of the organization’s culture and considered in every business decision.We ramped up our process safety preparedness efforts 
in 2012 with the implementation of a focused process safety program across the enterprise. This program addresses three strategic elements: improving process safety leadership; strengthening process safety governance, support and assurance; and deepening engagement and reinforcing accountability. The program contains four action areas to strengthen process safety over the next two years: . Process safety governance and support structures – 
We have expanded our professional process safety staff resources and formed an enterprise-wide work group to develop and deliver improvements to process safety management systems and practices. In 2013 we will establish a steering team comprised of senior leaders who will provide high level guidance and visibility to the program, which will be led by a vice president of Process Safety.. Process safety Global Standards to define minimum expectations – Plans are in place to develop enterprise-wide standards for process safety during 2013. The standards will draw on industry best practice. . Process safety – We began an assessment of each facility’s process safety management and introduced 
Hess Indicators for Process Safety (HIPS). Our audit 
and assurance mechanisms will be revised in 2013 to 
integrate process safety more explicitly.. Process safety accountabilities and responsibilities – 
Plans are in place in 2013 to deliver process safety awareness training for plant personnel and a cross-section of leaders at the middle and senior levels. As noted earlier, in 2012 we implemented process safety metrics monitoring and reporting companywide in accordance with API and OGP guidance. The Hess Indicators for Process Safety (HIPS) focus on loss of primary containment events that meet agreed industry criteria for Tier 1 (greater consequence) or Tier 2 (lesser consequence) process safety events. There have been 12 Tier 1 and 27 Tier 2 process safety events since we began HIPS reporting in April 2012. A review of these events identified the need to continuously improve the quality and effectiveness of our process safety incident investigations, maximize what we learn from these events and improve our process safety performance. In 2013 we will focus on how we can better identify causal factors and develop appropriate corrective actions to prevent reoccurrence of process safety events. We will also review our use of leading process safety metrics and align fully with industry guidance for leading Tier 3 and Tier 4 metrics, which track challenges to safety systems and weaknesses in facility specific processes and systems.EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSEIn the event of unanticipated disruptions, our obligations include the protection of human life, property and the environment. To meet these obligations in all our regions of operation and at all our operations, each region has its own Emergency Response Network that spans four operational levels – local, geographic, regional and corporate. Each level is comprised of personnel trained in their roles and responsibilities for incident response and mitigation.Crisis and emergency management plans are in place and routinely exercised across the enterprise to ensure a systematic and effective approach during any incident. 
These plans cover everything from oil spills and well control to business continuity and restoration. We routinely participate in emergency exercises and drills and engage in local emergency management efforts. Lessons we learn from real incidents, exercises and industry events are routinely incorporated into our plans. We maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at local, regional and global levels. Hess is a member of several spill response and well control cooperative organizations, including Oil Spill Response Limited, Marine Well Containment Company, Subsea Well Response Project, Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group and Clean Gulf Associates. Strategic relationships are also maintained with contractors who provide tools, systems and personnel to Hess for emergency preparedness and response activities.CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S AWARD FOR 
SAFETY EXCELLENCEThe Chief Executive Officer’s Award for Safety Excellence provides senior leaders with opportunities to reinforce the connection between safety and the success of our business. Nominations are accepted for Hess team and joint venture achievements that demonstrate outstanding and sustainable safety performance results with a wide reaching impact on 
the organization.Annual awards are presented to the operation that has been most effective in improving and sustaining its safety culture and performance. The E&P and M&R presidents present additional awards for safety excellence within their respective businesses. In 2012 we introduced a Special Recognition category to engage and recognize achievements in our local businesses.GLOBAL SAFETY APPRECIATION DAYOur annual Global Safety Appreciation Day gives 
senior leaders an additional opportunity to engage with 
the workforce, reinforce the importance of safety to our business, reflect on progress and successes and describe the path to continued improvement. Hess employees and contractors at more than 100 locations observe Global Safety Appreciation Day with a variety of meetings and activities. The event includes a video broadcast safety message from the members of the Hess Leadership Team focusing on global improvement priorities. In 2012 corporate leaders and their workforce peers presented safety tips with an emphasis on risk assessment and management, process safety, contractor safety management, Hess Rules, assurance and lessons-learned, as well as the application of the “Plan, Do, Check and Adjust” framework. HEALTH AND WELLNESSWe continue to promote employee health, encouraging a balanced and productive lifestyle at work and at home through the implementation of our unified health and wellness strategy. We have adopted eight elements of 
health management consistent with OGP and IPIECA health performance indicators, which are also used by many of our industry peers. These elements include health risk planning and impact assessments, control of workplace exposures, management of medical emergencies and ill-health in the workplace, fitness for task assessments, health reporting and record management, public health interfacing and promoting good health. Our company is proactive in identifying health needs and priorities at Hess locations around the world. We ensure 
our employees are protected from potential health hazards associated with work operations, travel and other job-related activities. We continue to enhance our fitness-for-work programs and routinely perform pre-placement assessments to confirm that our employees’ health is compatible with their work assignments.In the U.S. a variety of health management resources and tools focused on cardiovascular health, musculoskeletal disease, mental health and chronic disease management were offered to our employees to help them meet their personal health and wellness objectives. These objectives may involve exercise, diet and nutrition, weight control, stress management, tobacco cessation and chronic disease management. Employee resilience is the cornerstone of our future approach to health and wellness. Decreased health risks and improvements in employee health lead to improved mental focus, morale and productivity, as well as decreased injuries, illness, disability and lost work. As we continue to focus on establishing a culture of health, we will introduce additional metrics around the impact of our efforts in each of these areas.To evaluate our performance, health metrics are tracked monthly and data are compared over the prior 13 months to identify trends. Among others, these metrics include hearing conservation measurements and fitness-for-duty exams. 
They are evaluated regionally and for the entire U.S. Data for the U.K. and other regions will be incorporated and tracked 
in 2013.Our current focus areas include the prevention of hearing loss for our workers, raising awareness of workers in our shale energy business regarding exposures to silica dust, and protecting the health of workers who may be exposed to a variety of illnesses and diseases. Our industry operations span various geographies including developing countries. Hess takes steps to protect the 
health of its workers who may be exposed to diseases common in the developing world and to regionally prevalent illnesses. Employees and contractors are provided with education on health topics impacting the regions where we operate, including information about malaria, HIV, tuberculosis and blood-borne pathogens. Prior to international travel all employees are counseled on specific regional health risks within the destination country and vaccinations are reviewed and provided when appropriate. Additionally, expatriates and their family members at locations around the world have access to counseling focusing on a variety of topics including: health improvement, mental health, parenting, aging and caring for parents.Workforce Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 HoursWorkforce Hours (Employees and Contractors)Million Manhours U.S. North Dakota 20.5 U.S. Retail 14.4 U.S. E&P Headquarters 3.8 U.S. Other 8.5 Equatorial Guinea 3.0 Indonesia 2.7 Denmark 2.3 Malaysia & Thailand 1.9 U.K. 1.3 Algeria 1.1 Australia 1.1 International Remainder 2.5 Workforce LTIR TRIR Target (Workforce) Workforce TRIR Workforce LT/RDEmployee and Contractor Safety PerformanceCases per 200,000 Hours Contractor TRIR      Employee TRIR*When calculating LTIR, scheduled work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Absenteeism and Occupational Disease Rate are not primary metrics for Hess, and are therefore not tracked.Seminole Gas Processing Plant, TexasNORTH DAKOTALand TransportationThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health reported in December 2012 that the rate of motor vehicle deaths in the oil and gas industry is nearly 8.5 times greater than most other industries. The leading causes of vehicle crashes are driver fatigue and failure to adopt safe practices, such as maintaining speeds appropriate to conditions and consistently wearing seat belts. Our North America shale energy business typically requires frequent trips to remote well sites. Between 2010 and 2012 the number of vehicle miles driven in this sector of our business increased 273 percent to 6.8 million miles. The business continues to expand. As a result, since we began our efforts to intensify 
our focus on land transport safety, no Hess employee or contractor has been involved in a serious traffic incident. This record is encouraging in light of the rapid increase in vehicle miles driven, which have risen more than 30 percent since 2010, and the industry record of fatalities on roads in the oil counties of North Dakota.In 2007 Hess adopted the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) 365: Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice as 
the basis for our land transportation safety standard. We apply industry best practices for drivers of our company-owned vehicles through developed driver management systems. Hess has 424 vehicles in North Dakota with in-vehicle monitors. We monitor and track driver behavior and vehicle speed to identify unsafe behavior and inform discussions aimed to promote corrective behavior. All employees and direct contractors who drive on company business must take a proactive driving course that includes an hour-long driving assessment. During the past three years we have trained 870 employees. In addition, we collaborate with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the North Dakota State Patrol and the North Dakota Petroleum Council to continuously improve the driving practices of our contractors.A full time Journey Management Coordinator has been assigned to enhance the program. Journey Management Plans are well organized and required for all trips considered moderate or high risk. Drivers are required to enter their trip details into a computer-based Journey Management Board. The Operations Control Center in Tioga monitors the Board 24/7 and contacts the supervisor of any overdue employees. Discussions are held routinely to challenge the need for trips and to assess road risk in adverse weather.THAILANDSinphuhorm Incident A process safety event early in 2012 at the Sinphuhorm Gas Processing Plant in northeastern Thailand involved the inadvertent release of gas emissions from the plant’s thermal oxidizer. Soon 
after the event a two-day evaluation workshop was initiated at which five generic root causes for the incident were identified:. Inadequate plant expertise. Potentially improper operations becoming routine. Equipment operability. Work management. Safety culture Soon after the incident, but before the findings 
from the workshop could be implemented, an explosion occurred at the plant. It destroyed a piece of equipment called a boil-off tank. There were no injuries associated with either event.However, the explosion caused the plant to shut down and disrupted the local natural gas supply during Songkran, a major Thai holiday celebrating 
the new year. We responded immediately to the incident, engaged extensively with members of the community and worked swiftly and safely to resume operations at the plant. Following plant start-up we also promptly investigated and alleviated community concerns that followed reports of odors from the plant. A subsequent evaluation of the event validated that the five generic root causes initially identified also caused the explosion. Those causes have become the focus of preventative planning going forward. 2012 Process Safety Events Tier 1     Tier 2Emergency Response Exercise, North DakotaOkume Complex, Equatorial GuineaHealth Screening, Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development AreaGLOBAL WORKFORCEHess Learning Center, Houston, TexasHess’ success relies on a company culture and high quality workforce that continues to innovate, lead and learn. In 2012 we examined the Hess culture, our environment 
for innovation, attracting and retaining talent, diversity 
and inclusion and our methods to promote learning, development and leadership. With this process we aim 
to improve the way we manage our talented workforce 
in support of our business objectives.EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICSAs of December 31, 2012 Hess employed more than 
13,200 people (excluding Hetco front office and Russia operations), an increase of approximately 2 percent over 2011. Ninety percent of our employees worked in 
the U.S. and more than two thirds worked in our retail operations. In 2012, 23 percent of our employees were 
part time and 61 percent were hourly employees. To understand employee dynamics in the context of our future business needs, we assess various statistics that describe the composition of our workforce. We hired 723 people in 2012. The voluntary turnover rate for the Hess workforce (excluding retail hourly employees) was 6.8 percent in 2012. Voluntary turnover rates were lower among women and employees under 30 and over 50 years of age. Fewer than 1 percent of employees at operated assets were laid off in 2012 because their positions were eliminated. During the first quarter of 2013, we closed our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility and announced our intention to focus exclusively on Exploration and Production (E&P) and exit the downstream businesses, including Energy Marketing and Retail Marketing operations. This business focus will require substantive changes to our existing workforce during the coming months. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIONHess continues to develop, retain and advance a diverse workforce based on traditional measures of diversity (e.g., gender, ethnicity), as well as aspects of diversity that go beyond traditional categories. Our definition of diversity includes cultural and physical differences, as well as 
diversity of background, experience and perspective. Gender diversity and ethnic background metrics for our employees were similar to those in the prior year. Forty percent of our employees are female. Our U.S. employee base is 38 percent minority according to the U.S. Department of Labor definition. Adding to our diverse mix 
of employees, 46 percent of new hires in the U.S. were women or minorities. The age distribution of our workforce is similar to prior years, though the average age of our employees increased slightly from last year. In 2012 four women were appointed to Hess executive positions — Chief Compliance Officer, Vice President Corporate Social Responsibility, Vice President Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility (EHS&SR) and Chief Information Officer, Exploration and Production, increasing the proportion of female executives by 4 percent. For our non-U.S. workforce, we emphasize diversity by hiring and developing skilled local nationals as part of the Hess workforce and local leadership.Workforce LocalizationIn keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals 
in our operations around the world. As in all areas of our business, our Global Talent Acquisition group hires local workers with exceptional professional qualifications and 
who are aligned with the Hess culture and values. Ten percent of the Hess workforce was located outside 
the U.S. in 2012. Two percent of our employees were in Africa, 3 percent were in Europe and 5 percent were at Asian locations. In Equatorial Guinea 70 percent of our employees and 
35 percent of our managers and professionals are local nationals. In Malaysia 65 percent of our employees and 63 percent of managers and professionals are local nationals. In Indonesia 97 percent of our employees and 95 percent of managers and professionals are local nationals.EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTOver the course of 2012 work teams assessed the Hess culture and helped define the value proposition that Hess offers employees. We conducted a baseline culture survey of our organization. More than 400 randomly selected employees from around the world participated in an online survey and approximately 200 employees participated in small group discussions. We learned that central elements of our culture are strong, including pride in our integrity and social responsibility and confidence that leaders exemplify the Hess Values. Employees suggested that more could be done to improve process efficiency, such as making changes to the organization structure. They also would like to see more non-monetary recognition.In a related effort, 1,200 employees participated in an information gathering survey on Hess’ culture that focused on innovation. Two hundred “Best Practice” innovation companies were benchmarked and Hess’ innovation culture was compared. Following analysis, recommendations were made for changes in leadership behaviors and workplace culture aimed at promoting innovation and value creation at Hess.Another internal survey of current and prospective employees showed that career opportunities, compensation and work-life flexibility were the key selling points for working at Hess. We will continue to enhance these attributes while ensuring fairness, quality and empowerment across our global workforce. VOLUNTEERISM Through our intranet, Hess Connect, employees can learn about social responsibility engagement and volunteer opportunities in their area. The wide range of employee volunteer opportunities across the company includes company-sponsored, as well as employee-driven projects.For example, our Houston-based employees support Target Hunger, a United Way agency that promotes self-sufficiency for those in need through deliveries of groceries, holiday food boxes and gifts for children. Staff from our Perth office in Australia joined coastal care volunteer groups for a clean-up project on Kwinana beach. In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, Hess employees from our New York and Woodbridge, N.J. locations in the U.S. worked together with Partnership with Parks to restore park areas after flooding and organized a food and supplies drive for victims most severely impacted.COMPENSATIONHess rewards its employees for their contributions to our company’s current and future performance. In addition to base pay, Hess compensation includes a wide range of benefits, including bonus and incentive plans. To gauge 
the competitiveness and fairness of our compensation, 
we benchmark Hess against industry peers. So that we can be among the top quartile of employers when comparing our entry level wages to local wage minimums, we measure this differential at locations where we employ 100 or more. In the U.S., as well as at our international operations in Europe, Southeast Asia and Equatorial Guinea, we pay more than local prevailing 
industry minimum wage. Hess pays retail hourly employees 24 percent more than the minimum wage, on average.The wages, benefits and bonuses of our represented employees are determined by collective bargaining agreements. For further information on our union-represented employees, see the Freedom of Association section in the Community and Social Performance 
section of this report.BENEFITSHess provides comprehensive, high quality health and retirement benefits that supplement or enhance the coverage that is offered by government programs. In addition to wages, our financial benefits include pension, savings, life insurance and bonus and incentive programs. Health benefits include medical, dental, vision, prescription drug and various employee assistance plans. Employee benefit packages vary by country.In the U.S., the company is adding or increasing benefits. In the past year, for example, we added domestic partner benefits, increased medical plan options and increased the company’s match against employee contributions to 401(k) plans. In China we added a pension plan, and in the U.K. we enhanced our pension offerings to help offset recent tax changes.Hess benefits and programs for non-hourly retail employees exceed the industry standard. In addition to full medical coverage, non-hourly retail employees can participate in 
the company’s savings plan, a benefit also available to full time retail hourly employees. Hess’ separate benefits plan 
for full time retail hourly employees includes medical and 
life insurance coverage and paid vacation time. Hess offers 
retail employees a pension plan, a benefit that is not commonly provided in the retail industry. Retail employees are eligible to receive education assistance for courses related to their development. To align employees’ interests with investors and provide another opportunity to participate in the company’s success, Hess offers a long term incentive program to employees who demonstrate exemplary leadership and contribute significantly to the business.Salaried employees participate in the company’s cash 
bonus plan and the company offers financial assistance to employees who wish to pursue educational coursework. In 2012 the company contributed more than $1.5 million for outside educational assistance.TALENT MANAGEMENTIn 2012 the company continued to forge a connection between our Talent Management and Learning and Development processes.Hess engages in an annual talent management process 
to understand and assess our leadership and technical capabilities and develop succession and hiring plans.Performance ManagementHess employees are responsible for managing their own performance and career paths. Individual responsibility is 
a foundational value in our approach to performance management. The company provides many tools, programs and opportunities to support employees as they strive to reach their goals.With guidance from their managers, employees create 
their individual development plans. Hess provides 
mentoring, training, online courses and other educational assistance so that employees can develop their potential and leadership capabilities in alignment with the company’s business objectives.Through the Hess Performance Management process, an employee’s performance is evaluated against goals and expectations and leadership behaviors. These factor into an overall performance rating, which impacts an employee’s salary and bonus.Learning and DevelopmentIn 2012 we aligned the content of our development courses more directly with our long term objectives and our leadership model. Our employees used the tools introduced in 2011 to more effectively manage their ongoing education and development. Our classroom training programs and online Hess Learning Center provide an important supplement to employee development that takes place on the job and through coaching and mentoring relationships. Our employees have access to Hess global online resources to develop professional, leadership and technical skills. At Hess we have a suite of four leadership development programs, each tailored to the needs of a particular level of leadership in the organization, from early-career supervisors through senior leadership. Program content reflects the competencies needed to achieve our vision and the skills necessary to develop as a leader and to contribute effectively to our company’s success. New EmployeesEmployees new to Hess are benefiting from the improvements we made to onboarding and orientation processes during 2011. In 2012 more than 700 new employees worldwide participated in our online Passport 
to Hess program. In addition to our offices in Houston, Woodbridge, N.J., New York, North Dakota, London and Kuala Lumpur in 2012, the Passport to Hess program was rolled out in Copenhagen, Beijing, Jakarta and Perth. As 
of the end of the year, 100 percent of the respondents were either extremely satisfied or satisfied with the Passport to Hess Welcome Day. The Passport to Hess site provides information about the company and Hess Values, as well as links to The Learning Center and The Resource Center. The Learning and Resource centers are critical portals for managing one’s career development path. The Hess catalogue of online courses is available through the Passport to Hess site.The onboarding program for new hires also establishes a system for supervisors and new employees to work closely together for the first 90 days at Hess and to make sure the integration process goes as smoothly as possible. New Hess employees may also be eligible to join the supplemental early career development programs we offer.Early Career ProgramsOur Global Professional Development Program (GPDP), 
first piloted in 2011, was implemented across the organization in 2012. College graduates newly hired at 
Hess were introduced to the first stages of this two year early career integration program. The program accelerates performance and career development by introducing basic professional skills such as business writing, presentation techniques, goal setting and time management. The basic curriculum is tailored to regional locations so employees can adapt to the needs of the country and business environment in which they are launching their careers. For our newly hired technical personnel, it is especially important to continually hone skills. The oil and gas 
industry is evolving rapidly, with innovative techniques and technologies creating competitive advantage for businesses across the world. The Hess Global Foundation Program is designed to help our graduate engineers and geoscientists keep pace with this rapid evolution through training, mentorship and on-the-job assignments so they are fully prepared for challenging assignments early in their careers. TrainingTraining programs are an important component of the Talent Management process at Hess. We spent more than $14 million on classroom courses and 24/7 online learning and development. The total amount spent on training programs decreased 12 percent from the previous year primarily because certain targeted programs and system upgrade processes were completed in 2011. We currently offer more than 1,000 e-courses that align 
with Hess operations and business priorities. We tailor 
many courses for employees located outside the U.S. Through our independent third party verification process, 
we estimate that our non-retail employees spent at least 
25 hours in training and courses during 2012. Data from the Hess Learning Center shows that more 
than 3,500 non-retail employees completed more than 10,000 online courses in 2012, a 96 percent increase over 2011. This data demonstrates increased utilization of learning resources and course completions. Through Talent Management we are able to take a broad view of the entire workforce cycle: talent recruitment, new employee orientation, workforce development and retention, leadership development and succession planning. Turnover and New Hires (Number of Employees)Global Employees13,277 Employees Male Turnover	 Male New Hires Female Turnover	 Female New Hires U.S. Retail 8,205 U.S. Non-Retail* 3,691 Asia Pacific 694 Europe 427 Africa 257 Other (<1%) 3Excludes Hetco front office and Russia operations*Includes St. Lucia (112)Excludes retail hourly employeesWomen and Minority Representation WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) MINORITIES (U.S.) Job Category Total Employees in Job Category Number 
of Women Percent 
Women Total Employees in Job Category Number of Minorities Percent Minorities Executives and 
senior officers 88 10 11% 79 5 6% First and mid-level managers 2,272 702 31% 1,946 477 25% Professionals 2,268 777 34% 1,561 420 27% Other 8,649 3,835 44% 8,310 3,616 44% Total 13,277 5,324 40% 11,896 4,518 38% Note: There are 1,854 U.S. employees who are both minority and female.  Male New Hires Female New HiresNational Employees% of Managers and ProfessionalsNational and Non-National Employees*% of Country Workforce Malaysia     Indonesia     Equatorial Guinea Professional/
Managerial Nationals Other
Nationals Non-Nationals*In significant areas of operation (>100 employees)Recruiting VeteransOur Global Talent Acquisition strategy is focused 
on hiring people whose values align with our own 
and whose skills and experience match Hess’ 
talent needs. In 2012 we expanded the portion of 
our Talent Management program that reaches out 
to the military and recruiting veterans.We participate in an American Petroleum Institute
led group called Veterans to Energy that maps talent and experience from the military to the energy sector. Hess also participates in a national veteran hiring program called “Joining Forces,” which connects service members to careers and supports their transition to civilian life. We were recognized for our efforts by Brad Cooper, Executive Director of Joining Forces, Office of the First Lady, during a White House-sponsored “Joining Forces” event. Veterans working at Hess have organized the Hess Veterans’ Group to enhance our outreach and integration efforts. The group is sponsored by our General Counsel. In our recruitment efforts, we work with military recruiters, attend military-sponsored 
jobs fairs and publicize our interest in hiring 
military personnel.