SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYAt Hess, we are committed to being a trusted energy partner and community member in all of our areas of operation. One way we do this is by integrating social responsibility (SR) into the way we do business. Our approach to SR is centered on three focus areas: stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that facilitate direct and indirect local benefits. Proactively engaging with communities and stakeholders where we operate maximizes our business value, helps us manage social risks and impacts and creates opportunities for stakeholders.GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORKHess’ SR governance framework sets out our commitments to our employees and the communities where we operate through every phase of our business activity. Our commitment to ethical and responsible business practices begins with the Hess Values and Code of Conduct. The Hess Value of Social Responsibility establishes our commitment to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. Our Code of Conduct describes the business conduct and behaviors that we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including our expectations regarding human rights.We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency:. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. United Nations Global Compact (Hess serves on the Board of the UNGC’s U.S. Network). Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)These initiatives, which we collectively call our “Voluntary Commitments,” inform our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. We continued development of our SR and Human Rights Standards in 2016 as part of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. The standards cascade from our policies and comprise the next level of our governance framework. To support our SR and Human Rights Policies and Standards, we also developed guidelines for each of these documents in 2016. The guidelines will be an important element of embedding social risk management and stakeholder engagement into our value assurance and enterprise risk processes. The final level of our governance framework is made up of training, toolkits and local procedures.Organizational StructureHess deploys SR resources across the organization. To do this effectively, we have a core SR team combined with local resources who are embedded with our assets and project teams.The role of the core team is to develop governance, advise executives, manage companywide social performance, provide technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provide assurance across these efforts.The asset and project resources report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset- or project-specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between the core team at our operational headquarters in Houston and global locations.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTOur industry can face challenges in the pursuit of sustainable oil and gas exploration and production, including certain social considerations. Effectively engaging with stakeholders in our host communities facilitates our ability to responsibly access the resources we require as an international energy company – from the earliest phases of our new country entry process through the decommissioning of an asset. We understand that our success is in part tied to our ability to mitigate the potential risks associated with our activities, which could impact stakeholder relationships and public perception. We aim to create value through mutually beneficial opportunities with our stakeholders, which include communities, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors.Stakeholder Engagement ProcessProactive, two-way and ongoing stakeholder engagement helps to establish a mutual understanding of expectations between Hess and those who live and work in our areas of operation.Our stakeholder engagement process focuses on the proactive relationship- and trust-building opportunities created by meaningful engagement, as well as the business value that engagement brings when it is integrated as a part of project risk management. Consistent with our continuous improvement methodology, we follow the “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” cycle to direct our stakeholder management efforts. As the expectations, priorities and concerns of our stakeholders evolve, we adjust our approach to align with their needs and our business activities. Building on our earlier efforts, in 2016 we continued to enhance our stakeholder engagement process and associated tools by integrating stakeholder issues and engagement into our enterprise risk workshops, value assurance reviews and asset business plans.As part of implementing our EHS & SR strategy, we began working with each of our assets to develop individualized plans for engaging with their priority stakeholders. Our Bakken, Gulf of Mexico, Permian, Denmark and Ghana assets have developed engagement plans, and their implementation is ongoing. Other Hess assets are in various stages of developing their engagement plans.Grievance MechanismsWe believe that developing strong and transparent relationships with communities and addressing potential issues early – before they may grow into more severe or widespread problems – helps to avoid incidents.Formal grievance mechanisms provide stakeholders with a means for sharing feedback with companies on their operational impacts, while also helping companies respond to and act on that feedback through an established process. Through the use of our grievance mechanisms, we aim to strengthen our relationships with communities and respond more effectively to their concerns. Hess has a formal grievance mechanism in place at our Bakken asset in North Dakota, and in 2016 we began implementation of mechanisms at our Permian asset in West Texas and South Arne asset in Denmark.At our Bakken asset, where the process was launched in early 2015 and is thus the most mature, the mechanism outlines a process for reporting, investigating and resolving issues and concerns raised by people who claim they are impacted by Hess operations. When we are alerted to a potential issue, our response team draws employees from various disciplines within Hess such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance and civil construction in order to reach a resolution. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, we are able to escalate management of the grievance upward in the company as necessary to help resolve the issue. The response team strives to complete their investigation within 14 days of the original report. We maintain an internal database – the stakeholder management system (SMS) – to track all grievances from start to completion. (The SMS also supports our stakeholder engagement process, described on the previous page.) As a final step before closing a case, we contact the stakeholder to confirm they feel the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership Team as part of our weekly operating rhythm.Also in North Dakota, we have 
reached out to community members to share information about the grievance mechanism and explain how to contact us if they perceive a problem. For example, Hess representatives presented our process at meetings of the McKenzie County Commission and the Northwest Landowners Association.As we continue to work toward integration of formal grievance mechanisms at additional assets, we are relying on our existing manual tracking process at those assets to resolve issues in a timely manner.In 2016 we received a total of 150 grievances, including feedback related to roads, dust, maintenance, land reclamation, weeds and EHS concerns.GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS. Continued to integrate social responsibility (SR) considerations into our enterprise business processes. Expanded implementation of stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes into two new assets. Conducted risk-based human rights training at selected assets and incorporated human rights training into our contractor onboarding process. Invested nearly $20 million in social programs across the globe2017 GOALS. Integrate SR and Human Rights Guidelines into enterprise business processes to support policies and standards. Continue to expand implementation of stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes. Review enterprisewide social, reputational and human rights risks to update risk identification. Refresh and conduct human rights training as needed based on identified risks192016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS20STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTPromoting Energy Efficiency in MalaysiaHess Malaysia recently began an engagement with the Energy Efficiency Program (EEP), a joint industry–government effort to raise awareness among secondary school students on the efficient use of energy resources (in particular natural gas).In November 2016 a geologist and an engineer from Hess’ North Malay Basin asset visited two schools and shared their experiences working in the oil and gas industry. The sessions also included science demonstrations and presentations on energy resources and the electricity supply system in Malaysia.The EEP has engaged more than 3,000 secondary school students in five Malaysian states since its inception in 2014. The effort is jointly organized by Petrosains (a science museum sponsored by Malaysia’s national energy company PETRONAS) and the Malaysian Gas Association and supported by Malaysia’s Energy Commission and Ministry of Education.North Dakota Safety Council TrainingIn September 2016 Hess cosponsored – together with the North Dakota Safety Council – a series of workshops designed to prepare local first responders to safely respond to oil and gas emergencies. The North Dakota Emergency Medical Services Association (NDEMSA) provided free workshops, which were in part built on best practices from safety training courses in our other areas of operation, at a conference in Bismarck for law enforcement, firefighters and emergency medical personal. Topics for the sessions included incident command for oil and gas emergencies, drilling rig safety, response protocols for workplace violence and active shooter situations, landing zone safety and communications, responding to pipeline emergencies and more.We also worked with the North Dakota Safety Council to sponsor a day of sessions at NDEMSA’s 2016 Southwest Region Emergency Medical Services Conference. The sessions covered topics similar to those at the Bismarck conference, with the same objective of preparing attendees to safely respond to oil and gas emergencies. The audience for these sessions included companies, communities and emergency personnel.212016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYEXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERSCollaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for benefiting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders – from local landowners and governments to community service agencies and indigenous groups. A few recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below.CATEGORY EXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDER GROUPS RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Land Users/Landowners Residents, landowners, commercial land interests, farmers, ranchers Held annual meetings with Bakken landowners to review completed work plans, address concerns and discuss upcoming activities. Continued our efforts to leverage the Hess Community Connection to resolve issues and maintain dialogue with these stakeholders. Resources Users/Rights Holders Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and users, hunters/fishers/gatherers Increased efficiency with Bakken mineral rights owner transfers and developed a direct deposit process for international owners. Governments Local, regional and national authorities, national militaries, international governing authorities Hosted senior members of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Committee at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston, to educate them on Hess’ policy priorities, economic impacts and role as a leading independent oil and gas company. Engaged directly with U.S. Congressional and Administration officials – including individuals from the House and Senate, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Departments of State, Interior and Energy – to educate them on energy-related issues. Also, a Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership. Direct Economic Interests Investment partners, vendors and suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholders Worked with suppliers to learn and apply Lean principles for mutually beneficial enhancements to projects. A Hess representative served on a panel at a teacher education seminar in North Dakota to discuss workforce needs. External Business Interests Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiatives Participated in the Shale Advisory Committee of the Ohio Oil and Gas Energy Education Program. A Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. Leaders of Hess’ EHS and SR functions actively participated in IPIECA working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused on topics such as social responsibility, water, climate change and sustainability reporting. Special Interest Groups Nongovernmental organizations, religious groups, cause-oriented nonprofits, community groups Participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the EITI and the UNGC, to advance responsible business practices globally. With the North Dakota Petroleum Council, participated in a trash cleanup day called “Pick Up the Patch.” Donated more than 8,500 pounds of leftover prepared food in 2016 from our Houston operational headquarters to Second Servings Food Rescue. Community Services Local police/fire/emergency medical services, health care services, education, human service agencies Continued a safety education program near our Permian operations to make students and their families aware of certain safety considerations near oil and gas sites. Donated $200,000 worth of equipment to Bismarck State College’s National Energy Center of Excellence. Worked with industry peers and a government agency in Malaysia to educate fishermen about the potential safety implications of activities conducted near offshore oil and gas platforms. Indigenous Groups Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, indigenous advocacy groups Continued engagement with local fishing villages in Ghana, through their Paramount Chiefs and community members, including providing updates on Hess business activities. 22SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENTWhether entering a new country, commissioning a new development or expanding an existing facility, we engage with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities where we operate. As part of our strategic planning process for these activities, we examine the social, political and reputational environment to identify nontechnical risks and mitigation activities.We address human rights considerations throughout the process, including during due diligence and social risk mitigation and management. We also have a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that we utilize locally for training security personnel on human rights issues.Risk mitigation measures are driven by our value assurance process and conducted on an as-needed basis. As a result of the social baseline study we conducted for our Gulf of Mexico assets in 2015, we implemented several social investment activities in 2016 that aimed to support biodiversity, wetlands preservation and regional infrastructure. Among these were a tree-planting event at Nicholls State University in April 2016 and funding for a highway improvement project – both in Louisiana.Human RightsAt Hess, we understand that although it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, companies like ours must build trusted partnerships and treat all citizens with dignity and respect wherever we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by engaging with stakeholders to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development.We have worked to align our business practices with our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at all phases of our business activities, beginning with new country entry.We continue to utilize the asset-level human rights-related risks identified through a third-party review conducted in 2015. This global assessment included security-related risk and has provided us with the insight needed to regularly review and update Hess’ global human rights risk profile. Through this review, we continue to gain an external perspective of our potential impacts on human rights.Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights as well as raising internal awareness of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). Over the years, we have invited external experts to provide human rights training to our employees around the globe. We also utilize an online human rights training module for employees that explains the concept of human rights and why they are important for Hess, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations.We developed an internal SharePoint site focused on Hess SR policies and initiatives that covers Hess’ Voluntary Commitments, including the Voluntary Principles. Through that internal site, Hess employees can link to the Voluntary Principles website and key components of the Hess security and human rights governance framework. This internal SharePoint site will be updated with additional reference materials, presentations, internal examples of security and human rights best practices, and the Hess Security and Human Rights Toolkit.In Malaysia in 2016 we conducted training on human rights and the Voluntary Principles for a number of our employees, including our country manager, and contractors. The training, which was similar to previous security and human rights-related courses carried out in Equatorial Guinea, included an introduction to our Security and Human Rights Toolkit.COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDINGTo maintain our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen, Hess seeks to create mutually beneficial relationships with our host communities. We design our programs to create shared value in local communities and help create a favorable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets create, maintain and implement strategic social investment programs tailored to each operation and community.We evaluate our programs to confirm a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us evolve along with the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations, projects best aligned with business and social risks and projects identified from social assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees.Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in our supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. Our programs generally fall into two categories: corporate-led, multiyear and multimillion-dollar flagship programs and asset-based projects with moderate funding levels.In 2016 our social investments totaled nearly $20 million, with $16.2 million going toward education projects. Another $3.6 million was earmarked for economic development, health and capacity building.Flagship Investments in EducationHess continues to show progress with our two flagship social investment programs focused on developing secondary education systems and capacity: PRODEGE II and Succeed 2020.PRODEGE IIOur Program for Educational Development of Equatorial Guinea, or PRODEGE II, is a partnership with the Equatorial Guinean government that aims to strengthen preschool, primary and junior secondary education in that country. The five-year, $50 million program, which began in 2014, has achieved significant results to date, including the following:. Increased the capacity and improved the work of teachers, school directors and inspectors at the preschool, primary and junior secondary levels. Organized all schools, inspectors and teachers into official district zones across the country and established peer-learning networks, called “teacher circles,” to strengthen teaching practices. Worked closely with the Ministry of Education to define and launch a new professional development program (ProFADS) that will certify up to 1,500 preschool and primary school teachers over the next two years (approximately 33 percent of uncredentialed teachers in the country). Reinforced teaching strategies that incorporate active learning for more than 6,000 primary- and preschool-level teachers; distributed student learning guides for grades 4–6 to all primary schools and teacher guides to preschool teachers, benefiting approximately 147,000 students. Further defined the intervention needed at the junior secondary level to strengthen school management and improve the quality of teaching and learning, which will involve training more than 750 school directors and master teachers in instructional leadership and active learning strategies in 2017Succeed 2020We initiated the Succeed 2020 program in 2012 with a $25 million grant to the state of North Dakota. The five-year program aims to improve the transition from secondary school to higher education and the workplace by supporting college and career counseling for students, professional development for teachers, and tutoring and online learning. Succeed 2020 is run by FHI 360, a nonprofit human development organization, and implemented through the state’s Regional Education Associations (REAs).During the 2015–16 school year, approximately 2,100 teachers, 400 administrators and 175 school counselors participated in Succeed 2020 activities, including professional development in teaching, college planning and career exploration. Most REAs shifted their professional development activities away from “one and done” events to more intensive, longer-term efforts. In addition, nearly 5,000 students received direct services through career fairs, job shadowing and hands-on activities in science, technology, engineering and math. As a testament to the impact of this program, 87 percent of teachers surveyed said they changed their classroom practices after participating in Succeed 2020 activities.In 2017, the last year of the program, participants will be preparing for the transition to post-Succeed 2020 operations. Succeed 2020 has established a policy subcommittee to help identify strategies for sustaining work launched through the program. REAs will plan to complete their final school-year projects and begin to implement plans for sustaining key activities.Local Program HighlightsHess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment opportunities in 2016 focused on education and community development.LEAPIn 2016 Hess was honored at the second annual Citizen Schools Texas Luncheon for our grant to establish LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) – a three-year, $4.3 million pilot program that sought to prevent at-risk middle school students in Houston from dropping out. Hess has been one of five program partners working collaboratively to provide support to students who are English language learners and over age for their grade level. Our support for the pilot – which came to a close in 2016 – focused on two middle schools in the Houston Independent School District, which is one of largest school districts in Texas. Hess is evaluating additional education-related social investment options, including elements of the LEAP program, for future consideration.Farmer Cooperatives 
in Equatorial GuineaSince 2013 Hess has been assisting two small farmer cooperatives in Equatorial Guinea to become fully operational and sustainable. Our efforts have focused on providing basic equipment, financial support (both funding and financial advice), guidance and training tools, and technical support. In 2016, the second year of production, the two cooperatives produced eight different food crops, totaling over 8,350 kilograms of food and sales of approximately $9,000. We support this project in partnership with the Equatorial Guinean Ministry of Agriculture, the Professional School of Agriculture, and the Spanish agrarian company Dalmau.Protecting Marine Turtles in Equatorial GuineaHess has been a sponsor of the Bioko Marine Turtle Program, which has scientific, educational and microenterprise aspects, since 2012. In 2016 we donated $130,000 toward this important endeavor.Scientists involved in the Bioko program are collecting data on the population dynamics of four sea turtle species nesting on Equatorial Guinea’s Bioko Island. The data are published in international journals, presented at scientific symposia and shared with national park administrators to help ensure effective management and protection of the turtles. Representatives from the program work with teachers to educate primary-level students about the turtles and the Bioko program, in part through distribution of a children’s book. Additional educational materials have been developed for university students.The program also teaches local women how to make and market jewelry from paper beads. This effort provides a source of income for local households, as an alternative to harvesting adult turtles and their eggs from the beaches for commercial use.