MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our longstanding commitment to sustainability supports our company’s purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy partner and guides our strategy and actions to create business and societal value. In keeping with our company values, we are focused on building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. Our strategy has been – and continues to be – to grow our resource base, have a low cost of supply and sustain cash flow growth. Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating economic prosperity and raising standards of living across the globe, especially as the world begins to recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change. Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve the International Energy Agency's (IEA's) Sustainable Development Scenario, which assumes all the pledges of the Paris Agreement are met and projects oil and gas will still be 46% of the global energy mix in 2040. Our current asset portfolio is robust, and our pipeline of forward investments is projected to provide strong financial returns under the Sustainable Development Scenario. We believe sustainability practices create value for the benefit of all stakeholders. Our commitment to sustainability starts with our Board of Directors and senior management and is reinforced at every level of our organization. Our Board of Directors is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices. The Board’s Compensation Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s environmental, health and safety goals. In 2020, we completed a review and update of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, beginning with a materiality assessment, and established new targets through 2025 to drive progress in high priority areas including climate change. The Board’s EHS Committee was actively involved in this process, approved the new targets and will continue to oversee management’s implementation. Our 2020 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices into our strategy, goals and daily operations. Several key areas are highlighted below, with detailed information in this report and on our company website at www.hess.com. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE We see climate change as one of the greatest scientific challenges of the 21st century. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the same time providing the safe, affordable and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global economic development in the context of the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. We support the aim of the Paris Agreement and also a global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. We support a carbon price to encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable. Our Board and senior leadership have set aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction. In 2020, we significantly surpassed our five year targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 25% and flaring intensity by 50% from our operated assets – reducing GHG emissions intensity and flaring intensity by 46% and 59%, respectively, compared to 2014 levels. We recently announced our new five year GHG reduction targets for 2025, which are to reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 44% and methane emissions intensity by approximately 52% from 2017. These targets are designed to exceed the 22% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario, which is consistent with the Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C ambition. In addition, we are investing in technological and scientific advances designed to reduce, capture and store carbon emissions, including groundbreaking work being conducted by the Salk Institute to develop plants with larger root systems that according to the Salk Institute are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere. Our climate strategy and reporting are closely aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board. Our efforts to support the transition to a low carbon economy and mitigate climate change in line with TCFD recommendations have been independently assessed by the Transition Pathway Initiative, and we were the only U.S. oil and gas company to be awarded a Level 4 star rating in their September 2020 report. We understand that a substantive climate strategy requires companies to look beyond a five year timeframe. We have established an executive led taskforce to consider our medium and longer term climate strategy. SAFETY We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote a strong safety culture and continuously improve our performance. Since early 2020, a multidisciplinary Hess emergency response team has been overseeing our plans and precautions to reduce the risks of COVID-19 in our work environment. In 2020, in the midst of the pandemic and the most active Atlantic hurricane season on record, our company achieved a 19% reduction in our workforce total recordable incident rate compared with 2019 driven by a decrease in contractor incidents, and a 50% reduction in our workforce lost time incident rate. We reached a five year low in our severe and significant safety incident rate, achieving a nearly 10% reduction from 2019. We also continued to improve our process safety performance in 2020 with zero Tier 1 process safety incidents. The safety performance of our contractors, who represent approximately 70% of our total workforce hours, is critical to achieving our safety goals. In 2020, we progressed our engagement efforts with many of our contractors to ensure alignment on the standards expected in Hess operations and to work together on opportunities for improvement. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Being a trusted energy partner means making a positive impact on the communities where we operate. Through our community investments, we strive to help address societal inequities in keeping with Hess Values and create opportunities with a particular focus on education and work skill development. In 2020, we also provided financial and volunteer support for a variety of COVID-19 community relief efforts. In Houston, we continued to invest in our LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program and related initiatives to support students in Houston’s underserved Magnolia Park and Second Ward communities, where we have contributed approximately $7.4 million since 2013. Over the next three years, Hess will invest $9 million to fund education programs and support services for children in three economically disadvantaged Houston communities – Magnolia Park, Second Ward and, starting in 2021, the nearby Third Ward neighborhood. Earlier this year, we donated $2 million to Houston’s emergency relief efforts following a severe winter storm that significantly impacted underserved communities already suffering from the economic effects of the pandemic. In Guyana, Hess and our partners contributed more than $3 million in 2020 as part of ongoing efforts to build capacity in the local Guyanese economy as well as COVID-19 relief efforts. In Malaysia, we contributed more than 60,000 units of personal protective supplies in response to the pandemic including face masks, hand sanitizers and medical gloves to the country’s frontline workers, and donated approximately 4,000 meals to frontline workers and underserved communities. In North Dakota, for the third year in a row, we provided Hess toy trucks to every elementary school in the state together with a science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance, including our continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided in our activities by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, which were considered as part of the development of our updated EHS & SR strategy. PEOPLE Our success as a company depends on having a world class workforce and a culture defined by our values. In 2020, we continued to focus on making Hess a great place to work through quality leadership, learning and engagement, and diversity, equity and inclusion for all employees. To foster employee engagement, our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our workforce through a robust employee communications program. In 2020, we increased our cadence of communications and leveraged new virtual platforms to help our workforce feel supported and connected in the midst of the pandemic and internal organizational changes as we reduced our workforce headcount to better align with activity levels. As part of our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, Hess leaders began hosting a series of listening sessions in 2020 with small groups of underrepresented employees to better understand their experiences and shape our actions moving forward. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE We see transparency in reporting as an important part of being a trusted energy partner and are proud to have been recognized by a number of leading sustainability organizations as an industry leader in our environmental, social and governance performance and disclosure. We have been publishing a sustainability report since 1997, which is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our reporting aligns with a number of frameworks including oil and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and TCFD recommendations. As we continue to execute our strategy, our Board, our leadership team and each of our employees will be guided by our Hess Values and our purpose. We want to thank our employees, communities, customers, business partners and investors for your ongoing support. Together, we are building a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for all our stakeholders and the world around us. ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 1,170 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent Proved Reserves 9.4 Years of Reserve Life 331,000 Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced Hess Portfolio of Operations PRODUCTION Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Liza Phase 1 development offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. MIDSTREAM Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include a natural gas processing plant, a rail loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota. DEVELOPMENTS Activities are focused on nonoperated developments on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana. EXPLORATION Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests offshore Guyana and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. 2020 Highlights • In response to lower oil prices, we safely reduced activity in the Bakken from six operated rigs at the start of 2020 to one rig by June. Bakken 2020 net production averaged 193,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, well above our original guidance and 27% above 2019 levels. • Through the continued application of technology and Lean manufacturing techniques, we reduced our average drilling and completion costs in the Bakken to $6.2 million per well in 2020, down from $6.8 million in 2019. • On the Stabroek Block in Guyana, where Hess has a 30% interest, 2020 was another outstanding year. Three oil discoveries during the year brought total discoveries on the block to 18. • In October, the estimate of gross discovered recoverable resources on the Stabroek Block was increased to approximately 9 billion barrels of oil equivalent with multibillion barrels of future exploration potential remaining. • Production from the Liza Phase 1 development on the Stabroek Block reached its nameplate capacity of 120,000 gross barrels of oil per day in December 2020, and the Liza Phase 2 development, with a capacity of 220,000 gross barrels of oil per day, is expected to achieve first oil in early 2022. • In September 2020, we sanctioned our third oil development on the Stabroek Block at the Payara Field, which will have a capacity of 220,000 gross barrels of oil per day and is expected to achieve first oil in 2024. • In the Gulf of Mexico, the Esox-1 well was brought online as a low cost tieback to the Tubular Bells production facilities in February 2020, less than four months after discovery. Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY Hess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. We seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders and business partners, our employees, the local communities and economies where we operate – which in turn benefits society at large. We believe our company is well positioned, with our low cost of supply and high return investments, to deliver strong performance under a wide range of market conditions. MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY’S GREATEST CHALLENGES We integrate sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship into our operations and long term strategy. Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our recently updated environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is aligned with the SDGs that are most relevant to our business (see pages 10–11). Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards across the globe. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy transition to a lower carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry can play a vital role in helping to address these challenges. We have significantly surpassed our aggressive 2020 targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reductions and have set new 2025 GHG reduction targets that are consistent with the Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C ambition (see page 46). We remain committed to doing our part to limit GHG emissions while supporting sustainable global development and the transition to a lower carbon economy. The following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2020. We generate value through the jobs we create directly as well as those we support indirectly – both in our supply chain and in the broader economy, where the energy we produce is essential to industries across the globe. We extend our high ethical and safety standards throughout our supply chain by requiring suppliers and contractors to abide by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see pages 19 and 35–37). • 1,621 Hess employees globally • $591 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.) • $2,800 million in total supplier spend across 3,400 suppliers • 60% of employees in underrepresented groups reached through Hess VOICES engagement sessions with senior leaders Our community investments are designed to make long lasting, positive impacts on the communities where we operate. We seek to develop the local workforce to enable upward mobility into higher paying jobs in our industry and supply chain (see pages 19, 24–25, 36). • $5 million in social investments directed toward communities in Louisiana, North Dakota and Texas • $3 million by our joint venture in support of capacity building initiatives in Guyana • 20,000 hours of volunteering by our workforce, with the majority in Texas • 97% local nationals employed in Denmark and 91% in Malaysia • 92% of our total supplier spend was on purchases made within the same country in which we were doing business Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our shareholders. We continue to successfully execute our long term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, focusing only on low cost, high return opportunities, while investing in our people and business. Furthermore, our efforts to lower our costs and our emissions intensity are aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve long term sustainable development (see page 46). • $309 million in dividends paid to investors • Three year total shareholder return first among peers (For peer list, see page 34 of Hess’ 2021 proxy statement.) We contribute value to society at large through the direct economic value we generate, the affordable energy we produce and our commitment to operate responsibly and advance sustainable development (see pages 10–11, 21–25, 49). • $2,039 million in capital and exploration expenditures • $388 million in royalties and other payments • $11 million in social investments, including $5 million going toward the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative research and development program APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions of Hess’ strategy and 2020 performance regarding material economic, social and environmental issues. Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information and can be found on our website. Additional sustainability and investor information is available at hess.com/ investors REPORTING STANDARDS This report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our reporting is also informed by: • The Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry, which was jointly developed by IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for environmental and social issues), the American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers • The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact’s Ten Principles • Recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures • Oil and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) • Key external environmental, social and governance ratings and scorecards An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global Compact reporting indicators is available at hess.com/sustainability/sustainability.reports/gri-index MATERIALITY We determined the content for this report by applying the GRI’s reporting principles; for example, we considered our operations and performance in the wider context of sustainability issues as well as ensured stakeholder inclusiveness and completeness of information. Consistent with the GRI Standards’ materiality guidance, we identified and prioritized new and emerging issues important to our stakeholders. Engagement with our stakeholders – which include employees, suppliers, customers, communities, shareholders, government bodies, nongovernmental organizations, industry peers and academics – enables us to strengthen our license to operate and brings increased focus to our transparency goals. In 2020, we completed an updated materiality assessment, facilitated by third party experts, to help us prioritize the key sustainability topics most relevant to our company. The assessment was consistent with approaches and guidance provided by leading standards bodies, including GRI, IPIECA and the International Organization for Standardization; it also considered the SASB materiality profile for the oil and gas industry as an additional reference point. The prioritization process helped us to determine the top eight material issues, which were then used to develop focused initiatives aimed at driving continuous improvement in our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy for the next five years. The materiality assessment and strategy development effort is described more fully in the section Strategy and Progress (see pages 10–11). While these eight topics will be the focus of our strategic sustainability actions through 2025, many of the other relevant topics included in our materiality assessment are still important to our stakeholders and our company and will continue to be addressed in our business processes and external reporting. Based on the materiality assessment, the eight most material sustainability issues for our company are as follows: • Climate Related Risk and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions • Community and Stakeholder Engagement • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion • Emergency Preparedness and Response • Occupational Health and Safety • Process Safety and Release Prevention • Supply Chain and Contractor Management • Water Management These material issues have not only informed our forward looking EHS & SR strategy, but have also helped to define the boundaries of this report. As has been our practice, we plan to continue annual, document based assessments of key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operational and regulatory risks to validate our top material issues for our sustainability reporting and strategy. See reporting boundaries for each of these issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach.to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues BOUNDARY SETTING Included within the scope of this report are the facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries during calendar year 2020, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. We report GHG emissions on both an operated and equity share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020), Module 3: Climate Change and Energy, as well as IPIECA’s 2016 report Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. Our workforce metrics include data for contractors whose hours we track. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10% of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We also review and adjust targets included as part of our annual incentive plan formula to account for divestitures as needed. In 2017 and 2018, this included restating our targets and associated annual metrics for severe safety and environmental incident rates to account for the Permian, Equatorial Guinea and Utica divestitures. Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energy INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE Our internal information systems promote the centralized collection of data from Hess operated and joint venture assets around the world. In order to evaluate accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality assurance/quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and facility level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding. All currency references in the report are in U.S. dollars. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE This report, including our sustainability data and self declared GRI “in accordance” status, was assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (see page 64). This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. In addition to providing assurance in relation to our sustainability report, ERM Certification and Verification Services also conducts a separate verification of the GHG emissions data provided in the report and in our CDP Climate Change response. STRATEGY AND PROGRESS FINAL PROGRESS REPORT ON 2020 GOALS Our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is designed to improve our understanding and management of nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Following is a final progress report on the priority areas and goals established in 2015. The goals and targets for our most material sustainability topics through 2025 are shown on pages 10–11. EHS & SR STRATEGY UPDATE Our EHS & SR strategy drives value for Hess and helps to promote continuous improvement on the key sustainability issues important to our stakeholders. In order to align our strategic sustainability actions with changes to the social, political, economic and regulatory landscape and evolving stakeholder expectations, we convened a multidisciplinary project team and steering committee in late 2019 to develop and oversee an update of our EHS & SR strategy, including establishing our next set of climate related goals and targets. We enlisted the help of third party experts to help facilitate the effort, which was conducted in three distinct phases in 2019 and 2020, as shown in the figure below. During key decision points throughout the process, we vetted the results with Hess leadership as well as our Board of Directors’ EHS Committee. 1. Refreshed the universe of relevant sustainability issues: • Reviewed Hess' risk registers • Conducted a desktop analysis of: – Peers, supermajors, national oil companies; investors; regulators; nongovernmental organizations and industry groups – Sustainability reporting frameworks 2. Prioritized 26 material topics: • Interviewed external stakeholders • Conducted an internal stakeholder survey and workshop • Reviewed the results with the project team and steering committee, Hess leadership and the Board's EHS Committee 1. Performed a benchmark assessment of sustainability strategies and material topics: • Included peers, supermajors, national oil companies • Provided examples of benchmarking and scoring criteria 2. Validated the benchmark assessment results: • Reviewed Hess' strategic positioning on each of the topics with the project team and steering committee and Hess leadership • Identified the eight most material topics based on the results of Phases 1 and 2 1. Conducted future focused discussions with cross functional Hess teams for eight material topics: • Current state • Alignment with U.N. Sustainable Development Goals • Desired future state, including potential goals, key performance indicators, commitments and position statements 2. Developed findings and recommendations to enhance the EHS & SR strategy: • Reviewed with the project team and steering committee, Hess leadership and the Board's EHS Committee In Phase 1, we first developed an initial list of potential sustainability topics through desktop research. This research involved reviewing public reports and websites – including those of our oil and gas industry peers and other important stakeholders – that document key issues for our industry. Based on that research, we identified 26 sustainability topics relevant to our company. We then validated and prioritized the topics through a stakeholder engagement process, which included a survey and workshop to obtain internal viewpoints and interviews with a sampling of key external stakeholders. The internal stakeholders involved in the assessment included those in leadership positions or with expertise across the 26 sustainability topics. External stakeholders interviewed for the assessment included nongovernmental organizations and industry associations, as well as one of our key suppliers. After prioritizing the sustainability topics from Phase 1, we conducted a benchmarking assessment to review best practices from our peers, as well as supermajors and national oil companies, in Phase 2. The project team and steering committee reviewed the results of this assessment and carefully considered best practices in each area and what was fit for purpose for Hess. After fully evaluating the results of Phases 1 and 2 of the project, we identified the eight most material sustainability topics for our company and slated those to be the focus of our EHS & SR strategic actions through 2025. In Phase 3, we convened internal subject matter experts in each area to review the results of the project to that point, to discuss alignment of these issues and potential actions to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and to help develop findings and recommendations to inform our 2025 EHS & SR strategy. These findings and recommendations were reviewed by senior management and the Hess Board’s EHS Committee. The following pages outline the new elements of our updated EHS & SR strategy and related goals and targets. STRATEGY AND PROGRESS LOOKING AHEAD TO 2025 The strategic initiatives planned as a result of our EHS & SR strategy update represent a focused set of actions designed to drive progress and enhance the strategies already in place for our top eight material issues. These are not the sum of all activities that will drive continuous improvement in each of these areas, but are instead the specific areas targeted for improvement or to maintain or achieve leadership among our industry peers for each of our material issues. Our management approach, annual performance (including achievements and challenges in 2020) and forward plans for a broader set of issues relevant to our company and our stakeholders are described further in this report and on our website at hess.com/sustainability. The table below summarizes the initiatives, goals and targets that we have established as part of our updated 2025 EHS & SR strategy and indicates their alignment with and support of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Targets included as one of Hess’ annual incentive plan (AIP) performance metrics for 2021 are indicated with “AIP.” HOW WE OPERATE We aim to help meet the world’s growing energy needs in a way that protects the health and safety of our people, safeguards the environment and contributes to the sustainability of the communities where we operate while delivering long term value to our shareholders and other stakeholders. The Hess Values, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights Policy, and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy define internal expectations for sustainable management and performance at Hess. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section. GOVERNANCE The highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, which has four standing committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the EHS Committee. See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors Board Accountability Hess’ Board is actively engaged in overseeing the company’s sustainability strategy and performance, working alongside senior management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions, including those related to climate change. Our independent Chairman periodically accompanies our CEO and other members of senior management to meet with investors to solicit shareholder views on various topics, including the environment, health, safety and social responsibility. For more information on Board involvement in climate change related issues, see the Climate Change and Energy section (page 39). The Board’s Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, and other financial matters, such as tax planning, compliance and reporting for income taxes. It also oversees compliance and risk management. The Board’s EHS Committee leads the Board’s oversight of Hess’ sustainability practices, working with the full Board and senior management so that sustainability risks and opportunities are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The EHS Committee assists the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS strategies and material risks with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The EHS Committee makes recommendations to the full Board on policies, programs and practices to address such strategies and risks and also monitors the company’s compliance with these policies, programs and practices. The EHS Committee advises the Board’s Compensation and Management Development Committee regarding executive compensation measures to advance the EHS goals of the company. The EHS Committee also reviews emergency response preparedness and planning and EHS legal and regulatory matters that could affect the company’s business and operations, including our ongoing response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The EHS Committee met five times in 2020, and each committee member attended at least 75% of the meetings. Our Vice President of EHS met regularly with the EHS Committee and the Chair of the committee in 2020 to prioritize actions on a number of topics, including EHS performance and strategic priorities; COVID-19 response; enterprise risk management; regulatory matters; environmental, social and governance reporting; climate change strategic actions; and establishing and monitoring progress against greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and flaring targets. Each member of the EHS Committee is independent and qualified under the standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Committee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operational, regulatory and financial expertise. To supplement the expertise of EHS Committee members and the full Board of Directors, Hess brings in internal and external subject matter experts to brief members on current and developing issues relevant to our business, such as climate change. Board members, together with our executive leadership, also participate in field visits to Hess operated and nonoperated assets to better understand our key EHS strategies and risks. During these visits, the EHS Committee engages with the Hess workforce and observes how Hess is managing and mitigating EHS risks and opportunities, such as leveraging Lean and technology focused initiatives in the field. While the 2020 field visit was deferred due to the COVID-19 pandemic, plans are underway to recommence this practice when it is deemed safe and appropriate to do so. Executive Oversight The company is managed by an Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our CEO. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues and is the highest approval body before the Board. The Executive Committee holds regularly scheduled meetings, and our Chief Operating Officer chairs an operating subcommittee of the Executive Committee that also meets routinely to discuss these and other matters. See information on our approach to sustainable tax policy at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION Hess has a longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), which we believe creates value for all of our stakeholders and is essential to being a socially responsible and sustainable enterprise. Within Hess, our focus is on fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment, in which all Hess employees have equal opportunities to achieve their full potential. Externally, our company has a long history of social investment programs in the communities where we operate. We have focused our investments on those that make a positive and lasting impact through education and work skill development, both of which are fundamental to societal equity and sustainable economic growth. We also promote diversity and inclusion in our supply chain and in our industry. (See page 19 for further detail on our supplier DEI efforts.) Hess’ senior management is actively engaged in our DEI plans and programs, with oversight by our Board. Our DEI Council provides executive leadership and guidance in recruitment, work environment and development activities; we are expanding the Council to include employee resource group representation. In 2020, we extended unconscious bias training to all Hess employees, expanded our employee resource groups and held listening sessions with small groups of employees from underrepresented groups to better understand their experiences in society and at our company, which will guide our efforts moving forward. (See pages 35–36 for further detail on our workforce DEI efforts.) Building on previous programs and investments in Houston to expand education and work skill development for diverse communities, we donated $200,000 to help establish the Program Management Office for the Houston Complete Communities Initiative. The initiative is aimed at providing all Houstonians with equal access to quality services and amenities. Starting in 2021, we have committed approximately $9 million over a three year period to help expand educational programs in Houston to areas that include the Third Ward, an economically disadvantaged community. HOW WE OPERATE In 2020, we launched three task forces with employees from a mix of assets and functions to help advance our DEI strategy. The task forces have made recommendations in the following key areas, for implementation beginning in 2021: • Recruiting: Consider strategies for increasing diversity in candidate slates, hiring, and representation within Hess; identify alternate sources of talent and opportunities to broaden outreach of recruiting efforts • Employee Development: Consider talent management programs to provide focused career growth and development for minority and other underrepresented employee groups within Hess • Supplier Diversity: Establish tools to broaden sources of supplier diversity; implement and monitor supplier diversity goals; join key supplier certification councils KEY INITIATIVES We continue to evolve and advance our management system to align with Hess’ portfolio and organizational structure and to support our performance objectives. Our teams of functional leaders (e.g., EHS, Wells, Reliability Operations, Projects and Facilities Engineering, and Global Supply Chain) provide expertise in key functional areas within each asset and provide oversight and assurance across the company. The Head of each functional area is responsible for overseeing activities in that area across the company, verifying that relevant standards are applied as appropriate and working with each asset to optimize safety, quality, delivery and cost. The Heads of each function are supported by technical authorities and subject matter experts – many of whom are embedded directly into our assets. Together with leadership from each asset, these individuals form the “Heads of” and Technical Authority Network, which supports operations across the company. This group – and other functional leaders and subject matter experts as relevant – meets monthly to optimize synergies across our functions and assets, support enterprisewide initiatives and promote transparency of activities. In 2020, we continued implementing and optimizing the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS), a single, enterprisewide system that governs how we operate. HOMS establishes a common operational framework outlining how we address risk management, process safety, environmental responsibility, and management of employees and contractors, as well as the efficient and reliable design and operation of our assets. This integrated and consistent enterprisewide approach is designed to help us manage risks associated with a changing organization; coordinate technical expertise, standards and processes across the organization; and align asset level operations with enterprisewide corporate standards and business priorities. Ongoing assurance and continuous improvement are central aspects of how we manage our organization, including using audits and assessments of our implementation of and compliance with HOMS. Key operations and processes are reviewed regularly based on assessed risk and compliance requirements. In 2020, we began a thorough review of our operational standards and procedures focused on improving the balance of global, enterprisewide and asset specific requirements to better address asset specific risks and needs while maintaining consistency across the company. Representatives from various Hess functions (e.g., EHS, Wells, Reliability Operations, Projects and Facilities Engineering, and Global Supply Chain), at the corporate and asset levels, are working to review relevant standards and procedures to help ensure cross functional communication and accountability. We will complete implementation of our EHS standards, which formalize enterprisewide expectations and accountabilities for key areas of EHS risk and performance, as part of the HOMS optimization process. Information on Reliability Operations, another key initiative, can be found at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES Several key processes in our company help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities. While these processes are focused on our operated assets, it is important to note that we also review potential risks in Hess’ nonoperated assets. We generally prioritize four main objectives for nonoperated assets: making a positive contribution to local communities; influencing project outcomes by focusing on issues with the greatest potential impact; establishing governance structures and project assurance plans; and documenting and internally sharing high value lessons learned. As these assets represent a significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, we have continued to conduct targeted, high level reviews of nonoperated activities, including production operations, facilities and designs. Enterprise Risk Management Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our operations, such as those related to process safety, climate change and cybersecurity. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) program, which includes consideration of EHS & SR risks, delivers a framework that enables Hess’ Board of Directors and executive leadership to work together to strengthen the consistency of risk consideration in making business decisions. Our Board of Directors has ultimate oversight over the ERM process and is charged with understanding the key risks affecting the company’s business and how those risks can be managed. Annually, our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s Audit Committee with a comprehensive review of Hess’ enterprise level risks, the status of the ERM program and risk management strategies utilized under our Risk Management Standard. The status of EHS & SR risks and mitigations are also discussed at the Board’s EHS Committee meetings, as appropriate. Periodically, our Chief Financial Officer and CRO provide an update to the Board on enterprise level risks, including the relative risks of assets and projects within the portfolio. Corporate Risk oversees day-to-day implementation of the ERM process, including developing and verifying compliance with relevant policies and standards. Hess’ ERM framework is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major capital project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and assess their likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business. Our Risk Management Standard, which applies to all assets and major capital projects, helps to align and integrate risk management across the company. The standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process across our assets, projects and business functions. As part of our ERM process, all assets are required to have a risk assessment and risk plan in place that are refreshed at least annually. In addition, major capital projects and new development opportunities that go through the value assurance process (described at right) must have risk assessments completed prior to each value assurance stage gate. Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated periodically as part of asset and major project operating rhythm meetings. We also require that functional level risk assessments be included in each asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility. Climate risks are considered throughout both enterprise and functional risk assessments from the perspective of potential financial, physical, reputational and regulatory impacts. Further discussion of our approach to managing climate risks can be found in the Climate Change and Energy section. Value Assurance Major investment opportunities are assessed through our value assurance process. This process helps to provide increased objectivity in our investment decisions by including those who are not directly involved with the asset or project in internal reviews. Following this process helps to provide assurance that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high quality input. The value assurance reviews are risk based and focus on economics, subsurface and facility design, safety, environmental and socioeconomic considerations, regulatory requirements and other technical and nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics, we apply either actual carbon pricing where a regulatory framework for it exists or – where a framework does not exist – we evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost as set out in our planning guidance. In April 2021, we updated our planning guidance to expand the evaluation for all significant investment decisions to include a sensitivity using the International Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development Scenario carbon pricing (see pages 41–45). Through our value assurance process, we bring in technical experts from across the company, who are chosen based on how their skills and experience contribute to the project under review. Including experts from across the organization creates learning opportunities for participants to take back to their respective assets and functions and apply to future assurance processes. The value assurance process is closely aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company. HOW WE OPERATE Due Diligence Our due diligence processes help us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities, including those in new geographies. The process also helps the project team mitigate identified risks once a commitment is made to proceed. Ultimately, the process is complementary to our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes. See more detail on these processes at hess. com/sustainability/how-we-operate/ key-enterprise-processes Lean and Innovation For more than a decade, Hess has been implementing Lean thinking and methodologies across our operations to eliminate waste, improve safety and reliability, drive continuous improvement and create value for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other stakeholders. We have encouraged our leaders to develop a Lean mindset, learn fundamental Lean skills and apply them to business problems. The leaders then coach and develop employees and contractors on Lean thinking and how they can identify and solve problems themselves. While Lean started as a series of special projects, it is now integrated into our company culture, and our workforce is empowered to be an “army of problem solvers” focused on continuous improvement. Building on the successes and lessons learned from our efforts to integrate Lean into the Hess culture, we are expanding this culture to include both Lean and innovation. We see these as complementary mindsets that will help us achieve significant performance improvements. Through Lean thinking, we encourage our people to identify opportunities for incremental improvements – ways to do what they already do better. An innovation focus helps our people think of entirely new ways to do what they do, producing step change improvements. In 2020, we progressed several initiatives aimed at further operationalizing these principles into how we work. For example, we developed innovation guidelines that establish a common framework for driving innovation and integration with Lean across our organization. We also further developed an innovation funnel process to collect ideas from employees and a variety of relevant industry sources, identify ideas that have the potential to add value, rank ideas for future development and select those that align with our priorities for piloting. This process helps formalize and organize innovative thinking and drives ideas from conception to implementation. Moving forward, we will continue to expand our efforts by developing Lean and innovation leaders, fostering internal collaboration networks and sharing learnings from these pilots across the organization. BUSINESS CONDUCT The Hess Code of Conduct outlines the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct and related policies, or applicable laws, may result in disciplinary action, including termination. All of our key compliance policies and procedures are described in our Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures are communicated to and available for all employees globally. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, as well as other processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer updates the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis. To continuously enforce compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations and antibribery and anticorruption (ABAC) programs, as well as other enterprise programs and systems. In 2020, our Global Compliance team investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team through the various channels available to our workforce, including our dedicated compliance hotline. In addition, Global Compliance continued to manage the company’s automated approval systems – which are used to review and approve higher risk transactions and relationships with our business partners – including our system for the disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest. Providing employees with effective training on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture so that employees understand and embody the Values in their daily work. As part of this effort, our Global Compliance team has developed in-depth online trainings on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC Policy and Procedure. At year end 2020, 99% of active employees had completed the Code of Conduct training, and 99% had completed the ABAC training. See more detail on ABAC at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/anti-bribery.and-anti-corruption-compliance POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT HessPAC HessPAC serves as the political action committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. employees and acts in full compliance with U.S. federal and state campaign finance and election laws. HessPAC is used to promote the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2020, HessPAC continued in its third full cycle of operation, generated approximately $96,500 in member contributions and distributed $88,500 in political contributions in a bipartisan manner to candidates at the federal level. HessPAC publicly discloses all of its contributions to political candidates, parties and committees. Its federal contributions are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). In 2020, HessPAC did not make any state level contributions, but if it does in the future, these will be publicly available on the appropriate website of each respective state where HessPAC is active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC. Both direct and indirect corporate political contributions are prohibited by Hess company policy. HessPAC permits political contributions only through voluntary employee funded PAC contributions. Advocacy Hess regularly communicates with an array of stakeholders in the public policy arena, including legislators and regulators both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives and our External Affairs function engage with legislative and regulatory institutions to offer a unique perspective on energy policy issues, to better understand federal and state requirements applicable to our operations and to mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. Consistent with Hess principles and values, our legislative and regulatory engagement is done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. Our commitment to transparency also means that the company fully complies with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2020, the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $589,700. This includes fees and expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. We also comply with any and all relevant state and foreign legal and regulatory requirements concerning direct and indirect lobbying activities and contacts. Hess belongs to a number of trade associations (organized under section 501(c) (6) of the Internal Revenue Code) that include our industry peers and other companies in related sectors. Trade associations provide forums through which companies across the oil and gas industry can develop unified public policy agendas, exchange technical and industry best practices and approach issues relevant to our business with a common voice. We require all trade associations to publicly disclose all expenses related to lobbying activities, as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for 21% of our total lobbying spend in 2020. In 2020, none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of our associations for direct or indirect political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for political purposes. A list of memberships and associations that • American Petroleum Institute • Center for Offshore Safety • Center for Strategic and International Studies • Council on Foreign Relations • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative • Independent Petroleum Association of America • International Association of Oil & Gas Producers • IPIECA • Marine Well Containment Company • National Ocean Industries Association • National Petroleum Council • Oil Gas Denmark • U.S. Chamber of Commerce received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2020 is shown below. Hess’ Vice President of External Affairs is responsible for approving and overseeing employee engagement with elected officials or regulators when these employees act as official representatives of the company. This strict internal policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. This helps to ensure that we continue to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remain compliant with all reporting requirements. We aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. Trade Association Alignment We recognize that our positions do not always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our membership should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these groups; however, many of them share Hess’ position on climate change. In 2020, we actively participated in several updates to association positions, including on climate change and methane emissions, so that they more closely align with our positions. To address concerns related to potential inconsistency on a variety of issues, we publish our own positions on key sustainability topics in this annual report. To illustrate our alignment on climate change policies with our national and international memberships and associations, we chose to evaluate those major advocacy organizations that have historically received more than $50,000 from Hess in any given year. Our evaluation was conducted using HOW WE OPERATE publicly available positions and statements, along with our own assessment of each organization’s activities on climate change and whether their climate positions are consistent with the following Hess positions: (1) acknowledgement of the science of climate change; (2) support for the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit global average temperature rise; (3) acknowledgement of the need to accelerate GHG emissions reductions through technological innovation; and (4) support for a carbon price applied to emitters across all sectors. We did not include IPIECA in this analysis, although we are an active member of IPIECA on sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are often too complex for individual companies to tackle alone. Unlike many of the organizations that we have reviewed below, IPIECA is not a lobbying organization. IPIECA instead represents its members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change and other sustainability topics and by providing a forum for encouraging continuous improvement of industry performance. IPIECA enables collaborative work with stakeholders by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in providing innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and implement feasible future energy solutions. All of the organizations we analyzed acknowledge the science of climate change and support GHG emissions reductions through technological innovation, whereas one of the organizations has not publicly supported the aim of the Paris Agreement nor a carbon price and thus is identified as “somewhat inconsistent” with Hess’ positions on these issues. The table below summarizes the overarching results of our review as of May 2021. More detailed information on this evaluation can be found at hess.com/sustainability/ climate-change-energy/trade-association.alignment SUPPLY CHAIN Our suppliers and contractors are critical to our success and play a significant role in Hess’ day-to-day business operations, collaborating with us to promote efficient operations, maintain high standards of EHS performance, mitigate risks and create shared value. We rely on them to provide key goods and services and perform essential tasks. In 2020, we purchased approximately $2.8 billion in commercial goods and services from approximately 3,390 suppliers, whose workhours comprised approximately 70% of our total workforce hours. We work collaboratively with many of our suppliers to review processes, procedures and data to help drive the right actions and foster continuous improvement. In 2020, we worked to strengthen our supplier relationships through enhanced engagements focused on increasing transparency, delivering mutual value and discovering improved ways of working together, especially with our most strategic suppliers. For example, we are actively working with suppliers to develop and implement new technologies that will help us meet our environmental goals, including exploring options for battery hybrid rig power to reduce emissions in the Bakken. In response to COVID-19, Hess implemented a supply chain resilience assessment program through which we worked with suppliers to understand the impact of the pandemic on their operations, monitor potential operational risks and develop mitigation strategies. This effort included maintaining a dashboard of supplier operational status, risks and mitigation measures that was updated weekly. While this section describes our general approach to engagement with our suppliers, these practices may differ in certain instances, if necessary, to comply with applicable local laws and requirements or if otherwise appropriate. INDUSTRY ADVOCACY SUMMARY OF ALIGNMENT WITH HESS' CLIMATE POSITIONS ORGANIZATIONS The API recently took significant steps to revise its position on climate and continues to consider forward leaning climate action that is American Petroleum consistent with the four Hess positions included in our analysis. We Institute (API) will continue to use our influence to promote changes in climate policy direction at the API, where appropriate. The Chamber’s climate position has recently evolved in a positive direction, and the organization continues to consider forward leaning climate action that is consistent with the four Hess positions included in U.S. Chamber of our analysis. As the Chamber represents a broad group of companies Commerce of various sizes and from different economic sectors, we will continue to leverage our membership to align with Hess’ policies and positions, where possible and appropriate. The NOIA’s recently adopted Climate Change Position and Principles National Ocean are consistent with the four Hess positions included in our analysis. Industries Association Hess supported NOIA’s effort and will continue to support and (NOIA) influence its efforts to balance the environmental, social, economic, and energy needs of society. The IPAA maintains climate positions that are somewhat inconsistent with the four Hess positions included in our analysis, although discussions Independent are proceeding in a positive direction. We will use our influence in Petroleum Association this organization to promote a change in policy direction, where of America (IPAA) appropriate, and if we cannot, we will further assess our membership and take appropriate actions, balancing the broader value that we realize from our participation. Management Approach Effective supply chain management underpins our business and operational strategies. For example, supply chain management will play an important role in helping us achieve the new environmental, safety and DEI goals outlined in our updated EHS & SR strategy (see pages 9–11). It was also identified as one of our most important material issues in our refreshed materiality assessment (see page 6). We continue to enhance our capabilities to understand the market and strategically manage our suppliers with cross functional teams that work collaboratively to reach safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. Our Procurement Policy specifies who should participate in the evaluation of tenders, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines that establish clear expectations for our employees when engaging with suppliers. A central goal of our supply chain management system, including our Procurement Policy, is to help ensure that suppliers understand and abide by our high ethical, safety and other performance standards while helping us to avoid unexpected commitments and leverage our spend more effectively. In 2020, certain of our supply chain management processes were integrated into HOMS, as described on page 14. Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, potential suppliers – as determined by a risk based decision matrix – undergo a risk review; an antibribery, anticorruption and legal compliance review; and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews, where appropriate, potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant function within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans, as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to factors such as the number of workhours or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response, among other topics. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. In Malaysia, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on the 14 HOMS elements. Further detail on our EHS related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section. We recognize the value of engaging a diverse supplier base to bring innovation, agility and value to our business and to reflect our commitment to creating opportunity in the communities we impact. Intentionally expanding the diversity of our supply base is one of the pillars of our DEI efforts. In 2020, we established a task force of cross functional leaders to guide the development of our supplier diversity strategy and to provide recommendations on key actions needed to help ensure an impactful and sustainable program. In 2021, our activities will focus on developing a three to five year road map, establishing a supplier diversity implementation team and incorporating inclusion and diversity in our supply chain processes. The companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest and anticorruption, and must maintain any applicable licensing or permitting requirements for their activities. Suppliers are also required to meet the expectations set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights. Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure, EHS and quality of materials and services. Local Content Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary by country, but may include use of an approved supplier list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or workers. In Malaysia, for example, we use an approved vendor list that includes Malaysian owned companies, and we also require our suppliers to prioritize hiring local staff. Hess’ joint venture in Guyana also seeks to employ local nationals and support local suppliers. A continuing focus by the joint venture has been support for the Centre for Local Business Development. Since its opening in 2017, the Centre has held 42 supplier forums, assessed over 512 businesses’ strengths and weaknesses, registered nearly 2,700 businesses in a supplier portal and conducted the equivalent of more than 3,600 days of training. The trainings have covered the fundamentals of offshore oil and gas production, procurement and supply chain management, financial and human resources management, and safety, security, health and environmental topics such as waste management, incident response and air quality monitoring. See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess. com and hess.com/sustainability/ how-we-operate/supply-chain 