SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility (SR) is one of the six Hess Values, reflecting its importance to our company and our stakeholders. The Hess Value of social responsibility commits us to meet the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business.  Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that provide direct and indirect benefits to the communities where we operate. Our SR activities help us to generate economic opportunities for our stakeholders, create valued partnerships and maximize value for shareholders. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Hess’ Code of Conduct is fundamental to our Hess Values and underscores our commitment to ethical and responsible business practices. The Code describes the business conduct and practices we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including our adherence to the highest human rights standards. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. We collectively call these our “Voluntary Commitments.” They include: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative The Sustainable Development Goals U.N. member countries have adopted a set of 17 goals – called the Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs – as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The U.N. has sought to advance cooperation among governments, civil society and the private sector, all of which play a critical role in achieving the ambitious SDGs. We have continued to work on defining what the SDGs mean in the context of our business and to better articulate our efforts through transparent reporting. In 2018 we further evaluated Hess’ alignment with the SDGs by mapping the goals to the issues we identified as part of our materiality assessment (see page 5 for more on that assessment). This exercise has allowed us to identify where our strategic actions and ongoing operations have the greatest potential to impact the goals. As part of the refresh of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy planned for the 2019–2020 timeframe, we will consider opportunities to more fully integrate the SDGs into our regular business planning and reporting. The following table summarizes the SDGs that we believe align with our material issues and identifies where discussion of those topics can be found in this report. RELEVANT SDGS HESS MATERIAL ISSUES DISCUSSION (PAGE #) SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts • Human Rights and  22–23  Security  • Process Safety and Spills  30–33, 54–55, 57–58  • Transportation Impacts  29  • Community and  23–25  Stakeholder Engagement  • Process Safety and Spills  21, 30–31, 54–55, 57–58  • Water Management  53, 55–56  • Climate Change and  39–51  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  • Regulatory Assurance  58–59  • Transparency in Business  12–13  Conduct  • Community and  17, 35  Stakeholder Engagement  • Climate Change and  39–51  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  • Emergency Preparedness  30–32, 57–58  and Response  • Community and  30–32  Stakeholder Engagement  • Process Safety and Spills  30–32, 57–58  • Regulatory Assurance  58–59  • Water Management  53, 55–56  SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY These Voluntary Commitments inform our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, for example, obligates us to demonstrate high standards of ethics and integrity and outlines our commitments to the communities where we operate and to our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy specifically prohibits child labor, forced labor and workplace harassment in our operations; it also covers key issues relating to our supply chain and community engagement. Our Security and Human Rights Policy sets forth guidelines governing the use of force by Hess employees and private security contractors engaged by Hess, when such security is needed. These policies are supported at the local level through training, toolkits and procedures specific to the needs of our operational locations. In early 2018 we initiated a review of the company processes that support our Voluntary Commitments, to align them with our changed asset portfolio and risk profile. Later in this section we describe a refreshed approach to stakeholder engagement that facilitates integrated oversight of our Voluntary Commitments across the enterprise. Organizational Structure Hess’ External Affairs function provides  a central SR support organization that coordinates resources with our assets and project teams. The support organization develops governance, reports company-wide social performance, provides technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provides assurance across these efforts. The asset and project resources report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset- or project-specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between our central organization and global locations. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In line with our purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy partner, we help deliver the energy the world demands – energy that is fundamental to advancing economic progress and improving living standards. We endeavor to partner as appropriate with resource owners, communities and stakeholders from across civil society to develop oil and natural gas resources in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible. We prioritize safety, integrity and transparency and aim to treat all our stakeholders with respect. We actively seek out dialogues with stakeholders – specifically local communities, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors – to share our values, vision and goals and to seek feedback. Stakeholder Planning and Engagement Process In 2018 we completed a review and refresh of our enterprise-level stakeholder planning and engagement process, which is aligned with and included in the Hess Risk Management Standard. Based on the learnings from that review, we have been working to establish a clearer link between our stakeholder identification and engagement activities and the key external issues impacting each asset. Specifically, we have developed individualized External Affairs and Stakeholder Plans for each of Hess’ operated production locations (i.e., Denmark, Gulf of Mexico, North Dakota and North Malay Basin). Each plan outlines a five-step process,  as shown in the graphic to the right. The first step involves understanding the specific risks faced by each asset as identified in the asset-level risk register and heat maps and then prioritizing those risks to identify the issues that are the most important to Hess’ license to operate. In the second step, we establish documented internal accountabilities for managing each key issue – including identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an individual from senior management with accountability for the issue) and an Issue Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals responsible for managing the ongoing strategy and engagement to mitigate stakeholder impacts). In step three, each Issue Manager, with support from our External Affairs function, documents the relevant stakeholders, and then in step four outlines the engagement strategies for those stakeholders. The final step is monitoring and tracking the key issues, with updates to the Business Owner and, as required, other senior management at least twice a year. Grievance Mechanisms We believe that developing strong and transparent relationships with the communities in which we operate and addressing potential issues early – before they mature into more severe challenges – helps to avoid incidents. At the same time, formal grievance mechanisms provide INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS STEP 1 Identify Risks & Issues STEP 2 Establish Internal Accountabilities STEP 3 Identify Key Stakeholders STEP 4 Outline Engagements STEP 5 Monitor & Track External Stakeholders Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for benefiting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders – from local landowners and governments to community service agencies and indigenous groups. Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. CATEGORY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Land Users/Landowners Resources Users/ Rights Holders  Residents, landowners, commercial land interests, farmers, ranchers Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and users, hunters/ fishers/gatherers  Continued to work through our Bakken grievance mechanism to increase communication with stakeholders. Conducted annual meetings with landowners. Continued monitoring of pipelines after construction to detect potential issues. Donated to Farm Rescue, a nonprofit that supports farming and ranching families in crisis in North Dakota and surrounding states. Made additional improvements to our SMS so that landowners and mineral rights holders can more easily access forms and view their monthly payment details.  Governments Direct Economic Interests  Local, regional and national authorities, national militaries, international governing authorities Investment partners, vendors and suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholders  Met with the U.S. Ambassador to Guyana. Hosted representatives of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on a tour of our North Dakota operations. Also, hosted a group of North Dakota state government officials on a tour of our operations, including the Tioga Gas Plant and Tioga Rail Terminal. A Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership. In December 2018, held an Investor Day attended by over 450 participants, in person and via live webcast, to discuss Hess’ strategic priorities, portfolio and plans. Continued the Job Experience Training program in North Dakota, providing valuable work experience to students from Bismarck State College. Through our joint venture in Guyana, continued supporting the Centre for Local Business Development, to promote the  External Business Interests Special Interest Groups Community Services  Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiatives Nongovernmental organizations, religious groups, cause-oriented nonprofits, community groups Local police/fire/emergency medical services, health care services, education, human service agencies  establishment and growth of local businesses in that country. (See pages 24–25 for more on the latter two initiatives.) A Hess representative joined the board of directors of the newly formed American Chamber of Commerce Guyana. Our President and Chief Operating Officer served on the board of directors for the Greater Houston Partnership. A Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. Leaders of Hess’ EHS and External Affairs functions actively participated in IPIECA and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused on topics such as social responsibility, water, climate change, EHS and sustainability reporting. Hess representatives serve on the advisory board for the University of North Dakota’s Petroleum Engineering Program; the executive committees and boards of directors of the American Petroleum Institute, the North Dakota Petroleum Council and the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association; and the boards of directors of the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce and the newly formed North Dakota Petroleum Foundation. Joined the Gulf of Mexico Alliance Gulf Star Program, which aims to invest in projects that support a healthy and productive Gulf of Mexico (see page 53). A Hess representative served on the board of the North Dakota Outdoor Heritage Fund, a governor-appointed position. In partnership with the YMCA in North Dakota, supported a Summer Unplugged program for kids, which involved once-a-week activities designed to provide an alternative to TV and computer screens. Conducted a joint emergency response drill with local emergency responders onboard an operations support vessel at our Tok Bali Supply Base in Malaysia. Hess employees assisted with the purchase and delivery of supplies – including 70 mattresses, bed frames and bedding donated by our employees – to help more than six dozen families who lost their homes to a tornado in Watford City, North Dakota, lessening the burden on local emergency managers. Participated in the Bakken Rocks CookFest, a  Indigenous Groups  Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, indigenous advocacy groups  family-friendly event that seeks to strengthen relationships between the local community and oil and gas operators. Supported Healing Horse Ranch on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in Parshall, North Dakota.  SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders with a means for sharing feedback with companies on their operational impacts, while also helping companies respond to and act on that feedback through an established process. Through the use of our grievance mechanisms, we aim to strengthen our relationships with communities and landowners and respond more effectively to their concerns. The grievance mechanism we maintain for our Bakken asset in North Dakota, which was launched in 2015, accepts complaints (anonymously, if desired) through several access points, including via our Grievance Officer, Hess Owner Solutions team, North Dakota front desk staff and Surface Land team. We have reached out to community members through forums such as community meetings to share information about this grievance mechanism and explain how to contact us if they perceive a problem. Through this mechanism we receive and address concerns relating to employee and contractor performance, behavior and activities toward external stakeholders. We may also receive feedback on workplace, procurement, supplier and EHS issues. The most commonly raised topics include issues such as road conditions, erosion, land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and weeds. In 2018 we received 171 grievances through this process. When alerted to a potential issue, the response team draws employees from various disciplines within Hess – such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources – that are best able to respond to the concern and reach a resolution. For example, safety concerns are forwarded to Hess’ EHS function; individual worker complaints are handled by Human Resources; and business integrity or ethics complaints are referred to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, we escalate management of the grievance upward in the company as necessary to help resolve the issue. We maintain an internal database – the stakeholder management system (SMS) – to track these grievances from start to completion. (The SMS also supports our stakeholder engagement process, described previously.) The response team strives to complete their investigation within 14 days of the original report and provide a response and/or resolution within 30 days. As a final step before closing a case, we contact the stakeholder to confirm they feel the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership Team, comprised of key senior decision-makers for the Bakken asset, as part of our regular operating rhythm. As we continue to work toward the integration of formal grievance mechanisms at additional assets, we are relying on our existing manual tracking process at those assets to resolve issues in a timely manner. Separately, we maintain a grievance mechanism for landowners and mineral rights holders associated with our U.S. onshore assets. Specifically, we have a telephone hotline, webpage and email address through which these individuals can ask questions and share concerns and complaints. Our Owner Relations and Owner Support teams manage this system, and they use the SMS to track open issues and help ensure they are resolved. In 2018 these teams received and responded to nearly 17,000 emails and 2,800 phone calls, 4,326 of which developed into SMS cases to be tracked and addressed. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT When Hess enters a new country, commissions a new development or expands an existing facility, we engage with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities where we operate. As part of our strategic planning processes for these activities, we examine the social, political and reputational environment to identify nontechnical risks and mitigation activities. Where our operations are ongoing, we regularly conduct “heat map” reviews that take into account new and emerging risks and develop recommended mitigating actions. We address human rights considerations throughout these processes, including during due diligence and social risk identification, mitigation and management. We also have a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that we utilize locally for training security personnel on human rights issues. Human Rights We remain committed to building trusted partnerships and treating all citizens with dignity and respect wherever we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by engaging with stakeholders to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. We have worked to align our business practices with our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at all phases of our business activities, beginning with new country entry. Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights as well as raising internal awareness of best practices outlined in our Security and Human Rights Policy. Over the years, we have used our internal Global Security team or invited external experts to provide human rights training to our employees around the globe. In 2018, for example, we conducted human rights training in Malaysia. We also utilize an online human rights training module for employees that explains the concept of human rights and why they are important for Hess, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING As part of Hess’ commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen, we aim to create positive, mutually beneficial relationships with our host communities. We focus on creating shared value in local communities and a favorable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets create, maintain and implement strategic social investment programs tailored to each operation and community. We evaluate our programs to confirm a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us evolve along with the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations and projects best aligned with the business and social risks identified through risk assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees. Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in our supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. In 2018 our social investments totaled nearly $6.9 million, with approximately $2.4 million going toward education projects. 2018 Social Investment Spend by Country $ Thousands 1% 2% . U.S. $6,295 . Guyana $392 . Ghana $107 . Malaysia $100 2018 Social Investment Spend by Type of Investment $ Thousands 2% 2% . In-Kind $2,815 . Education $2,376 . Community $1,437 . Environment $123 . All Other* $143 *Other social investment categories include disaster relief, health, civic and employee, and arts and culture. Note: These charts include all social investments in 2018, includin those associated with joint-venture operations. Local Program Highlights Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment, capacity building and infrastructure improvement opportunities in 2018. Expanding Education Resources  in Houston Hess continues to support LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere), an SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY educational program managed by the Greater Houston Community Foundation. LEAP aims to keep at-risk middle school students in school and aspiring toward college or vocational training. After concluding a successful pilot in 2016, we launched LEAP 2.0 – an expanded, three-year program that engages students at three elementary schools, one middle school and one high school. Among other activities, the program gives books to elementary-aged students; offers a summer program for middle school students that focuses on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM); and provides college- and career-readiness training to high school students. New for 2018, we funded year-round internships for two students from the high school through the GenesysWorks program. Hess is contributing more than $700,000 annually to LEAP 2.0. Improving Critical Infrastructure  in Louisiana The LA1 state highway in coastal Louisiana is the primary route for workers and supplies to reach Port Fourchon, which in turn is the jumping off point for moving those workers and supplies to offshore oil and gas platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. LA1 is also the only land-based hurricane evacuation route for Port Fourchon and nearby Grand Isle, a barrier island renowned for its fishing and birding habitat. Historically, the low-lying roadway has been impacted by storm surges during each hurricane season; for example, LA1 was closed for four days during Hurricane Isaac in 2012, which was a direct hit to the Louisiana coast. Currently, the roadway often floods even during lower-level storms. Hess is a member of the LA1 Coalition, a public–private partnership composed of representatives from oil and gas companies, government agencies and the local community. The group has spearheaded efforts to replace a major portion of LA1 near Leeville, Louisiana, with a 19-mile bridge. Hess has contributed $300,000 to the project, which is now about half complete. Additional funding has come from other oil and gas companies and matching government grants, with the remainder to be paid through tolls from road users over the next 35 years. The new elevated roadway is expected to enhance emergency response capability and improve the evacuation route. In addition, beneficial sediment disposition to be performed during construction will create 100-plus acres of wetlands. For more information, see www.la1coalition.org. Apprenticeships in North Dakota In December 2018 our Job Experience Training (JET) program was recognized by the U.S. Department of Labor as an official Registered Apprenticeship Program – the first such program in North Dakota’s oil and gas industry. JET is an apprenticeship for reliability operators developed by Hess in 2017, in collaboration with Bismarck State College, to develop local, qualified personnel in North Dakota. Through JET, apprentices are trained in our corporate culture and way of operating, and they “earn while they learn,” gaining job experience while pursuing their education. Since the program’s inception, 15 apprentices have entered the JET program, five have completed the apprenticeship and three have been converted to Hess employees. As a result of the Registered Apprenticeship Program designation, all JET apprentices will earn a U.S. Department of Labor credential formally recognizing their efforts. Hess Toy Truck STEM Program in North Dakota Hess collaborated with state education officials and the governor’s office to transform Hess toy trucks into teaching tools. The innovative program bundles our toy trucks with a STEM curriculum that was designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. In January 2019 Hess shipped Hess Toy Truck STEM Program, North Dakota 24 toy trucks and STEM kits to each of the 336 elementary schools in North Dakota. The materials will help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic energy and other STEM-related lessons. Malaysia Fulbright English Teaching Assistant Program In November 2018, Hess Malaysia was recognized as one of the top corporate citizens in the country by the American Malaysian Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) at the annual MY AMCHAM CARES event, which honors AMCHAM members that have shown a commitment to best practice in corporate social responsibility. Hess was commended for its sponsorship of and involvement with the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) Program, which places graduating seniors from U.S. universities in underserved Malaysian secondary schools for 10 months. Administered by the Malaysian-American Commission on Educational Exchange in coordination with the Malaysia Ministry of Education, the Fulbright ETA Program helps Malaysian students improve their proficiency in English while also promoting goodwill between the ETAs, students, teachers and their communities. In 2018 Hess supported 10 Fulbright ETAs in Kelantan, Malaysia, who taught more than 5,000 students in the classroom and reached an additional 1,000 students in ETA-led “English camps.” Hess employees also contributed by volunteering at the English camps throughout the year. Centre for Local Business Development, Guyana Capacity Building in Guyana Through our joint venture in Guyana via the operator, Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited, Hess is focusing on three key areas of social investment: spending with local suppliers, developing local resources and investing in the community. The joint venture supports a Centre for Local Business Development, for example, which aims to further the capabilities of local Guyanese businesses by helping them build their capacity and improve their competitiveness; providing opportunities for procurement, as well as mentoring, coaching and financial support; and providing information on safety and technical standards. In 2018 the Centre held training sessions for Guyanese residents on waste management, incident response, air-quality monitoring and other safety, security, health and environmental topics. The joint venture has committed a total of $4.5 million to the Centre over a three-year period. Also, more than 1,000 Guyanese are now employed in joint venture activities (either as direct employees or contractors), and the joint venture is using nearly 500 Guyanese vendors for goods and services, spending $58 million with Guyanese companies in 2018. SAFETY AND HEALTH At Hess, our first priority is the safety of our workforce. Through our safety programs and practices, we seek to maintain a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job, so that everyone across our operations returns home safe every day. Our commitment to occupational and process safety begins at the top of our organization and is reinforced at every level. For example, we include key enterprisewide safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. In July 2018 we held our 10th Global Safety Appreciation Day, an annual event that provides an opportunity for the Hess workforce to stop and reflect on safety issues and discuss how we can further embed safety in the Hess culture. And each year, our Chief Executive Officer and our President and Chief Operating Officer present awards for safety excellence to the Hess teams and individuals who exemplify outstanding safety performance. In 2018 we completed more than 192,000 leadership site visits and safety observations, which we track as leading indicators of our safety performance. Also, in line with Hess’ commitment to Lean practices, we began the year with a “Go to Gemba” event to engage our workforce in conversations about safety, with a focus on our ongoing efforts to improve pre.job planning and job safety assessment tools and techniques. Gemba means “the real place” in Japanese and, in practice, “Going to Gemba” means having leaders from Hess visit our worksites to talk with workers to better understand safety challenges and reinforce our commitment to “everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe.” When a site’s workforce includes contract workers, managers from our contractor companies will often accompany our leaders on these visits. Also in 2018 we refreshed our safety leadership training program so that it more precisely aligns with our operations. We brought the program in-house so that the content could be developed by internal Hess personnel, address specific Hess expectations and processes and be delivered to frontline leaders by our own asset operations and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) staff. Throughout 2019, we will schedule workshops in our Bakken region to train over 200 frontline leaders to be safety role models. A member of the Bakken Leadership Team will be designated to attend the kickoff session for each class to demonstrate leadership support, set expectations and model the behaviors outlined in the workshop. Content developed under the refreshed program will then be rolled out to other assets using a phased approach. MANAGEMENT APPROACH We aim for continuous improvement in safety performance, with the ultimate goal of zero safety incidents. Hess’ 14-element Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility (EHS & SR) Management System Manual serves as a framework for managing and measuring our safety performance. For the past several years, we have been working to formalize and standardize many of our EHS practices across the company through our global EHS standards project. Hess’ safety standards and procedures address key areas of safety risk – such as energy isolation, dropped objects and confined space entry – and promote leadership, awareness, consistency and accountability across all levels of the organization. We also have a set of seven basic global requirements for safe work practices that we call the Hess Rules. In 2019 we will work toward updating and expanding these rules, which were first introduced in 2011, so they align with the newly completed EHS standards. Through our EHS assurance program, we review conformance with our external and internal obligations, including regulations, policies, standards and procedures. The program operates in three tiers, as shown in the figure below. At the Tier I level, and as an independent assurance and consulting function, Hess Corporate Audit conducts annual EHS audits and consulting services following a risk-based plan that covers various EHS topics, including occupational safety and health; drilling, completions and production process safety; and management of environmental impacts. Corporate Audit’s EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE SAFETY AND HEALTH Highlights of Local Safety Performance The real test of our safety programs is how thoroughly and effectively they are implemented each day at the local level – and whether they correlate to strong safety performance. The following are some examples of outstanding safety performance across our assets. In Malaysia, Hess’ Tok Bali Supply Base has been operational for three years and has never had a lost time injury. The supply base, which provides logistics support for our North Malay Basin offshore production operations, has had a rigorous EHS program from the start – including monthly safety and health committee meetings and weekly and monthly hazard hunts, among other activities. In addition, our North Malay Basin asset operated between May 2017 and July 2018  with no injuries of any kind. That means that more than 400 days and 3.3 million workhours – often involving high-risk activities, including construction, production, offshore hookup, commissioning and drilling – were completed without injury. In early 2018 Hess Malaysia was given an award from the national oil and gas company PETRONAS for Best Drilling HSE Performance in Malaysia. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Paul Romano – a semisubmersible rig operated by Noble and performing drilling operations at multiple Hess leases – achieved notable safety metrics in its last two-and-a-half-year tenure for Hess. The rig experienced no severe safety incidents in 2016, 2017 or 2018; no recordable incidents in 2017 or 2018; and no dropped object incidents in 2018. Hess credits teamwork, leadership, alignment and collaboration between Hess and Noble for this performance. The Gulfstar 1 production platform operated by Hess in the Tubular Bells Field (Gulf of Mexico) achieved two years without a recordable incident as of September 2018. The platform’s safety team met with representatives from other Hess assets in the region to share their experience and the daily practices that enabled them to achieve this safety record. In particular, the team highlighted the importance of good communication and attitudes among crewmembers, as well as a readiness to use stop-work authority. Finally, in North Dakota, our Subsurface Maintenance, Reliability and Integrity (MRI) team achieved its lowest total recordable incident rate in three years in 2018, while also reducing losses of primary containment by 75 percent. This result was facilitated by developing and implementing standard work instructions (SWIs). SWIs describe the sequence of steps needed to do a particular task correctly and safely. They are an example of Lean processes in action, and are used as a baseline for continuous improvement. The Subsurface MRI team, which is responsible for 22 workover rigs and 15 separate contractor companies, built the SWIs from the ground up, with contractor input and involvement, and continually refines them as new lessons are learned. annual plan is reviewed and approved by level constitutes routine self-assessments the Audit Committee and EHS Committee by assets against corporate EHS of Hess’ Board of Directors, while the standards, corporate and asset-level audit results are reported to and reviewed procedures, and regulations. by the EHS Committee. At the Tier II level, In 2018 Hess’ Corporate Audit functionworking collaboratively with Hess assets, conducted Tier I EHS audits and subject matter experts and technical consulting activities in accordance with authorities conduct assessments to the Board-approved plan for the year. evaluate conformance with corporate and Based on asset requests, Hess subject asset EHS standards and procedures, matter experts also completed variousas well as with regulations, and assist Tier II assessments in 2018. At the Tier the assets in addressing identified III level, self-assessments in the form ofimprovement opportunities. The Tier III behavioral safety observations, leadership site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig inspections, and other reviews occurred throughout the year. Managing change in people, equipment and processes is another important way that we address safety risks. As part of the company’s restructuring that took place in 2018, we followed a formal management of change process to help ensure that the roles and responsibilities of safety-critical personnel were assessed and actions implemented to address identified gaps. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership over occupational safety by tasking workers with identifying and mitigating the safety issues most relevant to their operations. Our Behavioral Safety Observation Program (BSOP), for example, has helped to reinforce our global safety performance objectives by training workers to conduct peer-to.peer workplace observations in order to identify and trend safe and at-risk behaviors. Immediate feedback is given to workers who have been observed, and behavioral trends are analyzed to identify broader organizational improvement opportunities. Behavioral safety programs have been in place at our U.S. onshore assets since 2011, and best practices developed at those assets were codified into Hess’ enterprisewide BSOP Standard in 2017. In the Gulf of Mexico region, we implemented the standard at the Hess-operated production platform in the Tubular Bells Field in 2017 and at the Hess-operated production platforms in the Baldpate and Stampede Fields in 2018. The program promotes a continuous and collaborative sharing of best practices and safety information across Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico region. In 2019 we plan to implement the program at our operated assets in Denmark and Malaysia. Transportation is another key focus of our occupational safety efforts at Hess. We address land, aviation and marine safety through a variety of programs. Hess’ Land Transportation Standard outlines the three pillars of land transportation safety at Hess: driver training and competency, the use of in-vehicle monitoring systems for company-owned vehicles, and journey management planning. Hess workers take proactive driver training prior to the first time they operate a motor vehicle on company business, with refresher training required every three years. Our key contractors are required to comply with Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, published by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). Our Land Transportation team publishes weekly safety bulletins that address key topics, such as distracted driving, safe parking and safety technology. These bulletins are also provided to many of our contractors. In 2018 we updated the in-vehicle monitoring systems in all Hess-owned vehicles. These updated systems monitor driver performance in greater detail than prior systems and provide real-time feedback to drivers. This feedback has correlated with overall improved performance in our main land transportation metric, which includes driver acceleration, deceleration and time over speed. Hess’ aviation safety program is based on our Corporate Aviation Safety Management System and our EHS & SR Management System Manual. Our aviation standards and procedures frequently exceed national regulations in our countries of operation, and we regularly conduct aviation contractor safety audits, site visits and readiness reviews to monitor the safe operation of aircraft used to support our operations. While our aviation contractors have experienced no Hess-related aviation accidents or injuries in more than 25 years, we continuously work with these contractors to further reduce risk. Through these efforts, over the past five years our aviation contractors have moved more passengers with fewer flights, reducing the number of flights supporting our operations by 35 percent and overall flying hours by 25 percent. Our approach to marine transportation safety is addressed under the Contractor Management heading later in this section. Key Performance Metrics Based on our total recordable incident rate (TRIR) of 0.24 in 2017, which was the best in our company’s history, we set a 10 percent improvement target for 2018. Unfortunately, we observed an increase in our TRIR, with a year-end result of 0.31, and did not achieve our target. This upward trend was primarily driven by an increase in our contractor incident rate. We did, however, achieve a historical best rate in one of our other key safety metrics, our severe safety incident rate, which incorporates incidents that have the potential to result in severe consequences. This was supported by a decrease in severe dropped object incidents in 2018, which comprised the majority of our severe incidents in 2017. We experienced no lost time incidents among employees in 2018, and our workforce lost time incident rate was the same as in 2017. Also in 2018, there were no workforce fatalities among either employees or contractors. We believe that tracking leading safety indicators – such as near-miss incidents that have potential high/severe consequences – is as important as tracking lagging indicators to improve safety performance. We require that information concerning near-miss incidents be reported internally and recorded into our incident management system. Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive plan metrics include a target aimed at reducing the rate of severe safety incidents, which includes near-miss incidents with potential high/severe consequences. Employee and Contractor  Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.50 2016 2017 2018 . Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) .Contractor TRIR Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.39 2016 2017 2018 . Workforce TRIR .Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) *Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time  incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day  of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals. SAFETY AND HEALTH PROCESS SAFETY Hess’ process safety program aims to prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. Our efforts focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment, as follows: • Design integrity – reducing risks in the design and construction of facilities • Technical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining hardware and software barriers • Operational integrity – working within operational design parameters Key Initiatives Across Hess operations, our approach to process safety involves identifying, managing and mitigating risks. We do this by raising awareness of risks among our workforce, providing strong safety leadership and maintaining a commitment to continuously improving our process safety procedures, systems and standards. In 2018 we built on the outcome of the enterprisewide assessment of our process safety systems, which was completed in 2017. The assessment was designed to identify improvement opportunities directly relevant to each asset, as well as systemic, enterprisewide opportunities. One of the actions that resulted from the assessment is to standardize and build upon the competency assurance and training (CAT) programs that have already been implemented at several of our assets to define, assess and develop workforce Local Efforts Our assets around the globe demonstrate their commitment to process safety every day, whether by achieving outstanding results or continuously improving their processes. In 2018, for example, our Stampede team achieved top results on a two-and-a-half-day, in-depth inspection by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), one of the federal agencies charged with regulating offshore oil and gas facilities. BSEE’s annual inspection, which looked at more than 400 safety-critical devices and procedures on the production platform in the Stampede Field, issued zero incidents of noncompliance. This clean inspection puts Stampede in the top quartile of compliance among Gulf of Mexico facilities. Separately, the Stampede team in 2018 placed special focus on validating the reliability and availability of blowout preventers (BOPs) – the high-pressure safety devices that are critical for safe offshore drilling operations. To accomplish this, the team utilized a new BOP Reliability Database that more effectively collects and analyzes BOP performance and reliability data. The database, which was functionally designed to allow expansion to other assets globally, provides a single source of quality information on the performance of Stampede’s BOP systems. In North Dakota in 2018, Hess began collaborating with other pipeline operators to support new technologies that have the potential to prevent and detect pipeline leaks. We are a founding member of a research and development project known as the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), which seeks to eliminate pipeline leaks through innovation. See the Environment section for more information. competencies. Standardization of these programs will allow us to have common competency assessment and training programs as well as a common electronic competency management system. In mid-2018 we kicked off what is expected to be a multiyear process to standardize our approach to CAT for safety-critical positions across the enterprise and link it to the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS). (See the How We Operate section for more on HOMS.) Another strategy we have pursued to minimize process safety risk is to enhance our integrity management program. Our assets have identified integrity critical equipment (ICE), which acts as a barrier for the occurrence of incidents through isolation, containment, prevention, detection, control, mitigation or emergency preparedness and response within our facilities. We have established ICE performance standards, which set specific expectations and criteria for inspections and maintenance that help to ensure each ICE barrier is effective, and we have substantially completed maintenance and testing plans for individual pieces of ICE. To build on our efforts from prior years, we included a target in our 2018 annual incentive plan to measure whether maintenance on ICE was scheduled and performed as planned. We surpassed our target of  98 percent by completing more than 9,200 critical maintenance work orders. “Barrier thinking” also continues to be a key part of our ongoing process safety efforts. Barrier thinking involves understanding the role of barriers in relation to hazards, threats, events and consequences. In 2018 we continued to use “bow tie” diagrams to help employees and contractors visualize threats, barriers and consequences. During the year we used bow tie models within our Gulf of Mexico organization to test awareness of the presence, use and effectiveness of barriers (both preventative and mitigative) designed to guard against major accidents. We expect to complete bow tie project implementation at our North Malay Basin asset in 2019. Key Performance Metrics Hess collects information on process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety — Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports. Our goal has been to continually reduce our number of process safety events (PSEs), and in 2018 we achieved that goal for the fourth consecutive year. We experienced three Tier 1 events in 2018, compared with seven in 2017. Likewise, we had 10 Tier 2 events in 2018, down from 22 in 2017. This positive trend reflects the significant effort we have put into developing and implementing process safety systems  and programs within our operations. 2016  2017  2018  Tier 1 PSE Count  11  7  3  Tier 2 PSE Count  30  22  10  Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are leading process safety indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. We use these KPIs to support continuous improvement at particular facilities or within company systems. For instance, our global Drilling and Completions team tracks Tier 3 KPIs specific to its operations, such as well control system performance and loss of power events. An example of a Tier 4 KPI Preparedness at Hess involves our is the execution of required maintenance response organization (illustrated on ICE, which was an indicator added below), engagement with officials and to the 2018 annual incentive plan bonus communities, emergency facilities and calculation for employees. response plans. We hold trainings and, as mentioned previously, exercises to EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  define and clarify roles, responsibilities AND RESPONSE and resources. Continuous improvement At Hess, our safety programs are is an essential element of our Emergencydesigned to help prevent incidents Preparedness and Response Standard from occuring. However, we also by which we incorporate lessons learned diligently prepare to respond effectively from incidents and exercises into our to any emergency that may occur. preparedness planning, training and We regularly participate in emergency future exercises. preparedness and response exercises HESS EMERGENCYwith our employees and key stakeholders, RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONincluding our contractors, ranging from notification drills (in which personnel practice the communication protocols Incident Support Team HOUSTONrequired in case of an emergency) to full-scale equipment mobilization exercises. In the event of an incident, Hess’ emergency Incident Management Teampreparedness and response program ASSETis designed to respond to actual or threatened injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to Emergency Response Team our assets and impacts to the company’s FACILITY reputation – in that order of priority. Baldpate Life Extension In 2018 the Hess-operated production platform in the Baldpate Field of the Gulf of Mexico (Baldpate) reached its 20-year design life – that is, the time period over which it was expected to function without any major repairs or replacements. Back in 2012, well in advance of this deadline, Hess engineers and contracted, independent experts began an intensive structural integrity assessment of Baldpate. Our goal was to provide assurance to BSEE that we could continue to operate the facility after 2018 in a manner safe for our workers and the environment. Life extension for Baldpate was a complex process, as the platform sits in 1,600 feet of water and is one of only five structures like it in the world. The integrity assessment involved extensive computer finite-element modeling and analysis based on 17 years of environmental data collected by accelerometers placed on the platform when it was first built, as well as observational data collected by remote-operated vehicles underwater. Ultimately, the assessment showed that the Baldpate platform design is structurally robust and can be safely operated through the projected end of its economic life (i.e., about another 25 years). Another key outcome of this multiyear effort was, in coordination with BSEE, the development of a best-in-class, risk-based structural integrity management and monitoring program for Baldpate and our other assets in  the Gulf of Mexico. SAFETY AND HEALTH As an example of our ongoing efforts at team members and better understanding the local level, our Bakken asset held each other’s roles by instituting a weekly two equipment mobilization exercises in briefing. The briefings consist of a “role 2018 in North Dakota. Both drills involved call” to confirm all Incident Management deploying oil spill containment booms on Team roles are accounted for, an operations Lake Sakakawea, to ensure key personnel briefing to discuss any high-risk activities knew how to effectively and accurately use or conditions (such as inclement weather), the booms and all associated equipment in an equipment check to confirm members case of a spill that threatened a water body. understand what tools are at their disposal Separately, our Bakken asset also held a during a response, and a training session tabletop exercise to test our North Dakota to help maintain member competencies. Business Continuity Plan, working through Members of the Gulf of Mexico Incident the steps that would be undertaken in the Management Team also visited some of event of a tornado passing through our our partner oil spill recovery and response Tioga Office Complex. organizations to observe oil spill recovery equipment and offshore vessel operations. At our Gulf of Mexico asset in 2018, the This gave the team a better understandingasset’s Incident Management Team focused of the use and limitations of the equipment,on enhancing communication between if it were ever to be deployed. Cross-Industry Collaboration on Contractor Training Around the globe, oil and gas operators working in the same regions often utilize the same contractor companies, requiring employees at those companies to go through similar safety orientations – often multiple times per year. To minimize that redundancy and reduce associated inefficiencies and costs, Hess and others in the industry have increasingly been working together to standardize and share contractor safety orientations. In 2018 we made progress on such efforts in North Dakota, the Gulf of Mexico and Malaysia. In North Dakota, the safety committee of the North Dakota Petroleum Council (NDPC), of which Hess is a member, began developing a Bakken-wide standardized contractor safety orientation program called One Basin – One Way. The committee is currently gathering orientation curricula from the 12 participating operators to determine core needs for the program. Once a common curriculum is established, it is anticipated the NDPC will contract with appropriate safety training providers and then commence the program. Those trained through the program will be given a card, similar to a driver’s license, that will identify them as ready to work in the Bakken. The orientation sessions are expected to begin in 2019. Similarly, Hess Malaysia is part of an industrywide initiative led by the Malaysian national oil company, PETRONAS, to develop pan-Malaysian standardized EHS training requirements, which are expected to be recognized by all operators in Malaysia. Hess has been appointed by PETRONAS to lead the development of a workstream on defensive driving. The syllabus and specific requirements for this workstream have been agreed to by the relevant committee, and Hess is now leading an assessment of training provider centers. We expect these trainings will be underway once approval has been granted by the initiative’s Standardization Committee. In the Gulf of Mexico, we worked with eight other operators in 2018 to increase consistency in the minimum safety requirements for contractors working in the region. Specifically, the group jointly developed a protocol for skills and knowledge verification for contractors. The protocol is now being used to verify compliance with regulatory training requirements within the common industry safety database we utilize to manage our contractor data. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT Contractors comprise nearly 70 percent of our total workforce hours and perform key tasks in our operations. Our EHS Management System addresses contractor capabilities and competencies, and, as part of this framework, we have implemented a Contractor Management Standard at most of our assets. In 2018 we continued implementation of the Contractor Management Standard across our international assets, as well as development of asset-specific procedures. Our Contractor Management Standard includes requirements for both current and potential new contractors to whom the standard applies. For example, we use a recognized industry safety database to standardize our prequalification processes across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to more clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information more efficiently across Hess operations. We also audit contractors to verify compliance with their own EHS programs and local, state and federal requirements as well as applicable industry standards and best practices. In addition, new contractors working on Hess-controlled worksites must take part in an enhanced onboarding process. Our contractor management process gives contractors a letter grade based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade based on EHS criteria, the asset vice president or director must endorse  a safety improvement action plan before  that contractor may be approved for procurement or provide services on a Hess-controlled work location. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight. For the evaluation of marine contractors and vessels, we use our enterprisewide marine assurance framework as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program, a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum. This program helps to ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach. Also as part of the program, we rate our marine contractors’ performance and use the resulting scores to determine where improvement plans may be needed. HEALTH AND WELLNESS We continue to look for ways to help our employees and contractors stay healthy on and off the job. We provide annual on-site flu vaccines, first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation training, and health and wellness fairs for our workforce. Our health and wellness fairs bring local vendors directly to workers during business hours and provide many options for improving personal health, including meal plans developed by a nutritionist, exercise programs shared by personal trainers and outdoor events to increase physical activity. We maintain a random drug and alcohol testing program for employees and select contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort includes the management of regulatory drug testing programs Midstream Operations, North Dakota required by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard. In early 2018 we approved a Drug and Alcohol Testing Standard, which updates and expands upon our prior Drug and Alcohol Procedure. Health risks are considered as technologies in drilling and operations evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – to stay abreast of changes to regulations and trending health topics and to promote the health of workers. In 2018 NIOSH conducted in-depth, on-site studies at Hess locations on occupational health and industrial hygiene topics, including, for example, taking a comprehensive look at the presence of chemicals in the atmosphere at a worksite from start to finish of a drilling operation. Separately, Hess’ industrial hygienist studied reliability operator job tasks, looking at the use of solvents and common oilfield chemicals in our operations to better understand potential exposures from such use. These types of studies help Hess continue to improve work practices, raise awareness among oilfield workers of potential hazards, and find and promote ways of reducing risks in our operations and throughout the industry. 