OUR PEOPLE Our priority is to make Hess a great place to work, now and for the long term. We deliberately shape our employee culture by focusing on quality leadership, fostering diversity and inclusion, creating learning and engagement opportunities, driving innovation and embracing Lean processes. Through our Life at Hess initiative and a range of other policies and programs, we seek to deliver a positive and fulfilling employee experience. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS At the start of 2019, Hess had 1,708 employees, and as of December 31, 2019, we had 1,775 employees. Of this year end total, approximately 86% were located in the U.S. and 14% were in international locations. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At Hess, we are committed to diversity and to providing equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment. Hess’ Inclusion and Diversity Council provides executive leadership and direction to our hiring, work environment and development activities. We do not tolerate any form of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our recently updated Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies, training for U.S.-based managers, other human resources policies and our Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. Recruiting Diverse Hires In 2019, we implemented several initiatives to help us attract more diverse job candidates and new hires. For example, we introduced a new video recruiting technology, HireVue, to expand the reach of our university recruiting and attract more diverse talent into our early career programs. We also became a member of the National GEM Consortium, which supports the development of diverse STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) talent at the master’s and Ph.D. levels. As part of the Genesys Works program, we welcomed two more high.school-level interns – for a total of four – who represent diverse backgrounds. Lastly, we worked to improve our candidate experience for Hess applicants. Fostering Inclusion Hess is also committed to fostering an inclusive work environment in which each person is a valued team member who continually learns and grows. In 2019, we expanded our Unconscious Bias training to our U.S., Malaysia and Denmark managers, and 475 employees completed the training in these locations. Through Life at Hess, we are helping to ensure that inclusion is woven into our culture, policies and programs. As a testament to our efforts, Hess was included in the 2020 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, which tracks and reports on public companies’ performance on gender equality and representation in the workplace, as well as transparency in reporting on gender. We also received an 85% score on the 2020 Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index (CEI). The CEI ranks more than 1,000 of the nation’s largest businesses on their practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) equality and inclusion. We remain committed to fostering the professional growth of women and minorities at Hess. As an example, Women Inspiring Success and Excellence 2019 Employees by Region  Americas  1,528  86%  Asia-Pacific  150  8%  Europe  94  5%  Africa  3  <1%  WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) JOB CATEGORY  Total Employees in Job Category  Number of Women  Percent Women  Executives and Senior Officers  31  5  16%  First- and Mid-Level Managers  441  99  22%  Professionals  874  273  31%  Other  429  79  18%  TOTAL  1,775  456  26%  MINORITIES (U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEES) JOB CATEGORY  Total Employees in Job Category  Number of Minorities  Percent Minorities  Executives and Senior Officers  30  4  13%  First- and Mid-Level Managers  359  68  19%  Professionals  756  195  26%  Other  383  64  17%  TOTAL  1,528  331  22%  *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor OUR PEOPLE (WISE) – a Hess networking group with chapters in Houston, New York and North Dakota – has a vision to “help promote and cultivate leadership skills, business practices, career opportunities and personal contacts for women.” WISE is run as a “Lean-In Circle” and uses workshop modules from Lean-In Energy, the industry chapter of the national organization based on Sheryl Sandberg’s bestselling book, Lean In. To underscore our commitment to gender equality, our Senior Vice President of Production serves on Lean-In Energy’s board of directors, and Hess was a sponsor of its new online mentoring platform. Our relationship with the Lean-In organization provides Hess employees with external opportunities for enrichment, development, networking and digital mentoring. Also in 2019, we continued to provide U.S. employees with a corporate membership to the Women’s Energy Network (WEN), sponsored WEN’s 30th anniversary celebration and sent Hess representatives to serve as leaders at the Women’s Global Leadership Forum and the HERWorld Energy Forum. Tracking Our Performance To gauge our progress, we track our U.S. employee demographic metrics, including the proportions of Hess’ workforce that are female and minority (as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor). From 2018 to 2019, the numbers of both female employees and minority employees remained consistent. We also track the number of local national employees in our international operations and report publicly where the number is 100 or more. Overall, the proportion of local nationals and of nationals holding managerial or professional positions has grown over the past five years. During this period, the percentage of local nationals increased from 85% to 98% in Denmark and from 75% to 89% in Malaysia. External Efforts We take part in external efforts and professional organizations that are helping to make our industry more diverse. In 2019, for example, we publicly endorsed the Equality Act, and in doing so became a member of the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for the Equality Act. The Coalition is a group of more than 260 leading U.S. employers that support the Equality Act, which would guarantee explicit, permanent protections for LGBTQ people under existing civil rights laws and create a federal standard to treat all employees the same. Also in 2019, we engaged with groups such as the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business Leadership Network, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. We also support additional membership organizations that promote diversity. TALENT MANAGEMENT We take a strategic and deliberate approach to talent development so that our employees have meaningful opportunities and a clear path to grow with the company and become future leaders. CareerManager, our human resources system, provides a common platform and offers a range of tools to manage talent development. In 2019, we launched a new tool, CareerManager Talent, that provides senior managers with a standard approach to assess and track the development of future leaders while facilitating real-time conversations with their teams. In 2020, we plan to give more managers access to the tool. In 2019, we launched a refreshed approach to career development, helping managers to have more effective conversations and support employees in career choices. We also rolled out revised technical career maps to our engineering and geosciences staff. One of the aims of our career development efforts is to help employees advance within the company. Over the course of 2019, we had more than 200 internal promotions and approximately 300 internal moves. Integrating Lean We have continued our work to establish a distinctive Lean culture across the enterprise. Embedded Lean leaders – employees who are highly trained in Lean – help to ensure we put Lean principles into practice effectively. We also encourage employees to participate in training and engage in coaching and mentoring to support their Lean skills development. Learning and Development We’re committed to fostering a culture of continuous learning. Our enterprisewide learning management system – CareerManager Learning – houses computer-based training modules and supporting materials for instructor-led courses. It also tracks and records employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations. In 2019, approximately 900 employees participated in various CareerManager trainings, for a total of roughly 9,100 hours. (These numbers do not include our mandatory safety training, which is tracked and reported separately.) New Hires and Early Career Programs Passport to Hess is an onboarding and orientation program for new Hess employees designed to facilitate a smooth transition through close interaction with supervisors. The experience begins with access to a pre-hire portal that enables new employees to learn about their work location prior to their first day on the job. After starting at Hess, employees can access a structured, on-demand learning program that explains our culture and values. In addition, supervisors receive tools and coaching to guide them in helping new hires successfully integrate into their work teams. Early career engineers and geoscientists can take part in our Foundation Program, which helps prepare them for their careers through focused training, mentoring and on-the-job assignments. The Foundation Program, with 63% of its membership comprising women and minorities, reflects our commitment to diversity. Through the program, we maintain relationships with universities that align with our values, standards and business operations. Hess leaders serve as members of the academic advisory committees of some of these universities. Hess has also continued to support the Job Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship program in North Dakota. Over the past two years the program has graduated local, qualified reliability operators who also earn a U.S. Department of Labor credential. Through JET, we partner with local high schools and the Transitional Assistance Program at Minot Air Force Base to source new candidates who are looking for employment opportunities. Since 2017, 26 apprentices have entered the JET program, 14 have completed the apprenticeship and 11 been brought onto Hess as new hires. BENEFITS We are committed to providing our employees with high quality service and value when it comes to benefits. In 2019, we provided more than $96 million in benefits to our U.S. employees and continued to refine and expand our benefit offerings. For example, we introduced a new wellness program focusing on the emotional, social, physical and financial wellbeing of our employees and subsequently expanded the program to spouses and partners. Employees can earn company contributions to their Health Savings Accounts by participating in the wellness program. We expanded long term disability benefits for our employees and now cover the entire cost. We continue to provide seminars on financial and health-related wellness topics. For our U.S. employees, we continue to extend all benefits coverage to spouses and partners and offer transgender benefits and equitable benefits for LGBTQ employees and their families. In celebration of our company’s 85th anniversary in 2018, every employee below senior executive level was granted 85 shares of Hess stock – a gift intended to reward and engage employees in the future success of the company. In 2019, we began the practice of awarding stock to new hires, so that all Hess employees are shareholders. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT To positively enhance employees’ experience at Hess, we use a range of engagement tools, including small group discussions, focus groups, town hall meetings, interactive webcasts and regular pulse surveys. We regularly share information with and solicit feedback from employees about our business performance, programs and processes. We utilize the company intranet and digital signage at our major locations to share information in a timely manner. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer (COO) host small group sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss enterprise opportunities and challenges. In 2019, Hess convened 29 Leadership Dialogue sessions at our Houston operational headquarters, our regional offices in North Dakota and Malaysia, and via video conference with offshore and field locations – reaching more than 500 employees. Also in 2019, we held three town hall meetings that were webcast to offices and offshore platforms in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Many more were held locally in Denmark, Houston, Malaysia and North Dakota. We use town halls to provide updates on business priorities and performance, reinforce strategy and values, and answer questions from our workforce. We launched a new program in 2019 called “Greg on the Go” – a short employee Q&A audiocast with our COO Greg Hill. As part of Life at Hess, we rolled out a manager education program to help leaders understand how to leverage Hess policies and practices, rewards and recognition programs, and career opportunities to enhance the employee experience. In 2019, we recast the Hess Excellence Awards to recognize individuals and teams for exceptional accomplishments that exemplify our Hess Values. We improved our education assistance program, giving employees immediate access to the full benefit (rather than providing an annual stipend) and enabling new employees to take part right away. In 2019, 57 employees took advantage of this program. We also introduced new flexible work schedules, which provide more work-life balance, for all employees in North Dakota and office-based employees in Malaysia. Finally, we continue to make a lasting, positive impact on our communities through volunteering and giving. Our Volunteer Policy allows employees, with manager approval, to participate in company sponsored volunteer events during business hours. Employees can request matching gifts of up to $5,000 annually for personal donations, and qualified charities may receive a $500 grant on behalf of employees who support that charity on their own time. In 2019, our employees spent nearly 6,400 hours volunteering and donated more than $416,000 through our matching gift program. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Hess Climate Change Position Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires governments, businesses and civil society to work together on cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals. Hess supports the aim of the Paris Agreement, and Hess’ Board of Directors and senior leadership have set aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Over the past 12 years, our company has reduced our absolute Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions by approximately 60%. We are committed to developing oil and gas resources in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our Board is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. We are committed to transparency, and our strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In 2019, we once again tested the robustness of Hess’ portfolio under the energy supply and demand scenarios from the International Energy Agency (IEA) 2019 World Energy Outlook (WEO), including the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s well below 2°C Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), and confirmed the robustness of our portfolio and our inventory of forward investments. We expect the IEA’s views to continue to evolve, including in response to macro events unrelated to the energy transition, and we intend to continue to reflect the IEA’s scenarios in our future analyses. Hess’ strategic priorities – to invest only in high return, low cost opportunities, build a focused and balanced portfolio at low prices and lower our portfolio breakeven costs – are aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve the IEA’s SDS, in which  oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting the world’s growing energy demand. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint consistent with the findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. We will continue to take steps to monitor, measure and reduce our GHG emissions through the following actions: • Setting and disclosing our targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations • Applying technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our operations, and continuing to explore additional opportunities to do so • Investing in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change • Accounting for the cost of carbon in significant new investments • Incorporating carbon risk scenario analysis into our business planning cycle • Working with government and industry partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG emission pathways and technological advancements EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT We engage with key stakeholders – including government agencies, investors, private landowners and communities – on select issues including climate change, and we will continue to communicate our performance on these topics in this annual sustainability report and the sustainability section of our company website. Hess is an active member of IPIECA on sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are often too complex for individual companies to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change-related topics. It is not a lobbying organization, but instead provides a forum for encouraging continuous improvement of industry performance. IPIECA enables collaborative work with stakeholders by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in providing innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and implement feasible future energy solutions. Hess has consistently been recognized as a leader in the oil and gas industry for our disclosure and transparency relating to sustainability, and we remain committed to our goal of top quartile performance in this regard. In addition to preparing this sustainability report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards at the Core reporting level and establishing our alignment with the TCFD recommendations, we participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure. We have been recognized for our climate change stewardship, achieving leadership status in the CDP’s 2019 Global Climate Analysis for the 11th consecutive year. Hess is one of only two U.S.-based energy companies to achieve leadership status, earning an A-. According to the CDP Score Report, CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Many corporations, lenders and investors are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical, reputational and transition risks of climate change. Moreover, the TCFD is fast becoming the benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate-related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companies’ risk management and strategic planning processes. We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. In 2018, we completed our first scenario-based annual carbon asset risk assessment to evaluate Hess’ transition risks. Subsequently, we expanded this analysis to include measuring physical and reputational risks, completing the necessary steps to be aligned with the TCFD’s approach to analyzing climate-related risks and opportunities. The TCFD guidelines describe the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. TCFD FRAMEWORK: HESS’ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) • Maintain the Board of Directors’ EHS Committee, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters  Governance  • Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters, to help ensure they remain climate  2–3,  change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies • Maintain a Climate Change Position, and update it as needed to align with internal initiatives and stakeholder expectations • Support the aim of the Paris Agreement • Continue to take proactive steps to measure and manage GHG emissions and evaluate emission reduction opportunities; set targets to reduce GHG emissions, methane and flaring  13, 41  Strategy  • Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and the CDP Climate Change survey • Purchase renewable energy credits, in combination with renewable energy generated from the grid, to offset 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity, and purchase carbon offsets to mitigate 100% of our business travel-related emissions • Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change • Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change-related risk • Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment, including applying a $40 per tonne carbon price in geographies where no specific regulation yet applies  39–51  Risk  • Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (first published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that  14–16,  Management  evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the IEA • Conduct scenario planning to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions (the results of our portfolio-specific scenario planning analysis are summarized later in this section) • Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess  41–46  Metrics and Targets  progress against targets • Maintain our 25% GHG intensity reduction target (established in 2015), which is aligned with the IEA’s 2019 World Energy Outlook Sustainable Development Scenario projection of a 21% carbon intensity reduction by 2030  46–51  our score is higher than the oil and gas extraction and production sector average (C), the North America regional average (C) and the global average (C). We obtained an A- by earning high marks in many of the leadership categories critical to the TCFD, which confirms, through an external review, our alignment with the TCFD’s recommendations. Access our latest CDP Climate Change response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/ sustainability/climate-change-energy For the 10th consecutive year, we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America, which highlights public companies with outstanding performance across economic, environmental and social factors, including those related to climate change. GOVERNANCE Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside senior management and actively oversees Hess’ sustainability practices, so that sustainability risks – including those related to climate change – are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee of the Board is tasked with assisting the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The Hess Board is routinely briefed by experts to help ensure they remain climate change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies. Our Vice President of EHS also met regularly with the Board’s EHS Committee in 2019 to provide updates on climate change-related issues and strategic initiatives, to review external drivers for strategy and reporting and to prioritize ongoing and future actions. See the How We Operate section for more detail on governance. INVESTMENT DECISIONS All significant new investment proposals, as presented for approval to senior management, incorporate the cost of carbon as set out in our planning guidance documentation. In geographies where there is an established regulatory framework in relation to carbon dioxide (CO2) cost, impacts are included in the base case of the investment analysis. Where there is currently no regulatory framework, results are presented as a sensitivity. Investment decisions are made in the context of such evaluation and on return-on-investment criteria to balance risk and return. Hess’ Greenhouse Gas Cost in Project Economics guidance document for incorporating GHG costs in project economics was first published internally in 2016. RISK MANAGEMENT Through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process, we have developed risk profiles for each of our assets that identify key risks – including those related to climate change. For each risk scenario, we estimate the likelihood and potential impact that the identified risks, including physical, reputational and transition-related climate change risks, could have on our business. We compile all identified risks on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. Transition Risks Transition risks are the risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions aimed at the emission reductions, energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be needed to achieve climate-related aims. In order to assess a broad range of transition risks, and as an integral part of our planning cycle, we now conduct an annual scenario-based carbon asset risk assessment, as discussed on pages 42–45. Physical Risks Hess considers the physical risks associated with climate change – such as increased severity of storms, drought and flooding – for both new projects and existing operations through our ERM and value assurance processes. For example, meteorological and oceanographic studies undertaken for offshore developments include modeling that incorporates assumptions from the latest climate change science. Mitigations to address changing storm magnitude are incorporated into the design of our facilities, and severe weather management and business continuity plans are maintained for severe weather events such as Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 storm that caused widespread flooding and damage to the Houston area in 2017. We also assess how climate change may impact water availability and water stress in the areas we operate using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool. In 2019, we began an evaluation of our approach to physical risk assessment to inform enhancements to our process, including how it is incorporated into our wider ERM process. As part of this effort, we have commenced an in-depth pilot assessment of our Gulf of Mexico operations, which will consider the potential impact to our facilities and infrastructure – including logistics and export – as well as how these may be affected by predicted future climate change scenarios (e.g., increasing storm intensity, coastal flooding, etc.). This work is still ongoing, and it is our intention to incorporate the learnings from the pilot into the risk management processes across our operated assets. We also maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, for which we are self-insured. The amount of insurance covering physical damage is based on the asset’s estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss. Reputational Risks The TCFD has identified climate change as a potential source of reputational risk or opportunity for companies. According to the TCFD, the types of reputational risk and opportunity posed by climate change can include: • Shifts in consumer preferences • Stigmatization of a sector • Increased stakeholder concern or  negative stakeholder feedback 