MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Hess is committed to helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way that delivers long-term value and superior financial returns to shareholders. As part of this commitment, we successfully completed an ambitious asset sales program in 2017 to high grade and focus our portfolio by investing in our highest return assets — Guyana, which is one of the industry’s largest oil discoveries in a decade, and the Bakken, our largest operated asset where we have more than 500,000 net acres in the core of the play — and by divesting higher cost, mature assets. In Guyana, we continued our extraordinary exploration success on the Stabroek Block with five world-class discoveries in 2017. The Liza Phase 1 development, which was sanctioned in June 2017, will have the gross capacity to produce approximately 120,000 barrels of oil per day, with first production expected in March 2020. The second phase of the Liza development is expected to start up by mid-2022, closely followed by a third phase of development that is expected to bring gross production to more than 500,000 barrels of oil per day. In the Bakken, we continued to drive down drilling and completion costs and increase well productivity. Through the application of geosteering, optimized spacing, higher stage counts and proppant loading, we have increased Bakken well productivity by approximately 50 percent over the last two years. In terms of developments, we safely completed the North Malay Basin full field development in Malaysia in 2017 and advanced the Stampede development in the Gulf of Mexico, which achieved first oil in January 2018. These achievements support our strategy to grow our resource base in a capital disciplined manner, move down the cost curve so we are resilient in a low oil price environment and be cash generative at a $50 per barrel Brent oil price post-2020. Our strategy reflects our view that shale alone will not be enough to meet the world’s oil demand growth and offset global base production declines. For the past several years the industry has significantly underinvested in conventional projects, which currently represent approximately 95 percent of global oil supply. Sustainability practices are an integral part of our strategy and operations because we believe they create value for our shareholders and opportunities to improve business performance. Sustainability issues are therefore examined by our Board of Directors and taken into account in formulating our company strategy. Our Board is climate change literate and evaluates various sustainability risks and global scenarios, including some of the most ambitious greenhouse gas reduction scenarios from the International Energy Agency, in making strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee also has tied executive compensation to advancing the environmental, health and safety goals of the company. Our 2017 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices into our strategy and goals. Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is focused on several key areas for our operations, including process safety, social responsibility and climate change, which are described below. Detailed information on our programs and performance is provided in this report and on our company website at hess.com. SAFETY Our company’s top priority is the safety of our workforce and the communities in which we operate. We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote a strong safety culture, with the ultimate goal of everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe. As a result, we reduced both our 2017 workforce recordable incident rate and lost time incident rate by 38 percent compared with 2016, with improvements in both employee and contractor performance. While our overall safety performance was positive, our severe safety incident rate did not meet our internal target. After identifying an upward trend early in the year, we implemented immediate corrective actions that resulted in an 18 percent reduction in our severe safety incident rate from June to December. Severe safety incidents will continue to be a focus of our key improvement initiatives in 2018. We continually work to increase awareness of process safety across the company and enhance our process safety management systems, which are an integral part of our business and play a critical role in mitigating risk. In 2017 we concluded a two-year assessment of our process safety management systems across the company, along with a “Our company’s mission is to be a trusted energy partner.” review of the mechanical integrity of our onshore and offshore locations as part of our ongoing integrity management program. Recommendations and actions from both reviews will help inform improvement programs from 2018 onward. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our company’s mission is to be a trusted energy partner, and as part of that mission we strive to make a positive impact on the communities where we operate. We are guided by our commitments to international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance. Along with our other voluntary commitments, Hess continues to support the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. In 2017 our social investments totaled nearly $16 million, with more than $8 million going toward education projects, more than $1 million going to disaster relief and recovery efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and the balance directed toward economic development, health and capacity building. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is a global challenge that requires government, business leaders and civil society to work together on cost-effective policy responses that recognize the vital role that safe, affordable and reliable energy plays in ensuring human welfare, economic growth and security. In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, which was an outgrowth of the G20 Financial Stability Board, issued its final recommendations on how the financial sector should take account of climate-related issues. Our climate change strategy, which was implemented beginning in 2015, is closely aligned with these recommendations. Our company has established 2020 reduction targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and flaring. Through 2017, we have reduced flaring and GHG emissions intensities by 38 percent and 23 percent, respectively, compared to our 2014 baseline. Between 2008 and 2017, we have reduced our equity GHG emissions by more than 6 million tonnes. We will continue to take steps to monitor and measure our progress, including additional infrastructure investments in the Bakken that will continue to reduce flaring. PEOPLE Hess’ culture is defined by our Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. As part of our Values, we are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that fosters learning and development, engagement and innovation. In 2017 we continued to reduce the size of our workforce as a result of our divestitures and cost-reduction initiatives and announced plans to introduce a new organizational structure in early 2018. Throughout these changes, the Hess Values guided our decisions and the support we provided to those affected. Our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our workforce through a robust program of employee engagement and communications. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE Our company views transparency in reporting as a key part of being a trusted energy partner. We are proud to have been recognized once again in 2017 for the quality of our environmental, social and governance performance and disclosure, reinforcing our position as a top-quartile performer in our industry. Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, business partners and investors. With your ongoing support and partnership, we are building a sustainable enterprise that makes  a positive difference for all our stakeholders and the world around us. John B. Hess Chief Executive Officer ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS . We achieved continued exploration success on the Stabroek Block (offshore Guyana), in which Hess holds a 30 percent working interest, with four additional world-class discoveries announced in 2017. The ﬁrst phase of the Liza development was sanctioned in June 2017, with ﬁrst production expected by 2020. At the end of 2017, total gross discovered recoverable resources on the Block were estimated at more than 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent. . Our Bakken team increased well productivity by approximately  50 percent over the last two years through the application of geosteering, optimized spacing, higher stage counts and proppant loading. . The North Malay Basin Full Field Development, offshore Malaysia, achieved ﬁrst gas in July 2017 safely,  on time and under budget. . We continued to advance the Stampede Development Project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, achieving ﬁrst oil in January 2018. . We high graded and focused our portfolio by divesting mature, lower-return assets in Norway, Equatorial Guinea and West Texas. Our 2017 asset monetizations resulted in total proceeds of $3.4 billion. $ MILLIONS Capital and Exploration $2,168 Expenditures Income Tax Expenses/(Beneﬁt) $(1,837) Wages and Beneﬁts (U.S.) $603 Royalties and Other Payments $379 Dividends $363 Interest Expenses $325 Social Investments $16 A portion of capital and exploration expenditures  may include payments to suppliers. 1,154  10.2  306,000  Million Barrels of Oil  Years of  Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day  Equivalent Proved Reserves  Reserve Life  Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced  HESS PORTFOLIO OF OPERATIONS Production: Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; the Utica in Ohio; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. Midstream: Assets operated by Hess Midstream Partners LP include a natural gas processing plant, a rail-loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota. Developments: Activities are focused on the nonoperated Liza development  on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana. Exploration: Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests in offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. Note: Divestitures in 2017 and early 2018 are not shown on the map. For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream Partners LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions of the company’s 2017 strategy and performance regarding material economic, environmental and social issues. Our annual report, Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information and can be found on our website. Additional sustainability and investor information  is available at hess.com/investors REPORTING STANDARDS This report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It was also informed by the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting developed by IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers; the United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s Ten Principles; key environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings, including Disclosing the Facts, an investor scorecard developed by As You Sow, Boston Common Asset Management and the Investor Environmental Health Network; and recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. An index of GRI, IPIECA and UN Global  Compact reporting indicators is available  at hess.com/gri-index MATERIALITY Consistent with GRI’s materiality guidance, we identified and prioritized new and emerging issues important to our stakeholders when developing the content for this report. Through a survey of select industry peers and external stakeholder groups, as well as an annual, document-based assessment of key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operational and regulatory risks, we identified the 10 most material issues for our company: . Regulatory Assurance . Water Management . Transportation Impacts . Emergency Preparedness  and Response . Process Safety and Spills . Community Engagement . Climate Change and Greenhouse  Gas (GHG) Emissions . Stakeholder Engagement . Transparency in Business Conduct . Human Rights and Security These material issues have informed our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy and helped to define the boundaries of this report. See reporting boundaries for each of these issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach-to.reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues BOUNDARY SETTING Included within the scope of this report are the principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries during calendar year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. The report includes partial-year data for the following assets that were divested in 2017: . West Texas, including the Permian Basin enhanced oil recovery assets. Period  of data included: January.July 2017. . Equatorial Guinea, including the Okume and Ceiba production operations. Period of data included: January.November 2017. . Norway, including the (nonoperated) Valhall production operations. Period of data included in GHG equity-share emissions and social investment spend: January.November 2017. We report GHG emissions on both an operated and equity-share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, 2015). We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. We include contractors in workforce metrics for those contractors whose hours we track. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and the specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10 percent of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess. com/sustainability/climate-change-energy ASSURANCE In order to evaluate accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality assurance/ quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and facility-level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding. All currency in the report is in U.S. dollars. This report, including our sustainability data and self-declared GRI “in accordance” status, was assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (see page 54). This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. PROGRESS AND GOALS This section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2018 will build on our progress to date. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2017 and select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress and goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed. DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Continue to evaluate and enhance our EHS management system* Regulatory  Assurance  Reﬁne and enhance the  regulatory advocacy process   to ensure that regulatory risks  and potential impacts are  appropriately characterized   and considered in company  decision making*  Strengthened the use of our compliance  As our regulatory compliance systems  tracking tool through the addition of a mobile  are becoming embedded in daily  application for ﬁeld assurance personnel and synchronization with our work order system;  operations, begin to shift focus to more formal assurance of Hess’ EHS  51  formalized the process for assigning work  management system in 2018 and  material ﬂows to ﬁeld personnel  beyond*  Initiated quarterly regulatory risk presentations and monthly summary reports for U.S. onshore assets; formed a team focused on U.S. offshore regulatory risks Launch a regulatory tracking system that aligns regulatory priorities with our risk registers; further enhance U.S. offshore regulatory coordination through quarterly presentations to offshore leadership, aligned with their established operating rhythm in 2018* Published our 2016 Sustainability Report  Transparency in Business  Continue to reﬁne our sustainability disclosures to align with stakeholder expectations  with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core “in accordance” option, and prepared to align 2017 reporting with recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures  Publish our 2017 Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI Standards and aligned with the TCFD recommendations in 2018  5, 37–38  Conduct  (TCFD) and the GRI Standards  Enhance our Global Trade Continue to enhance our Global Trade Revised our Code of Business Conduct and Compliance Program and revise Compliance Program and implement Ethics and supported employee training 13–14our Code of Business Conduct training on our revised Code of programs and Ethics Business Conduct and Ethics in 2018 Embed standard model contracts Supply and continue training on and Chain and implementation of standards, Contractor driving consistency and efﬁciency Management across all assets Revised our Procurement Policy to improve  safety, minimize risk and standardize work  throughout the organization; continued to  Continue to enhance standardization  advance the standardization and alignment  and alignment on contractor  of our contractor selection, management  selection, contracting and  14–15  and review process across the enterprise;  management processes across our  developed and began implementing new  assets in 2018  and updated standard templates for supply  contracts  Further embed the Lean way   of thinking into Hess’ culture  Management  Systems  Continued Lean implementation and embedment across Hess: certiﬁed more than 80 employees in ﬁve basic skills who then taught their teams; progressed development of over 110 embedded Lean leaders; and sponsored 12 kaizen workshops with six key contractors, helping to improve safety performance and deliver three producing Stampede wells below budget Expand Lean deployment across Hess, including developing Lean leaders in our offshore organization; implement Lean with our key Stampede contractors, including at the offshore drill ships, to apply Lean improvements to routine drilling activities in 2018 Continue to develop and Approved three new EHS global standards Continue progressing the EHS global implement EHS global standards and completed gap assessments for these 11–12standards project through 2020 on a prioritized basis standards at selected assets Continue to measure effective Continued tracking individual EHS & SR Continue to measure effective implementation of the EHS & SR initiatives through project-speciﬁc work plans implementation of the EHS & SR 6–9strategy through established as part of our business operating rhythm strategy through 2020* targets and metrics* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Approve and continue implementation  Governance  of the Social Responsibility (SR) and  and  Human Rights Standards; integrate  Management  SR and Human Rights Guidelines  Approach  into enterprise business processes  to support policies and standards*  Continued to integrate social responsibility considerations into our enterprise business processes Review governance framework  and processes to ensure alignment with our business strategy and geographic footprint in 2018; build on 17prior efforts to map business activities and social investment to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in 2018* Initiated stakeholder engagement and Community  Continue to expand implementation  grievance mechanism processes at and of stakeholder engagement and two assets and carried out an Continue to advance progress in 2018* 18–20Stakeholder grievance mechanism processes* integrated stakeholder mapping Engagement review with one additional asset Review enterprisewide social,  Conducted risk assessments in   Continue to monitor potential risks and  reputational and human rights risks   North Dakota as part of an increase   conduct risk assessments if needed  20–21  to update risk identiﬁcation*  in activity level  based on activity levels in 2018*  Planned a training for Equatorial Refresh and conduct human  Conduct human rights training as Guinea for 2017, but it was no  rights training as needed based on needed based on identiﬁed risks 20–21longer needed with the divestiture identiﬁed risks* in 2018 and beyond* Social Risk of that asset Management Continue to track the implementation of new standards through the number of employees and contractors completing human rights training at high-risk assets, as well as the percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses* No new training statistics to track; continued to monitor contracts with human rights clauses Continue to track implementation  20–21of these efforts in 2018 and beyond* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. PROGRESS AND GOALS DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Continue to promote performance Achieved established targets for  standards for integrity critical ICE performance standards and equipment (ICE) and complete asset completed all asset integrity integrity assessments for all Hess-assessments operated production locations* Build on our work with ICE through critical maintenance compliance (i.e., inspect, test and maintain ICE to ensure it is performing as expected); actively manage risks identiﬁed through the asset integrity assessments through quarterly reviews in 2018 and beyond* Process  Implement our enhanced barrier management approach in South Arne in 2017 and at Stampede and North Malay Basin as those assets come online*  Completed implementation of our enhanced barrier management approach at Stampede through the use of “bow tie” diagrams; implementation at North Malay Basin and South Arne is ongoing  Complete implementation at these key offshore assets in 2018*  29  Safety  and Spills  Completed several major efforts   Pursue improvement programs based on recommendations from the  Continue to make improvements in our  to bolster our process safety  2016–2017 process safety assessment,  process safety management system  management systems, standards   mainly around deeper integration of  27–28  and standards*  and practices, as discussed in the  our EHS and operational management  Safety and Health section  systems and increased focus on  integrity risks in 2018*  Further enhance the enterprisewide competency strategy, with a focus on integrating and enhancing existing global systems; begin the implementation of an enterprisewide tiered EHS assurance program* Launched and implemented the enterprisewide three-tiered assurance program; met established targets for number of Tier II audits completed Continue to conduct audits and assessments under the tiered assurance program in 2018 and beyond; continue to develop our enhanced enterprisewide competency and training strategy in 2018, with a risk-based implementation program planned for 2019* Meet a workforce total recordable Surpassed this goal with a workforce Meet a workforce TRIR target of 0.20 incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.34 TRIR of 0.24 in 2017 or below in 2018 or below Occupational Health and Safety  Meet a severe safety incident rate target of 0.15 or below  Did not meet this internal target, though after identifying an upward trend early in the year, implemented immediate corrective actions that resulted in an  Meet a severe safety incident rate target of 0.16 or below in 2018  27  18 percent reduction in the rate from  June to December  DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Promote a culture of engagement and  continuous learning; embed the Hess  Integrated the Hess Way of Working  Way of Working into more of our people processes (e.g., performance  (including Lean leadership behaviors) into the performance review process  Offer four Managerial Essentials programs in 2018  34  management and leadership  for all Hess employees  development programs)  Leverage our newly implemented Continue to simplify and streamline Completed a project to streamline and succession planning technology to Employment talent management processes to further increase the alignment of our identify, develop and track the progress 34–35Practices deliver targeted development and performance, compensation and talent of our high-potential talent and future succession plans management practices leaders in 2018 Continue to align our structure and  Designed a new grading structure that  Implement the new grading structure  strategy to provide appropriate  includes additional grades, to provide  and provide a consistent evaluation  promotion and development  more career growth opportunities and  framework for jobs across the  34–35  opportunities and more fully leverage  improve internal equity between  company; address job scope changes  each person’s capability  different jobs  due to portfolio adjustments in 2018  *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Begin to assess our value assurance process to identify opportunities to Risk fully integrate EHS deliverables that Management include climate change-related actions (e.g., assessment protocols)* Due to organizational realignment  and asset sales, deferred initiative to further integrate EHS deliverables into our value assurance process; reviewed alignment of our EHS & SR strategy with TCFD recommendations, and identiﬁed an action to conduct portfolio-speciﬁc scenario planning Assess opportunities to integrate EHS deliverables into the value assurance process for new projects; conduct a 37–40portfolio-speciﬁc carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise in the 2018–2019 timeframe* Pursue additional infrastructure projects Achieved startup of the Hawkeye Gas in 2018 that will continue to help Operate the Hawkeye Gas Facility  Facility; initiated additional with ﬂaring reduction in the Bakken, to help reduce gas ﬂaring* infrastructure projects slated for including an additional compressor completion in 2018 and beyond station and a new joint-venture gas plant slated for completion in 2018* Complete the capital phase of a project to pipe gas that had Deferred this project due to the No longer applicable, as the asset was traditionally been ﬂared in our Okume divestiture of the Equatorial Guinea — sold in 2017 operation to the Ceiba Field to use as asset in 2017 fuel gas to help power our operation* Strategy,  Continue to make progress toward  Metrics and Targets  our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent  Reduced GHG emissions intensity  by 23 percent, compared to our 2014 baseline  Review and — if needed per the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol — adjust the 2020 GHG intensity reduction target based on asset divestitures*  41–42  (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline*  Continue to improve performance Maintained methane emissions below Continue to make progress against related to reducing methane the overall 2025 ONE Future target  ONE Future sector-based 2025 emissions, through ONE Future of less than 1 percent of gross methane targets* sector-based targets* production across the value chain Continue to make progress toward our Reduced ﬂaring intensity by Review and — if necessary — adjust 2020 goal to reduce ﬂaring intensity 38 percent, compared to our 2014 the 2020 ﬂaring intensity reduction 42–43(standard cubic feet per BOE) by baseline target based on asset divestitures* 50 percent, versus our 2014 baseline* DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Continue to evolve the water data  Continue to improve water data quality*  Enhanced our water data collection methodology  collection process to automate collection for trending and future  47  target setting in 2018*  Water  Management  Began water risk planning efforts for  Advance efforts to incorporate water  assets in North Dakota and the Gulf of  Conduct water risk assessment  management in the risk assessment  Mexico, considering the lifecycle of  workshops for the North Dakota  47  process*  water for each operational activity, as  and Gulf of Mexico assets in 2018*  well as mapping of key stakeholders  Achieve a severe environmental incident Process Surpassed our target, achieving  rate target of 0.027; continue to Achieve a severe environmental Safety  a severe environmental incident  50–51evaluate and enhance our pipeline incident rate target of 0.019 in 2018 and Spills rate of 0.016 integrity management program Conduct water-related pilot studies  to assess alternative practices for improving operating efﬁciencies  47–49 in both onshore and offshore assets  in 2018 Continue involvement with the  Continued initiatives to reduce the  Hydraulic Fracturing  Environmentally Friendly Drilling program and the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) and continue to evaluate water  environmental impacts of shale energy development, including advising the EERC working group that developed salt water remediation cleanup  reduction strategies  guidance  *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. Stampede Sailaway, Gulf of Mexico 