How We Operate We aim to help meet the world’s growing energy needs in a way that protects the health and safety of our people, safeguards the environment and contributes to the sustainability of the communities where we operate while delivering long term value to our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our expectations for sustainable management and performance are defined by the Hess Values, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights Policy, and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section. GOVERNANCE The highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, which has four standing committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee, the EHS Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors Board Accountability Hess’ Board is actively engaged in overseeing the company’s sustainability strategy and performance, working alongside senior management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions, including those related to climate change. Our independent Chairman periodically accompanies our CEO and other members of senior management to meet with investors to solicit shareholder views on various topics, including the environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR). For more information on Board involvement in climate change related issues, see the Climate Change and Energy section (page 42). The Board’s Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, and other financial matters, such as tax planning, compliance and reporting for income taxes. It also oversees compliance and risk management. The Board’s EHS Committee leads the Board’s oversight of Hess’ sustainability practices, working with the full Board and senior management so that sustainability risks and opportunities are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The EHS Committee assists the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS strategies and material risks with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. In 2021, the EHS Committee’s charter was amended to further clarify the Committee’s oversight of climate change related policies and practices. The EHS Committee makes recommendations to the full Board on how to address EHS strategies and risks and also monitors the company’s compliance with such policies, programs and practices. The EHS Committee advises the Board’s Compensation and Management Development Committee regarding executive compensation measures to advance the EHS goals of the company. The EHS Committee also reviews emergency response preparedness and planning and EHS legal and regulatory matters that could affect the company’s business and operations, including our ongoing response to COVID-19. The EHS Committee met three times in 2021, and each committee member attended at least two of the meetings. Our Vice President of EHS facilitated the EHS Committee meetings, which included a number of topics such as EHS performance and strategic priorities; COVID-19 response; EHS & SR risks within our enterprise risk management (ERM) framework; regulatory matters; environmental, social and governance reporting; climate change strategic actions; and establishing and monitoring progress toward greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and flaring targets. Each member of the EHS Committee is independent and qualified under the standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Committee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operational, regulatory and financial expertise. To supplement the expertise of EHS Committee members and the full Board of Directors, Hess brings in internal and external subject matter experts to brief members on current and developing issues relevant to our business, such as climate change. Board members, together with our executive leadership, also participate in field visits to Hess operated and nonoperated assets to better understand our key EHS strategies and risks. During these visits, the EHS Committee engages with the Hess workforce and observes how Hess is managing and mitigating EHS risks and opportunities, such as leveraging Lean and technology focused initiatives in the field. While field visits were deferred in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, plans are underway to recommence this practice when it is deemed safe and appropriate to do so. Executive Oversight The company is managed by an Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our CEO. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues and is the highest approval body before the Board. The Executive Committee holds regularly scheduled meetings, and our Chief Operating Officer chairs an operating subcommittee of the Executive Committee that also meets routinely to discuss these and other matters. See information on our approach to sustainable tax policy at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION Hess has a longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), How We Operate which we believe creates value for all of our stakeholders and is essential to being a socially responsible and sustainable enterprise. Our focus is on fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment in which all Hess employees have fair and equitable opportunities to achieve their full potential. Externally, our company has a long history of social investment programs in the communities where we operate to make a positive and lasting impact through education and work skill development, both of which are fundamental to social equity and sustainable economic growth. We also promote diversity, equity and sustainability in our supply chain and industry to help diverse business owners grow and thrive. (See pages 35–36 for further detail on our workforce DEI efforts, 19 for further detail on our supplier diversity and sustainability efforts and 24–25 for more on our DEI related community investments and partnerships.) In 2021, we engaged in numerous strategic actions to advance DEI and drive progress. Our three DEI focused task forces, comprising employees from a mix of assets and functions, made progress in the following key areas: • Recruitment: We are focused on ensuring diverse candidate slates and panels and expanding diversity outreach and partnership to build a diverse talent pipeline. In 2021, we successfully expanded our diversity and outreach partnerships and made year over year improvements in representation of women by approximately 4% globally and of people of color by approximately 9% in the U.S. • Employee Development: We are working to build inclusion skills and capability and develop talent management programs that help improve diversity representation and career growth. In 2021, we achieved approximately 99% completion of DEI training, launched our Inclusive Leadership program and launched five new employee resource groups. • Supplier Diversity: We began establishing a multiyear roadmap to promote economic equity in support of diverse businesses. In 2021, we increased diverse supplier participation in direct business opportunities and engaged our nondiverse strategic suppliers to improve our indirect spend with their diverse suppliers. Based on the task forces’ recommendations, we hired two dedicated diversity experts to continue progressing our DEI and supplier diversity strategies. Hess’ senior management is actively engaged in our DEI plans and programs, with oversight by our Board of Directors. Our DEI Council, comprising the executive sponsors of our employee resource groups and other Hess executives, provides business and leadership guidance that helps advance and steer DEI while working to ensure alignment with business priorities. Additionally, DEI progress is reported to our Board. KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES Several key processes in our company help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities. While these processes are focused on our operated assets, it is important to note that we also review potential risks and conduct assurance reviews for our nonoperated assets, which represent a significant portion of Hess’ capital spend. We generally prioritize four main objectives for reviews of nonoperated assets: making a positive contribution to local communities; influencing project outcomes by focusing on issues with the greatest potential impact; establishing governance structures and project assurance plans; and documenting and internally sharing high value lessons learned. See pages 15 and 28 for more information on our assurance process for nonoperated assets. Enterprise Risk Management Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our business, including those related to process safety, climate change and cybersecurity. Our ERM program, which includes consideration of EHS & SR risks along with other business considerations such as hedging strategies and risks related to market trends, delivers a framework that enables Hess’ Board of Directors and executive leadership to make risk informed business decisions. Our Board of Directors has ultimate oversight over the ERM process and is charged with understanding the key risks affecting the company’s business and how those risks can be managed. Annually, our Chief Risk Officer provides the Board’s Audit Committee with a comprehensive review of Hess’ enterprise level risks, the status of the ERM program and risk management strategies utilized under our Risk Management Standard. The status of EHS & SR risks and mitigations is also discussed at the Board’s EHS Committee meetings, as appropriate. Enterprise level risks, including the relative risks of assets and projects within the portfolio, are discussed periodically by the full Board of Directors. Corporate Risk oversees day-to-day implementation of the ERM process, including developing relevant policies and standards and working with Internal Audit to verify compliance. Hess’ ERM framework is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major capital project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and assess their likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business. Our Risk Management Standard, which applies to all assets and major capital projects, helps to align and integrate risk management across the company. The standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process across our assets, projects and business functions. As part of our ERM process, all assets are required to have a risk assessment and risk plan in place that are refreshed at least annually. In addition, major capital projects and new development opportunities that go through the value assurance process (described below) must have risk assessments completed prior to each value assurance stage gate. Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated periodically as part of asset and major project operating rhythm meetings. Also, functional risk assessments are required as part of each asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility. Climate risks are considered throughout enterprise and functional risk assessments from the perspective of potential financial, physical, reputational and regulatory impacts. Further discussion of our approach to managing climate risks can be found on pages 42–48. Value Assurance Major investment opportunities are assessed through our value assurance process. This process provides increased objectivity in our investment decisions by including those who are not directly involved with the asset or project in internal reviews. Following this process helps to provide assurance that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high quality input. The value assurance reviews are risk based and focus on economics; subsurface and facility design; safety, environmental and socioeconomic considerations; regulatory requirements; and other technical and nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics, we apply either actual carbon pricing where a regulatory framework for it exists or – where a framework does not exist – we evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost as set out in our planning guidance. In April 2021, we updated our planning guidance to expand the evaluation for all significant investment decisions to include a sensitivity using the International Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development Scenario carbon pricing (see pages 42 and 46). Through our value assurance process, we bring in technical experts from across the company who are chosen based on how their skills and experience contribute to the project under review. Including experts from How We Operate across the organization creates learning opportunities for participants to take back to their respective assets and functions and apply to future assurance processes. The value assurance process is closely aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company. Due Diligence Our due diligence processes help us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities, including those in new geographies. Through these processes, subject matter experts from various functions across Hess, and third party subject matter experts where necessary, evaluate our future operations in a particular location through a detailed risk questionnaire that accounts for social, environmental, legal, external affairs, compliance, commercial and supply chain risks. The purpose of this due diligence, which draws on available information from governmental and nongovernmental organizations, is to categorize each risk as high, medium or low based on severity and whether the risk can be easily mitigated. Through these due diligence processes, we endeavor to enhance the quality and breadth of information available to Hess leadership for the evaluation of new opportunities. The processes also help the project team mitigate identified risks if a commitment is made to proceed. Ultimately, the processes are complementary to our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes. Lean and Innovation At Hess, we apply Lean thinking and methodologies across our operations to eliminate waste, improve safety and reliability, drive continuous improvement and create value for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other stakeholders. With over a decade of successes and lessons learned, Lean is integrated into our company culture and How We Operate our workforce is empowered to be an “army of problem solvers” focused on continuous improvement. We see innovation as a complementary mindset to Lean thinking that will help us achieve significant performance improvements. Through Lean thinking, we encourage our people to identify opportunities for incremental improvements – ways to do what they already do better. An innovation focus helps our people think of entirely new ways to do what they do, producing step change improvements. Our innovation guidelines establish a common framework for driving innovation and integration with Lean across our organization. Hess uses an innovation funnel process to collect ideas from employees and a variety of relevant industry sources, identify ideas that have the potential to add value, rank ideas for future development and select those that align with our priorities for piloting. This process helps formalize and organize innovative thinking and drives ideas from conception to implementation. Since 2019, our pilot projects have been focused on some of the greatest challenges of the oil and gas industry, including the lower carbon energy transition, subsurface productivity and autonomous operations. To help guide and focus our innovation efforts, we have also developed key processes and technology enablers that will help drive performance breakthroughs in each area and have expanded our pilots. We continue to operationalize these principles into how we work, including through developing Lean and innovation leaders, fostering internal collaboration networks and sharing learnings from pilot projects across the organization. See details on another key process, reliability operations, at hess.com/sustainability/ how-we-operate/key-enterprise-processes HESS OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM We utilize the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS) as the single, enterprisewide system that establishes a common framework outlining how we address operational risk management, process safety, environmental responsibility, and management of employees and contractors, as well as the efficient and reliable design and operation of our assets. This integrated and consistent enterprisewide approach is designed to help us manage risks throughout a project and asset lifecycle; coordinate technical expertise, standards and processes across the organization; and align asset level Piloting high potential new ideas is a key element of our approach to innovation that helps build a culture that supports creativity and the cross pollination of ideas and cultivates a learning mentality. For example, in 2021, members of the maintenance, reliability and integrity team in our Bakken upstream asset identified an opportunity to reduce energy demand by capturing the downstroke energy of the up and down movement of our pumping units. They developed and piloted a project for capturing and storing this energy from pumping units and connecting them into a common electrical system to move regenerated energy between units. We ultimately determined that retrofitting the large number of existing pumping units to use this system was cost prohibitive. But, following our learn by doing approach to innovation, we transferred the successful elements of this trial into a new idea: installing energy capture systems directly into pumping unit drives. We are currently piloting this idea at several pumping units in the Bakken to determine the extent of energy savings and will then determine a plan forward. operations with enterprisewide corporate standards and business priorities. We continue to evolve and advance our management system to align with Hess’ portfolio and organizational structure and to support our performance objectives. Our teams of functional leaders (e.g., EHS, Wells, Reliability Operations, Projects and Facilities Engineering, and Global Supply Chain) provide expertise in key functional areas within each asset and provide oversight and assurance across the company. The Heads of each functional area are responsible for overseeing activities for that area across the company, verifying that relevant standards and other applicable governance documents are applied as appropriate and working with each asset to optimize safety, quality, delivery and cost. The Heads of each function are supported by technical authorities and subject matter experts – many of whom are embedded directly into our assets. Together with leadership from each asset, these individuals form the “Heads of” and Technical Authority Network, which supports operations across the company. This group – and other functional leaders and subject matter experts as relevant – meets monthly to optimize synergies across our functions and assets, support enterprisewide initiatives and promote transparency of activities. In 2021, representatives from various Hess functions continued the HOMS optimization exercise, integrating standalone functional requirements into cross functional standards for nine of the 14 HOMS Element Standards. For example, we merged EHS, operations, design and other existing function specific requirements and expectations for management of change into a single integrated and cross functional standard. We are in the process of delivering the nine integrated standards to our operated assets for adoption. In 2021, we also began developing standard specific guidelines to assist the assets with implementation. We will continue How We Operate to integrate the standalone functional requirements into cross functional standards for the remaining five HOMS Element Standards in 2022, and “check and adjust” our processes and practices throughout the implementation process. HOMS Assurance Our ongoing assurance efforts help align expectations and requirements such as HOMS across our operated and nonoperated assets and drive continuous improvement. Results are reported to and reviewed several times per year by the EHS Committee of Hess’ Board of Directors. In 2021, we began implementing our revised three tiered assurance framework in alignment with HOMS Element 13: Assurance. Tier I audits, conducted by the Corporate Audit Department, include “health of process” audits to provide reasonable assurance that the Tier II and Tier III processes and practices effectively conform to Hess policies and applicable regulations and industry standards. Under the new framework, Tier II Assurance includes independent audits and collaborative assessments involving assets to confirm proper EHS & SR, major accident event (MAE) and license to operate risk management. Tier II Assurance covers the activities of various functions under HOMS such as Operations, Wells, Projects, Facilities and Engineering, EHS, Operational Technology/ Cybersecurity and Global Supply Chain. The assurance is performed by technical authorities and subject matter experts who evaluate conformance with corporate and asset level standards and procedures, as well as with applicable regulations and industry standards, and assist the assets in addressing identified improvement opportunities. Audits and assessments are performed following a risk based plan that covers various topics under HOMS. Tier III Assurance remains unchanged in the revised framework and constitutes routine self assessments by assets against corporate HOMS Standards, corporate and asset level procedures, regulations and applicable industry standards. In 2021, we completed assurance activities across all three tiers. At the Tier I level, we reviewed the health of the Tier II Assurance program and recommended measures to enhance governance and sustainability, which we plan to address in 2022. Tier II Assurance efforts at our operated assets covered key risk based Hess Rules and other topics such as barrier health, safety system bypass, drilling operations readiness, dropped object prevention, lifting and hoisting management, emergency response and preparedness, spill prevention and response, produced water and waste management, stormwater management and cybersecurity. We also conducted the first Tier II Assurance effort at our nonoperated joint venture (NOJV) in Guyana in 2021 with a review of the process safety and MAE prevention aspects of our NOJV operator’s management systems, including risk management, competency assurance and learning, emergency preparedness and response, design operation and maintenance, management of change and contractor management. Tier III Assurance efforts at our operated assets included behavioral safety observations, leadership site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig inspections and other reviews, as well as formal audits and inspections by external authorities such as certifying agencies and regulators. BUSINESS CONDUCT The Hess Code of Conduct outlines the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct and related policies or applicable laws may result in disciplinary action, including termination. All of our key compliance policies and procedures are described in our Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures are communicated to and available for all employees globally. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, as well as other processes and initiatives, to prevent and detect compliance violations. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer updates the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis. To continuously enforce compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations and antibribery and anticorruption (ABAC) programs, as well as other enterprise programs and systems. In 2021, our Global Compliance team investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team through the various channels available to our workforce, including our dedicated compliance hotline. In addition, Global Compliance continued to manage the company’s automated approval systems – which are used to review and approve higher risk transactions and relationships with our business partners – including our system for the disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest. Providing employees with effective training on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture so that employees understand and embody the values in their daily work. As part of this effort, our Global Compliance team has developed in depth online trainings on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC Policy and Procedure. At year end 2021, 99% of active employees had completed the Code of Conduct training, and 99% had completed the ABAC training. See more detail on ABAC at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/anti-bribery.and-anti-corruption-compliance POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT HessPAC HessPAC serves as the political action committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. employees and acts in full compliance with U.S. federal and state campaign finance and election laws. HessPAC is How We Operate used to promote the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2021, HessPAC continued in its fourth full cycle of operation, generated approximately $88,600 in member contributions and distributed $79,500 in political contributions in a bipartisan manner to candidates. HessPAC publicly discloses all of its contributions to political candidates, parties and committees. Its federal contributions are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). In 2021, HessPAC made one state level contribution in North Dakota, totaling $2,500, which is publicly available on the appropriate state website. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC. Both direct and indirect corporate political contributions are prohibited by Hess company policy. HessPAC permits political contributions only through voluntary employee funded PAC contributions. Advocacy Hess regularly communicates with an array of stakeholders in the public policy arena, including legislators and regulators both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives and our External Affairs function engage with legislative and regulatory institutions to offer a unique perspective on energy policy issues, to better understand federal and state requirements applicable to our operations and to mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. Consistent with Hess’ principles and values, our legislative and regulatory engagement is done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. Our commitment to transparency also means that the company fully complies with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2021, the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $633,700. This includes fees and expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. We also comply with any and all relevant state and foreign legal and regulatory requirements concerning direct and indirect lobbying activities and contacts. Hess belongs to a number of trade associations – organized under section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code – that include our industry peers and other companies in related sectors. Trade associations provide forums through which companies across the oil and gas industry can develop unified public policy agendas, exchange technical and industry best practices and approach issues relevant to our business with a common voice. We require all our trade associations to publicly disclose all expenses related to lobbying activities, as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for approximately 22% of our total lobbying spend in 2021. In 2021, none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of our associations for direct or indirect political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for political purposes. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2021 is shown below. 2021 Memberships and Associations • American Petroleum Institute • Center for Offshore Safety • Center for Strategic and International Studies • Council on Foreign Relations • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative • Independent Petroleum Association of America • Marine Well Containment Company • Meridian International Center • National Ocean Industries Association • National Petroleum Council • Oil Gas Denmark • U.S. Chamber of Commerce Hess’ Vice President of External Affairs is responsible for approving and overseeing employee engagement with elected officials or regulators when these employees act as official representatives of the company. This strict internal policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. This helps to ensure that we continue to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remain compliant with all reporting requirements. We aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. Trade Association Alignment Hess is a member of many associations, organizations and collaborative working groups. While many of these associations, organizations and collaborative working groups share Hess’ positions on climate change, our positions do not always align with all formal positions of these groups, and our membership should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities that they undertake. However, these organizations often provide broader value to our company in the form of industry EHS standards, along with opportunities to promote ongoing emissions reductions and transparency through industry led voluntary programs. Additionally, decisions by Hess to become a member or to discontinue a particular membership or relationship with an organization are made based on a variety of factors and should not be solely attributed to alignment or misalignment on any one issue. In 2021, we actively participated in ongoing efforts to update association positions, including on climate change and methane emissions, so that they more closely align with our positions. To address concerns related to potential inconsistency on a variety of issues, we publish our own positions on key sustainability topics in this annual report. How We Operate To illustrate our alignment on climate change policies with our national and international memberships and associations, we evaluate major advocacy organizations that have historically received more than $50,000 from Hess in any given year. For our most recent analysis completed earlier this year, we did not include the Independent Petroleum Association of America or U.S. Chamber of Commerce, as we did not renew these memberships for 2022. Similarly, we joined the American Exploration & Production Council (AXPC) in 2022 and have thus included it in this most recent analysis. Furthermore, although we are an active member of IPIECA on sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are often too complex for individual companies to tackle alone – we do not include IPIECA in this evaluation. Unlike many of the organizations that we have reviewed below, IPIECA is not a lobbying organization. IPIECA instead represents its members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change and other sustainability topics and by providing a forum for encouraging continuous improvement of industry performance. IPIECA enables collaborative work with stakeholders by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in providing innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and implement feasible energy solutions. Our 2022 evaluation was conducted using publicly available positions and statements, along with our own assessment of each organization’s activities regarding climate change and whether their climate positions are consistent with the following Hess positions: (1) acknowledgment of the science of climate change, (2) support for the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit global average temperature rise, Findings of Hess’ Trade Association Evaluation  Industry Advocacy Organizations  Summary of Alignment with Hess’ Climate Positions  American Petroleum  API has continued to enhance its position on climate and continues to consider  Institute (API)  forward leaning climate action that is consistent with the five Hess positions included in our analysis. We will continue to share our viewpoint on climate policy in an attempt to promote changes in policy direction, where appropriate.  American Exploration & Production Council (AXPC)  AXPC maintains climate positions that are partially consistent with the five Hess positions included in our analysis and discussions are proceeding in a positive direction. As a new member of this organization, we will share our viewpoint on climate policy in an attempt to more closely align AXPC’s position with ours.  National Ocean Industries Association (NOIA)  NOIA’s recently adopted Climate Change Position and Principles are consistent with the four Hess positions included in our analysis that are applicable to this organization. Hess will continue to support NOIA’s efforts to balance the environmental, social, economic and energy needs of society and will continue to share our viewpoint on climate policy in an attempt to promote changes in policy direction, where appropriate.  (3) acknowledgment of the need to accelerate GHG emissions reductions through technological innovation, (4) support for a carbon price applied to emitters across all sectors and (5) support for the direct regulation of methane. The fifth position was added to our evaluation this year in recognition of our support for the enactment of cost effective direct methane regulations that would preserve a state’s ability to adapt implementation to local conditions. All of the organizations we analyzed acknowledge the science of climate change and support GHG emissions reductions through technological innovation. One of the organizations we evaluated, AXPC, has not directly and publicly supported the aim of the Paris Agreement, a carbon price, or the direct regulation of methane. However, AXPC has established public principles that demonstrate thoughtful consideration of these issues and a willingness to work with all stakeholders as these policies are further developed. For this reason, we have identified AXPC as “partially consistent” with Hess’ positions on these issues. As an offshore- only trade association, the National Ocean Industries Association (NOIA) has not addressed the direct regulation of onshore methane emissions. This criterion is therefore not applicable to NOIA, and we have identified it as “consistent” with Hess’ climate positions overall. The table above summarizes the overarching results of our review as of April 2022. We will continue to review the positions of our major advocacy organizations on an ongoing basis and, in the event that those positions appear to be or become misaligned with Hess’ positions, we will share our viewpoint in an attempt to more closely align their position with ours. SUPPLY CHAIN Our suppliers and contractors are critical to our success and play a significant role in Hess’ day-to-day business operations, collaborating with us to promote efficient operations, maintain high standards of EHS performance, mitigate risks and create shared value. As such, supply chain and contractor management is one of our key sustainability issues. We view our suppliers and contractors as important partners in advancing our sustainability efforts, and these partnerships will play an important role in helping us achieve many of the key actions outlined in our updated EHS & SR strategy. How We Operate We have tailored our engagement approach with our suppliers based on the value of the contract, risk level and additional criteria, focusing on deeper engagement with our most strategic suppliers who play a significant role in the overall performance of our business and sustainability objectives. For example, we have implemented an ongoing engagement cadence between Hess senior executives and our strategic suppliers’ senior leaders focused on increasing transparency, delivering mutual value and prioritizing supplier diversity. During the ongoing challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, we continued to support the resilience of our supply chain by working with our suppliers to understand impacts to their operations, monitor potential operational risks and develop mitigation strategies. While this section describes our general approach to engagement with our suppliers, these practices may differ in certain instances, if necessary, to comply with applicable local laws and requirements or if otherwise appropriate. Management Approach Effective supply chain management underpins our business and operational strategies. We continue to enhance our capabilities to understand the market and strategically manage our suppliers with cross functional teams that work collaboratively to reach safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. To further support a robust and consistent approach, sourcing We rely on our suppliers to provide key goods and services and perform essential tasks. In 2021, we purchased approximately $2.1 billion in commercial goods and services from approximately 3,000 suppliers, whose workhours constituted approximately 65% of our total workforce hours. and supplier management have been integrated into HOMS (see pages 14–15). Our Procurement Policy specifies expectations and governance for the evaluation of proposals, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines that establish clear expectations for our employees when engaging with suppliers. This includes an expectation that our suppliers respect our Code of Conduct and related policies, including those related to labor and human rights – or adopt equivalent standards – and that they train their employees accordingly. A central goal of our supply chain management system, including our Procurement Policy, is to help ensure that suppliers understand and abide by our high ethical, safety and other performance standards while helping us to avoid unexpected commitments and leverage our spend more effectively. Supplier Qualifications Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, operational risk, safety, quality, delivery and cost. We have a centralized global system in place that houses contract templates and other key materials and manages the procurement process. We also use a central global electronic sourcing system to collect proposals and evaluate suppliers. This system supports the efficient creation of online requests for proposals and encourages the use of best practices. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Prospective suppliers are given a scope of work and EHS expectations during the sourcing phase. We conduct risk assessments for all potential suppliers. Where appropriate, certain potential suppliers – as determined by a risk based decision matrix – undergo expanded risk assessments including an antibribery, anticorruption and legal compliance review and, as detailed below, a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews, where appropriate, potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant function within Hess conducts additional assessments and develops mitigation plans, as needed. In 2021, we also began screening suppliers based on DEI criteria (see page 19). Contracts that involve higher risk, due to factors such as the number of workhours or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response, among other topics. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and European Union. In Malaysia, we use a standardized process aligned with our partnership with PETRONAS. Further detail on our EHS related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section (pages 32–33). Potential suppliers receive a grade based on this assessment, and where the grade does not meet our requirements, the supplier must develop an improvement plan before they can perform work for Hess. Should an operational situation occur, such as an emergency, that requires the use of a supplier that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory grade, an escalated approval and increased oversight are required. At our operated assets, we perform periodic assessments of suppliers and help them develop improvement plans if we find any gaps in their EHS processes or performance. How We Operate Supplier Transparency and Compliance Contractually, the companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, maintain any applicable licensing or permitting requirements for their activities and meet the expectations set forth in our Code of Conduct and our Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see page 21). Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, SR, business integrity, search and seizure, EHS and quality of materials and services. In addition, clauses that cover federal contractor requirements are included in our domestic contract templates for suppliers. For activities deemed as high risk or as required by regulators, we utilize tools such as bridging documents to address potential gaps between the supplier’s EHS management system and Hess’ EHS requirements. Contracts typically also include a requirement that suppliers cooperate with all audits and inspections. We use a risk based approach and conduct audits and other assurance activities of existing suppliers to help ensure compliance with appliable Hess requirements and laws and regulations. Supplier Diversity We recognize the value of engaging a diverse supplier base to bring innovation, agility and value to our business and to reflect our commitment to create economic opportunities in the communities where we operate. In 2021, a task force of cross functional leaders at Hess completed a six month process of research, benchmarking and strategy development aimed at improving the diversity of our supply base and contractors. As one of the first steps in implementing our resulting supplier diversity strategy, we hired a supplier diversity leader to help ensure an impactful and sustainable program. In 2021, we began establishing a multiyear roadmap to promote economic equity in support of diverse businesses. We increased diverse supplier participation in direct business opportunities and engaged our nondiverse strategic suppliers to improve our indirect spend with their diverse suppliers. In 2022, we are focused on further embedding diversity into our established supply chain processes. Local Content Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary by country but may include use of an approved supplier list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or workers. In Malaysia, for example, 92% of our workforce is considered local, and we use an approved vendor list that includes Malaysian owned companies. We also require our suppliers to prioritize hiring local staff. In Guyana at Hess’ joint venture (JV), 57% of the workforce is considered local. The JV and its contractors used over 880 Guyanese vendors, spending approximately $219 million for goods and services, a 37% increase in spending from 2020. The JV also launched the Greater Guyana Initiative (GGI) in 2021, a 10 year commitment of $100 million, to significantly expand capacity building efforts in diverse sectors such as health and agriculture and to promote sustainable economic development in Guyana. The GGI’s capacity development efforts include programs that partner with local institutions within Guyana’s Technical and Vocational Education and Training Sector, the University of Guyana and the Centre for Local Business Development (CLBD). The JV has supported the CLBD since 2017 and has registered more than 3,400 local businesses for new opportunities since that time. See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess. com and hess.com/sustainability/ how-we-operate/supply-chain Volunteer Tree Planting Event, Houston, Texas 