MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our company’s purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. We are committed to building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. In 2018 we continued to execute a strategy that positions Hess to deliver visible and low-risk production growth, increasing financial returns and accelerating free cash flow well into the next decade. Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve the International Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development scenario, where oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting the world’s growing energy demand through 2040. In line with this strategy, we have built a balanced, focused portfolio that is positioned to deliver a breakeven of less than  $40 per barrel Brent oil by 2025, with Guyana and the Bakken as  our growth engines and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the  Gulf of Thailand as our cash engines. We expect to allocate about 75 percent of our capital expenditures through 2025 to Guyana and the Bakken, among the best investments in the oil and gas industry. We believe sustainability practices create value for our shareholders and position us to continuously improve our business performance. Our commitment to sustainability therefore starts with our Board of Directors and senior management and is reinforced at every level. Our Board is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management to evaluate various risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s environmental, health and safety goals. Our 2018 Sustainability Report shows how sustainable practices are integrated into our long-term strategy and daily operations. Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is focused on several key areas of our operations, which are described below. Detailed information on our programs and performance is provided in this report and on our company website at hess.com. SAFETY Our company’s No. 1 priority is the safety of our workforce and the communities in which we operate, so we work closely with our employees and contractors to continuously improve our performance toward our ultimate goal of zero incidents. In 2018 we achieved the lowest severe safety incident rate in our company’s history – a 43 percent reduction from 2017. Severe safety incident rate is a key metric for incidents with the potential to result in severe consequences. Another key metric is total recordable incident rate or TRIR, which measures the number of recordable injuries or incidents by annual workforce hours. Our 2018 TRIR of 0.31 was up slightly from the prior year’s historic low of 0.24, primarily due to an increased rate of contractor incidents. We are emphasizing the vital importance of safety through companywide leadership site visits, refreshed safety leadership training and an expanded behavioral safety observation program. In 2018 we reduced our number of process safety events for the fourth consecutive year. We also pursued program enhancements based on the outcome of the enterprisewide assessment of our process safety systems completed in 2017 including a multiyear process to standardize our approach to competency assurance and training for safety-critical positions across the company. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires governments, businesses and civil society to work together on cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Hess is committed to developing oil and gas resources in an environmentally responsible and sustainable way. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint in keeping with the findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. Our Board of Directors and senior leadership We believe sustainability is fundamental to our long.term strategy and performance, which supports our purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. have set aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, and over the past 11 years our company has reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions by approximately 64 percent. Our climate change strategy is aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board. In line with the TCFD framework, we have tested the robustness of Hess’ portfolio under the supply and demand scenarios from the International Energy Agency (IEA), including the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable Development scenario. Our current asset portfolio is resilient, and our pipeline of forward investments provides strong financial returns even under the carbon-constrained future assumed in the IEA’s Sustainable Development scenario. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility is one of our company values and fundamental to the way we do business. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance, including our continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided in our activities by the U.N. SDGs, and in 2018 we mapped the SDGs to issues identified as part of the materiality assessment described in this report. Being a trusted energy partner means making a positive impact on the communities where we operate. Hess’ community investments support programs in a variety of areas, with a particular focus on education, workforce development and environmental stewardship. For example, in 2018 we expanded our LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) program, which helps at-risk students in Houston’s Greater East End stay in school. In Guyana we are working with our joint-venture partners to build capacity among the local workforce and supplier companies, including through the Centre for Local Business Development established by the joint venture in 2017. In the U.S. Gulf Coast region in 2018, Hess joined the Gulf of Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program, which leverages public and private funding to address issues such as improved habitat conservation and water resource management. PEOPLE Hess relies on a world-class workforce and a company culture defined by our values. In 2018 we continued to refine our policies to promote a flexible and dynamic work environment in which a diverse and multigenerational workforce can thrive. We also piloted Unconscious Bias training and supported professional organizations that are helping to make our industry more diverse. In 2018 we further reduced the size of our workforce in line with our focused portfolio. To foster employee engagement, our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our workforce through a robust employee communications program. Every employee below senior executive level was granted 85 shares of Hess stock in 2018 in celebration of our company’s 85th anniversary. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE We believe transparency in reporting is a vital part of being a trusted energy partner. In 2018 our company continued to be recognized for the quality of our environmental, social and governance disclosures, reinforcing our position as a top-quartile performer in our industry. We are proud of the progress made in executing our long.term strategy in line with our purpose and values. The ongoing support of our employees, communities, customers, business partners and investors is key to our success in building a sustainable enterprise, and we thank them for their partnership. John B. Hess Chief Executive Officer ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Hess Portfolio of Operations 11.5  277,000  1,192  Years of  Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day  Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent  Reserve Life  Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced  Proved Reserves  Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf  of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. MIDSTREAM Assets operated by Hess Midstream Partners LP include a natural gas processing plant, a rail-loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota. DEVELOPMENTS Activities are focused on the nonoperated developments on the Stabroek  Block, offshore Guyana. EXPLORATION Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. Note: Divestitures in 2018 are not shown on the map. For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream Partners LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. 2018 Highlights • Our company continued to have remarkable exploration success offshore Guyana, where Hess has a 30 percent interest in the Stabroek Block. In 2018 we participated in five major discoveries, bringing total discoveries on the block to 10 as of year-end 2018. The block is currently estimated to contain gross recoverable resources of more than 5.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with multibillion barrels of additional exploration potential remaining. • Liza Phase 1 development, offshore Guyana, continued to advance toward first production by early 2020. Planning was undertaken for the second and third phases of development on the Stabroek Block. • In the Bakken, through field trials and independent study in 2018, we confirmed that our planned transition to plug-and.perf completions from our previous 60-stage sliding sleeve design is expected to increase the asset’s net present value by approximately $1 billion. • Hess’ operated rig count in the Bakken averaged 4.8 in 2018, compared with 3.5 in 2017. We ended the year with six rigs and brought 104 new wells on production. • As part of our portfolio reshaping,  we successfully closed on the sale of  our joint-venture interests in the Utica shale play. $ MILLIONS Recordable Supplier Spend  $3,500  (Exploration & Production)  Capital and Exploratory  $2,340  Expenditures  Income Tax Expenses  $335  Wages and Benefits (U.S.)  $598  Royalties and Other Payments  $468  Dividends  $345  Interest Expenses  $399  A portion of capital and exploratory expenditures  may include payments to suppliers. APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions of Hess’ 2018 strategy and performance regarding material economic, environmental and social issues. Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information and can be found on our website. Additional sustainability and investor information is available at hess.com/investors REPORTING STANDARDS This report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It was also informed by the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting developed by IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers; the United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact’s Ten Principles; key environmental, social and governance ratings; recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures; and oil and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global Compact reporting indicators is available at hess.com/sustainability/sustainability-reports/GRI-Index MATERIALITY Consistent with GRI’s materiality guidance, we identified and prioritized new and emerging issues important to our stakeholders when developing the content for this report. Through a survey of select industry peers and external stakeholder groups, as well as an annual, document-based assessment of key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operational and regulatory risks, we identified the 10 most material issues for our company: • Regulatory Assurance • Water Management • Transportation Impacts • Emergency Preparedness  and Response • Process Safety and Spills • Community Engagement • Climate Change and Greenhouse  Gas (GHG) Emissions • Stakeholder Engagement • Transparency in Business Conduct • Human Rights and Security These material issues have informed our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy and helped to define the boundaries of this report. While we validate these issues on an annual basis, we are planning to update our materiality assessment in the 2019–2020 timeframe as part of a review of our EHS & SR strategy. See reporting boundaries for each of these issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach.to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues BOUNDARY SETTING Included within the scope of this report are the principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries during calendar year 2018, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. The report includes partial-year data for the following assets that were divested in 2018: • Utica shale operations in Ohio. Period of data included: January.August 2018. • Ghana development. Period of data included: January.May 2018. We report GHG emissions on both an operated and equity-share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, 2015). We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. We include in our workforce metrics contractors whose hours we track. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10 percent of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We also review and adjust targets included as part of our annual incentive plan formula to account for divestitures as needed. Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change.energy ASSURANCE In order to evaluate accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality assurance/ quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and facility-level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding. All currency in the report is in U.S. dollars. This report, including our sustainability data and self-declared GRI “in accordance” status, was assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (see page 62). This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. PROGRESS AND GOALS This section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2019 will build on our progress to date. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2018 and select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress and goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed. CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018  DGOALS FOR 2019+  ISCUSSION (PAGE #)  As our regulatory compliance  Complete assurance on embedded  Further enhanced the mobile application for systems are becoming embedded  regulatory compliance system,  our compliance tracking tool for field in daily operations, begin to shift assurance personnel by synchronizing it with focus to more formal assurance of  including standard work evaluation and equipment repair root cause analysis;  58–59  our work order system Hess’ EHS management system*  begin pursuing a compliance standard  for the enterprise in 2019*  Regulatory Launch a regulatory tracking Assurance system that aligns regulatory priorities with our risk registers; further enhance U.S. offshore regulatory coordination through quarterly presentations to offshore leadership, aligned with their established operating rhythm* Established a regulatory tracking system to support the asset risk registers and began issuing monthly regulatory reports for our U.S. onshore assets; U.S. asset regulatory teams met on a routine basis to discuss emerging regulations Continue providing our assets with routine updates and discussions on emerging regulatory risks and 12–13 changes through the use of existing communication methods and operating rhythms in 2019* Publish our 2017 Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and aligned with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Transparency recommendations in Business Published our 2017 Sustainability Report  with the GRI Standards Core “in  accordance” option and included disclosure  Continue to refine our sustainability  on alignment with TCFD recommendations;  disclosures to align with stakeholder  5, 39–41  conducted a gap analysis on the  expectations in 2019  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s  oil and gas industry metrics  Conduct Improved our Global Trade Compliance Continue to enhance our Global Program by enhancing policies and Trade Compliance Program and procedures and updating third-party implement training on our revised screening processes; launched a revised Code of Business Conduct and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Ethics online training module  Implement a third-party online due diligence system and conduct compliance risk assessment and analysis on select assets in 2019  14–15  Centralized sourcing and contracting  Continue to develop model contracts  Continue to enhance activities to promote standardization and Supply  for key spend areas to enhance risk  standardization and alignment on consistency in our approach to contractor Chain and  management; further evaluate the  contractor selection, contracting selection; further revised our Procurement Contractor  supplier relationship and performance  16–17  and management processes across Policy to include a Contract Governance Management  management processes as part of the  our assets Board process to provide oversight of  Hess Operational Management  high-value, high-risk contracts  System initiative (HOMS) in 2019  Expand Lean deployment across Certified almost 100 employees as embedded  Continue expanding Lean  Hess, including developing Lean Lean leaders (ELLs) enterprisewide; existing  deployment across Hess, including  leaders in our offshore ELLs continued local business improvements  development of new ELLs in assets  organization; implement Lean with and provided coaching to other employees our key Stampede contractors, and contractors in their work areas;  and central support functions and further development of those already  14  including at the offshore drill ships, conducted a “Take Work Out” initiative, which  trained; continue to use a structured  to apply Lean improvements to resulted in over 200 improvements to reduce  Lean approach to identify “Take Work  routine drilling activities waste in routine activities  Out” opportunities in 2019  Management Approved one new EHS global standard Systems Continue to develop and (Excavation and Trenching) and completed implement EHS global standards gap assessments for the standard at on a prioritized basis selected assets  Continue progressing the EHS global standards project through 2020  12  Continue to measure effective Continue to measure effective Continued tracking individual EHS & strategy implementation through implementation of the EHS & SR SR initiatives through project-specific 2020; begin a refresh of the strategy 6–9strategy through established work plans as part of our business in 2019 through an updated materiality targets and metrics* operating rhythm assessment* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. CATEGORY  2018 GOALS  PROGRESS IN 2018  GOALS FOR 2019+  DISCUSSION (PAGE #)  Review governance framework and  processes to ensure alignment with  Governance  our business strategy and geographic  Completed further analysis and  Monitor and assess ongoing social  and Management  footprint; build on prior efforts to map business activities and social  mapping of the SDGs, with results included in the Social Responsibility  investments to help ensure focus and alignment on areas that overlap with  19  Approach  investment to the United Nations’  section of this report  the SDGs in 2019*  Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs)*  Community  Continue to expand implementation  and of stakeholder engagement and Stakeholder grievance mechanism processes* Engagement Completed a review and refresh of our  enterprise-level stakeholder planning  and engagement process and aligned it with our Risk Management Standard; maintained our formal grievance mechanism in North Dakota, which – with the sale of our other onshore production assets in West Texas (2017) and Ohio (2018) – will be the focus of  Institute a semiannual cadence to review stakeholder outreach and refresh stakeholder mapping; increase focus on asset retirement obligations in North Dakota in cooperation with regulators in 2019*  20–22  our formal grievance mechanism  moving forward  Continue to monitor potential human rights risks and conduct risk assessments if needed based on activity levels*  Conducted risk assessments in North Dakota, the Gulf of Mexico and Malaysia as part of our risk management assessment and mitigation planning  Continue to monitor potential risks and conduct risk assessments if needed based on activity levels in 2019 and beyond*  22–23  Social Risk Management  Conduct human rights training as needed based on identified risks*  Conducted training for the North Malay Basin asset as planned in 2018  Continue to conduct human rights training as needed based on identified risks in 2019 and beyond*  22–23  Continue to track the number of employees and contractors completing human rights training at high-risk assets, as well as the percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses*  Brought the training for the North Malay Basin asset up to date; continued to monitor contracts to confirm inclusion of human rights clauses and alignment with Hess policies  Continue to track implementation of these efforts in 2019 and beyond*  17, 22–23  *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  7  PROGRESS AND GOALS DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Build on our work with integrity critical equipment (ICE) through critical maintenance compliance (i.e., inspect, test and maintain ICE to ensure it is performing as expected); actively manage risks identified through the asset integrity assessments through quarterly reviews* Achieved established targets for ICE critical maintenance compliance Continue to drive progress in critical maintenance compliance by expanding our annual incentive plan metric from safety-critical equipment only to 30–31 include all equipment with performance standards in our  work order system in 2019 Complete implementation of our Progressed implementation of bow tie Complete implementation of bow tie enhanced barrier management diagrams at North Malay Basin; diagrams at North Malay Basin and 30–31 approach at North Malay Basin and implementation at our South Arne pursue an alternative barrier management South Arne through the use of “bow asset was put on hold due to the (at approach at South Arne in 2019* tie” diagrams the time) planned sale of that asset Process Safety  and Spills Pursue improvement programs based on recommendations from the 2016–17 process safety assessment, mainly around deeper integration of our EHS and operational management systems and increased focus on integrity risks* Progressed improvement programs highlighted through the process safety assessment, including developing Related strategic actions for HOMS, ICE HOMS, enhancing our enterprisewide and CAT are covered by other goals in 12, 30–31 competency assurance and training this section (CAT) strategy and driving continuous improvement in integrity risk Continue to conduct audits and assessments under the tiered EHS assurance program; continue to develop our enhanced enterprisewide CAT strategy* Meet a workforce total recordable incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.20 or below Completed audits and consulting activities per the Board-approved Corporate Audit plan and in line with the tiered EHS assurance program; established a five-year journey map and began developing the enterprisewide CAT standard Did not meet this internal target – our TRIR of 0.31 was up slightly from 0.24 in 2017; see the Safety and Health section for details on our safety performance improvement programs Continue to perform assurance activities according to the 2019 Board-approved plan and in line with our assurance program; continue to develop our enhanced CAT strategy, with phased implementation slated to begin in 2020* Meet a workforce TRIR target of 0.28 or below in 2019 27, 30–31 28–29 CATEGORY  2018 GOALS  PROGRESS IN 2018  GOALS FOR 2019+  DISCUSSION (PAGE #)  Offer four Managerial Essentials programs  Offered four Supervisory Essentials Program and Managerial Essentials Program courses for supervisors and managers; offered eight professional development programs for nonmanagers  Continue to build high-quality leaders by refreshing and formalizing the resources available to them, on topics such as inclusion and diversity, innovation, Lean and coaching and feedback training, in 2019  36–37  Employment Practices  Leverage our newly implemented succession planning technology to identify, develop and track the progress of our high-potential talent and future leaders  Utilized our succession planning technology during preparations for the executive talent review  Introduce a revised talent philosophy and associated succession planning technology more broadly in 2019, beginning with senior leaders and then cascading to other managers  36  Implement a new grading structure that includes additional grades to provide more career growth opportunities and improve internal equity between different jobs; provide a consistent evaluation framework for jobs across the company; address job scope changes due to portfolio adjustments  Implemented a new grading structure, incorporating changes in job scope where applicable  Expand diversity (Unconscious Bias) training across our U.S. and international locations in 2019  35–36  *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. **Target adjusted to exclude the Utica asset, which was divested in 2018, on a prorated basis. See our Approach to Reporting section online for additional detail. DISCUSSION  CATEGORY  2018 GOALS  PROGRESS IN 2018  GOALS FOR 2019+  (PAGE #)  Risk Management  Assess opportunities to integrate EHS deliverables into the value assurance process for new projects; conduct a portfolio-specific carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise*  Developed a scenario planning guidance document; conducted a portfolio-specific scenario planning exercise in 2018 and early 2019  Disclose the results of our portfolio-specific carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise; incorporate scenario planning into our regular business planning cycle in 2019*  13, 39–45  Pursue additional infrastructure projects that will continue to help with flaring reduction in the Bakken, including an additional compressor station and a new joint-venture gas plant Continue to make progress toward our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline* Review and – if needed per the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol – adjust the Hess Midstream Partners LP continued expansion of the Bakken midstream gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities, natural gas liquids and gas gathering lines and a new joint-venture gas plant Reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 17 percent compared with our 2014 baseline; reviewed the 2020 GHG target and determined that adjustment to the target was not needed; however, restated the baseline and five-year historical emissions intensities to exclude recently divested assets that exceeded the threshold in our GHG Continue to invest in additional midstream infrastructure and increase compression capacity; complete construction and commissioning of the 48–50 joint-venture gas plant (Little Missouri Four) operated by Targa Resources in 2019 Continue to make progress toward our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in GHG emissions intensity 46–48 (tonnes per thousand BOE), versus our 2014 baseline* DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Continue to evolve our water data Develop a risk assessment toolbox for Continued to improve the water data collection process to automate offshore water discharge in 2019; collection methodology for the North 53, 55 collection for trending and future continue to work toward automated Dakota and Gulf of Mexico assets target setting* data collection in 2019 and beyond* Completed water risk planning efforts Conduct water risk assessments for the Conduct water risk assessment for the North Dakota and Gulf of South Arne and North Malay Basin Water workshops for the North Dakota and Mexico assets, including identifying assets and complete water risk ranking 53, 55 Management Gulf of Mexico assets* the water lifecycle for each operational and resource evaluation (e.g., oil activity and mapping key stakeholders recovery per water use) in 2019* Did not complete pilot studies as Conduct water-related pilot studies  No pilot studies are planned at this planned due to vendor scheduling time, but may be considered in the to assess alternative practices for issues for the onshore recycling efforts — future as additional technologies are improving operating efficiencies in and operational constraints regarding evaluated both onshore and offshore assets the offshore work Surpassed our target, achieving a Process severe environmental incident rate of Achieve a 10 percent reduction from Achieve a severe environmental Safety  0.013; expanded this key metric to our 2018 actual severe and significant 57–58 incident rate target of 0.020** and Spills include “significant” environmental environmental incident rate in 2019 incidents beginning in 2019 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. **Target adjusted to exclude the Utica asset, which was divested in 2018, on a prorated basis. See our Approach to Reporting section online for additional detail. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 HOW WE OPERATE Hess is committed to helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in a way that protects the health and safety of our people, safeguards the environment and contributes to the sustainability of the communities where we operate, while also delivering long-term value to our shareholders and other stakeholders. The Hess Values and our company culture help us meet these high standards of corporate citizenship. The six Hess Values support our purpose to be the world's most trusted energy partner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights Policy and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Values to define internal expectations for sustainable management and performance at Hess. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section. GOVERNANCE The highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, which had three principal committees in 2018: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors The EHS Subcommittee of the Board’s Audit Committee was established in 2013 to assist the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS strategies and material risks with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The EHS Subcommittee has also developed recommendations for the Audit Committee and the full Board on policies, programs and practices to address such strategies and risks. The Subcommittee met four times in 2018, and each Subcommittee member attended at least 75 percent of the meetings. In June 2019 the EHS Subcommittee was elevated to a fourth standalone committee of the Board of Directors, underpinning our commitment to evaluate sustainability risks at the highest level. All references to the EHS Subcommittee that follow reflect the responsibilities and planned activities of the newly elevated EHS Committee. Board Accountability The Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, and other financial matters such as tax planning, compliance and reporting for income taxes. It also oversees compliance and risk management matters. Until June 2019 the Audit Committee, through the EHS Subcommittee, also oversaw EHS & SR matters. Going forward, through the newly elevated EHS Committee and the Board as a whole, Board members will continue to actively oversee Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management so that sustainability risks are taken into account when making strategic decisions. Our independent Chairman periodically accompanies our CEO and other members of senior management to meet with investors to solicit shareholder views on various topics, including EHS & SR. Our Vice President of EHS met regularly with the EHS Subcommittee and the Chair of the Subcommittee in 2018, and going forward will meet with the EHS Committee, to prioritize actions on a number of topics, including EHS performance and strategic priorities; enterprise risk management; regulatory matters; environment, social and governance reporting; climate change strategic actions; and progress against greenhouse gas and flaring targets. Each member of the EHS Subcommittee (and the newly elevated EHS Committee) is independent and qualified under standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Subcommittee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operations, research and development, and financial expertise. To supplement their expertise, Hess brings in outside subject matter experts to brief members on current and developing issues relevant to our business, such as climate change. Members, together with our executive leadership, have also participated in field visits to Hess-operated and nonoperated assets to better understand our key EHS strategies and risks. In 2018 Subcommittee members visited two offshore platforms in Asia – one operated (North Malay Basin) and one nonoperated (Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA)) – to observe how Hess and the operator for JDA are managing and mitigating EHS risks. HOW WE OPERATE Executive Oversight The company is managed by an Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues and is the highest approval body before the Board. The Executive Committee holds regularly scheduled meetings, and our President and Chief Operating Officer chairs an operational subcommittee of the Executive Committee that also meets routinely to discuss these and other matters. See information on our approach to sustainable tax policy at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices KEY INITIATIVES We continue to evolve and advance our management systems in a manner that aligns with Hess’ portfolio and organizational structure. As part of this process, in 2018 we reorganized into teams of functional leaders (e.g., EHS, Wells, Human Resources, and Supply Chain), which will help us continue to improve oversight and assurance across the company and provide expertise in key functional areas within each asset. Each leader is responsible for overseeing activities in their functional area across the company, verifying that relevant standards are applied as appropriate and working with each asset to optimize safety, quality, delivery and cost. Leaders are supported by technical authorities (TAs) – many of whom are embedded directly into our assets. Functional leaders and additional TAs as needed meet monthly to support enterprisewide initiatives, promote transparency of activities and optimize synergies across our functions and assets. The functional leaders have replaced the prior Operational Excellence Network in providing cross-functional, companywide guidance on the development of high-value enterprise initiatives. It is anticipated they will continue to help us design and implement key enterprise initiatives by fostering collaboration across Hess’ global resources and creating standardized methodologies supported by tools and processes. Over the past several years, we have been working on a number of initiatives to enhance our operational effectiveness and EHS performance. For example, we have been working to formalize an enterprisewide operational management system to integrate the standards, procedures and guidance documents in use throughout our operations into a single system. We expect that implementation of this Hess Operational Management System (HOMS) will help us continue to manage risks associated with a changing organization; utilize technical expertise, standards and processes across the organization; and align asset-level operations with enterprisewide corporate standards and business priorities. We expect to complete development of the formalized system in 2019, with asset implementation beginning in 2020. In support of HOMS, we have also continued development and implementation of EHS standards that formalize enterprisewide expectations and accountabilities and support a globally consistent approach to operational excellence. These standards, which address key areas of EHS risk and performance, are scheduled to be fully implemented by 2020. Equipment reliability has been another area of continuous improvement. We have established an organization and put processes in place to drive proactive maintenance of our production equipment. To support this, in 2018 we began implementing organizational changes to better align maintenance and production operations to maximize efficiency, reliability, integrity and surveillance; optimize production and costs; and drive continuous improvement, including improvement to EHS performance. This is an evolution and culmination of improvement efforts that have been implemented over the last several years through initiatives such as Operations of the Future and Lean. Additional detail can be found at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES We apply a number of key processes in our company that help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities. While these processes are focused on our operated assets, it is important to note that we have also established internal expectations for reviewing potential risks in Hess’ nonoperated assets. We prioritize four main objectives: building respectful relationships; influencing project outcomes by focusing on issues with the greatest potential impact; establishing governance structures and project assurance plans; and documenting and internally sharing high-value lessons learned. As these assets represent a significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, we have continued to conduct targeted, high-level reviews of nonoperated activities, including production operations, facilities and designs. Enterprise Risk Management Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our operations. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) program, which includes consideration of EHS & SR risks, provides a framework that enables Hess’ Board of Directors and executive leadership to work together to strengthen the consistency of risk consideration in making business decisions. Our Board of Directors has ultimate oversight over the ERM process and is charged with understanding the key risks affecting the company’s business and how those risks can be managed. Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) reports to the Board regularly on the status of risk management controls within the company. Periodically, our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s Audit Committee with a comprehensive review of Hess’ enterprise-level risks, the status of the ERM program, and risk management strategies utilized under our corporate risk policy. The CFO and CRO oversee day-to-day implementation of the ERM process, including developing and verifying compliance with relevant policies and standards. Hess’ ERM process is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major capital project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent internal audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and assess their likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business. Our Risk Management Standard, which applies to all assets and major capital projects, helps to align and integrate risk management across our operations and functional areas.The standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process across our assets, projects and business functions. As part of our ERM process, all assets are required to have a risk assessment in place that is refreshed on an annual basis. In addition, major capital projects and new opportunities that go through the value assurance process (described at right) must have risk assessments completed prior to each value assurance stage gate. Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated periodically as part of the asset and major project operating rhythm meetings. We also require that functional-level risk assessments be included in each asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility. Climate risks are considered throughout both enterprise and functional risk assessments from the perspective of potential financial, physical, reputational and regulatory impacts. Further discussion of Hess’ approach to managing climate risks can be found in the Climate Change and Energy section of this report. Value Assurance Major investment opportunities are assessed through our value assurance process. This process helps to provide increased objectivity by including those who are not directly involved with the asset or project in internal reviews. Following this process helps to provide assurance that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high-quality input. The value assurance reviews focus on economics, subsurface and facility design, safety, environmental and socioeconomic considerations, regulatory requirements and other nontechnical risks. In order to VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS INCEPTION OPTIMIZED VALUE HOW WE OPERATE evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics, we apply a carbon price of $40 per tonne to the forecasted greenhouse gas emissions from significant new projects. In 2018 we refreshed our value assurance process (see figure on the previous page) as a result of the company’s restructuring early in the year. We transitioned from having a centralized value assurance organization to bringing in technical experts from across the company, chosen based on how their skills and experience contribute to the project under review. Including experts from across the organization creates learning opportunities for participants to take back to their assets and functions and apply to future assurance processes. The value assurance process is closely aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company. New Country Entry Our new country entry process helps us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities in a new country of operation. The process also helps the project team mitigate identified risks once a commitment is made to enter a new country. Ultimately, the process is complementary to our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes. See more detail on these processes at hess. com/sustainability/how-we-operate/key.enterprise-processes Lean At Hess, Lean is not a short-term program for achieving cost savings, but rather a holistic cultural shift, changing the way we think and act. Central to this shift has been encouraging our leaders to learn  fundamental Lean skills and then apply them to business problems. The leaders then coach and develop employees and contractors to generate solutions themselves. The result is a distinctive Lean culture in which continuous improvement comes from the entire workforce – our “army of problem solvers.” For nearly a decade, we have been implementing Lean principles across our operations to eliminate waste, create value and drive reliability and continuous improvement for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other stakeholders. In 2018 we conducted a “Take Work Out” exercise, which encouraged all workers to closely evaluate their work activities to eliminate “waste” or unnecessary tasks. The initiative resulted in over 200 completed improvements to reduce waste in routine activities. We use a standard process for selecting, training and developing embedded Lean leaders (ELLs), who, after completing the process outlined in the figure below, help to train their teams in basic Lean skills, improve processes and eliminate waste in their respective work areas. We certified approximately 100 employees as ELLs in 2018, bringing the total number of ELLs to 160 enterprisewide. ELLs participated in multiple kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshops held across our value stream to provide sustainable improvements to business results for their respective assets or functions. We plan to train and certify 100 additional ELLs in 2019. See examples of success stories on the Lean section of our website at hess.com/lean.advantage BUSINESS CONDUCT In the Hess Code of Conduct, we describe the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct and related policies, or applicable laws, may result in disciplinary action, including termination. Hess’ compliance policies and procedures all stem from our Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures are communicated to and available for all employees globally. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, as well as other processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer informs the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis regarding certain business conduct issues. To continuously enforce compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations and anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, as well as other enterprise programs EMBEDDED LEAN LEADER (ELL) CERTIFICATION PROCESS and systems. In 2018 our Global Compliance team investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team through the various channels available to our workforce, including our dedicated compliance hotline. In addition, Global Compliance continued to manage the company’s automated approval systems – which are used to review and approve higher-risk transactions and relationships with our business partners – including our system for the disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest. Throughout 2018, Global Compliance also continued to partner with key functions across the company, including Legal, EHS, Human Resources and Corporate Audit, to review potential issues and implement appropriate remediation steps. Providing employees with effective training on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture and helping to ensure that employees understand and embody the Values in their daily work. As part of this effort, our Global Compliance team has developed in-depth online trainings on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC Policy and Procedure. The trainings include examples of how employees can translate the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. All employees who are active at the time training is launched, as well as all new employees and certain contracted staff, are required to take these trainings and certify compliance with the Code of Conduct and other applicable policies and procedures. To support the launch of our new Code of Conduct in 2018, the Global Compliance team developed and deployed an updated version of our online training. This training, which was delivered through an enhanced, modular-based platform, highlighted key concepts from the new Code of Conduct. The Global Compliance team conducts audits and ongoing monitoring to help ensure that all employees complete these online trainings. At year-end 2018, 99 percent of active employees had completed the Code of Conduct training, and 97 percent had completed the ABAC training. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT HessPAC HessPAC serves as the political action committee of Hess’ U.S. employees and acts in full compliance with U.S. federal and state campaign finance and election laws. HessPAC is used to promote the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2018 HessPAC entered its third full cycle of operation, generated approximately $64,000 in member contributions and distributed $71,500 in political contributions in a bipartisan manner to candidates at both the state and federal levels. HessPAC publicly discloses all of its contributions to political candidates, parties and committees. Its federal contributions are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). State contributions from HessPAC are also publicly available on the appropriate website of each HOW WE OPERATE respective state where HessPAC is active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC. Both direct and indirect corporate political contributions are prohibited by Hess company policy. HessPAC permits political contributions only through voluntary employee-funded PAC contributions. Advocacy Hess is in regular communication with an array of stakeholders in the public policy arena, including legislators and regulators both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives and our External Affairs function engage with legislative and regulatory institutions to offer a unique perspective on energy policy issues, to better understand federal and state requirements applicable to our operations and to mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. Consistent with Hess principles and values, our legislative and regulatory engagement is done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. Hess’ commitment to transparency also means that the company fully complies with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2018 the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $493,800. This includes fees and expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Hess also complies with any and all relevant state and foreign legal and regulatory requirements concerning direct and indirect lobbying activities and contacts. Hess belongs to a number of trade associations (organized under section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) that include our industry peers and other companies in related sectors. Trade associations provide forums through which companies across the oil and gas industry can develop unified public policy agendas, exchange technical and industry best practices, and approach issues relevant to our business with a common voice. Hess requires all trade associations to publicly disclose all expenses related to lobbying activities, as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for 27 percent of our total lobbying spend in 2018. In 2018, none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of our associations for direct or indirect political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for political purposes. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2018 can be  found on page 63. We recognize that our positions do not always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these associations, organizations or collaborative working groups. To address concerns related to potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key sustainability issues in this annual report. Hess’ Vice President of External Affairs is responsible for approving and overseeing employee engagement with elected officials or regulators when these employees act as official representatives of the company. This strict internal policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. This helps to ensure that Hess will continue to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remain compliant with all reporting requirements. As part of the regulatory assurance element of our EHS & SR strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. SUPPLY CHAIN Our business partners, suppliers and contractors are critical to Hess’ overall success and our ability to maximize the efficiency of operations while minimizing operational risks. In 2018 we purchased approximately $3.5 billion in commercial goods and services from approximately 3,600 suppliers, whose workhours comprised nearly 70 percent of our total workforce hours. We work collaboratively with our suppliers to improve performance and create shared value. We jointly review processes, procedures and data with many suppliers to help drive the right actions and foster continuous improvement. While this section describes our general approach to engagements with our suppliers, these practices may differ in certain instances if necessary to comply with applicable local laws and requirements or if otherwise appropriate. Management Approach We continue to enhance our capabilities to categorically manage our suppliers with a cross-functional team that works collaboratively to reach safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. Our Procurement Policy specifies who should participate in the evaluation of tenders, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines and states that employees who violate the Procurement Policy are subject to disciplinary actions. A central goal of our supply chain management system, including our Procurement Policy, is to help ensure that suppliers understand and abide by our high ethical, safety and other performance standards, while helping us avoid unexpected commitments and leverage our spend more effectively. Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, potential suppliers – as determined by a risk-based decision matrix – undergo a risk review, an anti-bribery, anti-corruption and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews where appropriate the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant function within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to either the number of workhours the supplier is expected to work for Hess or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response, among other topics. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on our 14 EHS & SR management system elements. Further detail on our EHS-related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section. We are working to standardize the way we engage contractors based on their risk profiles and are developing a formalized, enterprisewide procedure. To support this and maximize the overall efficiency and performance of our supply chain, in late 2018 we implemented a new digital platform for integrating supplier information and processes. The companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest and anti-corruption, and must maintain any applicable licensing or permitting requirements for their activities. Suppliers are also required to meet the expectations set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Hess’ Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights. Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure, EHS and quality of materials and services. Local Content Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production-sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary, but may include use of an approved supplier list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or workers. 