HOW WE OPERATE At Hess, we are committed to helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive way, while delivering long-term value to our shareholders and other stakeholders. The Hess Values and our company culture help us meet these high standards of corporate citizenship. The six core Hess Values support our aim to be the most trusted energy partner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights Policy and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Values to define internal expectations for sustainable management and performance at Hess. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section. GOVERNANCE  The highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, which has three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors The Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, and other financial matters such as tax planning, compliance and reporting for income taxes. It also provides oversight of issues relating to environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR), compliance and risk management. Through the Audit Committee and the Board as a whole, Board members actively oversee Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management so that sustainability risks and strategies receive appropriate attention. See more on our approach to sustainable tax policy at hess.com/sustainability/how-we.operate/tax-practices The EHS Subcommittee of the Audit Committee is tasked with assisting the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The Subcommittee also develops recommendations for the Audit Committee and the full Board on policies, programs and practices to address such strategies and risks. Our Vice President of EHS meets regularly with the Subcommittee and the Chair of the Subcommittee to prioritize actions. The Subcommittee met four times in 2017. Each member of the EHS Subcommittee is independent and qualified under standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Subcommittee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operations, research and development, and financial expertise. To supplement their expertise, Hess brings in outside subject matter experts to brief members on current and developing issues relevant to our business, such as climate change. In addition, Subcommittee members, together with our executive leadership, have engaged in field visits to better understand our key EHS strategies and risks. In 2017, for example, Subcommittee members visited two sites to observe how Hess is managing and mitigating process safety risks to prevent incidents: the Texas fabrication site for the Stampede platform and hull and our South Arne asset in Denmark. The company is governed by the Hess Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues and is the highest approval body before the Board. While the Executive Committee meets face to face at least every other month, our Chief Operating Officer chairs an operational subcommittee of the Executive Committee that meets regularly to discuss these same matters. KEY INITIATIVES Hess’ Operational Excellence (OE) Network is made up of business leaders and process owners across the company who oversee high-impact, enterprise-level initiatives and align and integrate these efforts to create value for the company. The network enables us to more effectively design and implement key enterprise initiatives by fostering collaboration across Hess’ global resources and creating standardized methodologies supported by tools and processes. Employing this integrated, cross-functional network helps us to ensure that projects are planned and implemented holistically — for example, by evaluating how a new or changed process will impact other processes throughout Hess. We also establish metrics to monitor the effectiveness of our processes and verify we are sustaining improvements. In 2018 we will restructure the OE Network to reflect organizational changes made early in the year. The group, which will be composed of technical authorities in various disciplines, will remain focused on overseeing key enterprise-level initiatives. Over the past several years, we have been working on a number of initiatives to enhance our operational effectiveness and EHS performance. For example, HOW WE OPERATE we are developing and implementing EHS standards across the company to formalize enterprisewide expectations and accountabilities and support a globally consistent approach to operational excellence. These standards, which address key areas of EHS risk and performance,  will be fully implemented by 2020. We also continue to implement Operations of the Future (OOTF), an operational reorganization and improvement plan that focuses on better aligning job duties to business processes to maximize efficiency, reliability, integrity and surveillance; optimize production and costs; and drive continuous improvement, including improvements to EHS performance. OOTF has been implemented at our Bakken and Gulf of Mexico assets, and we will begin to implement it at our North Malay Basin asset in 2018. Additional detail can be found at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES We apply a number of key processes in our company that help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities. While these processes are focused on our operated assets, it is important to note that we have also established internal expectations for reviewing potential risks in Hess’ nonoperated joint-venture developments. We prioritize four main objectives: building respectful relationships; influencing project outcomes by focusing on issues with the greatest potential impact; establishing governance structures and project assurance plans; and documenting and internally sharing high-value lessons learned. As nonoperated assets represent a significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, we have continued to emphasize our assurance efforts by conducting targeted, high-level reviews of the operators’ facilities and designs. Enterprise Risk Management Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our operations. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) process is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major capital project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent internal audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and assess their likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business. Our Risk Management Standard — finalized in early 2017 — applies to all assets and major capital projects and has improved the alignment and integration of risk management across our operations and functional areas. The standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process. As part of our ERM process, risk assessments are conducted for all assets and major capital projects annually and for all projects and new opportunities that go through the value assurance process (described at right). Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated throughout the year as part of each asset’s and major project’s operating rhythm. We also require that functional-level risk assessments be included in each asset’s or project’s risk plan, as determined by each function. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility. In 2017 we concluded a detailed review of integrity risk at our producing assets, as part of our ongoing asset integrity management process. This comprehensive effort, which focused on identifying and mitigating process safety and loss of containment risks, is described further in the Safety and Health section. Value Assurance Value assurance is a review process Hess uses to characterize and assess our major investment opportunities. It entails internal reviews by those who are not directly involved with the asset or project to provide additional objectivity. Following this process helps us ensure that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high-quality input. We conduct value assurance reviews of our assets and major capital projects as part of the business planning cycle to verify that they add value to our company and that the relevant technical expertise has been incorporated. The reviews focus on economics, subsurface and facility design, environmental and socioeconomic considerations, regulatory requirements and other nontechnical risks. We apply a carbon price of $40 per tonne to the greenhouse gas emissions projected to be generated by significant new projects to evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics and to compare alternative project configurations. The value assurance process is closely aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company. New Country Entry Our new country entry process helps us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities in a new country of operation. The process also helps the project team mitigate identified risks once a commitment is made to enter a new country. Ultimately, the process supports our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes. See more detail on these processes at hess. com/sustainability/how-we-operate/key.enterprise-processes Lean At Hess, Lean is not a short-term program for achieving cost savings, but rather a holistic cultural shift, changing the way we think and act. Central to this shift has been encouraging our leaders to learn fundamental Lean skills and then apply them to business problems. The leaders then coach and develop employees and contractors to generate solutions themselves. The result is a distinctive Lean culture in which continuous improvement comes from the entire workforce — our “army of problem solvers.” For nearly a decade, we have been implementing Lean principles across our operations to eliminate waste, create value and drive reliability and continuous improvement for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other stakeholders. We continued Lean implementation across Hess in 2017. We certified more than 80 employees as embedded Lean leaders (ELLs), who then trained their teams in basic Lean skills. Our ELLs each delivered one or more kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshops that endeavored to improve business results for their respective assets. We also documented a standard process for ELL selection, training and development, and assessment that includes standard content, templates and a health check. The health check provides a structured approach for evaluating the process and ensuring accountability. We are now developing over 110 ELLs, with more planned in the future. See examples of success stories on the Lean section of our website at hess.com/lean.advantage BUSINESS CONDUCT In the Hess Code of Conduct, we describe the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. To promote the Hess Values across our global operations, the Code of Conduct has been translated into the local language of all of our countries of operation. Hess takes disciplinary actions for violations of the Code of Conduct and related policies. Hess’ compliance policies and procedures all stem from our Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures are communicated to and available for all employees globally. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, as well as other processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer informs the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis regarding certain business conduct issues. To continuously enforce compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations and anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, as well as other enterprise programs and systems. In 2017 our Global Compliance team investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team through the various channels available to our workforce, including our dedicated compliance hotline. In addition, Global Compliance continued to manage the company’s automated approval systems — which are used to review and approve higher-risk transactions and relationships with our business partners — including our system for the disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest. Throughout 2017, Global Compliance also continued to partner with key functions across the company, including Legal, EHS, Human Resources and Corporate Audit, to review potential issues and implement appropriate remediation steps. Providing employees with effective training on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture and helping  to ensure that employees understand and embody the Values in their daily work. As part of this effort, our Global Compliance team has developed in-depth online trainings on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC Policy and Procedure. The trainings include examples of how employees can translate the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. All employees who are active at the time training is launched, as well as all new employees and certain contracted staff, are required to take these trainings and certify compliance with the Code of Conduct and other applicable policies and procedures. EMBEDDED LEAN LEADER (ELL) CERTIFICATION PROCESS HOW WE OPERATE The Global Compliance team conducts audits and ongoing monitoring to help ensure that all employees complete these online trainings. At year-end 2017, 94 percent of active employees had completed the Code of Conduct training and 96 percent had completed the ABAC training. The Global Compliance team further reinforced the training program in 2017 by conducting live, in-person compliance training for our operations in North Dakota. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT HessPAC HessPAC serves as the political action committee of Hess’ U.S. employees and acts in compliance with U.S. federal election law. HessPAC is used to promote the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2017 HessPAC generated $87,319 in member contributions and distributed $34,000 to candidates of both major parties at the state and federal levels. All federal contributions from HessPAC are publicly disclosed and accessible through the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). State contributions from HessPAC are publicly available on the Secretary of State website of each respective state where HessPAC is active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC. Advocacy Hess is in regular communication with an array of stakeholders in the public policy arena, including legislators and regulators both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives and our Government and External Affairs team engage with legislative and regulatory institutions to offer a unique perspective on energy policy issues, to better understand federal and state requirements applicable to our operations and to mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. Consistent with Hess principles and values, our political engagement is done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, and no direct political contributions are made by Hess employees using corporate funds. Hess complies with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all substantial amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2017 the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $825,000. This includes expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Hess belongs to a number of associations that include our industry peers and other companies in related sectors. Trade associations provide forums through which companies across the oil and gas industry can develop unified public policy agendas, exchange technical and industry best practices and approach issues relevant to our business with a common voice. Hess requires all trade associations to report all expenses related to lobbying activities, as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for 17 percent of our total lobbying spend in 2017. In 2017 none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of our associations for direct political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for express political advocacy. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2017 can be found on page 55. We recognize that our positions do not always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these associations, organizations or collaborative working groups. Hess has a strict internal policy that prohibits our employees from engaging with elected officials or regulators as an official representative of the company without the approval of the Vice President of External Affairs. Our policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. The policy helps to ensure that Hess continues to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remains compliant with all reporting requirements. As part of the regulatory assurance element of our EHS & SR strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities, to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. SUPPLY CHAIN Nearly 70 percent of Hess’ total workforce hours are completed by business partners, suppliers and contractors, making them critical to our overall success and our ability to operate efficiently and responsibly. In 2017 we purchased approximately $4.7 billion in goods and services from more than 4,000 suppliers. We work collaboratively with these suppliers to improve performance and create shared value. We jointly review processes, procedures and data with suppliers to help drive the right actions and foster continuous improvement. While this section describes our general approach to engagements with our suppliers, these practices may differ in certain instances if necessary to comply with applicable local laws and requirements. Management Approach We manage our key suppliers with a cross-functional team that works collaboratively to reach mutually agreed-upon targets for safety, quality, delivery and cost. In 2017 we revised and improved our Procurement Policy to help us improve safety, minimize risk and standardize work throughout the organization. Our policy specifies who should participate in the evaluation of tenders, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines and states that employees who violate the Procurement Policy are subject to disciplinary actions. The combination of our updated policy with other parts of our supply chain management system help to ensure that suppliers understand and abide by our high ethical, safety and other performance standards, while helping us avoid unexpected commitments and leverage our spend more effectively. Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, potential suppliers — as determined by a risk-based decision matrix — undergo a risk review, an ABAC and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews where appropriate the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant department within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to either the number of workhours the supplier will work for Hess or the scope of that work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on our 14 EHS & SR management system elements. Further detail on our EHS-related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section. The companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with applicable laws and regulations in areas such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, Planning Room, Houston, Texas conflicts of interest and anti-corruption laws, and must maintain any licensing or permitting requirements with respect to their activities. Suppliers are also required to meet the expectations set forth in our Code of Conduct and Hess’ Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see pages 17 and 20). Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure, quality and EHS. Local Content Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production-sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary, but may include use of an approved supplier list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or workers. See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess.com and hess.com/sustainability/how-we-operate/ supply-chain 