SAFETY AND HEALTHEmployee and Contractor 
Safety PerformanceCases per 200,000 HoursSafety is central to Hess’ culture, and our commitment to personal and process safety begins at the top of our organization and is reinforced at every level. We include key safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. We also reinforce the importance of workforce safety practices through annual Chief Executive Officer’s and President’s Awards for Safety Excellence, which recognize Hess teams and individuals that exemplify outstanding and sustainable safety performance.Our safety programs and practices are designed to deliver continuous improvement, with the goal of having everyone across our operations return home safe every day. Each individual employee and contractor is personally responsible for supporting our ultimate goal of zero incidents.PERSONAL SAFETYHess’ safety standards and procedures follow our 14-element Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Management System Manual and guide our workforce on safe practices related to key areas of safety risk such as energy isolation, dropped objects and confined space entry, among many others. Our personal safety programs focus on leadership, awareness, consistency and accountability across all levels of the organization.Our Behavioral Safety Observation Program (BSOP), for example, has helped us to advance our global safety performance and continually drive down personal safety risk and exposure by standardizing the observation programs our assets had in place previously. BSOP is a peer-to-peer observation program through which trained employees and contractors observe workers’ behaviors and provide constructive feedback on safe work practices. Our assets in North Dakota, Ohio and Texas have been implementing BSOP since 2011 with positive results. In 2016 we trained 160 new observers to look for safe and at-risk behaviors at our North Dakota facilities. Best practices identified through the onshore program were codified into an enterprisewide standard, which we have begun implementing in our offshore organization in 2017.Throughout Hess, individuals at each asset are tasked with identifying and mitigating the safety issues most relevant to their operations. For example, members of our workover rig team in North Dakota began a monthly safety focus in 2016 to highlight areas where attention is needed, based on safety data from prior months. Supervisors share safety presentations with their crews on each issue. Similarly, our Land Transportation group publishes weekly safety bulletins on key topics, such as how to handle rapidly changing weather conditions during the harsh North Dakota winters.A focus on road safety is critical to creating a safe work environment for our people and for the communities where we operate. Our Land Transportation Standard outlines the three pillars of land transportation safety at Hess, which are driver training and competency, the use of in-vehicle monitoring systems for company vehicles, and journey management planning. Hess employees are required to take proactive driver training before operating a motor vehicle on company business. Contractors are encouraged to comply with Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, published by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP).After seeing strong improvement in our safety rates in 2015, our enterprisewide performance was mixed in 2016. On the positive side, our total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for employees decreased year-over-year from 0.24 to 0.10, a 58 percent improvement, and we experienced no workforce fatalities among either employees or contractors.At the same time, the TRIR for our workforce – which includes employees and contractors together – reached 0.40, an 11 percent increase from 2015. This increase can be attributed to our contractor-only TRIR, which increased from 0.39 in 2015 to 0.52 in 2016. In addition, our workforce lost time incident rate (LTIR) was 0.13, increasing from 0.08 in 2015. We are working diligently in all regions where Hess operates to bring these rates back in line with our safety goals for 2017.With contractors making up more than 70 percent of our total workforce hours, we recognize the importance of working with companies that align with our safety goals. In fact, despite our contractors’ performance in 2016, our contractor-only TRIR has been steadily improving over time, with an overall reduction of 27 percent since 2012. As discussed later in this section, we are promoting Hess’ strong safety culture with our contractors by implementing our Contractor Management Standard and enhancing the prequalification process for procurement, the onboarding process and ongoing monitoring of safety performance.Although lagging indicators are important, we believe that tracking leading safety indicators – such as near-miss incidents – is an equally important way to improve safety performance. We require that information concerning near-miss incidents be reported companywide into our incident management system. By tracking and reporting near misses we are able to communicate lessons learned and take actions to address at-risk behaviors and observed workplace hazards. Near misses are also an important indicator of potential process safety events (PSEs), which are discussed in the Process Safety section.We have continued to enhance our process for tracking, reporting and investigating incidents, including near misses and PSEs, allowing for improved consistency in how these events are classified and providing us with a higher-quality dataset. Hess’ revised EHS Incident Reporting and Investigation Standard was finalized in 2016 and took effect at the beginning of 2017. This standard provides tools and procedures for classifying incidents and near misses; standardizes notification requirements and action timelines for incidents and near misses; and ensures that an appropriate investigation is conducted based on the severity of each incident. Also as part of the new standard, we have revised our classification system for severe incidents as well as our historical safety dataset. The reclassification of historical safety data allows for apples-to-apples comparisons and trending of our performance. Our severe safety incident rate (previously called our high potential incident or “HiPo” rate) incorporates incidents that have both actual high/severe consequences (i.e., “severe incidents”) and potential high/severe consequences (i.e., “HiPos”).PROCESS SAFETYHess’ process safety programs aim to prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. Our efforts focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment, as follows:. Design integrity – reducing risks in the design and construction of facilities. Technical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining hardware and software barriers. Operational integrity – working within operational design parametersOur design integrity processes, which involve detailed risk analyses, are a key aspect of our major ongoing development projects, including the Stampede Project in the Gulf of Mexico, North Malay Basin Full Field Development in the Gulf of Thailand and the Hawkeye Compressor Station in North Dakota. These projects apply multiple risk assessment and mitigation studies and tools – such as hazard and operability studies; layers-of-protection analyses; bow tie analyses; and failure modes, effects and criticality analyses – throughout the development process.We seek to enhance process safety leadership and increase awareness of process safety with key personnel across the enterprise. Our goal is to minimize the likelihood of process safety events through the effective management of process safety risks by our workforce. Hess’ commitment to continuous improvement in this area was exemplified through several new and ongoing initiatives in 2016.For example, we launched an enterprisewide assessment of our process safety systems. This assessment, which is being conducted by an independent third-party organization, involves reviewing and benchmarking Hess’ process safety organization, leadership, commitment and culture; process safety management system documentation; and process safety performance and metrics. The assessment commenced in 2016 with a review of our enterprise systems and documentation and interviews with leadership and relevant subject matter experts. We expect to complete the assessment in late 2017 following a series of field audits at designated 
Hess locations.Also in 2016 we began a review of mechanical integrity at our assets as part of our ongoing integrity management program. This process has involved a detailed review of the mechanical integrity of wells, pressure equipment, piping, flow lines, injection lines, tanks, vessels and other equipment that is intended to avoid or mitigate a loss of primary containment. All Hess-operated production locations will complete these reviews in 2017. Already, results from these assessments have been used to augment our existing integrity risk management processes.These new initiatives are building on Hess’ ongoing improvement efforts, including actions first identified in 2013 during a series of process safety health checks. The health checks provided a high-level, global assessment of process safety in our production and drilling operations. We completed 93 percent of the identified actions by the end of 2016 and are on target to close the remaining items on schedule by the end of 2017.Another focus for 2016 has been the continued implementation of performance standards for integrity critical equipment (ICE), which acts as a barrier for the occurrence of incidents through isolation, containment, prevention, detection, control, mitigation or emergency preparedness and response. Although we were already conducting regular maintenance of ICE for our production operations, we continued to enhance our program in 2016 by systematically implementing performance standards for individual pieces of equipment. The standards set specific expectations and criteria for inspections and maintenance that help to ensure each barrier is effective and will operate as intended.At the end of 2015, a survey of existing Hess engineering standards and specifications identified 52 additional standards that could be issued to further improve process safety and operations by establishing consistent technical requirements across the enterprise. Utilizing a Lean project plan we completed 26 of these standards in 2016, with the remaining 26 scheduled for completion in 2017.Process safety continues to be a focus at our deepwater assets. Hess currently operates two production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico in the Baldpate and Tubular Bells Fields and has ongoing development activities in the Stampede Field. Risks related to deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, may, under certain circumstances, be greater than those of land-based wells. Offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure and also present unique challenges related to the containment of accidental discharges. Our Gulf of Mexico deepwater assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards.We also continue to enhance our approach to barrier management as part of our continuous effort to improve process safety risk management. After a successful pilot at the Baldpate platform in the Gulf of Mexico in 2016, we have expanded our “barrier thinking” approach to our other offshore assets. Barrier thinking involves understanding the role of barriers in relation to hazards, threats, events and consequences. Our approach uses simple “bow tie” diagrams (see below) to help employees and contractors visualize threats, barriers and consequences. In March 2016 senior Hess leaders worked with “bow tie champions” – individuals implementing the program at our offshore assets – to map our path forward. In June our bow tie guidance document was finalized. By first quarter 2017, barrier thinking was in operation at our Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Equatorial Guinea offshore assets, with implementation planned for our Denmark asset later in 2017 and at Stampede and North Malay Basin as those assets come online.Hess collects information on process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP's Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports.PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS 2014 2015 2016 Tier 1 
PSE Count 20 21 11 Tier 2 
PSE Count 49 43 30 We observed a positive trend in our process safety performance in 2016, which aligns with our goal to continually reduce our number of PSEs. We experienced 11 Tier 1 events in 2016, compared to 21 in 2015. Likewise, we had 30 Tier 2 events in 2016, compared to 43 in 2015.Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are leading process safety indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. We use these KPIs to support continuous improvement at particular facilities or within company systems. For instance, our global drilling and completions function tracks Tier 3 KPIs specific to their operations, such as blowout preventer performance and loss of power events. An example of a Tier 4 KPI is the implementation of performance standard tests for ICE, which was an indicator included in the 2016 annual incentive plan bonus calculation for employees.EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSEAlthough Hess makes a significant effort to prevent incidents, we also diligently prepare to respond effectively to any emergency that may occur. In the event of an incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness and response program is designed to respond to injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to our assets and impacts to the company’s reputation – in that order of priority.The Hess Emergency Preparedness and Response Standard, which every Hess asset is working to fully implement by 2018, establishes a framework through which we can further improve the effective management of emergency preparedness and response across our assets and defines company expectations for preparedness, training, exercises and continuous improvement. Preparedness focuses on our tiered response organization (illustrated below), engagement with officials and communities, emergency facilities and response plans. The training and exercise component defines roles, responsibilities and resources. Continuous improvement is an essential element of the standard by which we incorporate lessons learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness, training and exercises.Our three-tiered emergency response organization is positioned at the asset, regional and global levels. In August 2016 we activated all three tiers for our assets in the Gulf of Mexico in preparation for a tropical weather event that ultimately became Hurricane Hermine. At the Tier 1 level the Emergency Response Team made preparations to provide for the safety of Hess’ offshore platforms, rigs and support vessels. Due to the proximity of the storm to our Tubular Bells asset, we made the decision to shut in production and evacuated personnel 
from the platform.At the Tier 2 level our Incident Management Team (IMT) set the response objectives, which included providing for the safety of response personnel, mitigating risk, assuming the worst-case forecast path and utilizing the checklist in the Hurricane Response Plan. The IMT also tracked weather updates, provided situation status reports and monitored logistical support to meet the objectives. When the Tier 3 level was engaged, the Incident Support Team at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston kept the Hess Executive Committee informed of the situation and stood ready to support the IMT 
as necessary.CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENTBecause contractors comprise nearly 70 percent of our total workforce hours, contractor management has long been a fundamental element of our EHS management system. We use a recognized industry safety database management system to standardize our prequalification processes and contractor data management across multiple sites for most major areas of our operations. This enables us to more clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information more efficiently across Hess operations.In 2016 we finalized and approved our Contractor Management Standard, which strengthened requirements for both current and potential new U.S. contractors to whom the standard applies. Among other changes, we now specifically require compliance with a set of seven basic global requirements for safe work practices that we call the Hess Rules, and we require contractors to submit manhour and safety incident data on an asset – as opposed to companywide – basis.For potential contractors subject to the Contractor Management Standard, we continue to conduct reviews of those who are considered higher risk, either due to the number of exposure hours for the job or the nature of the work they will perform, such as drilling and completions or offshore work. The prequalification process may also include an on-location audit. In addition, new contractors working on Hess-controlled worksites must take part in an enhanced onboarding process.Our contractor management process gives contractors a letter grade based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems as well as fulfillment of insurance requirements. Contractors must earn a satisfactory grade. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade, the asset director or a more senior Hess employee must endorse a safety improvement action plan before that contractor may be approved for procurement. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight.In 2017 we will begin implementation of the Contractor Management Standard and our strengthened management process across our international assets.For the evaluation of marine contractors and vessels, we use our enterprisewide marine assurance framework as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program, a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum. The program helps ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach to assessing conformance with safety and quality standards. Starting in the Fall of 2016 we enhanced this program to include a questionnaire for rating our marine contractors’ performance. The resulting scores will determine whether a performance improvement plan is needed for any marine contractor, which in turn will help us to drive continuous improvement.HEALTH AND WELLNESSHess’ health and wellness strategy includes several elements:. Health risk assessment and planning. Industrial hygiene and control of workplace exposures. Medical emergency management. Management of health in the workplace, fitness for task assessment and health surveillance. Health impact assessment. Health reporting and record management. Public health interface and promotion of good healthOur employee programs include free preventive medical services, international travel vaccinations and flu shots for employees and family members.We also operate a mobile medical surveillance program for employees at our Bakken and Permian assets. Through this initiative, annual medical exams covering employee fitness for duty and exposure programs (e.g., noise, respiratory) are centrally coordinated and tracked. Centralization helps us meet the requirements of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and increases efficiency across our assets.We maintain a random drug and alcohol surveillance program for employees and contractors at our U.S. operations. This effort includes the management of drug testing programs to meet U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard requirements.Hess continually seeks new ways to address any potential health risks that may arise for our workforce. In 2016 we made progress in addressing potential risks associated with manual tank gauging, or the process of opening hatches in crude oil production tanks to measure water and oil levels and density. Due to the generally high vapor pressure of Bakken crude oil, the process of taking these measurements could – if not done appropriately depending on the conditions – expose workers to vapors that are harmful to breathe. Through our partnership with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, we have identified and implemented a number of practices that can decrease exposure during this process. Also, we are investing in truck-mounted Lease Automatic Custody Transfer Units, which should greatly reduce the need for manual tank gauging.At our Houston operational headquarters in 2016 we provided first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external defibrillator training for employees. This training utilized the online Heartsaver training module provided by the American Heart Association (AHA), followed by hands-on testing with our occupational health professionals, who are certified AHA instructors.Workforce Safety Performance*Cases per 200,000 Hours.  Workforce TRIR.  Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)*Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals..  Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR).  Contractor TRIR2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS. Launched enterprisewide assessments of both our process safety management systems and the mechanical integrity of our equipment. Improved our employee total recordable incident rate by 58 percent. Achieved a four-year low in the number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events. Strengthened our process for managing contractors through ongoing implementation of our Contractor Management Standard2017 GOALS. Continue to make improvements in our process safety management system and process safety standards, and complete asset integrity assessments for all Hess-operated production locations. Meet a workforce total recordable incident rate target of 0.34 or below. Meet a severe safety incident rate target of 0.15 or below. Begin the implementation of an enterprisewide tiered environment, health and safety assurance program2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT27SAFETY AND HEALTHAPPLYING BEST PRACTICES TO DRIVE PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENTFor the past several years we have placed a special emphasis on addressing incidents identified as drivers for our overall safety performance, beginning with dropped object incidents. Starting in 2014 we engaged our workforce in a comprehensive education program and standardized the requirements for addressing observed dropped object hazards. Since the program’s inception in 2014, the rate of dropped object incidents that were classified as severe safety incidents has decreased by 29 percent, and our severe safety incident rate has decreased by 39 percent.We capitalized on best practices from the dropped objects campaign by applying the same approach to hand injuries. Hand injuries accounted for about half of personal injuries at Hess’ onshore assets in 2015. In 2016 we launched a hand injury prevention campaign across the company, allowing each asset to tailor improvement actions to their individual needs.An example of one of the approaches taken was at our Bakken asset. The Bakken hand injury prevention initiative was led by two committees – one representing drilling and workover operations and one representing completions and construction. The initiative included leadership engagement and significant workforce participation and training, as well as job safety analyses, job task hazard hunts and monthly communication of program metrics. In June we held a safety stand down to generate discussion about how hand injuries affect Hess operations and individual workers and to find preventative solutions to common risk situations.Hess’ workforce in North Dakota engaged in these efforts and worked diligently to seek new ways to prevent hand injuries. Some contractors, for example, purchased or even invented new tools to keep hands safe on the job. Since undertaking this initiative, hand injuries in the Bakken decreased by 29 percent, exceeding the Bakken team’s goal of 25 percent.28Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota292016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSAFETY AND HEALTHSAMPLE BOW TIE DIAGRAM30LOCAL EFFORTSOnsite Root Cause AnalysisIn late 2016 a 5-pound rod transfer line dropped 85 feet to the floor of a workover rig in the Bakken. No one was injured, but the potential severity of the event prompted Hess and the contractor to investigate it thoroughly to determine the root cause or causes of the problem. A key element of the investigation was when the team went to the rig site and spent four hours reenacting the events that led up to the incident. As a result, the investigation team determined that the standard work instruction (SWI) did not contain several key safety steps. The SWI was subsequently updated – with the assistance of the crew involved in the initial near-miss event – and rolled out to all 17 workover rigs in the fleet. While the onsite reenactment required the rig to be temporarily shut down and production to be impacted, it was critical to identifying and developing action plans to mitigate the cause of the near miss.A Simple Safety SolutionTraditionally, crews installing oil-well pumping units have conducted some aspects of the installation while working beneath a suspended, 7,000-pound steel “walking beam.” Though Hess has not experienced a recordable injury related to this process, the situation was identified last year as having significant potential risks. In response the Hess Completions team developed a low-cost, low-tech solution – resting the walking beam on a pair of sturdy stands, like giant sawhorses, while the installation tasks are completed. This significant safety improvement is now being used at our Bakken asset and will be employed when needed at our Permian asset, in addition to being shared with other companies in our industry.