MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our company’s purpose – to be the world’s most trusted energy partner – guides our strategy and actions to create business and societal value and address global challenges. We are committed to building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. In 2019, we continued to execute our long term strategy that positions Hess to deliver visible and low risk production growth, material cash flow growth and increasing financial returns. As the world battles the COVID-19 pandemic, our top priority is the safety of our workforce and the communities where we operate. A multidisciplinary Hess emergency response team has been overseeing our plans and precautions to reduce the risks of COVID-19 in our work environment. The global pandemic has had a severe impact on near term oil demand, resulting in a sharp decline in oil prices. Our company is in a strong position – with our low cost of supply and high return investments – to manage through the current low price environment and to prosper when oil prices recover. Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating economic prosperity and raising standards of living across the globe, especially as the world responds to the pandemic and begins to recover from its effects. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change. Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development Scenario, in which oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting the world’s growing energy demand through 2040 and beyond. Our company will continue to be guided by the Hess Values and our longstanding commitment to sustainability, which create value for the benefit of all stakeholders and position us to continuously improve business performance. Our Board of Directors is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management to evaluate various risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s environmental, health and safety goals. Our 2019 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices into our strategy and goals. Our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on several key areas, described below. Detailed information on our programs and performance is provided in this report and on our company website at www.hess.com. SAFETY We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote a strong safety culture and continuously improve our performance toward our ultimate goal of zero incidents. In 2019, we saw an increase in our severe and significant safety incident (SSSI) rate early in the year, driven primarily by an increase in contractor incidents. SSSI is a key metric for incidents with the potential to result in severe consequences. To reverse this trend, we conducted root cause analyses and implemented corrective actions that included leadership site visits, safety surveys and safety improvement workshops, ultimately achieving a 33% reduction in our SSSI rate from April to December. We also reemphasized the importance of mitigating high risk activities by issuing an update to the “Hess Rules,” our baseline global requirements for safe work practices. Engaging our contractors, who in 2019 represented more than 70% of our total workforce hours, continues to be a critical part of achieving our safety goals. We enhanced our contractor management practices in early 2020 by formalizing our engagement with contractors considered higher risk based on the scope of their work for Hess or their past EHS performance, to ensure alignment on the standards expected in Hess operations. Another key factor in achieving our ultimate goal of zero incidents is continuous improvement of our process safety management systems, which are an integral part of our business and play a critical role in mitigating risk. In 2019, we continued a multiyear process to standardize our approach to competency assurance and training for safety critical positions across the company. We also progressed the development of three new software systems focused on work authorization, management of change and safety observations – to increase awareness and provide better tools for mitigating safety risks. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires governments, businesses and civil society to work together on cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint in keeping with the findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise. As one of our key strategic actions, our Board of Directors and senior leadership have established 2020 reduction targets for greenhouse gases (GHGs) and flaring. Between 2008 and 2019, we have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions by approximately 60%. In addition, we are contributing to technological and scientific advances designed to reduce, capture and store carbon emissions, including our support of groundbreaking work by the Salk Institute to develop plants with larger root systems that according to the Salk Institute are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere. Our climate change strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board. In addition, we are accounting for the cost of carbon in our business decisions. In 2019, we once again conducted scenario planning using the energy supply and demand scenarios from the International Energy Agency and confirmed the resilience of Hess’ portfolio and inventory of forward investments under the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY For 87 years, our company has been dedicated to treating people with dignity and respect. That is why Social Responsibility is one of our core Hess Values. As society reflects on heartbreaking recent examples of racial injustice and violence in the U.S., Hess leadership expressed our condemnation of all forms of discrimination and reaffirmed our commitment to racial equality, diversity and inclusion. In keeping with our values, we support efforts to address societal inequalities and create opportunity in the communities where we operate with a particular focus on education. For example, in 2019, we extended our support of the LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program for three more years to help at-risk students in Houston’s Greater East End stay in school; Hess has contributed more than $2.1 million to the program over the past three years. In Malaysia, we began support for a new initiative called the MyKasih Foundation “Love My School” Student Bursary Program, which provides financial assistance to underprivileged children. In North Dakota, for the second year in a row, we provided Hess toy trucks to every elementary school in the state together with a science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. In Guyana, we are working with our joint venture partners to build capacity among the local workforce and supplier companies. In 2019, the joint venture invested more than $3 million to support a number of initiatives including the Centre for Local Business Development, which has registered more than 2,000 Guyanese businesses and conducted almost 3,000 training days since its launch in 2017. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance, including our continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided in our activities by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, which we have mapped to issues identified as part of our materiality assessment described in this report. PEOPLE We shape the culture of our workplace by focusing on quality leadership and employee engagement, fostering diversity and inclusion, driving innovation and embracing Lean processes. In 2019, we expanded our Unconscious Bias training to our U.S., Malaysia and Denmark managers, and through our Life at Hess initiative we are further weaving diversity and inclusion into our culture, policies and programs and cultivating a positive and fulfilling experience for all employees. Our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our workforce through a robust program of employee engagement and communications. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE Transparency in reporting is an important part of being a trusted energy partner, which is why we have been publishing a sustainability report since 1997. In late 2019, we moved forward with a planned review and update of our EHS & SR strategy, starting with a materiality assessment. We expect to finalize the strategy update later this year, including setting goals and targets for our material topics post 2020. We will share results in our next sustainability report. In 2019, we continued to be recognized as a leader in our industry for the quality of our environmental, social and governance performance and disclosure. We are proud of the progress made in executing our long term strategy in line with our purpose and values. We thank our employees, communities, customers, business partners and investors for their partnership in building a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for all our stakeholders and the world around us. ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 10.3  311,000  1,197  Years of  Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day  Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent  Reserve Life  Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced  Proved Reserves  Hess Portfolio of Operations PRODUCTION Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Liza Phase 1 development offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. MIDSTREAM Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include a natural gas processing plant, a rail loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota. DEVELOPMENTS Activities are focused on nonoperated developments on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana. EXPLORATION Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests offshore Guyana and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. 2019 Highlights • Our company had another outstanding year offshore Guyana, where Hess has a 30% interest in the Stabroek Block. In 2019, we participated in five major discoveries, bringing total discoveries on the block to 15 as of year end 2019. In January 2020, the estimate of gross discovered recoverable resources for the block was increased to more than 8 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with multibillion barrels of exploration potential remaining. • The Liza Phase 1 development, offshore Guyana, with capacity of 120,000 gross barrels of oil per day, achieved first production in December 2019. • In May 2019, the second phase of the Liza development was sanctioned; it will have a production capacity of 220,000 gross barrels of oil per day and is expected to start production in 2022. • In the Bakken, our transition to plug and perf completions from our previous 60 stage sliding sleeve design delivered a 15% uplift in 180 day cumulative initial production rates and a 5–10% uplift in estimated ultimate recovery per well. At the same time, we reduced our plug and perf drilling and completion costs in 2019 to $6.8 million per well, down from $7.6 million in 2018. • In October 2019, we announced an oil discovery at the Esox-1 well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The well was tied back to the Tubular Bells production facilities and commenced production in February 2020. • In December 2019, Hess achieved first gas on Phase 2 of the North Malay Basin Gas Project safely and on schedule. Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY Hess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. By integrating sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship into our operations and long term strategy, we seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders and business partners, our employees, the local communities and economies where we operate, and society at large. We believe our company is in a strong position – with our low cost of supply and high return investments – to manage through the current low oil price environment and to prosper when oil prices recover. MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY’S GREATEST CHALLENGES Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs, see page 21). Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards across the globe. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy transition to a lower carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry is being called to help address both of these challenges. We have set – and are on track to meet – aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions that are consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement (see page 46). Going forward, we will continue to do our part to limit GHG emissions while supporting sustainable global development and the transition to a lower carbon economy. The following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2019. We generate value through the jobs we create directly as well as those we support indirectly – both in our supply chain and in the broader economy, where the energy we produce is essential to industries across the globe. We extend our high ethical and safety standards throughout our supply chain by requiring suppliers and contractors to abide by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see page 21). • 1,775 Hess employees globally • $594 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.) • 9,135 hours of learning and development provided to employees • $3,700 million in total supplier spend across 3,000 suppliers Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our shareholders. We continue to successfully execute our long term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, focusing only on low cost, high return opportunities, while investing in our people and business. Furthermore, our efforts to lower our costs and our emissions intensity are aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve long term sustainable development (see page 45). • $316 million in dividends paid to investors • 1-year total shareholder return of 19%, first among peers (For peer list, see page 33 of Hess’ 2020 proxy statement.) • 3-year total shareholder return of 27%, second among peers Our community investments are designed to make long lasting, positive impacts on the communities where we operate. We seek to develop the local workforce to enable upward mobility into higher-paying jobs in our industry and supply chain (see pages 19, 24, 25 and 37). • $7.7 million in social investments, with the majority in Texas, North Dakota and Louisiana • $3.1 million by our joint venture in support of the Guyana Centre for Local Business Development • 6,400 hours of volunteering by our employees, with the majority in the U.S. (Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota) • 98% local nationals employed in Denmark, and 89% in Malaysia • 95% of our total supplier spend of $3,700 million is on purchases made within the same country in which we are doing business We contribute value to society at large through the direct economic value we generate, the affordable energy we produce and our commitment to operate responsibly and advance sustainable development (see page 21). • $3,159 million in capital and exploration expenditures • $580 million in royalties and other payments • $461 million in income taxes paid • $380 million in interest expenses • $7.7 million in social investments APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions of Hess’ strategy and 2019 performance regarding material economic, social and environmental issues. Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information and can be found on our website. Additional sustainability and investor information is available at hess.com/investors REPORTING STANDARDS This report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our reporting is also informed by: • the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, which was jointly developed by IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for environmental and social issues), the American Petroleum Institute and the International Oil and Gas Producers Association; • the United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact’s Ten Principles; • key environmental, social and governance ratings and scorecards; • recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures; and • oil and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global Compact reporting indicators is available at hess.com/sustainability/sustainability.reports/gri-index MATERIALITY We determined the content for this report by applying the GRI’s reporting principles; for example, we considered our operations and performance in the wider context of sustainability issues as well as ensured stakeholder inclusiveness and completeness of information. Consistent with the GRI Standards’ materiality guidance, we identified and prioritized new and emerging issues important to our stakeholders. Engagement with our stakeholders – which include employees, suppliers, customers, communities, shareholders, government bodies, nongovernmental organizations, industry peers and academics – enables us to strengthen our license to operate and brings increased focus to our transparency goals. In 2015, we conducted a survey of select industry peers and a subset of priority external stakeholder groups to validate and expand upon our prior materiality assessments. We then supplemented the survey results with desktop research on a larger group of peers and stakeholders by reviewing public reports and websites documenting key issues for our industry, including key topics and disclosures from the GRI’s G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement. This process allowed us to validate that stakeholder expectations are       being addressed. Through that survey, as well as an annual, document-based assessment of key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operational and regulatory risks, we have identified the 10 most material issues for our company: • Regulatory Assurance • Water Management • Transportation Impacts • Emergency Preparedness and Response • Process Safety and Spills • Community Engagement • Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions • Stakeholder Engagement • Transparency in Business Conduct • Human Rights and Security These material issues have informed our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy and helped to define the boundaries of this report. See reporting boundaries for each of these issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach.to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues While we have been validating these issues on an annual basis since 2015, in 2019 we engaged a third-party consultant to help us refresh our materiality assessment and update our EHS & SR strategy. The approach used for the materiality assessment, which was completed in early 2020, is consistent with approaches and guidance provided by leading standards bodies, including the GRI, IPIECA and ISO 26000; it also considers the SASB materiality profile for the oil and gas industry as an additional reference point. For the materiality assessment, we first developed an initial list of potential sustainability topics through desktop research. This research involved reviewing public reports and websites – including those of our oil and gas industry peers and other important stakeholders – that document key issues for our industry. We then validated and prioritized the topics through a stakeholder engagement process, which included a survey and workshop to obtain internal viewpoints and interviews with a sampling of key external stakeholders. Through this exercise, we confirmed that the key issues driving our current EHS & SR strategy are still relevant. We also found that certain issues have been receiving more or less stakeholder emphasis over the past five years. We are currently working to validate the results of the materiality assessment through benchmarking and additional internal workshops. That process will aid in developing an updated EHS & SR strategy, including setting goals and targets for our material topics. We plan to share our plan forward (for post 2020) in next year’s sustainability report. BOUNDARY SETTING Included within the scope of this report are the facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries during calendar year 2019, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. We report GHG emissions on both an operated and equity share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, 2015), as well as IPIECA’s 2016 report Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. Our workforce metrics include data for contractors whose hours we track. See our expanded performance data at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10% of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We also review and adjust targets included as part of our annual incentive plan formula to account for divestitures as needed. In 2017 and 2018, this included restating our targets and associated annual metrics for severe safety and environmental incident rates to account for the Permian, Equatorial Guinea and Utica divestitures. Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change.energy INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE Our internal information systems promote the centralized collection of data from Hess operated and joint venture assets around the world. In order to evaluate accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality assurance/quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and facility-level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding. All currency references in the report are in U.S. dollars. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE This report, including our sustainability data and self-declared GRI “in accordance” status, was assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (see page 62). This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance. In addition to providing assurance in relation to our sustainability report, ERM Certification and Verification Services also conducts a separate verification of the GHG emissions data provided in the report and in our CDP Climate Change response. PROGRESS AND GOALS Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the table below, along with our key accomplishments in 2019 and goals for 2020 and beyond; the goals support select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. In line with our continued commitment to operating sustainably, we have proceeded with a planned review and update of our EHS & SR strategy starting with a materiality assessment in late 2019. We expect to finalize the strategy update later this year, including setting goals and targets for our material topics post 2020. We will share the results in our next sustainability report. DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Complete assurance on the embedded regulatory compliance system, including standard work evaluation and equipment repair root cause analysis; begin pursuing a compliance standard for the enterprise* Regulatory Assurance Continue providing our assets with routine updates and discussions on emerging regulatory risks and changes through the use of existing communication methods and operating rhythms* Conducted a Corporate Audit Department (CAD) Tier I assurance review on the regulatory register and compliance communication tools; began drafting the compliance standard Monitored emerging regulatory risks through participation in a number of industry association working groups (e.g., American Petroleum Institute, IPIECA, etc.) and communicated key information back to our operated and select nonoperated assets Revisit the draft compliance standard as part of the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS) streamlining exercise; continue to 14, 28, 58 conduct Tier II assurance activities on routine, high volume compliance obligations in 2020* Continue providing our assets with routine updates and discussions on emerging regulatory risks and changes through the 17–18 use of existing communication methods and operating rhythms in 2020* Published our 2018 Sustainability Report with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards’ Core “in accordance” option and included Continue to refine our sustainability disclosure in alignment with the Continue to refine our sustainability disclosures disclosures to align with stakeholder recommendations of the Task Force on 6–7, 40 to align with stakeholder expectations in 2020 expectations Climate-Related Financial Disclosures; included Transparency indicators from the Sustainability Accounting in Business Standards Board’s oil and gas industry metrics Conduct in our GRI Content Index Implement a third-party online due diligence system and conduct compliance risk assessment and analysis on select assets  Improve third-party due diligence policy and Completed selection and implementation of enterprise procedures to enhance coverage an enhanced third-party online due diligence and reduce redundancies; improve and 16–17 system; completed a compliance risk assessment diversify the compliance training curriculum and analysis of key exploration assets in 2020  Continue to develop model contracts  Completed six model contracts and made Continue to deepen relationships with strategic  Supply  for key spend areas to enhance risk  significant progress on five others, in areas such suppliers focused on mutual collaboration;  Chain and  management; further evaluate the  as logistics, exploration and technology, and this further revise, create and implement policies 8, 18–19  Contractor  supplier relationship and performance  work is ongoing; engaged face to face with key for supplier relationship management; develop  Management  management processes as part of the  strategic suppliers to set expectations, develop category strategies that consider potential  HOMS initiative  relationships, build trust and influence behaviors emission reductions in 2020 and beyond  Develop a framework for further integrating  Continue expanding Lean deployment  Certified almost 50 employees as ELLs  Lean and innovation into the Hess culture,  across Hess, including development  enterprisewide; existing ELLs continued local  including revamping and expanding the suite of  of new embedded Lean leaders (ELLs)  business improvements and provided coaching  training and coaching tools to include Lean and  in assets and central support functions and further development of those  to other employees and contractors in their work areas; conducted a “Take Work Out 2: Breakout”  innovation, training new embedded Lean and innovation leaders and further improving the  16  already trained; continue to use a  initiative, which resulted in about 200  skills and effectiveness of current ELLs;  structured Lean approach to identify  improvement opportunities, with five  continue to use a structured Lean approach to  “Take Work Out” opportunities  of those selected for implementation  take out unnecessary work and foster creative  thinking and innovation in 2020 and beyond  Management  Systems  Continue progressing the EHS global standards project through 2020  Rolled the EHS global standards into HOMS; continued work on the EHS standards, extending the target for implementation from 2020 to 2021 to allow for HOMS integration  Continue progressing the EHS global standards effort across all assets to meet the 2021 target for full implementation  14  Continue to measure effective EHS & SR strategy implementation through 2020; begin a refresh of the strategy in 2019 through an updated materiality assessment*  Continued tracking individual EHS & SR initiatives through project-specific work plans as part of our business operating rhythm; conducted an updated materiality assessment (completed in January 2020)  Monitor strategic actions from the 2015 EHS & SR strategy through the end of the year; develop an updated EHS & SR strategy, including the next set of strategic initiatives and forward-looking goals, based on the 2019–2020 materiality assessment*  6–11  *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. DISCUSSION  CATEGORY  2019 GOALS  PROGRESS IN 2019  GOALS FOR 2020+  (PAGE #)  Governance and Management Approach  Monitor and assess ongoing social investments to help ensure focus and alignment on areas that overlap with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*  Identified eight SDGs that are most aligned with Hess’ material issues; included this mapping exercise in our 2018 Sustainability Report  Consider avenues for further aligning our social responsibility strategy with applicable SDGs; assess the availability of tools or metrics to measure the impacts of our investments on the SDGs in 2020 and beyond*  21  Institute a semiannual cadence to review  Community  stakeholder outreach and refresh  and  stakeholder mapping; increase focus on  Stakeholder  asset retirement obligations (AROs) in  Engagement  North Dakota in cooperation with  regulators*  Identify communities in areas of operation  Instituted a regular operating rhythm   most severely affected by the COVID-19  with semiannual reviews for stakeholder  pandemic and pursue engagement or  planning; continued to deliver on our  investment opportunities to mitigate  commitment to a sustainable ARO  health and economic impacts; maintain  10, 22–24  program in North Dakota by plugging    the ARO program in North Dakota; identify  40 wells and completing reclamation  opportunities for social investment in  activities on 95 sites  Guyana focused on public health and  education in 2020 and beyond*  Participate in sector-specific and broader Continue to monitor potential human Incorporated human rights risk industry workshops and symposiums on rights risks and conduct risk assessments assessment into Hess’ emerging risks human rights best practices; implement 21–22, 24 if needed based on activity levels in 2019 strategy and planning reviews learnings in operated assets deemed and beyond* as higher risk in 2020 and beyond* Continue to conduct human rights Develop an enterprisewide compliance Social Risk training as needed based on identified No training conducted in 2019 22, 24 training module on human rights in 2020* Management risks in 2019 and beyond* Continue to track the number of employees and contractors completing Continued to monitor contracts to confirm Continue to track implementation human rights training at high-risk assets, inclusion of human rights clauses and 19, 24 of these efforts in 2020 and beyond* as well as the percentage of new alignment with Hess policies contracts with human rights clauses* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. PROGRESS AND GOALS DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Continue to drive progress in critical maintenance compliance by expanding our annual incentive plan metric from safety critical equipment only to include all equipment with performance standards in our work order system* Surpassed our target of 98% inspection  and testing of integrity critical equipment,  Continue reinforcement of critical  with approximately 15,000 critical  maintenance compliance through our  30  performance standard assurance test  annual incentive plan metric in 2020*  work orders completed  Complete implementation of "bow tie"  diagrams at our North Malay Basin    asset and pursue an alternative  Process  barrier management approach at  Safety  our Denmark asset*  and Spills  Implemented a bow tie program at the offshore platform at our North Malay Basin asset and progressed implementation at the floating storage and offloading vessel at that same asset; progressed validation of bow ties within the safety case at our Denmark asset  Continue bow tie program implementation at our North Malay Basin and Denmark assets; commence rollout of the electronic Management of Change system at selected operated assets; continue collaboration with industry groups on a set of process safety fundamentals in 2020*  31  Through 2022, focus competency efforts  Completed audits and consulting  on continued implementation of local  activities per the Board-approved  competency programs and processes at  CAD Tier I audit plan and in line with  our operated assets; beginning in 2022,  the tiered EHS assurance program;  restart efforts to build a standardized  27–28, 30  mapped certain job profiles with  enterprisewide approach to CAL, define  safety critical competencies and began  safety critical job profiles across the  developing the enhanced CAL strategy  enterprise and integrate CAL with HOMS  and our learning management system*  Continue to perform assurance activities according to the 2019 Board-approved CAD Tier I audit plan and in line with our tiered EHS assurance program; continue to develop our enhanced competency assurance and learning (CAL) strategy, with phased implementation slated to begin in 2020* Meet a workforce total recordable incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.28 or below Occupational Health and Safety  Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2018 actual severe and significant safety incident (SSSI) rate  Did not achieve our TRIR target due  to an increase in our contractor TRIR;  pursued several initiatives aimed at improving contractor safety performance,  Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 actual workforce TRIR in 2020  29–30  as discussed further in the Safety and  Health section  Did not achieve our goal, as our 2019 SSSI  rate was slightly above our target of 0.46;  however, took swift action after identifying an upward trend in this rate early in the year and ultimately achieved a 33%  Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 actual SSSI rate in 2020  29–30  reduction in our SSSI rate from April  to December  DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Continue to build high quality leaders by refreshing and formalizing the resources available to them on topics such as inclusion and diversity, innovation, Lean and coaching and feedback training Introduced the Hess Way of Leadership Series to level-set knowledge and capabilities with employee career development, rewards and recognition, policies and practices; formed task forces focused on enhancing our Lean and innovative culture Reinforce the Hess Way of Leadership by providing practical tools, training and guidance; evaluate the flexible working 10, 36–37 arrangements that were employed during the COVID-19 pandemic as part of normal work practice in 2020 Introduce a revised talent philosophy Implemented an improved talent and Employment Refine practices to assure inclusive, high and associated succession planning succession planning process by engaging Practices quality succession planning; leverage technology more broadly, beginning senior leaders in conducting health of 36–37 technology to improve our hiring practices with senior leaders and then cascading discipline talent reviews deeper into in 2020 to other managers the organization Continue focus on removing unconscious Expand diversity (Unconscious Bias) Conducted Unconscious Bias workshops bias from employment practices, training across our locations for all leaders globally including recruiting and talent development, in 2020 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Conducted our second portfolio-specific Disclose the results of our portfolio-carbon asset risk scenario planning specific carbon asset risk scenario Continue to evaluate carbon asset risk exercise, which is now integrated into our Risk planning exercise; incorporate scenario through this annual exercise in 2020 42–45 planning cycle on an annual basis, using Management planning into our regular business and beyond* scenarios from the International Energy planning cycle* Agency’s 2019 World Energy Outlook Continue to invest in additional midstream infrastructure and increase compression capacity; complete construction and commissioning of the joint venture gas plant (Little Missouri Four) operated by Targa Resources Through our subsidiary, Hess Midstream LP, partnered with Targa Resources to build the $200 million Little Missouri Four gas plant, which came online in August 2019, and built out additional gas compression capacity, which will significantly expand our ability to bring more natural gas to market Continue to pursue additional natural gas processing and compression capacity; continue planning for the Tioga Gas Plant turnaround and expansion project in 2020 Continue to make progress toward our 2020 goal to achieve a 25% reduction in Achieve a 25% reduction in GHG greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Reduced our GHG emissions intensity by emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2eStrategy, (i.e., tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 26% compared with our 2014 baseline 46–47 per thousand BOE) by 2020, versus Metrics (CO2e) per thousand barrels of oil (ahead of our 2020 target) our 2014 baseline* and Targets equivalent (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline* On track to achieve ONE Future targets Continue to improve performance through planned flaring reductions, our Continue to make progress against the related to reducing methane emissions, leak detection and repair program and ONE Future sectoral 2025 targets* through ONE Future sectoral targets* the phaseout of high bleed pneumatic controllers in North Dakota Continue to make progress toward our Achieve a 50% reduction in flaring 2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity Reduced flaring intensity by 35% intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) 48–50 (standard cubic feet per BOE) by 50%, compared with our 2014 baseline by 2020, versus our 2014 baseline* versus our 2014 baseline* DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+ (PAGE #) Develop a risk assessment toolbox Completed baseline mapping for offshore Continue to baseline the characteristics for offshore water discharge in 2019; water discharge and finalized a data of emergent contaminants and chemicals 11, 53, 55–56 continue to work toward automated migration plan for the automation of considered “highly toxic” in 2020* data collection in 2019 and beyond* data collection in future years Water Management Conduct water risk assessments for the South Arne and North Malay Basin assets and complete a water risk ranking and resource evaluation (e.g., oil recovery per water use)* Completed a water data mapping exercise at South Arne and initiated one at North Malay Basin (expected to be finalized in 2020); conducted two pilot studies focused on tracking and treating produced water in the Bakken Complete the water data mapping exercise at North Malay Basin and a chemical analysis at South Arne in 2020; participate, through the National Alliance for Water Innovation, in the U.S. 11, 53, 55–56 Department of Energy’s five year program for research and development and mapping of water treatment technologies in 2020 and beyond* Surpassed our target, achieving a 51% Process Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2018 Achieve a 10% reduction from our reduction in our severe and significant Safety actual severe and significant environmental 2019 actual severe and significant 11, 57–58 environmental incident rate, compared and Spills incident rate environmental incident rate in 2020 with 2018 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. Note: Beginning in early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic demanded a significant amount of our resources and attention as well as a shift to a different and more complex working situation for our employees and contractors. As a result of these unanticipated challenges during the year, it is possible that some of our initiatives may change in terms of scope and timing. Our expectations for implementation timelines are therefore based on the information available at the time of publication of this report and may continue to shift depending on public health and market conditions later in the year. HOW WE OPERATE Hess is committed to the highest standards of corporate citizenship. We aim to help meet the world’s growing energy needs in a way that protects the health and safety of our people, safeguards the environment and contributes to the sustainability of the communities where we operate, while also delivering long term value to our shareholders and other stakeholders. The six Hess Values support our purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights Policy, and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Values to define internal expectations for sustainable management and performance at Hess. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section. GOVERNANCE The highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, which has four standing committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the EHS Committee. See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors Board Accountability Hess’ Board is actively engaged in overseeing the company’s sustainability strategy and performance, working alongside senior management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in making strategic decisions, including those related to climate change. Our independent Chairman periodically accompanies our CEO and other members of senior management to meet with investors to solicit shareholder views on various topics, including EHS & SR. (For more information on Board involvement in climate change-related issues, see the Climate Change and Energy section, page 41.) The Board’s Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, and  other financial matters such as tax planning, compliance and reporting for income taxes. It also oversees compliance and risk management. The EHS Committee was originally established in 2013 as a subcommittee of the Audit Committee; in June 2019, the subcommittee was elevated to a fourth standalone committee of the Board, underpinning our commitment to evaluate sustainability risks at the highest level. The EHS Committee leads the Board’s oversight of Hess’ sustainability practices, working with the full Board and senior management so that sustainability risks are taken into account when making strategic decisions. The EHS Committee assists the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS strategies and material risks with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The EHS Committee makes recommendations to the full Board on policies, programs and practices to address such strategies and risks and monitors the company’s compliance with these policies, programs and practices. The EHS Committee also reviews emergency response planning procedures for EHS events and EHS legal and regulatory matters that could affect the company’s business and operations. The EHS Committee met four times in 2019, and each committee member attended at least 75% of the meetings. Our Vice President of EHS met regularly with the EHS Committee and the Chair of the committee in 2019 to prioritize actions on a number of topics, including EHS performance and strategic priorities; enterprise risk management; regulatory matters; environmental, social and governance reporting; climate change strategic actions; and progress against greenhouse gas and flaring targets. Each member of the EHS Committee is independent and qualified under the standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Committee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operations, research and development, and financial expertise. To supplement the expertise of EHS Committee members and the full Board of Directors, Hess brings in outside subject matter experts to brief members on current and developing issues relevant to our business, such as climate change. Board members, together with our executive leadership, have also participated in field visits to Hess operated and nonoperated assets to better understand our key EHS strategies and risks. In 2019, committee members visited our Bakken asset to engage with the Hess workforce and observe how Hess is managing and mitigating EHS risks and to highlight Lean and technology-focused initiatives in the field. HOW WE OPERATE Executive Oversight The company is managed by an Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues and is the highest approval body before the Board. The Executive Committee holds regularly scheduled meetings, and our Chief Operating Officer chairs an operational subcommittee of the Executive Committee that also meets routinely to discuss these and other matters. See information on our approach to sustainable tax policy at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices KEY INITIATIVES We continue to evolve and advance our management systems in a manner that aligns with Hess’ portfolio and organizational structure. As part of this process, in 2018 we reorganized into teams of functional leaders (e.g., EHS, Wells, Human Resources, Supply Chain), which helps us continue to improve oversight and assurance across the company and provide expertise in key functional areas within each asset. The Head of each functional area is responsible for overseeing activities in that area across the company, verifying that relevant standards are applied as appropriate and working with each asset to optimize safety, quality, delivery and cost. The Heads of each function are supported by technical authorities (TAs) – many of whom are embedded directly into our assets. Together, these individuals form the “Heads of” and Technical Authority (HTA) Network, which supports operations across the company. This group meets monthly to support enterprisewide initiatives, promote transparency of activities and optimize synergies across our functions and assets. In 2019, under the leadership of the HTA Network, we completed development of the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS), a single, enterprisewide system that houses and integrates the various standards, procedures and other governance documents in use throughout our operations. HOMS establishes a common operational framework outlining how we aim to address risk management, process safety, environmental responsibility and management of personnel and contractors, as well as the efficient and reliable design and operation of our assets. A HOMS manual supports HOMS implementation and provides direction on how the management system guides and integrates our work across functions and locations. Ultimately, we expect that HOMS will help us to manage risks associated with a changing organization; coordinate technical expertise, standards and processes across the organization; and align asset-level operations with enterprisewide corporate governance documents and business priorities. Ongoing assurance and continuous improvement will continue to be central aspects of how we manage our organization, including through audits and assessments of our implementation of and compliance with HOMS. Key operations and processes will be regularly reviewed based on assessed risk and compliance requirements. In 2020, we are streamlining Hess’ enterprise- and asset-level safety and operational standards, procedures and other governance documents as part of our implementation of HOMS. In support of HOMS, we have continued implementation of EHS standards that formalize enterprisewide expectations and accountabilities for key areas of EHS risk and performance and support a globally consistent approach to operational excellence. Due to the necessary migration of these standards from our prior EHS & SR Management System to HOMS, we have extended the deadline for full implementation of the phase III standards (and any other standard with an approved delay dispensation) from 2020 to 2021. Additional detail can be found at hess.com/ sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES Several key processes in our company help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities. While these processes are focused on our operated assets, it is important to note that we also review potential risks in Hess’ nonoperated assets. We generally prioritize four main objectives for nonoperated assets: making a positive contribution to local communities; influencing project outcomes by focusing on issues with the greatest potential impact; establishing governance structures and project assurance plans; and documenting and internally sharing high-value lessons learned. As these assets represent a significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, we have continued to conduct targeted, high-level reviews of nonoperated activities, including production operations, facilities and designs. Enterprise Risk Management Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our operations. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) program, which includes consideration of EHS & SR risks, provides a framework that enables Hess’ Board of Directors and executive leadership to work together to strengthen the consistency of risk consideration in making business decisions. Our Board VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS of Directors has ultimate oversight over the ERM process and is charged with understanding the key risks affecting the company’s business and how those risks can be managed. Annually, our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s Audit Committee with a comprehensive review of Hess’ enterprise-level risks, the status of the ERM program and risk management strategies utilized under our corporate risk policy. The status of EHS & SR risks and mitigations are also discussed in detail at the Board’s EHS Committee meetings. Periodically, our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and CRO provide an update to the Board on enterprise-level risks, including the relative risks of assets and projects within the portfolio. The CFO and CRO oversee day-to-day implementation of the ERM process, including developing and verifying compliance with relevant policies and standards. Hess’ ERM process is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major capital project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and assess their likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business. Our Risk Management Standard, which applies to all assets and major capital projects, helps to align and integrate risk management across the company. The standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process across our assets, projects and business functions. As part of our ERM process, all assets are required to have a risk assessment in place that is refreshed at least annually. In addition, major capital projects and new development opportunities that go through the value assurance process (described at right) must have risk assessments completed prior to each value assurance stage gate. Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated periodically as part of asset and major project operating rhythm meetings. We also require that functional-level risk assessments be included in each asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility. Climate risks are considered throughout both enterprise and functional risk assessments from the perspective of potential financial, physical, reputational and regulatory impacts. Further discussion of Hess’ approach to managing climate risks can be found in the Climate Change and Energy section. Value Assurance Major investment opportunities are assessed through our value assurance process. This process helps to provide increased objectivity in our investment decisions by including those who are not directly involved with the asset or project in internal reviews. Following this process helps to provide assurance that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high quality input. The value assurance reviews are risk based and focus on economics, subsurface and facility design, safety, environmental and socioeconomic considerations, regulatory HOW WE OPERATE requirements and other technical and nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics, we apply either actual carbon pricing where a regulatory framework for such exists, or a sustained $40 per tonne cost of carbon to the forecasted greenhouse gas emissions from significant new projects. Through our value assurance process (see figure on the previous page) we bring in technical experts from across the company, chosen based on how their skills and experience contribute to the project under review. Including experts from across the organization creates learning opportunities for participants to take back to their respective assets and functions and apply to future assurance processes. The value assurance process is closely aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company. Due Diligence Our due diligence processes help us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities, including those in new geographies. The process also helps the project team mitigate identified risks once a commitment is made to proceed. Ultimately, the process is complementary to our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes. See more detail on these processes at hess. com/sustainability/how-we-operate/key.enterprise-processes Lean For more than a decade, we have been implementing Lean principles across our operations to eliminate waste, improve reliability, drive continuous improvement and create value for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other stakeholders. We have encouraged our leaders to learn fundamental Lean skills and then apply them to business problems. The leaders then coach and develop employees and contractors to generate solutions themselves. The result is our distinctive Lean culture in which continuous improvement comes from the entire workforce – our “army of problem solvers.” In 2019, we conducted a follow up to the prior year’s “Take Work Out” initiative, which helped to reduce unnecessary tasks; the new initiative, called “Breakout,” helped us to identify and address persistent pain points in efficiency that require multifunctional or cross-team efforts to resolve. The initiative resulted in about 200 proposed improvement opportunities. Senior management selected the five opportunities with the greatest potential for positive impact, and those five will be the initial focus of improvement efforts. To support the day-to-day implementation of Lean principles, we use a standard process for selecting, training and developing embedded Lean leaders (ELLs), who, after completing this process, help to train their teams in basic Lean skills, improve processes and eliminate waste in their respective work areas. We certified approximately 50 additional employees as ELLs in 2019, bringing the total number of ELLs to about 200 enterprisewide. ELLs participated in multiple kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshops held across our value stream to provide sustainable improvements to business results for their respective assets or functions. BUSINESS CONDUCT The Hess Code of Conduct outlines the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct and related policies, or applicable laws, may result in disciplinary action, including termination. All of our key compliance policies and procedures are described in our Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures are communicated to and available for all employees globally. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, as well as other processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer updates the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis. To continuously enforce compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations and anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, as well as other enterprise programs and systems. In 2019, our Global Compliance team investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team through the various channels available to our workforce, including our dedicated compliance hotline. In addition, Global Compliance continued to manage the company’s automated approval systems – which are used to review and approve higher risk transactions and relationships with our business partners – including our system for the disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest. Throughout 2019, Global Compliance also continued to work with key functions across the company, including Legal, EHS, Human Resources and the Corporate Audit Department, to review potential issues and implement appropriate remediation plans. Providing employees with effective training on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture  to ensure that employees understand and embody the Values in their daily work. As part of this effort, our Global Compliance team has developed in-depth online trainings on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC Policy and Procedure. Delivered through an enhanced, modular platform that highlights key concepts, the trainings include examples of how employees can translate the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. All employees who are active at the time training is launched, as well as all new employees and certain contracted staff, are required to take these trainings and certify compliance with the Code of Conduct and other applicable policies and procedures. The Global Compliance team conducts audits and ongoing monitoring to help ensure that all employees complete these online trainings. At year end 2019, 98% of active employees had completed the Code of Conduct training, and 99% had completed the ABAC training. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT HessPAC HessPAC serves as the political action committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. employees and acts in full compliance with U.S. federal and state campaign finance and election laws. HessPAC is used to promote the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2019, HessPAC continued in its third full cycle of operation, generated approximately $74,000 in member contributions and distributed $73,500 in political contributions in a bipartisan manner to candidates at the federal level. HessPAC publicly discloses all of its contributions to political candidates, parties and committees. Its federal contributions are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). In 2019, we did not make any state-level contributions from HessPAC, but if we do in the future, these will be publicly available on the appropriate website of each respective state where HessPAC is active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative Offshore Operations, Danish North Sea support for HessPAC. Both direct and indirect corporate political contributions are prohibited by Hess company policy. HessPAC permits political contributions only through voluntary employee-funded PAC contributions. Advocacy Hess regularly communicates with an array of stakeholders in the public policy arena, including legislators and regulators both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives and our External Affairs function engage with legislative and regulatory institutions to offer a unique perspective on energy policy issues, to better understand federal and state requirements applicable to our operations and to mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. Consistent with Hess principles and values, our legislative and regulatory engagement is done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. Hess’ commitment to transparency also means that the company fully complies HOW WE OPERATE with all lobbying reporting requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all amendments made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2019, the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $624,200. This includes fees and expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Hess also complies with any and all relevant state and foreign legal and regulatory requirements concerning direct and indirect lobbying activities and contacts. Hess belongs to a number of trade associations (organized under section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) that include our industry peers and other companies in related sectors. Trade associations provide forums through which companies across the oil and gas industry can develop unified public policy agendas, exchange technical and industry best practices and approach issues relevant to our business with a common voice. Hess requires all trade associations to publicly disclose all expenses related to lobbying activities, as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities accounted for 20% of our total lobbying spend in 2019. In 2019, none of Hess’ membership fees or dues were used by any of our associations for direct or indirect political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for political purposes. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2019 is shown below. We recognize that our positions do not always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these associations, organizations or collaborative working groups. To address concerns related to potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key sustainability issues in this annual report. Hess’ Vice President of External Affairs is responsible for approving and overseeing employee engagement with elected officials or regulators when these employees act as official representatives of the company. This strict internal policy extends to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. This helps to ensure that Hess continues to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remains compliant with all reporting requirements. As part of the regulatory assurance element of our EHS & SR strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. SUPPLY CHAIN In Hess’ day-to-day business operations, we rely on suppliers and contractors to provide key goods and services and perform essential tasks. These companies are critical to our success and our ability to maximize the efficiency of operations while minimizing operational risks. In 2019, we purchased approximately $3.7 billion in commercial goods and services from approximately 3,000 suppliers, whose workhours comprised more than 70% of our total workforce hours. We work collaboratively with our suppliers to improve performance and create shared value. We jointly review processes, procedures and data with many suppliers to help drive the right actions and foster continuous improvement. While this section describes our general approach to engagement with our suppliers, these practices may differ in certain instances, if necessary, to comply with applicable local laws and requirements or if otherwise appropriate. Management Approach We continue to enhance our capabilities to understand the market and strategically manage our suppliers with cross-functional teams that work collaboratively to reach safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. Our Procurement Policy specifies who should participate in the evaluation of tenders, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines • American Petroleum Institute • Extractive Industries • IPIECA Transparency Initiative • Center for Offshore Safety • Oil Gas Denmark • Independent Petroleum • Center for Strategic and • National Petroleum Council Association of America International Studies • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • International Association of Oil • Council on Foreign Relations and Gas Producers and states that employees who violate the Procurement Policy are subject to disciplinary actions. A central goal of our supply chain management system, including our Procurement Policy, is to help ensure that suppliers understand and abide by our high ethical, safety and other performance standards, while helping us avoid unexpected commitments and leverage our spend more effectively. Hess follows a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, potential suppliers – as determined by a risk-based decision matrix – undergo a risk review; an anti-bribery, anti-corruption and legal compliance review; and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews, where appropriate, the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant function within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans, as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to factors such as the number of workhours or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response, among other topics. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. In Malaysia, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on the 14 HOMS elements. Further detail on our EHS-related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section. The companies that supply Hess with goods and services must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest and anti-corruption, and must maintain any applicable licensing or permitting requirements for their activities. Suppliers are also required to meet the expectations set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Hess’ Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights. Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure, EHS and quality of materials and services. Local Content Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under production-sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary by country. In Malaysia, for example, we use an approved vendor list that includes Malaysian-owned companies, and we also require our suppliers to prioritize hiring local staff. Hess’ joint venture in Guyana also seeks to employ local nationals and support local suppliers. Since launching operations in Guyana in 2017, the joint venture has invested $4.4 million in supplier development, technical and vocational education and economic development, much of it with a focus on building local suppliers’ ability to obtain work in the oil and gas sector or broader economy. Through the Centre for Local Business Development, this investment has supported nearly 40 supplier forums and more than 500 business assessments to ascertain the strengths and weaknesses of Guyanese firms; helped register more than 2,000 Guyanese businesses for access to opportunities through the Supplier Registration Portal; and conducted almost 3,000 training days covering procurement, the fundamentals of offshore oil and gas, supply chain management, financial management and human resource management. See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess. com and hess.com/sustainability/how-we.operate/supply-chain 