ENVIRONMENT Our commitment to safeguarding the environment is a key aspect of the Hess Value of Social Responsibility and underpins the way we work every day. We strive for continuous improvement in our environmental impacts, which include water and energy use, air emissions, waste and spills. Across our company, we dedicate significant staff and resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments. We have developed a range of key performance metrics to track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time at both the asset and enterprise levels. Some of these metrics are also factored into our annual incentive plan, to further advance our culture of environmental stewardship. We collaborate with peers, governments and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to help drive environmental performance improvements across our industry. We sponsor and actively participate in the Bakken Production Optimization Program, a research program led by the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) and funded by the North Dakota Industrial Commission that aims to improve Bakken system oil recovery and reduce the environmental footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. In 2019, we continued working with the EERC as part of the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a consortium of oil and gas producers leading and funding research on innovative technologies to detect leaks and other pipeline integrity issues (see page 59). The iPIPE consortium is one of several initiatives we are sponsoring that is designed to help meet North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum’s challenge to achieve zero pipeline spills. Hess is also a member of the Gulf of Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program. The Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GoMA) is a nonprofit, public–private partnership that aims to enhance the ecological and economic health of the Gulf region by encouraging collaboration among government agencies, businesses, education providers and NGOs. GoMA is focused on improving habitat conservation, water quality, natural resource stewardship and land use strategies. In 2019, we supported several GoMA initiatives, including “citizen science” Water Watch programs in Louisiana (in partnership with the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation) and Texas (in partnership with the Galveston Bay Foundation). Through the Water Watch program, high school students and other citizens are sampling Gulf of Mexico water for microplastics. In addition to providing funding, Hess Environment, Health and Safety staff have provided technical expertise. Also in 2019, we initiated a project with the Gulf Offshore Research Institute and the Barataria-Terrebonne National Estuary Program focused on cultivating native plants and grasses to restore the function and habitat of critical Gulf Coast wetlands. We also voluntarily sponsor and participate in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling program, a partnership among oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center that aims to develop science-based solutions to environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters 8 7.7 7 6 5.0 5 3.8 4 3 2 1 0 . Groundwater .  Municipal Water . Surface Water 2019 Freshwater Use by Facility/Business Function Thousand Cubic Meters .  North Dakota Drilling and Completions 4,441 . Tioga Gas Plant 368 . All Other Operations 233 WATER MANAGEMENT The communities and ecosystems in which we operate depend on water to thrive. Water is also important for our onshore operations, where we primarily use it for drilling and completions in our upstream operations and cooling in our midstream gas processing operations. ENVIRONMENT Lifecycle Approach to Well Integrity Maintaining the integrity of our wells – that is, preventing the uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers or between geologic layers within the Earth – is fundamental to protecting the environment, the health and safety of our workforce and the communities in which we operate, and to safeguarding our product. For all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore, we take a lifecycle approach to integrity. In the initial design phase, we identify the appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout the well lifecycle. We establish these barriers during construction and maintain and monitor them through production and maintenance, and then we add new barriers during abandonment. Our global standards for well integrity outline the criteria for installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for WELL DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE barriers to be used through the lifecycle of the well, and they require completion of a detailed well barrier diagram before undertaking activities in the field. An example well barrier diagram is shown below. We use a combination of barriers – such as casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout preventers, cement, packers and bridge plugs – that work together to prevent uncontrolled flow. For example, we use cement in the annular space between the production tubing and the underground formation as a key structural component to protect aquifers. We require a minimum depth of annular cement above and below potential flow zones that meets or exceeds applicable regulations. We also require maintaining multiple and redundant barriers throughout the well lifecycle, and our minimum requirements for the configuration of blowout preventers on drilling rigs meet or exceed applicable regulations. WELL BARRIER DIAGRAM, BAKKEN DRILLING EXAMPLE COMPONENT CONDITIONS OF SATISFACTION Drill pipe safety valve (inside blowout preventer) Drilling blowout preventer (BOP) and choke and kill (C/K) valves  Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation Pressure tested to 250 and 5,000 psi upon installation  Drilling BOP  Drill pipe float valves  Inflow tested while drill pipe is being run in-hole  7-inch casing  Pressure tested to 1,500 psi prior to drilling out of the cement barrier  Wellhead  Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation  WELL BARRIER ELEMENT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA Rotary control device (RCD)  Pressure tested to 250 psi and 70% of working pressure  and RCD spool  upon installation  Wellbore fluid  Continuously monitored fluid system as identified by the drilling fluid program  Annular preventer (APR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation Variable bore ram (VBR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation Deepwater Assets Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify they are working as designed. For example, we pressure-test barriers and well components during construction, after first running computer models to confirm we will not overpressure the component during testing. We run digital well logs to validate correct cement placement between the production tubing and the formation before completing our wells. And, in deepwater offshore wells, we verify cement installation with remotely operated vehicles. We monitor each well’s integrity from initial drilling through plugging and abandonment. Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of well integrity issues; however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous monitoring system. In 2019, we completed a multiyear process of updating and enhancing our well integrity management system, which defines the organizational structure responsible for managing well integrity and the standards, procedures and risk management protocols that support well integrity. The enhanced system is expected to help us better manage integrity risks throughout the well lifecycle and help to ensure these risks are reassessed if material changes to a well’s design or changes to steps in the planned development process are identified or anticipated. We are also improving documentation, data collection and reporting on key performance indicators to measure compliance with these procedures and to enhance the chain of communication as responsibility for the well passes from one Hess team to another. The enhanced management system will help to ensure that each stage of the well lifecycle and associated field activity is supported by technical standards and procedures that specify minimum requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells, along with the elements critical to well integrity, including the barriers that prevent or stop the uncontrolled flow of well fluids. Moving to this structured and holistic approach to well integrity is in line with our commitment to operating safely and delivering value in our diverse global portfolio. See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale operations, at hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-energy Water management has been identified as a material issue for Hess and is a key element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. In 2019, we continued to develop our risk-based, lifecycle approach to managing water, completing a stressed water resource analysis in the Bakken region and sponsoring two pilot studies focused on tracking and treating produced water. See the Shale Energy section online for more detail on our approach to water management in our shale operations: hess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy Our total freshwater use for exploration and production in 2019 increased by 44% over 2018. The largest driver of this increase was our North Dakota drilling and completion operations, which saw a 54% increase in water use compared with the prior year. This increase was due in part to a change in our primary completion strategy; the new strategy improves production but requires more sand proppant, and therefore, more water to move that proppant. Water use also increased due to an increase in drilling activity: We drilled 39 more wells and hydraulically fractured 31 more wells in 2019 than in 2018. In 2020, we plan to continue evaluating completion strategies to maximize product recovery. As our operational profile and practices continue to evolve, we are assessing the best ways to reduce water use impacts across our operations. In North Dakota, for example, our freshwater reduction strategy primarily involves reusing produced water – the nonpotable water that is released from underground formations along with produced oil and natural gas – for production maintenance. During 2019, we increased our reuse of produced water for production maintenance by 57%. The total amount ENVIRONMENT of water we need for our operations and our ability to reuse produced water varies based on the geology of the formation, production levels and changes in hydraulic fracturing technologies, among other factors. We remain committed, throughout our operations, to evaluating ways to reduce our water footprint. Hess participates in industry forums focused on water management, to advance our own performance and contribute to industrywide knowledge sharing and progress. For example, we are active participants in the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. In 2019, this group developed guidelines on how to use water risk tools at the asset level. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 21 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production. In 2020, we will also continue our partnership with the Environmentally Friendly Drilling program to review beneficial uses of produced water in shale energy operations. BIODIVERSITY We are committed to conserving biodiversity and habitats in the places where we operate. We consider the protection of biodiversity in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production and closure at every Hess location around the globe. We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. We use the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments when the classification of species and habitats changes in areas where we operate. As part of our goal to improve biodiversity management at Hess’ global assets, we have developed threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. In addition, we have a standard work instruction for all projects to help ensure we take appropriate steps to protect natural resources across our operations. We monitor the addition of new species to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national endangered and threatened species lists. In addition, we identify locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and, where applicable, develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Also, where appropriate, we adjust drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species. During the 2019 construction season, we conducted 106 projects in the Bakken region that required environmental evaluation. Of the 106 projects, 57 required field studies, and of those 57, 49 required mitigations or adjustments to protect species habitat, wetlands or cultural sites, including to protect the threatened Dakota skipper moth. Hess utilizes third-party software programs, such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with our operations. (See table below, which provides a snapshot of relevant species at the time of publication of this report.) The IUCN updates the Red List species classifications regularly based on new information and improved data from ongoing third-party studies, and we update our species list accordingly. We also identify IUCN protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2019, there were four such areas, all in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area, Fort Union Trading Post National Historic Site, Two Top and Bit Top Mesas and Theodore Roosevelt National Park). CATEGORY  SPECIES (COUNT)  Critically Endangered  23  Endangered  49  Vulnerable  175  Near Threatened  194  We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We also participate in the Endangered Species Working Group of the American Petroleum Institute (API), with the goal of proactively balancing oil and gas development with environmental decision making. We also participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE and share good practices for safeguarding FACILITIES Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea biodiversity and ecosystems. Discharges from our offshore facilities 70include drilling mud, drill cuttings and 70 60 120 Number of Spills Number of Spills Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) WASTE produced water. These waste streams Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) We generate a variety of waste streams, are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir including waste specific to drilling and management, discharged directly to production activities. For each Hess asset, the ocean (when allowed by applicable 50 we manage waste through specific waste 40 80regulations) or transported to shore for management plans designed to comply treatment and disposal or recycling. with all applicable regulatory and Hess In 2019, our offshore facilities discharged 30 60 requirements for that location, as well as to 20 16 40to sea approximately 10,000 tonnes of 13protect human health and the environment. nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, 1710 20These plans, which are developed to which included 3,500 tonnes of 10 6 align with the Hess Waste Management Standard, require the application of our waste minimization principles of “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and Dispose” – with disposal being the least-preferred option. In 2019, we generated approximately 108,000 tonnes of solid waste, nonaqueous base fluid. Offshore produced water discharges to sea totaled an estimated 2 million cubic meters in 2019. Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 6 parts per million volume (PPMV), totaling 16 tonnes of oil discharged. This data reflects a year-on-year decrease in 00 2017 2018 2019 . Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) . Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Hydrocarbon Spills 250 245 60 50 200 50 approximately 98% of which was classified PPMV but a slight increase in tonnes of Volume of Spills (Barrels) as nonhazardous according to applicable oil discharged, due to an increase in the 150 regulations. Our overall waste generation volume of discharged water. volume was higher in 2019 compared with 100 At our South Arne asset, we have 2018 due to a 57% increase in soil disposal significantly reduced the amount of stemming from an increase in asset retirement obligations. We also disposed of approximately 130,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota asset at licensed disposal sites in 2019. These drill cuttings, as well as the discharges from our offshore facilities (discussed in the next section), are not included in our overall waste totals per produced water discharged to sea by instead reinjecting it into our wells to stimulate production. By reinjecting the produced water, we are able to offset our use of seawater and reduce the environmental footprint of our North Sea operations. We steadily increased reinjection volumes of produced water from an estimated 76% in 2014 to 88% 0 . Volume of Spills . Number of Spills Nonhydrocarbon Spills 776 800 45 40700 35581 IPIECA reporting guidance. in 2019. While reinjection is somewhat We have continued our efforts to reduce driven by regulations, we have gone landfilled piping waste by decontaminating beyond what is required, substantially (i.e., removing technologically enhanced reducing our produced water discharges naturally occurring radioactive material or over time. Volume of Spills (Barrels) 600 500 400 300 15 200 10TENORM) and recycling it. In 2019, we SPILL PREVENTION 100 0 recycled 370 tonnes of nonhazardous piping Hess maintains spill preparedness and waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. 2017 2018 2019 response plans and conducts emergency See the Shale Energy section online for response exercises at each of our assets. . Volume of Spills more information on naturally occurring . Number of Spillsradioactive materials (NORM) and TENORM: To support a swift and effective response to hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale.any loss of primary containment (LOPC)energy ENVIRONMENT incident, we maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. Hess’ international oil spill response needs are supported by our partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an industry-funded cooperative. International medical and security incident responses are covered by our agreements with International SOS and Global Guardian. Our domestic needs are supported by the Marine Spill Response Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, the Sakakawea Area Spill Response Cooperative, Tri-State Bird Rescue and Research, and the Wildlife Center of Texas. Hess representatives serve on the board of directors of OSRL and on the executive committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a nonprofit oil spill cooperative that supports the Gulf of Mexico. and regulatory guidance. We also use leading and lagging indicators to monitor LOPC performance, including continuing to tie LOPC performance to our annual incentive plan. In 2019, the number of hydrocarbon spills held flat compared to 2018, while the volume increased slightly. The number of nonhydrocarbon spills increased by 41% and the volume increased by 85% compared with 2018. With regard to the increase in volume of nonhydrocarbon spills, 83% was due to two produced water spills. In 2019, we continued to implement a range of programs focused on spill prevention. To address spills that result from corrosion and integrity issues, for example, we continue to enhance our inspection and surveillance programs, upgrade external corrosion protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, Absolute SO2 emissions in 2019 were essentially flat compared with 2018. Due to increased production, SO2 intensity decreased from 2018 to 2019. Both absolute and normalized VOC emissions increased slightly from 2018 to 2019, although the emissions trend since 2017 has been essentially flat. Absolute VOC emissions increased by 3,000 metric tons from 2018 to 2019; therefore, even with higher production in 2019, normalized VOC emissions increased. This is primarily attributable to an increase in flaring volumes at our Bakken well pads. Air Emissions 121 30000 Emissions Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE) and replace or redesign pipes. We have Our international subsea well control also continued to enhance spill prevention preparedness and response capabilities are 24000 training and spill-related worksite controls, Emissions (Tonnes) supported by the Subsea Well Intervention including expanding the sharing of root Service and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf 18000 cause analysis findings and use of fluidof Mexico, we are members and serve on transfer checklists. In addition, we continuethe executive committee of the Marine Well 12000 to enhance the range of key performanceContainment Company. These organizations indicators we use to track performance 6000provide well capping, containment and internally and increase internal transparency dispersant capabilities as well as equipment and reporting. and personnel mutual aid. 0 2018 2019 We are also active members of the Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, and we contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international assets. We are a member of the API’s Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and Response Subcommittee. We also participate in Area Planning Committee meetings for Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We track LOPC events through our incident reporting system by size and material and report spills following applicable industry AIR EMISSIONS The normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities results in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emission sources, including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions. We observed a decrease in absolute and normalized NOX emissions in 2019, primarily due to less fuel gas consumed at compressor stations. The newer compressor stations that have come online in recent years utilize electric drivers, replacing gas-fired engines. . NOX . NOX Intensity . VOC . VOC Intensity . SO2 . SO2 Intensity REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Strengthening our regulatory assurance program is one of the six components of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance also helps us to ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. As part of our long term compliance strategy, our regulatory team continued the use of a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. assets in 2019. As mentioned in the Climate Change and Energy section, we continued our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program in 2019 across all of our U.S. onshore operations, as a way to achieve emission reductions as part of our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments and to comply with a prior Consent Decree in North Dakota. In our North Dakota production operations, the LDAR program helps to decrease the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections, and our formalized process for assigning work material flows to field personnel helps to increase accountability and the efficiency of any needed repairs. For a detailed description of our LDAR program, visit hess.com/sustainability/ environment We are also continuing a multiyear effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is the evaluation and enhancement of our integrity management systems pertaining to pipelines. Environmental Expenditures Hess received 43 alleged violations for various administrative activities regarding timing on submittals, well status changes and procedural reporting activities. Of the 43 alleged violations, eight resulted in penalties totaling $7,750 during 2019. The majority of our expenditures on environmental fines and penalties in 2019 ($4,750) were the result of small offshore spills. Other expenditures were related to one alleged commingling of recycled oil from U.S. Bureau of Land Management field inspections. Production Operations, North Dakota Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Hess continues our active involvement in the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental Research Center – a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota – and the North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a total of $9 million (a $2.4 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from participating operators) over a period of four years to research and demonstrate emerging technologies that can enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then encourage industrywide adoption of worthy technologies. Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few for additional investment and testing. In 2019, iPIPE members chose to support two technologies. The first is a pipeline coating developed by Direct-C that can act as a sensor and detect leaks. iPIPE will help to fund testing to assess the response of the Direct-C technology under various environmental conditions. The second technology involves low orbiting satellites collecting data that could be used to identify pipeline leaks or other performance issues. This system includes proprietary algorithms and autonomous software to synthesize the massive amounts of data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into simple visualizations and actionable alerts. iPIPE member operators first funded this technology in 2018 and are continuing to support its testing and refinement.