SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Hess, social responsibility (SR) means maintaining the highest standards of corporate citizenship as we work to deliver the energy the world needs – energy that is fundamental to advancing economic progress and improving living standards. SR, which is one of the six Hess Values, is foundational to the culture of our company and to our engagement with the communities where we operate; it includes protecting the health and safety of our workforce, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting positive impact on our communities. Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that provide direct and indirect benefits to the communities where we operate. Our SR activities are designed to generate economic opportunities for our stakeholders, create valued partnerships and maximize value for shareholders. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK We are committed to implementing ethical and responsible business practices in all that we do. Through the Hess Code of Conduct, we have established the business conduct and practices we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including adherence to the highest standards of human rights. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. We collectively call these our Voluntary Commitments. They include: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles    and Rights at Work • The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative The Sustainable Development Goals The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – which was adopted by U.N. Member States in 2015 – provides a shared blueprint for global development. Central to the Agenda is a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set ambitious targets and foster cooperation among governments, civil society and the private sector. As part of our materiality assessment (see page 6–7), we align our material issues with the SDGs to track our greatest impacts and evaluate where our strategic actions and ongoing operations have the most significant potential to promote progress toward the SDGs. The following table summarizes how the SDGs align with our material issues and where discussion of those topics can be found in this report. RELEVANT SDGS HESS MATERIAL ISSUES DISCUSSION (PAGE #) • Human Rights and Security  21–22, 24  SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages  • Process Safety and Spills  30–33, 54–55, 57–58  • Transportation Impacts  29  SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all  • Community and Stakeholder Engagement  24–25  SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and  • Process Safety and Spills  30–31, 54–55, 57–58  sanitation for all  • Water Management  53, 55–56  SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern  • Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  39–51  energy for all  • Regulatory Assurance  58–59  • Transparency in Business Conduct  14–17  SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all  • Community and Stakeholder Engagement  19, 35–36  SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts  • Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  39–51  SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development  • Emergency Preparedness and Response  31–33, 57–58  SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial  • Process Safety and Spills  30–32, 57–58  ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and  • Regulatory Assurance  58–59  halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss  • Water Management  53–56  SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2019, we also endorsed the Equality Act, and in doing so became a member of the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for the Equality Act. The Act, which is still under review in the U.S. Senate, would guarantee explicit, permanent protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people under existing civil rights laws and create a federal standard to treat all employees the same. Hess’ Voluntary Commitments help to provide a foundation for our SR and Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, for example, compels us to demonstrate high standards of ethics and integrity and outlines our commitments to the communities where we operate and to our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy specifically prohibits child labor, forced labor and workplace harassment in our operations; it also covers key issues relating to our supply chain and community engagement. These policies are supported at the local level through training and procedures specific to the needs of our operational locations. Organizational Structure Hess’ External Affairs function serves as an internal coordination body and resource for our assets and project teams as they implement our SR commitments and programs. External Affairs develops governance, reports companywide social performance, provides technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provides assurance across these efforts. The asset and project resources report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset- or project-specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between our central organization and global locations. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As we work to help meet the world’s energy needs, we partner as appropriate 22 with resource owners, communities and stakeholders from across the industry and civil society to develop oil and natural gas resources in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible. We prioritize safety, integrity and transparency and aim to treat all of our stakeholders with respect. We actively pursue dialogue with stakeholders – including local communities, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors – to share our values, vision and goals and to seek feedback. Stakeholder Planning and Engagement Process Our stakeholder planning and engagement process is aligned with and included in the Hess Risk Management Standard. Alignment with this standard helps to establish clear links between our stakeholder identification and engagement activities and the key external issues impacting each asset. We maintain individualized External Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for each of Hess’ operated locations. The individualized EAS Plans involve a five step process (see graphic above right). The first step is understanding the specific risks faced by each asset as identified in the asset-level risk register and “heat maps” and then prioritizing those risks that are most critical to Hess’ license to operate. In the second step, we establish documented internal accountabilities for managing each key issue – including identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an individual from senior management with accountability for the issue) and an Issue Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals responsible for managing the ongoing strategy and engagement to mitigate stakeholder impacts). In step three, each Issue Manager, with support from our External Affairs function, documents the relevant stakeholders, and then in step four outlines the engagement strategies for those stakeholders. The final step is monitoring INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS and tracking the key issues, with updates to the Business Owner and, as required, other senior management at least twice per year. Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders, including the following: • Land Users/Landowners: Residents, landowners, commercial land interests, farmers, ranchers • Resources Users/Rights Holders: Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and users, hunters, fishers, gatherers • Governments: Local, regional and national authorities, national militaries, international governing authorities • Parties with Direct Economic Interests: Investment partners, vendors and suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholders • Parties with External Business Interests: Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiatives • Special Interest Groups: Nongovernmental organizations, religious groups, cause-oriented nonprofits, community groups • Community Services: Police, fire and emergency medical services, health care services, education, human service agencies • Indigenous Groups: Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, indigenous advocacy groups Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities can be found at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility Grievance Mechanisms In the communities where we operate, we do our best to address potential issues early – before they mature into more severe challenges – and we believe that strong and transparent stakeholder relationships help us to do that. Formal grievance mechanisms are an important part of soliciting stakeholder feedback on a company’s operational impacts; they also help companies respond to and act on that feedback through an established process. Hess’ grievance mechanisms help facilitate stronger relationships with communities, landowners and other stakeholders and allow for a more effective response to concerns from the community. We have reached out to community members through forums such as community meetings, town halls and local hearings to share information about our grievance mechanisms and to establish channels of communication. Through one of the grievance mechanisms at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback and complaints (anonymously, if desired) through several access points, including our Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner Solutions team, our North Dakota front desk staff and our Surface Land team. We receive and address concerns relating to employee and contractor performance, behavior and activities toward external stakeholders. We may also receive feedback on environmental, health and safety (EHS) concerns and workplace, procurement and supplier issues. The most commonly raised topics include road conditions, erosion, land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and weed control. In 2019, we received 318 grievances through this process. Engagement with Bakken Stakeholders Leads to Efficiencies Hess’ suppliers and business partners represent one of our key external stakeholder groups. After identifying inefficiencies in the process for contractor safety orientation in the Bakken region, we worked through the North Dakota Petroleum Council (NDPC) and with select stakeholders to create a more streamlined system. Dozens of producers and hundreds of contractor companies operate in the Bakken region in North Dakota, and most contractor companies have been required to attend safety orientations for each producer before they can begin work. In conducting our Bakken contractor orientations, Hess noted that many participants were disengaged, having been through similar orientations already with other producers. In early 2018, at a meeting of the NDPC, Hess proposed a single, shared safety orientation program that all producers would use and that contractor employees would only have to take once. Those trained through such a program would be given a card, similar to a driver’s license, that would identify them as ready to work in the Bakken. The idea was met with significant support, and Hess took the lead in chairing a new NDPC committee to develop the program, which was named One Basin–One Way. Developing the One Basin–One Way safety orientation required deep and long term engagement with a wide array of industry stakeholders. The NDPC committee had 99 members representing 50 different companies – from oil and gas producers to safety training providers to contractor companies (e.g., drilling rig operators, casing crews, welding companies, construction companies and more). At least 4,000 hours of work went into developing the program, which launched in June 2019. As of year end 2019, more than 11,000 workers had earned One Basin–One Way certifications, and over 1,300 contractor companies had registered. Thirteen producer companies are participating to date, and the program has been formally endorsed by the governor of North Dakota. This significant and collaborative engagement effort has resulted in a program that is providing major efficiencies for all involved companies – essentially exporting our Lean philosophy beyond the walls of Hess – and should also bolster safety in the region. When alerted to a potential issue, the our stakeholder engagement process, response team draws employees from described previously.) The response team various disciplines within Hess – such as strives to complete each investigation EHS, drilling, completions, operations, within 14 days of the original report and maintenance, civil construction and human provide a response and/or resolution within resources – that are best able to respond 30 days. As a final step before closing to the concern and reach a resolution. a case, we contact the stakeholder to For example, safety concerns are forwarded confirm the issue has been adequately to Hess’ EHS function; individual worker addressed. Trending data on grievances complaints are handled by Human are reported upward to the Bakken Resources; and business integrity or ethics Leadership Team, composed of key senior complaints are referred to our Code of decision makers for the Bakken asset, as Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. part of our regular operating rhythm. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, Separately, we maintain a grievance we escalate management of the grievance mechanism for landowners and mineral upward in the company as necessary to rights holders associated with the Bakken help resolve the issue. asset. Specifically, we have an Owner We maintain an internal database – the Relations telephone hotline, webpage stakeholder management system (SMS) and email address through which these – to track these grievances from start individuals can ask questions and share to completion. (The SMS also supports concerns and complaints. Our Owner SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Social Investment Spend by Country $ Thousands 2% . U.S. $6,596 . Guyana $930 . Malaysia $133 2019 Social Investment Spend by Type of Investment $ Thousands 2% . Community $4,414 . Education $2,639 . Matching Gifts $417 . Health $119 . Environment $70 Note: These charts include all social investments in 2019, including those associated with joint venture operations. Noncash or “in kind” contributions have been included within the category of the social issue they support. Relations and Owner Support teams manage this system and use the SMS to track open issues and help ensure resolution. In 2019, these teams received and responded to more than 30,000 emails and phone calls, assisting an average of 17 customers per hour. Also in 2019, we worked to integrate these two grievance mechanisms to increase visibility and improve access to both programs. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT When we expand or grow our operations, we work with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities where we operate. When entering a new geography, commissioning a new development or expanding an existing facility, Hess uses strategic planning processes to examine the social, political and reputational environment and identify nontechnical risks and mitigation activities. Where our operations are ongoing, we regularly conduct heat map reviews that take into account new and emerging risks and develop recommended mitigating actions. We address human rights considerations throughout these processes, including during due diligence and social risk identification, mitigation and management. We also have a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that we can utilize locally for training security personnel on human rights issues. Human Rights Everywhere we operate, we work to uphold human rights and treat everyone with dignity and respect. By engaging with stakeholders, we aim to proactively address potential issues and work to prevent human rights-related incidents. Hess’ complex operational environments present opportunities to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. Our business practices are aligned with our SR and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at various phases of our business activities, beginning with due diligence. Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights as well as raising internal awareness of the best practices outlined in our Human Rights Policy. We utilize an online human rights training module for employees that explains the concept and importance of human rights, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING As part of Hess’ commitment to the communities where we operate, we focus on creating local shared value, mutually beneficial relationships and a safe and reliable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets and Houston operational headquarters create, maintain and implement strategic social investment, capacity building and infrastructure improvement programs tailored to each operation and community. We evaluate our programs to confirm a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us meet the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations and projects best aligned with the business and social risks identified through risk assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees. Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in our supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. In 2019, our social investments totaled $7.7 million, with $2.6 million going toward education projects. Local Program Highlights In 2019, Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities. The following are selected highlights. LEAP Program in Houston In 2019, we extended our support of the LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program for three more years to help keep at-risk students in Houston’s Greater East End in school and aspiring toward college or vocational training through reading, summer programs and college- and career-readiness training. Hess has contributed more than $2.1 million to LEAP over the past three years. LA1 Coalition in Louisiana As part of the LA1 Coalition, Hess continued supporting efforts to replace and elevate a section of the LA1 highway near Port Fourchon, Louisiana – a key port for offshore operations in the Gulf of Mexico. The new roadway is expected to improve emergency response capabilities and the hurricane evacuation route. Hess has contributed more than $800,000 to the public–private partnership. JET Apprenticeships in North Dakota Hess continues to fund the Job Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship program, which, for the past two years, has developed local, qualified reliability operators in North Dakota. JET graduates also earn a U.S. Department of Labor credential. Since 2017, 26 apprentices have entered the JET program, 14 have completed the apprenticeship and 11 have transitioned to be Hess employees. Toy Trucks in North Dakota We continued our partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office in 2019, shipping toy trucks and a corresponding science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach to every elementary school in North Dakota. The materials help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic energy and other STEM-related lessons. Education in Malaysia Hess sponsored the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) program again in 2019, bringing 12 ETAs to teach English in public secondary schools in Kelantan, Malaysia. The program reached almost 9,000 students through classroom learning as well as 29 English camps. Hess also began funding a new education program under the MyKasih Foundation “Love My School” Student Bursary Programme, which provides annual scholarships to underprivileged children from the Orang Asli indigenous community. Capacity Building in Guyana In 2019, Hess’ joint venture in Guyana invested more than $3 million to support a number of initiatives, including the Centre for Local Business Development and technical and vocational training for recent graduates. In addition, the joint venture evaluated the potential to fund future capacity development initiatives that would support economic development, health, education and training in Guyana.  SAFETY AND HEALTH The safety of our workforce is Hess’ first priority and one of our core values, embodied within the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. Through our safety programs and practices, we seek to maintain a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job, so that everyone across our operations returns home safe every day. Our commitment to safety begins at the top of our company, and it is our expectation that this commitment be reinforced at every level. For example,    we include key enterprisewide safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. We also conduct leadership site visits and safety observations to engage our organization in safety performance. In 2019, we completed approximately 194,000 site visits and observations, which we track as leading performance indicators. Our annual Global Safety Appreciation Day, hosted last year in November, provides an opportunity for the Hess workforce to stop and reflect on safety issues – including the prevention of severe and significant incidents – and discuss how we can further embed safety into the Hess culture. In 2019, we used the event to reintroduce and update our universal, mandatory safety requirements known as the Hess Rules. The original Rules focused on energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, working at heights, confined space entry, hot work, excavation and trenching, and land transportation. We added two new Rules, addressing dropped objects and safety system bypass procedures, to set clear expectations intended to protect employees and contractors who perform certain activities on Hess operated worksites. In 2019, we again conducted “Go to Gemba” events to engage our workforce in conversations about safety, with a focus on improving pre-job planning and job safety assessment tools and techniques. Gemba means “the real place” in Japanese and, in practice, “Going to Gemba” means having leaders from Hess visit our worksites to better understand safety challenges and reinforce our commitment to “everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe.” When a site’s workforce includes contract workers, managers from our contractor companies will often accompany our leaders on these visits. The 2019 Gemba events took place in January and November, as data from recent years indicated that both months have higher incident rates; therefore these events present key opportunities for reinforcing safety practices. Hess is participating in the development of the American Petroleum Institute’s Onshore Safety Program, drawing on our own experience to support improvement within the oil and gas industry. This effort aims to establish standards for managing activities in U.S. onshore exploration and production operations that have historically high incident rates in the industry. The intent of the program is to raise awareness and improve understanding of best practices and create effective and efficient safety programs that are standardized across onshore upstream operations. After the 2018 refresh of our safety leadership training program, staff from Hess’ asset operations and our central Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) function continued to train frontline leaders on specific Hess expectations and processes to minimize risk and improve safety performance. Through 2019, our North Dakota asset has trained 275 frontline leaders to be safety role models. A senior leader was designated to attend the kickoff session for each class to demonstrate leadership support, set expectations and model the behaviors outlined in the workshop. With a look toward continuous improvement of our leadership training, we’ve been collaborating with the Center for Offshore Safety and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) on a set of process safety fundamentals, and we plan to integrate this into our training in the future. MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Hess, our objective is continuous improvement in safety performance, with the ultimate goal of zero safety incidents. The Hess Operational Management System (HOMS), which is discussed in the How We Operate section, serves as a framework for managing and measuring our safety performance. Over the past several years, we have formalized and standardized many of EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE SAFETY AND HEALTH Local Efforts Around the globe, Hess assets demonstrate their commitment to safety every day, whether by achieving outstanding results or continuously improving their processes. In North Dakota, we deployed a routine task procedure program in 2019 to streamline permitting for routine tasks relating to energy isolation. The aim was to improve control of work and risk management and create efficiencies in pre-job planning for routine and low risk activities. We developed a standardized risk assessment matrix to assess routine tasks and identify which tasks could be risk assessed in advance. By doing the risk assessment at the outset, operators no longer need a permit for each routine task they conduct and thus can focus more attention on higher risk tasks. Specifically, if the task is verified to be low risk, a worker can proceed without a permit. However, if site conditions such as weather, simultaneous operations, changes in process temperatures or pressures warrant, additional site controls, such as following standard work instructions or proceeding through the permit-to-work process, may be required. We are planning additional improvements in 2020 to increase the effectiveness of this program and streamline daily planning. At our North Malay Basin asset, we celebrated several notable safety milestones. Between May 2017 and September 2019, production operations at the asset achieved 1 million workhours with no lost time injuries (LTIs), completing activities such as hookup and commissioning, piping installation, start up, production and planned shutdown. In September 2019, our Tok Bali Supply Base reached four years LTI free, and in November 2019 our Kemaman Supply Base reached seven years LTI free. Both supply bases provide logistics for our North Malay Basin offshore production operations and have rigorous safety programs in place, including monthly safety and health committee meetings, safety walkabouts and hazard hunts on vessels and onshore bases, and contractor engagement and onboarding. These efforts were a driving force behind the asset being awarded the Hess CEO Award for Safety Excellence as well as the Offshore Self-Regulation Excellence Gold Award from the Malaysian Department of Occupational Safety and Health. our EHS practices across the company The HOMS Assurance Procedure through our global EHS standards project. operates in three tiers, as shown in the These safety standards and associated figure on the previous page. At the Tier I procedures address key areas of safety Assurance level, and as an independent risk – such as energy isolation, dropped assurance function within the corporation, objects and confined space entry – the Hess Corporate Audit Department and promote leadership, awareness, (CAD) conducts annual audits following a consistency and accountability across risk-based plan that covers various topics, all levels of the organization. The recent including occupational safety and health; update to the Hess Rules, discussed drilling, completions and production previously, helps to better align the Rules process safety; and management of with our EHS standards. environmental impacts. CAD’s annual plan is reviewed and approved by both the We review conformance with the Audit Committee and the EHS Committeeexternal and internal requirements of Hess’ Board of Directors, while the (e.g., regulations, policies, standards audit results are reported to and reviewed and procedures) related to the various by the EHS Committee.HOMS elements through our HOMS Audit Element and associated Assurance At the Tier II Assurance level, working Procedure. This procedure was developed collaboratively with Hess assets, subject as part of our transition to HOMS in 2019; matter experts and technical authorities it is an update and expansion of our conduct assessments to evaluate previous assurance program and covers conformance with corporate and asset all HOMS assurance activities. EHS standards and procedures, as well as with regulations, and assist the assets in addressing identified improvement opportunities. The Tier III Assurance level constitutes routine self-assessments by assets against corporate EHS standards, corporate and asset-level procedures, and regulations. In 2019, Hess’ CAD conducted Tier I EHS audits and consulting activities in accordance with the Board’s approved plan for the year. Based on asset requests, Hess subject matter experts also completed various Tier II assessments in 2019. At the Tier III level, self-assessments in the form of behavioral safety observations, leadership site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig inspections and other reviews occurred throughout the year. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership for occupational safety by empowering workers and giving them the responsibility to identify and mitigate the safety issues relevant to their operations. For example, our behavioral safety observation program (BSOP) trains workers to conduct peer-to-peer workplace observations in order to identify and track safe and at-risk behaviors. Immediate feedback is given to workers who have been observed, and behavioral trends are analyzed to identify broader opportunities for improvement. Our U.S. onshore assets have had behavioral safety programs in place since 2011, and best practices developed at those assets were codified into Hess’ enterprisewide BSOP Standard in 2017. Since then, we’ve been working to deploy the standard across our assets, and, with implementation at our operated assets in Denmark and Malaysia in 2019, the BSOP Standard has now been deployed enterprisewide. As part of implementation of the standard in Malaysia, we hosted a “train the trainer” session in September 2019, which included teaching Hess workers the basics of behavioral safety, analysis and identification, and conversation skills. BSOP programs promote continuous data collection and collaborative sharing of best practices and safety information across Hess assets. Going forward, we aim to analyze these collected data on an ongoing basis to identify specific actions for continued improvement. Transportation is another key focus of our occupational safety efforts at Hess. We address land, aviation and marine transportation safety through a variety of programs. The Hess Land Transportation Standard has three pillars: driver training and competency, the use of in-vehicle monitoring systems for company owned vehicles, and journey management planning. Hess workers are required to take proactive driver training prior to the first time they operate a motor vehicle on company business, with refresher training required every three years. Our Land Transportation team publishes weekly safety bulletins that address key topics, such as distracted driving, safe parking and safety technology. These bulletins are also provided to many of our contractors. Our key contractors are required to comply with Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, published by the IOGP. Correlated with these efforts, our collisions per million miles traveled declined by 69% from 2016 to 2019. Hess’ Corporate Aviation Safety Management System and HOMS form the basis of our aviation safety program. Our aviation standards and procedures frequently exceed national regulations in our countries of operation, and we regularly conduct aviation contractor safety audits, site visits and readiness reviews to monitor the safe operation of aircraft used to support our operations. While our aviation contractors have experienced no significant Hess-related aviation accidents or injuries in more than 25 years, we continuously work with these contractors to further reduce risk. Through these efforts, over the past five years our aviation contractors have moved more passengers with fewer flights, reducing the number of flights supporting our operations by 35% and overall flying hours by 11%. In 2019, in response to the expanded use of unmanned aerial systems to survey our assets and operations, we increased oversight to proactively validate that safe practices are used and regulations are met. Our approach to marine transportation safety is addressed under the Contractor Management heading later in this section. Key Performance Metrics Our full workforce total recordable incident rate (TRIR) in 2019 was 0.43, which was higher than our 2018 rate of 0.32 and our target of 0.28. The uptick was driven by an increase in our contractor TRIR, as our employee rate dropped by 62% year over year. Our full workforce lost time incident rate increased from 0.08 in 2018 to 0.18 in 2019. Our severe and significant safety incident (SSSI) rate, which incorporates incidents that have the potential to result in severe consequences as well as Tier 2 process safety events and recordable incidents, stood at 0.54 for 2019, slightly above our target rate of 0.46. We experienced no workforce fatalities among either employees or contractors during 2019. In response to incidents throughout the year, our assets conducted root cause analyses and implemented corrective actions across our onshore and offshore operations. Certain of our assets also initiated a series of site visits, safety surveys and safety improvement workshops early in 2019 to engage our employees and contractors in discussions about safety performance and to develop safety improvement plans. We also reemphasized the importance of mitigating high risk activities through our update to the Hess Rules. Ultimately, we were able to achieve a 33% reduction in our SSSI rate from April to December. Employee and Contractor Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours 2017 2018 2019 . Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) .Contractor TRIR Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.43 2017 2018 2019 . Workforce TRIR .Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) *Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals. SAFETY AND HEALTH To improve safety performance, tracking near miss incidents that have the potential to result in severe consequences is as important as tracking incidents that result in an actual consequence. We require that near miss incidents be reported internally and recorded into our incident management system as if an actual consequence had occurred. Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive plan metrics include a target aimed at reducing the rate of severe safety incidents, which includes near miss incidents with potential severe consequences. PROCESS SAFETY The aim of our process safety program is to prevent the unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. We focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact asset integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment. In particular, we address: • Design integrity: reducing risks in the design and construction of facilities • Technical integrity: inspecting, testing and maintaining hardware and software barriers • Operational integrity: working within operational design parameters Our approach to process safety involves identifying, managing and mitigating risks across Hess operations. We do this by raising awareness of risks among our workforce, providing strong safety leadership and maintaining a commitment to continuously improving our process safety procedures, systems and standards. New Software Tools Support Global Safety During 2019, we worked on the development of three new software tools that aim to better manage risks to people, property and the environment. The electronic Permit to Work (ePTW) and electronic Management of Change (eMOC) systems aim to improve consistency across processes, optimize and automate standard work and assure operational and regulatory compliance. Both systems are expected to improve our understanding of risk and support better risk management and decision making, especially during simultaneous operations and emergencies. PTW requirements seek to ensure that risks are mitigated prior to conducting work, personnel are involved in planning the work and conducting a risk assessment, proper authorization is in place for the work to be carried out, the person in charge of an area is aware of the ongoing work, and a formal hand back of the facility or equipment in a safe condition is in place. The ePTW system supports HOMS Element 7, which establishes the design, operational and maintenance requirements for new and existing operations and support activities. ePTW also helps to support several Hess Rules – including energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, working at heights, confined space entry, dropped object prevention and hot work – by improving the process for meeting the Rules’ requirements. The eMOC software aligns with Element 8 of HOMS, which establishes a requirement for effective management of planned or unplanned changes to people, processes and equipment. We began the enterprisewide rollout of both systems in early 2020, and their implementation is ongoing. The third tool, deployed in North Dakota in 2019, is a mobile safety observation program that is helping Hess employees and contractors to capture safety observations at field locations. The software platform enables the recording of safety observations in real time. It includes a standardized methodology for capturing observations and allows      for continuous learning and sharing of best practices. These three software systems have transformed legacy systems into efficient digital processes – giving employees and contractors ready access to the information they need to do their jobs. In 2019, we continued to enhance our process safety systems by building upon the competency assurance and learning (CAL) programs – which define, assess and develop workforce competencies – that were already in place at certain of our assets. We are in the midst of a multiyear process to build a standardized approach to CAL, define safety critical job profiles across the enterprise and integrate CAL with HOMS. (See the How We Operate section for more on HOMS.) Standardization will allow us to have a common CAL program as well as a common CAL electronic management system. In 2019, we mapped certain job profiles with safety critical competencies and began developing an assurance strategy. Another strategy we have pursued to minimize process safety risk is to enhance our integrity management program. Integrity critical equipment (ICE) are barriers and safeguards that prevent or mitigate process safety incidents through detection, isolation, containment, control or emergency preparedness and response within our facilities. We have established ICE performance standards, which set specific requirements and criteria for inspections and tests that help to ensure ICE barriers are effective. In 2019, we again surpassed our target of 98% inspection and testing of ICE, with approximately 15,000 critical performance standard assurance test work orders completed. In 2020, we plan to continue reinforcement of critical maintenance compliance through a pilot of Hess technical authority-led integrity assessments of barrier health. Understanding the role of barriers in relation to hazards, threats, events and consequences – in other words, “barrier thinking” – is a key part of our ongoing process safety efforts. Our Gulf of Mexico employees and contractors continue to use “bow tie” diagrams to help visualize threats, barriers and consequences. Our North Malay Basin asset implemented a bow tie program on its platform in 2019 and is working toward implementation of a similar program on its floating storage and offloading vessel in 2020. In Denmark, we strengthened barrier effectiveness and maintenance in 2019 as part of our effort to obtain third-party validation for the asset’s performance standards, as required by European Union legislation. We are working to validate the existing bow ties in the asset’s safety case, which is a regulatorily required study unique to individual offshore installations that aims to identify and mitigate safety risk. In 2020, our aim is to validate our maintenance management system by conducting a third-party audit of performance tests on selected systems. Key Performance Metrics Hess tracks process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports. Our goal has been to continually reduce our number of process safety events (PSEs). However, we experienced an also diligently prepare to respond effectively increase in our combined Tier 1 and Tier to any emergency that may occur. 2 PSEs over 2018, which was our best 2017  2018  2019  Tier 1 PSE Count  7  3  6  Tier 2 PSE Count  22  10  10  Emergency preparedness and response year to date, with six Tier 1 PSEs in 2019 exercises help us to engage our (compared with three in 2018) and 10 employees and key stakeholders,Tier 2 PSEs (the same as in 2018). We including our contractors, in preparing have investigated all 2019 Tier 1 and for and responding to an incident. Tier 2 incidents and are implementing These exercises range from notification appropriate actions that are expected to drills (in which personnel practice theprevent similar incidents in the future. communication protocols required in case We also track Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are of an emergency) to full-scale equipment leading process safety indicators primarily mobilization exercises. In the event of an designed to monitor risk control systems incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness and process safety barriers at the facility, and response program is designed to asset or enterprise level. Hess uses these respond to actual or threatened injuries KPIs to drive continuous improvement at to people, spills and releases to the particular facilities. For instance, our global environment, damage to our assets and Drilling and Completions team tracks impacts to the company’s reputation – Tier 3 KPIs relating to well control system in that order of priority. performance. An example of a global Preparedness at Hess involves our Production Tier 4 KPI is the execution response organization (illustrated on of required maintenance on ICE, which the next page), engagement with officials was an indicator that was again included and communities, emergency facilitiesin the 2019 annual incentive plan bonus and response plans. We hold trainings calculation for employees. and exercises to define and clarify roles, responsibilities and resources. Continuous EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE improvement is an essential element of our While Hess’ safety programs are designed Emergency Preparedness and Response to help prevent incidents from occurring, we Standard by which we incorporate lessons Planning and Response Regarding the COVID-19 Pandemic In early 2020, an outbreak of a new coronavirus strain became a deadly global pandemic. Our first priority in this crisis has been the safety of our workforce and the communities where we operate. We established an enterprisewide, cross-functional team specifically for COVID-19 and activated response teams for each of our locations in Europe, Asia and the U.S. The objective is to protect health and safety while assuring continued reliable operations. These teams have implemented a variety of health and safety measures in consultation with suppliers and partners based on the most current recommendations by government and public health agencies. This includes enhanced cleaning procedures, health screenings, travel restrictions, extended work schedules at offshore platforms, and social distancing initiatives such as remote working and reducing the number of personnel on worksites wherever possible. We continue to keep our workforce informed about updated guidance from health officials, Hess’ actions, and available benefit resources through internal channels such as emails, the company intranet site, virtual town hall meetings, internal social media posts and supervisor-led small group virtual meetings. We also reached into our communities to help those most vulnerable to the pandemic’s impact, such as lower income families with children at home, medical professionals and first responders and hospitality workers in need. SAFETY AND HEALTH HESS EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATION Incident Support Team HOUSTON Incident Management Team ASSET Emergency Response Team FACILITY learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness planning, training and future exercises. In 2019, we conducted several preparedness trainings and exercises at the local level. In North Dakota, for example, local response teams and Hess employees participated in emergency response plan trainings and equipment deployment drills, including one at the Tioga Rail Terminal, enacting firefighting and spill response tactics. Federal regulators, state law enforcement and local fire services participated in a functional exercise for a catastrophic event at the Tioga Gas Plant. We also conducted equipment deployment drills on Lake Sakakawea, in partnership with county emergency management departments. In the Gulf of Mexico (GOM), we revised and tested the GOM Regional Well Containment Plan through a worst-case discharge scenario functional exercise involving one of the offshore production platforms. Participants included the U.S. Coast Guard, the Hess Incident Management Team and various spill response and well control cooperatives. Separately, the GOM Incident Management Team visited partner oil spill recovery and response organizations to observe and learn more about the use of oil spill recovery equipment and offshore vessel operations. As part of our joint venture with ExxonMobil in Guyana, we participated in an incident command system training involving Guyana response agency stakeholders, with Hess providing delivery assistance. We also participated in a functional exercise simulating hose failure and pump malfunction during an uncontrolled spill, and we tested the notification and communication process between ExxonMobil and Hess. At our Houston operational headquarters, we conducted medical drills to practice and refine our response programs. We also took steps to improve our cyber crisis management plan with a risk analysis and subsequent tabletop exercise to identify areas for improvement. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT Contractors are critical to Hess’ operations, comprising more than 70% of our total workforce hours and performing key tasks in our operations. We use a recognized industry safety database to standardize our prequalification processes across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information efficiently across Hess operations. We also now require that U.S. asset subcontractors register in the database, to provide another layer of visibility into subcontractors and to validate that work done on behalf of Hess meets our EHS expectations. HOMS addresses contractor capabilities and competencies, and, as part of this framework, we have implemented a Contractor Management Standard at our operated assets. The standard includes requirements for both current and potential new contractors to whom the standard applies. For example, the standard requires that we give contractors a letter grade based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade based on EHS criteria, the asset vice president or director must endorse a safety improvement action plan before that contractor may be approved for procurement or provide services on a Hess controlled work location. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight. As an extension of the Contractor Management Standard, we developed a new risk-based contractor engagement procedure in 2019 that requires certain engagement activities based on a contractor’s EHS risk profile. One of the required activities is to perform “bridging” for higher risk, in-scope contractors. The procedure also established a corporatewide bridging philosophy and methodology, which should help bring consistency to the bridging process and associated bridging documents. Once issued, the procedure is anticipated to help prioritize engagement with higher risk contractors and align our contractor management resources accordingly. We audit contractors to verify compliance with applicable Hess EHS requirements; contractor EHS requirements; local, state and federal requirements; and industry standards and best practices. In addition, new contractors working on Hess controlled worksites must take part in an onboarding process. We also work to ensure that our contractors receive safety training along with our employees. In 2019, our North Malay Basin asset held its annual Logistics EHS Week in Tok Bali, Malaysia, to create greater safety awareness among contractors, employees and community members. Eleven logistics contractors participated, including marine, land and aviation transportation companies. Similarly, and as noted at the beginning of this section, we held engagement workshops with contractor partners in North Dakota to discuss safety performance and develop safety improvement plans. Hess’ enterprisewide marine assurance framework, as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program – a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum – form the basis of how we evaluate marine contractors and vessels. The program helps to ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach. Also as part of the program, we rate our marine contractors’ performance and use the resulting scores to determine where improvement plans may be needed. HEALTH AND WELLNESS At Hess, we prioritize the health of our employees and contractors both on and off the job. In key locations – such as Houston and North Dakota – and for eligible employees and their spouses, we offer a comprehensive wellness program that encompasses emotional, social, physical and financial wellbeing. The program includes annual on-site flu vaccines, biometric screenings and health and wellness fairs. Our health and wellness fairs bring local vendors directly to employees and select contractors during business hours and provide many additional options for improving personal health, including meal plans developed by a nutritionist, exercise programs shared by personal trainers and outdoor events to increase physical activity. We also maintain a random drug and alcohol testing program for employees and select contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort includes the management of regulatory drug testing programs required by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Coast Guard. We also continue to evaluate health risks as technologies in drilling and operations evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – to stay abreast of changes to regulations and trending health topics Supply Base Operations, Malaysia and to promote the health of workers. In 2019, NIOSH conducted in-depth, on-site studies at Hess locations on occupational health and industrial hygiene topics, including, for example, taking a comprehensive look at the presence of chemicals in the atmosphere at a worksite from start to finish of a drilling operation. Separately, Hess’ industrial hygienist studied reliability operator job tasks, looking at the use of solvents and common oilfield chemicals in our operations to better understand potential exposures from such use. These types of studies help Hess continue to improve work practices, raise awareness among oilfield workers of potential hazards, and find and promote ways of reducing risks in our operations and throughout the industry. 