Social Responsibility At Hess, we are committed to maintaining  for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender  project teams as they implement our  the highest standards of corporate  and queer people under existing civil  SR commitments and programs. External  citizenship while we help to meet the  rights laws and create a federal standard  Affairs develops governance, reports  world’s energy needs. The Hess Value of  to treat all employees equally.  companywide social performance, provides  Social Responsibility (SR) is built into our company culture and is reflected in the way we conduct business. We live this value by protecting the health and safety of our workforce and safeguarding the environment. We ultimately aim to create long lasting positive benefits wherever we operate, supporting our purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. We are guided in our activities by Hess’ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), our SR and Human Rights Policies, and the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were considered in the development of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK We are committed to implementing ethical and responsible business practices in all that we do. Through the Hess Code of Conduct, we have established the business conduct and practices we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including adherence to the highest standards of SR and human rights. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives, known collectively as our Voluntary Commitments, designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. They include: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The U.N. Global Compact • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Hess’ Voluntary Commitments help to provide a foundation for our SR and Human Rights Policies, which are supported at the local level through training and procedures specific to the needs of our operational locations. We also expect our suppliers and contractors to respect our Voluntary Commitments; Code of Conduct; Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy; SR Policy; and related policies or to adopt equivalent standards and train their employees accordingly. Our SR Policy compels us to demonstrate high standards of ethics and integrity and outlines our commitments to both the communities where we operate and to our workforce. For example, we are committed to conducting environmental and social impact assessments prior to making major investments and minimizing any adverse impact as a result of our operations. Our Human Rights Policy specifically prohibits child labor, forced labor and workplace harassment in our operations. It also covers the rights of Indigenous peoples and key issues relating to security, community engagement and our supply chain. In 2021, in recognition of the evolving SR related responsibilities of companies and our changing portfolio, we began a project to review and update our SR and Human Rights Policies. Organizational Structure Hess’ External Affairs function serves as an internal coordination body and technical resource for our assets and Integrated Stakeholder Engagement Process technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provides assurance across these efforts. The assets and project resources report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset or project specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between our central organization and global locations. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As we work to develop oil and natural gas resources in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible, we engage with a wide range of external stakeholders, as appropriate – from local landowners and governments to community service agencies and Indigenous groups. We actively pursue dialogue with our stakeholders to share our values, vision and goals; seek their feedback; and collaborate on opportunities to make lasting contributions to our host communities, especially in the areas of education and health. Stakeholder Planning and Engagement Process Our stakeholder planning and engagement process is a foundational element of the Hess Risk Management Standard, allowing us to link key external issues impacting each asset to specific stakeholders and adopt appropriate risk mitigations and engagement activities (see graphic below). The first step of this process is understanding the specific risks faced by each asset as identified in the asset level risk register and “heat maps,” as well as identifying external facing issues that are Additionally, Hess is a member of the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for the Equality Act. This legislation, which is under review in the U.S. Congress, would guarantee explicit, permanent protections 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 21 Social Responsibility critical to maintaining Hess’ license to operate. In the second step, we establish documented internal accountabilities for managing each key issue, including identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an individual from senior management with accountability for the issue) and an Issue Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals responsible for managing the ongoing strategy and engagement to mitigate stakeholder impacts). In step three, Issue Managers, with support from our External Affairs function, document the relevant stakeholders, and then, in step four, outline the engagement strategies for those stakeholders. The final step is monitoring and tracking the key issues, with updates to the Business Owner and, as required, other senior management at least twice per year. We maintain individualized External Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for each of Hess’ operated locations, which document the five step engagement process. These EAS Plans were updated in 2021 to identify high priority issues and related mitigation and engagement approaches, where applicable. Hess’ Key External Stakeholders Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders, including the following: • Land Users/Landowners: Residents, landowners, commercial land interests, farmers, ranchers • Resources Users/Rights Holders: Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and users, hunters, fishers • Governments: Local, regional and national authorities; national militaries; international governing authorities • Parties with Direct Economic Interests: Investors, vendors and suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholders • Parties with External Business Interests: Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiatives • Special Interest Groups: Nongovernmental organizations, religious groups, cause oriented nonprofits, community groups • Community Services: Police, fire and emergency medical services; health care services; education; human service agencies • Indigenous Groups: Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, Indigenous advocacy groups Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities can be found at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility/ stakeholder-engagement Grievance Mechanisms In the communities where we operate, we do our best to address potential issues early, before they mature into more severe challenges – and we believe that strong and transparent stakeholder relationships help us to do that. Formal grievance mechanisms are an important part of our commitment to solicit external stakeholder feedback for our company’s operational impacts and help us respond to and act on feedback through an established process. We are committed to addressing all concerns we receive. We have reached out to community members through forums, such as community meetings, town halls and local hearings, to share information about our grievance mechanisms and to establish channels of communication. As an additional step in the process, we survey stakeholders who communicate concerns to assess whether they are satisfied with our response. Through one of the grievance mechanisms at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback and complaints (anonymously, if desired) via several access points, including our Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner Solutions team, our North Dakota front desk staff and our Surface Land team. Our response team then investigates and draws on personnel from various disciplines within Hess – such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources – that are best able to respond to the concern and reach a resolution. For example, safety concerns are Social Responsibility forwarded to our EHS function; individual worker complaints are handled by Human Resources; and business integrity or ethics complaints are referred to our Code of Conduct hotline. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, we escalate management of the grievance upward in the company as necessary to help resolve the issue. The response team strives to complete each investigation within 14 days of the original report and to provide a response and/or resolution within 30 days. Before closing the feedback or complaint, we contact the stakeholder to confirm the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership team, composed of key senior decision makers for the Bakken asset. This approach bolsters accountability and sharing of lessons learned throughout the organization. Our internal database – the stakeholder management system (SMS) – helps us to track grievances from start to closeout. We receive and address concerns related to our operations. Although feedback and complaints can cover any topic related to our operations, including workplace, procurement and supplier issues or EHS concerns, the most commonly raised topics at the Bakken asset include road conditions, erosion, land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and weed control. We also maintain an owner relations telephone hotline, webpage and email address through which landowners and mineral rights owners at our Bakken asset can ask questions and share concerns and complaints. While most of the inquiries through this system are requests or questions related to owner accounts, the system also serves as a separate grievance mechanism for this key stakeholder group. Our Owner Relations and Owner Support teams manage this system and use the SMS to track open inquiries and grievances and to help ensure resolution. In 2021, we received 315 grievances through these processes, 94% of which At the Tioga Gas Plant, Hess Midstream safely and successfully completed a scheduled maintenance turnaround in 2021, which will help to increase processing capacity, maintain a safe and reliable plant and reduce flaring from production operations. The turnaround was completed in 35 days (10 days shorter than planned) and involved more than 650 workers, including 300 who were contracted specifically for the project. Turnarounds of this magnitude have the potential to result in impacts to the community, such as traffic congestion from increased construction activities and inflated short term housing costs from nonlocal workers. To help mitigate these potential impacts before the turnaround commenced, Hess and Hess Midstream developed a comprehensive engagement plan and proactively engaged our local stakeholders – including local residents, businesses and government officials – to explain the project and solicit their feedback. This engagement and planning drew on personnel from various disciplines within Hess, including External Affairs, EHS, infrastructure, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources. The turnaround was originally scheduled to occur in 2020, but we chose to delay all maintenance activities until 2021, in part due to local stakeholders’ concerns related to COVID-19 and our priority to keep our workforce and community safe. To reduce COVID-19 related risks associated with assembling the large number of workers required to complete this project, we implemented strict safety practices for all workers including hygiene protocols, wearing masks, social distancing, completing daily health questionnaires and regular COVID-19 testing for the entire workforce. Once we began to progress the turnaround in 2021, we continued this dialogue with our stakeholders to solicit their input on the effectiveness of the mitigations in place. This involved, for example, our land team regularly meeting with landowners to provide a forum to review any new emerging issues and to spread awareness of our grievance mechanism. have been resolved as of May 2022. We are committed to resolving the remaining 6%, which are primarily grievances that require construction activities and are planned to be completed in the spring or summer when both weather conditions and harvest season make these activities feasible. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT When entering a new geography, commissioning a new development or expanding an existing facility, Hess uses strategic planning processes to examine the social, political and reputational environments; identify nontechnical risks and impacts; and develop mitigations. Where our operations are ongoing, we regularly conduct heat map reviews through our enterprise risk management process that take into account new and emerging nontechnical risks and develop mitigations where appropriate. We identify, mitigate and manage human rights issues during the strategic planning process for new and expanding operations and the regular risk reviews of our ongoing operations. Social Responsibility Human Rights Our Code of Conduct and SR and Human Rights Policies codify our commitment to respect human rights and we uphold this commitment in our operations. By engaging with stakeholders, we aim to proactively address potential issues and work to prevent human rights related incidents. We seek to make positive and lasting contributions in governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights, as well as raising internal awareness of the best practices outlined in our Human Rights Policy. We include a human rights training module as part of our online Code of Conduct training for employees that explains the concept and importance of human rights, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. With the help of an external consultant, we performed a social risk assessment focused on human rights issues for our North Malay Basin (NMB) asset in 2020. The final assessment report, which was completed in 2021, resulted in an overall finding of low risk and identified two opportunities for improvement: enhance our human rights training for NMB employees and appoint a local human rights key point of contact. As part of our EHS & SR strategy, we planned to advance our human rights training program and have begun piloting a module developed through IPIECA with our NMB employees. If successful, we plan to expand it across the enterprise in the future. We have also appointed a local human rights key point of contact. In 2021, we continued to participate in IPIECA’s Social Responsibility and Supply Chain working groups, which aim to advance our industry’s approach to human rights and help to inform Hess’ policies and practices. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING Hess is committed to making a lasting positive impact in the communities where we operate. We aim to achieve this through direct and indirect economic and employment opportunities and social investment, which in 2021 totaled approximately $15.7 million. At the local level, our assets and Houston operational headquarters create, maintain and implement strategic social investment, capacity building and infrastructure improvement programs tailored to each operation and community. We evaluate our programs to confirm a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us meet the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations and projects best aligned with our values as well as the business and the social risks identified through risk assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees. Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek opportunities to have a positive impact on economic inclusion and equity in our supply chain to provide lasting benefit to the communities where we operate. Hess also supports innovative programs and initiatives combating societal issues such as climate change. In 2021, for example, we donated $2 million to the Salk Institute – as part of a $3 million $15.7 Million ˜ Environment ˜ Education ˜ Disaster Relief ˜ Health ˜ Skills & Economic Development ˜ Other* Note: This chart includes all social investments in 2021, including those associated with joint venture operations. Non cash or “in-kind” contributions have been included within the category for the social issue which they support. *Other category includes charitable donations for general community needs and matching gifts. commitment – to establish an endowed Hess Chair in Plant Science as the institute continues its research on developing plants with larger root systems capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere. We also donated $2.5 million in support of the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative in 2021 as part of a multiyear $12.5 million commitment. In 2021, we developed social investment expenditure and reporting guidance to enhance the consistency of tracking our spend, one of our strategic EHS & SR actions. We also drafted a framework to measure the outcomes of our key social investment programs and better assess the alignment of our social investment strategy and programs with the U.N. SDGs. This effort, which is another strategic EHS & SR action, is slated for implementation in 2022. Social Responsibility In 2021, Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities based on community development priorities and involving local stakeholders. The following are selected highlights. Winter Storm Relief in Houston Hess donated $1 million to the 2021 Houston Harris County Winter Storm Relief Fund and $1 million to the Houston Food Bank following the severe winter storm that significantly impacted communities already suffering from the pandemic’s economic effects. We also matched donations made by employees through our matching gift program. Educational Programs and Services in Houston In Houston, Hess announced a $9 million financial commitment over the next three years as part of our Learning for Life Partnership. We are funding educational programs and support services for children in three underserved communities that are part of the Houston mayor’s Complete Communities Initiative. Learning for Life will benefit approximately 22 schools and more than 13,000 children from prekindergarten through high school in Houston’s Third Ward, Magnolia Park-Manchester and Second Ward Complete Communities neighborhoods. Scholarships and Educational Programming through the Jackie Robinson Foundation As part of Hess’ longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, we announced a $1.4 million grant to the Jackie Robinson Foundation (JRF) in 2021. The grant includes $1 million to support the new Jackie Robinson Museum being built in New York City, which will serve as a venue for innovative educational programming and dialogue on critical social issues. The remaining $400,000 will provide four year scholarships and support services to five underrepresented college students as part of the JRF scholarship program. In addition, Hess will provide internship opportunities for JRF Scholars, with a goal of five Hess JRF Scholar internships per year starting in 2022. College Apprenticeships in North Dakota Job Experience Training (JET) is an apprenticeship program developed by Hess in 2017, in collaboration with Bismarck State College, to develop local, qualified reliability operators in North Dakota. Since inception, 31 apprentices have entered the JET program, 17 have completed the apprenticeship and 16 have transitioned to be Hess employees. Given the success of the program, we made an additional investment of $50,000 in 2021. We plan to fund eight new JET apprentices in 2022. STEM Teaching Tools in North Dakota In partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office, Hess provided toy trucks to every public elementary school in North Dakota for the 2021–2022 academic year. We have been shipping these trucks since 2018 as science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) teaching tools that accompany a corresponding STEM curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. The materials provide teachers with ready made plans for STEM educational opportunities and help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic energy and other STEM lessons. Gulf of Mexico Sustainability Programs in Texas and Louisiana Hess continues to work with the Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GOMA) to support the sustainability and health of the Gulf’s aquatic resources, primarily through programs that help to improve water quality and clean up marine waste. In 2021, we supported the GOMA Gulf Star program’s Water Watch and citizen science water quality initiatives for the fourth year in a row with a $50,000 donation. We also sponsored the water bottle refill stations installed in Lafourche Parish schools in southern Louisiana. Food Security in Malaysia Hess continues to support the work of MyKasih Foundation in Malaysia to benefit impoverished families. In 2021, we contributed to its “Love My Neighbourhood” food aid program, and our funding helped approximately 200 households in Kelantan purchase seven months’ worth of essential supplies. Capacity Building in Guyana In 2021, our Stabroek joint venture continued to provide social and economic benefits to the people of Guyana. This included the Greater Guyana Initiative (GGI), a $100 million commitment over 10 years to expand capacity building efforts and promote sustainable economic development in the country. Efforts include programs that partner with local institutions within Guyana’s Technical and Vocational Education and Training sector, the Centre for Local Business Development and the University of Guyana. The GGI will also focus on supporting regional initiatives and capacity development of diverse sectors including health and agriculture. See more detail on these programs at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility Midstream Operations, North Dakota Safety and Health Our commitment to safety is embedded in the Hess Values and our organizational culture. Occupational health and safety, process safety and release prevention, and emergency preparedness and response are among our most important sustainability issues, and we continue to prioritize continuous improvement in these areas through our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy. (See pages 8–9 for our goals and targets through 2025.) Our safety programs and practices aim to maintain a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job. We support this culture by fostering collaboration, communication and accountability through standardized tools, processes and procedures, frequent sharing of performance data and clear performance goals. Hess’ commitment to safety begins at the top of our company, and we work to reinforce it at every level. For example, we include key enterprisewide safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. We also conduct leadership site visits and safety observations to engage our organization in safety performance. Our leadership site visits – known as “Go to Gemba” – focus on Hess leaders visiting our worksites to better understand safety challenges and reinforce our commitment to safety. When a site’s workforce includes contract workers, managers from our contractor companies will often accompany our leaders on these visits. Though the COVID-19 pandemic continued to limit employee travel in 2021, we completed approximately 70,750 visits and observations. Our 13th annual Global Safety Appreciation Day, held virtually in 2021, provided an opportunity for the Hess workforce to reflect on safety. The main topic was process safety, and materials were provided to our office and field locations that emphasized the important role and responsibility each person plays in helping us operate in a safe manner. The event also allowed our leaders to emphasize that no project or deadline is more important than our goal to have everyone, everywhere, return home safe every day. Collaboration with industry groups helps us advance our collective understanding of and approach to managing safety risks. In 2021, we concluded our work with the Center for Offshore Safety (COS) and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) on a set of process safety fundamentals, which we plan to integrate into future training programs. We also supported the American Petroleum Institute’s Onshore Safety Alliance, which officially launched its Onshore Safety Program in 2021 for oil and gas companies to share best practices on personal and process safety. MANAGEMENT APPROACH We utilize the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS) as a framework for managing, measuring and promoting continuous improvement in our safety performance. Over the past several years, we have formalized and standardized many of our environment, health and safety (EHS) global standards, which address key areas of safety risk – such as energy isolation, dropped objects and confined space entry – In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to be a central focus of our occupational safety and emergency response efforts. Our first priority in responding to this crisis has been the safety of our workforce, their families and the communities where we live and operate. Throughout the pandemic, we utilized our emergency response incident command system to support a coordinated response across functions, business units and business partners. Our centralized Incident Support Team (IST) worked to address long term business continuity, evolve COVID-19 safety and health protocols and remote working arrangements, develop communications and provide regular leadership updates. Incident Management Teams (IMTs) at our assets and office locations in the U.S., Europe and Asia supported the IST by focusing on local needs and conducting local stakeholder engagement. We used a range of health and safety measures to help keep our workforce safe and evolved those measures based on guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health authorities and applicable government requirements, in addition to ongoing engagement with medical experts, peers and suppliers, and local communities. Over the course of the pandemic, our safety measures included the use of face masks, social distancing, altered schedules, remote work, and travel and visitor restrictions, as well as vaccination and testing programs. To support our employees in getting vaccinated, we provided paid time off, hosted forums with medical experts and implemented a vaccine helpline, staffed by experts, to answer questions and help with vaccine locations and appointments. Supporting employees’ mental health was an important element of our pandemic response. For example, we expanded access to virtual mental health therapy and launched a dedicated COVID-19 mental health resource center, which remains available to employees. This web based center pulls together information and support tools for key mental health issues brought to the forefront by the pandemic, including unique challenges for working parents without access to in person school and childcare, stress and anxiety management skills, and guidance for managers to support employees facing increased stress and the challenges of remote work. Due to evolving conditions, we have transitioned from a pandemic response to a longer term endemic management plan. In 2021, we stood down the IST and IMTs and formed a Return to Office team, which began implementing site specific plans to facilitate resuming normal operations. We are following a risk based, phased approach to endemic management that incorporates an ongoing review of local criteria, including strain on local health care services and case positivity and transmission rates. Safety and Health and promote leadership, awareness, consistency and accountability across all levels of the organization. As described in the How We Operate section, these standards are now or are in the process of being embedded into HOMS (see pages 14–15). We also maintain a set of Hess Rules to clearly express our universal, mandatory safety requirements to our workforce. We review conformance with the external and internal requirements (e.g., regulations, policies, standards and procedures) related to HOMS through HOMS Element 13: Assurance. Our Assurance Standard was updated in 2021 to address both operated and nonoperated assets. Assurance for operated assets covers a broad range of activities and functions under HOMS. For nonoperated assets, Hess’ assurance activities focus on process safety and major accident event prevention. For further detail on our 2021 assurance activities, see page 15. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership for occupational safety by empowering workers and giving them the responsibility to identify and mitigate the potential safety risk relevant to their operations. Our safety observation program helps us to facilitate this culture of ownership by empowering workers to take an active role in their safety and that of others, and be a part of the solution when issues arise. In 2021, we maintained a formal behavioral observation safety program at our operated assets that trains workers to conduct peer to peer workplace observations in order to identify and track safe and at risk behaviors and provide immediate feedback. We implemented multiple training sessions for employees and contractors across the organization to support effective safety observations, critical conversations and follow up actions. We continue working toward a generative safety culture that emphasizes a worker centered, collaborative approach to safety. In 2021, we surveyed our Bakken workforce to understand the current state of our safety culture and identify opportunities for improvement. We also began to explore how we can enhance our efforts through a human and organizational performance approach to safety that focuses on strengthening our safety performance and culture through learning – not only from incidents, but also from successful events and evaluating what went right. We further enhanced joint leadership and frontline worker safety steering committees that include Hess employees and contractors at our assets. These groups provide a critical link between management and workers on safety issues and underpin our efforts to create a culture that fosters open communication and continuous learning and improvement. The steering committees take a lead role in collecting and analyzing safety observation data, identifying specific corrective actions and addressing impediments to improvement. Through our safety leadership training, we aim to empower frontline leaders to be role models who help set safety expectations. We have trained over 253 frontline leaders in our Bakken asset since this training was initiated three years ago. In 2021, we began expanding this safety leadership training in North Malay Basin with “Train the Trainer” workshops focused on fostering more effective safety conversations. Although full expansion of this training program in North Malay Basin and the Gulf of Mexico was delayed in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue its implementation in 2022. We are in the multiyear process of building a consistent approach to competency assurance and learning (CAL) across our operations and integrating CAL into our HOMS processes (see pages 14–15). In 2021, we completed implementation at our U.S. assets of a competency training management system and established regional regulatory based training requirements at each of our U.S. assets. In 2021, we established an Innovation Task Force to monitor and evaluate emerging technologies and their applicability to Hess’ standard operating practices. For example, we piloted a fatigue management program in North Malay Basin that assessed employees’ and contractors’ readiness prior to commencing work each morning and, based on results, provided them with additional rest time if needed. Safety and Health Transportation Safety Transportation is an important focus of our occupational safety efforts. The Hess Land Transportation Standard is being incorporated into HOMS and has three pillars: driver training and competency, the use of in vehicle monitoring systems for company owned vehicles and journey management planning. We believe this approach has helped us reduce collisions per million miles traveled by 65% from 2016 to 2021. We also reduced time spent driving over the speed limit by 54% from 2018 to 2021, in part due to an enhanced in vehicle speed monitoring system we implemented in 2018. Hess workers are required to take proactive driver training prior to the first time they operate a motor vehicle on company business, with refresher training required every three years. In 2021, we continued to use COVID-19 safety precautions for our in vehicle training program based on the recommendations of medical and occupational health experts. For example, we used dedicated, sanitized vehicles; required mask wearing in vehicles with multiple occupants; and instructed trainers to ride in the back seat to increase social distancing. Our Land Transportation team publishes weekly safety bulletins that address key topics, such as distracted driving, safe parking and safety technology. These bulletins are also provided to many of our contractors. Our key contractors are encouraged to comply with Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, published by the IOGP. We participate in several industry groups to share best practices and further improve our transportation safety. We are active participants in the IOGP Land Transportation subcommittee, which sets industry standards for upstream oil and gas producers, and we adhere to these standards. A Hess representative also serves as a board member of the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety, an employer led collaborative group that works to improve the safety and health of employees, their families and community members where they live and work by preventing traffic accidents. Our Bakken asset is an active member of Vision Zero, a traffic safety organization aiming to reduce collisions in North Dakota that includes participation by law enforcement, the state’s Department of Transportation and Department of Health, and the private sector. Hess is also working with the U.S. government’s National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health on a project to better understand the role of in vehicle monitoring to promote driver safety in the oil and gas industry. The Hess Air Transportation Standard is also being incorporated into HOMS and is supported by the Aviation Guideline, and together they form the basis of our aviation safety program. This program frequently goes beyond national regulations in our countries of operation, and we collaborate with industry organizations to develop industry guidance and recommended practices. We undertake assurance evaluations to confirm the use of safe practices and adherence to regulations across our operations. For example, we conduct routine assurance reviews of our aviation contractors, including safety audits, site visits and readiness reviews, to monitor the safe operation of aircraft used to support our operations. We also conduct assurance on the unmanned aerial systems that are increasingly being used to survey our assets and operations. While our aviation contractors have experienced no significant Hess related aviation accidents or injuries in more than 25 years, we continuously work with these contractors to further reduce risk and increase efficiency and reliability. In 2021, safe operations were maintained for all routine, nonroutine and medevac flights in the face of additional challenges caused by COVID-19 and Gulf of Mexico hurricanes, even with an increase in aviation activity compared with 2020. Safety and Health Incidents per 200,000 Hours 0.6 0.57 0.5 0.46 0.4 0.36 0.32 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.05 0.05 0.0 2019 2020 2021 ˜ Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) ˜ Contractor TRIR Incidents per 200,000 Hours 0.43 0.4 0.35 0.32 0.3 0.2 0.18 0.12 0.09 0.1 0.0 2019 2020 2021 ˜ Workforce TRIR ˜ Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Note: Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar workdays are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Key Performance Metrics In 2021, we achieved a 9% reduction in our workforce total recordable incident rate (TRIR) compared with 2020, just under our goal of a 10% reduction year over year. This reduction was driven by a year over year decrease in our employee TRIR but was offset by a slight increase in our contractor rate – due to one additional contractor safety incident compared with 2020. Our workforce lost time incident rate increased from 0.09 in 2020 to 0.12 in 2021, again due to one additional lost time incident compared with 2020. No employee or contractor fatalities occurred during 2021. In response to incidents throughout the year, our assets conducted root cause analyses and implemented corrective actions across our onshore and offshore operations. We share information on safety incidents and related lessons learned across our operations to help prevent future incidents. Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive plan metrics include a target aimed at reducing the rate of severe and significant safety incidents (SSSIs). In 2021, our SSSI rate was 0.420 – a six year low and a 14% reduction from 2020 – which surpassed our target of 0.423. As part of our SSSI rate, we track near miss incidents that have the potential to result in severe consequences, as well as incidents that result in an actual consequence, including Tier 2 process safety events (PSEs) and recordable incidents. We require that near miss incidents be reported internally and recorded into our incident management system as if an actual consequence had occurred. PROCESS SAFETY The aim of Hess’ process safety program is to prevent the unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. We focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact asset integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment. In particular, we address: • Design integrity: reducing risks in the design and construction of facilities • Technical integrity: inspecting, testing and maintaining hardware and software barriers • Operational integrity: working within operational design parameters Our approach to process safety involves identifying, managing and mitigating risks across Hess operations. We do this by raising awareness of risks among our workforce, providing strong safety leadership and maintaining a commitment to continuously improving our process safety procedures, systems and standards. Over the past several years we have been working to address process safety risk through enhancements to our integrity management program and assessment of barrier health at our assets globally. Our efforts have centered on integrity critical equipment (ICE), which are barriers and safeguards that prevent or mitigate PSEs through detection, isolation, containment, control, or emergency preparedness and response within our facilities. We have established ICE performance standards, which set specific requirements and criteria for inspections and tests to help ensure ICE barriers are effective. We have been increasing the number of ICE inspections, testing and performance standard assurance tests each year. In 2021, we again surpassed our target of 99% inspection and testing of ICE, with approximately 16,000 critical performance standard assurance test work orders completed. We will continue to measure compliance with planned assurance tests and corrective critical maintenance in 2022. We initiated a pilot program to enhance our Tier II Assurance through major accident event barrier health reviews in 2021, beginning with the Baldpate platform in the Gulf of Mexico. We plan to Safety and Health In 2021, we safely and successfully brought two drilling rigs into operation at our Bakken asset and one at our North Malay Basin asset. Onboarding drilling rigs can introduce additional safety risks because it can involve both new equipment and contractors. We address these risks by working with our contractors to plan work activities, conduct worker training and bridge our systems and processes. For the two rigs we brought online in North Dakota, we undertook assurance readiness reviews to confirm all personnel were informed of the process, potential hazards and hazard mitigation processes. We also reaffirmed bridging between our management system and those of our long term, strategic drilling contractors to clarify roles and responsibilities and safety requirements, and thus help ensure alignment. Additionally, we adjusted the time frame to move the rigs to their new locations and adopted additional safety protocols to accommodate hazards associated with both extreme cold temperatures and the COVID-19 pandemic. Thanks in part to our onboarding process and long term supplier relationships, we were able to move, orient and onboard crews, as well as bring the new rigs online, with zero recordable safety incidents. Though the specifics for rig onboarding are different for offshore rigs, we followed a similarly detailed and careful process to prioritize safety when bringing a rig online in North Malay Basin. In addition to conducting our usual preplanning assurance reviews, completing the contractor bridging process and partnering with a long term, strategic contractor, we implemented a new digital onboarding system that provided a streamlined, consistent and more automated avenue for us to track required training and certifications. This helped us confirm that people coming onto the rig – Hess employees, contractors and subcontractors, whether for an extended work rotation or a short term task – met our requirements. Even with the increased complexities caused by COVID-19, we brought this rig online with zero recordable safety incidents. proceed with these assessments globally to cover remaining assets. In 2021, we completed the implementation of “bow tie” diagram use in our Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin offshore assets. Bow tie diagrams help to visualize the relationship between threats, barriers and consequences, which supports our risk assessments. We were recognized in the COS Annual Safety Awards as finalists due to our use of bow ties on the Tubular Bells production hub in the Gulf of Mexico. In Denmark, prior to the sale of our interests in that asset in August 2021, we continued to strengthen barrier effectiveness and maintenance as part of our effort to obtain third party validation for the asset’s performance standards, as required by applicable legislation. Specifically, we worked to validate existing assessments of threats, barriers and consequences for the asset to identify and mitigate safety risk. In 2021, we undertook a third party audit of selected performance tests to further validate the asset’s maintenance management system. We began implementation of an electronic permit to work (ePTW) system at the Tioga Gas Plant in 2020 and continued implementation at Baldpate and Tubular Bells in 2021. The ePTW system strengthens our permit process, which ensures that risks are mitigated prior to conducting work, personnel are involved in planning the work and conducting a risk assessment, proper authorization is in place for the work to be carried out, the person in charge of an area is aware of the ongoing work and a formal handing back of the facility or equipment in a safe condition is in place. We also proceeded with the implementation of an electronic management of change (eMOC) system in 2021. The eMOC system supports the HOMS requirement for effective management of planned or unplanned changes to people, processes and equipment, and improves consistency across our operations in order to improve our risk management and decision making capabilities. Key Performance Metrics Hess tracks process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports. We experienced an increase in the number of Tier 1 PSEs in 2021 – with two incidents in 2021 compared with zero in 2020. On a longer term basis, however, we have reduced the number of Tier 1 PSEs by 60% between 2016 and 2021, based on our current portfolio of operated assets. We have completed investigations and root cause analyses of the Tier 1 PSEs that occurred in 2021 and are implementing appropriate corrective actions to help prevent similar incidents in the future. We also track Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs, which are leading process safety indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control Process Safety Events  2019  2020  2021  Tier 1 PSE Count  6  0  2  Tier 2 PSE Count  10  19  12  Safety and Health systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. Hess uses these KPIs to drive continuous improvement. An example of a global production Tier 4 KPI is the execution of required maintenance on ICE, which was an indicator that was again included in the 2021 annual incentive plan for employees. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Hess’ emergency preparedness and response program is based on Element 9 of HOMS and is designed to respond to actual or potential injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to our assets and impacts to the company’s reputation – in that order of priority. We use a three tiered approach to plan for and respond to emergencies that integrates communication and action from the corporate level in Houston to asset and facility level response teams. This system helps ensure that standards, plans, information and resources work efficiently so that we understand and address the specific needs of the situation at hand. Preparedness at Hess involves our emergency response organization (illustrated below, left), engagement with officials and communities, emergency facilities and response plans. We also maintain relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. For example, international and domestic travel, medical and security incident responses are covered by our agreements with International SOS and Global Guardian. See page 61 for organizations that support our spill response needs. We undertake regular emergency preparedness and response exercises to engage our employees and key stakeholders, including our contractors, in preparing for and responding to an incident. The exercises help to define and clarify roles, responsibilities and resources. They also include notification drills, in which personnel practice the communication protocols required in case of an emergency, and full scale equipment mobilization exercises. We conduct annual training on hurricane emergency response and choose other topics for training and drills using a risk based approach. Continuous improvement is an essential element of our Emergency Preparedness and Response Standard by which we incorporate lessons learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness planning, training and future exercises. We conduct after-action reviews for all drills, exercises and incidents and develop improvement actions that are assigned to individuals with specific due dates and tracked in our internal incident reporting system. In 2021, responding to the COVID-19 pandemic remained a central focus of our emergency response efforts. While continuing to manage our ongoing response, we also began our transition to endemic management. We presented on COVID-19 management using our incident response structure at the Clean Gulf annual conference, allowing us to share our learnings with industry peers. See page 27 for more on our response to COVID-19. Though 2021 was a less active hurricane season than in recent years, we initiated emergency response plans for three named hurricanes or tropical storms, as well as Winter Storm Uri in Texas. We successfully responded to each of these events with zero severe or significant safety incidents. In 2021, we also completed a cybersecurity training exercise that included our Houston based Incident Support Team and Cybersecurity Incident Response Team. The exercise identified areas for improvement in our Cybersecurity Plan and enhanced the familiarity with and ability to effectively use virtual collaboration and other information technology tools to manage an incident. CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT Contractors are critical to Hess, constituting approximately 70% of our total workforce hours and performing key tasks throughout our operations. We continue to enhance engagement with our contractors in safety and other key performance areas. For example, at our operated assets, we include contractor company leaders and frontline workers in our safety steering committees, which underpin our shared responsibility with contractors to create a culture that fosters open communication and continuous learning and improvement. We also included contractors in our 2021 Bakken safety culture survey to understand their views on the current state and performance of our safety programs at that asset. We use a recognized industry safety database to standardize our prequalification processes across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information efficiently. For example, we use this database to track required safety training and certifications that contractors must have to work at our locations. Where appropriate, contractors also participate in Hess sponsored safety training. HOMS Element 6 addresses contractor capabilities and competencies, and, as part of this framework, we have implemented a Contractor Management Standard at our operated assets. We are updating this standard as part of our ongoing HOMS optimization process (see pages 14–15). Key improvements include streamlining and integrating requirements across EHS, Global Supply Chain and operations. For in scope contractors, our current standard includes requirements from initial sourcing to contracting to reviewing the work they do for us. For example, the standard requires that we grade contractors based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade based on EHS criteria, the Hess asset vice president or director must endorse a performance improvement action plan before that contractor can be approved for work or provide services on a Hess work location. If an operational situation such as an emergency requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification Safety and Health In 2021, we completed a significant maintenance turnaround of the Tioga Gas Plant, which required bringing in hundreds of workers in addition to permanent staff. To keep the entire workforce safe we implemented strict COVID-19 safe work practices such as wearing masks, social distancing, completing daily health questionnaires and regular COVID-19 testing for the entire workforce, including testing nonvaccinated workers every three days. The managed protocols resulted in a COVID-19 positivity rate of less than 0.3%, which was significantly below both the local and federal positivity rates at the time. process or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS grade, the Hess asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight. As an extension of the Contractor Management Standard, in 2021, we implemented a new risk based contractor engagement process, which is at various stages of maturity at our assets, that requires certain engagement activities based on a contractor’s EHS risk profile. Where not otherwise required by applicable regulation, one of the required activities of the process is to perform “bridging” for higher risk, in scope contractors using a standard bridging philosophy and methodology that help bring consistency to the exercise and associated documents. Bridging works to align Hess’ expectations with those of our contractors. The contractor engagement process also helps us prioritize engagement with higher risk contractors and focus our contractor management resources accordingly through a range of activities including management system reviews and performance assessments. Our standard contract clauses include contractual obligations for our contractors to have safety requirements and programs that meet Hess’ expectations. We audit contractors through annual management system reviews, desktop reviews and field verification to confirm compliance with contract obligations; applicable Hess EHS requirements; contractor EHS requirements; local, state and federal requirements; and industry standards and best practices. In 2021, desktop reviews were conducted by third parties in place of in person interviews due to the COVID-19 pandemic. HEALTH AND WELLNESS At Hess, we prioritize the health of our employees and contractors both on and off the job. As part of our continuous improvement and HOMS optimization efforts, we are developing an enhanced Industrial Hygiene Procedure covering key occupational health requirements and processes. This procedure focuses on protecting workers from potential workplace health hazards and provides a consistent, efficient approach to health risk management. It includes ongoing workplace health hazard assessments, processes for monitoring exposure risks, requirements for workplace controls and mitigations including personal protective equipment and exposure monitors. To support compliance with government and company required health screenings, we have a dedicated mobile health clinic that enables us to undertake health testing internally and at our U.S. assets. This approach allows for efficiency and standardization and facilitates worker compliance with testing requirements. In key locations, such as Houston and North Dakota, and for eligible employees and their spouses, we offer a comprehensive wellness program that encompasses emotional, social, physical and financial wellbeing. COVID-19 was the central focus of our employee health and wellness efforts in 2021, as it had been in 2020. In addition to the safety protocols in place to protect employees, we provided enhanced mental health and work life balance support (see page 27 for more on our response to COVID-19). Hess Office, Houston, Texas