Environment HessÕ total freshwater use in 2021 to identify any potential impacts to decreased by 17% compared with 2020. groundwater. We also maintain a separate The largest driver of this decrease was groundwater monitoring program for Hess Million Cubic Meters a 20% reduction in freshwater use in MidstreamÕs produced water disposal wells. 5.0 our onshore drilling and completions 5 In 2021, we continued to pursue research operations in the U.S. This decrease was projects to better understand and mitigate 4 largely the result of a planned reduction in potential impacts to water quality. We activity Ð we drilled eight fewer wells and advanced two pilot projects focused on hydraulically fractured 48 fewer wells in produced water management: one testing 2021 than in 2020. new tools to improve the measurement and 1 0 ÷ Groundwater ÷ Municipal Water ÷ Surface Water As our operational profile and practices continue to evolve, we remain committed to reducing the potential for impacts to freshwater resources. A key component of this commitment is to reuse produced water Ð nonpotable water that is released from underground formations along with produced oil and natural gas. Our ability to reuse produced water, however, varies based on the geology of the formation, tracking of produced water collection, reuse and disposal, and the other assessing new approaches to treat and reuse produced water during completions. We also completed a project to evaluate potential microplastics pollution from offshore drilling activities, and we found negligible impacts. We discuss responsible produced water management in more detail online at hess. com/sustainability/environment/shale-energy. 3.0 Million Cubic Meters production levels and changes in hydraulic Release prevention, a central element of our 5% fracturing technologies, among other efforts to protect water quality and one of our key sustainability issues, is discussed on page 61. factors. In our onshore operations in North Dakota, our freshwater reduction strategy primarily involves reusing produced water for production maintenance activities. In 2021, we reused 272,751 cubic meters of produced water to replace fresh water in our operations, a 91% increase from 2020. Water Quality Onshore, our impacts to water quality are primarily related to potential releases Discharges from Offshore Facilities Discharges from our offshore facilities, including drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water, have the potential to impact water quality. These waste streams are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, discharged directly to sea (when allowed by applicable regulations) ÷ North Dakota Drilling and Completions that could occur due to well integrity or transported to shore for treatment and ÷ Tioga Gas Plant issues or spills. Offshore, impacts are disposal or recycling. ÷ All Other Operations related to releases that could occur from In 2021, our offshore facilities discharged well integrity failures, other oil spills or to sea approximately 200 tonnes of produced water discharges. We have nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, implemented rigorous management which included 47 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid. Produced water discharges to sea 18 140 practices to help prevent and mitigate Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV)potential impacts on water quality, 120 100 80 60 40 totaled an estimated 1.1 million cubic meters including continuously improving our approach to well integrity and to in 2021, with an average oil content of 28 parts per m illion volume (PPMV) for a total manag ing produced water, our pri source of wastewater. mary of 7 tonnes of oil discharged. While the oil concentration of these discharges increased In North Dakota, our operations are covered year over year, tonnes of oil discharged by the Department of Environmental decreased by approximately 20%. All of 20 QualityÕs routine review of groundwater these discharges were in compliance with 0 quality monitoring wells, which is intended applicable regulations. 0 2019 2020 2021 Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Environment SPILL PREVENTION We also use leading and lagging indicators The prevention of releases is one of HessÕ to monitor LOPC performance and most important sustainability issues. We continue to include LOPC performance in 158 35our annual incentive plan. 160maintain spill preparedness and response plans and conduct emergency response 140 30 25 In 2021, the number of hydrocarbon exercises at each of our assets. To support Volume of Spills (Barrels)120 100 80 60 spills we experienced decreased by a swift and effective response to any loss of Number of Spills Number of Spills 40% compared with 2020, but the primary containment (LOPC) incident, we 20 15 10 volume increased by 46%. The number maintain strong relationships with mutual of nonhydrocarbon spills decreased aid and emergency response organizations by 28% compared with 2020, and the at the local, regional and global levels. volume decreased by 76%. We recovered 40 5HessÕ international oil spill response needs approximately 77% of the hydrocarbon 20 are supported by our partnership with Oil spilled and approximately 54% of the 0 0 Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an industry nonhydrocarbon spilled during initial funded cooperative. Our domestic needs cleanup. Additional long term remediation for oil spill response are supported by activities were or are in the process of the Marine Spill Response Corporation, being implemented at the affected sites Clean Gulf Associates, the Sakakawea where appropriate. Area Spill Response Cooperative, Tri-State We continued to implement a range of 900 35Bird Rescue and Research, and the Wildlife 787programs focused on spill prevention 800 671 Center of Texas. Hess representatives serve 30 25 in 2021. To address spills that result on the board of directors of OSRL and on the 700 600Volume of Spills (Barrels)from corrosion and integrity issues, we technical operations committee of Clean Gulf continued to enhance our inspection and Associates, a nonprofit oil spill cooperative 18 20500surveillance programs. For example, in that supports the Gulf of Mexico. 400 300 the Bakken we continued to implement 15 Our international subsea well control enhanced, real time, remote monitoring 10 preparedness and response capabilities are supported by Wild Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are members of and serve on the executive committee of the Marine Well Containment Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant capabilities, as well as equipment and personnel mutual aid. We contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international assets. We are also a member of the Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and Response Subcommittee of the American Petroleum Institute (API). In addition, we participate in Area Planning Committee meetings for Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). We track LOPC events through our incident reporting system by size and material, and we report spills in accordance with applicable industry and regulatory guidance. systems for equipment, including integrity critical equipment, that track alignment with applicable operating parameters to help us identify and prioritize maintenance planning and response. We continued mitigation efforts to protect pipeline equipment from residual fracturing proppants that can impact reliability and integrity. In addition, we continued to enhance the range of key performance indicators (KPIs) we use to track performance internally and increase internal transparency and reporting. We are also continuing a multiyear effort through the APIÕs Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. In 2021, we completed a review of our current pipeline safety systems against API 1173 to identify improvement opportunities. We formed a steering committee to drive our implementation of identified opportunities, and we developed a series of KPIs that will be used to track our progress. 200  160  100  5  0   0  . Volume of Spills  Number of Spills  LIFECYCLE APPROACH TO WELL INTEGRITY Maintaining the integrity of our wells Ð that is, preventing the uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers Ð is fundamental to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our workforce and the communities where we operate. Environment We take a lifecycle approach to integrity for all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore. We identify the appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout the well lifecycle during the initial design phase. We establish these barriers during construction, maintain and monitor them through production and add new barriers during abandonment, as needed. At any point during the well lifecycle, if a barrier is compromised, we will repair or replace it so that we maintain two barriers at all times. HessÕ enhanced well integrity management system, which is being integrated into HOMS, defines our organizational structure for managing well integrity across the enterprise and provides a framework of technical standards and procedures for each stage of the well lifecycle and associated field activity. Our global standards for well integrity specify requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells and identifying and assessing elements critical to well integrity, such as barriers designed to prevent or stop the uncontrolled flow of well fluids. They also outline the criteria for installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for barriers used through the lifecycle of the well. We continue to enhance our well integrity management system based on ongoing reviews of field activity and will reassess integrity risks throughout the well lifecycle if we identify or anticipate any material changes to a wellÕs design, construction or operation. We are also continuing to improve documentation, data collection and Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared with land based wells. Because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal governmentÕs Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. KPI reporting and to enhance the chain of communication as responsibility for the well passes from one Hess team to another. Well Barrier Design, Construction and Monitoring Our standards require completion of a detailed well barrier diagram before undertaking activities in the field. To prevent uncontrolled flow, we use a combination of barriers such as casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout preventers, cement, packers and bridge plugs. For example, we use cement in the annular space between the casing and the underground formation as a key structural component to protect aquifers. We require a minimum length of annular cement above and below potential flow zones that meets or exceeds applicable regulations. We maintain multiple and redundant barriers throughout the well lifecycle, and our requirements for the configuration of blowout preventers on drilling rigs meet or exceed applicable regulations. We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify they are working as designed. For example, we pressure test barriers and well components during construction, after first utilizing computer models to confirm we will not overpressure the component during testing. In addition, we use techniques such as well logging that either meet or go beyond applicable regulatory requirements to validate correct cement placement between the production casing and the formation before completing our wells. In deepwater offshore wells, we use remotely operated vehicles to verify cement installation and proper isolation of wellbore fluids from the environment. We maintain and monitor well integrity from initial drilling through plugging and abandonment. Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of well integrity issues; however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous monitoring system, which is planned to be completed in 2023. See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale operations, including an example well barrier diagram, at hess.com/ sustainability/environment/shale-energy Environment BIODIVERSITY We are committed to conserving biodiversity and habitats in the places where we operate. We consider biodiversity protection in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production, closure and abandonment at every Hess location around the globe. We follow the mitigation hierarchy of first avoiding impacts, then minimizing and mitigating unavoidable impacts, restoring impacted lands and using offsets to address lasting impacts. We conduct formal environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity and cultural heritage baseline and field studies, identifying species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists and/or cultural heritage sites in federal or state databases. We use the results of ESIAs to create avoidance or mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we routinely conduct biodiversity and cultural heritage risk screenings and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. As part of our commitment to conserve biodiversity and habitats, we have threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. We also have a standard work instruction for addressing threatened and endangered species that may be encountered during field activities to help ensure we take appropriate steps to protect natural resources across our operations. Hess utilizes third party software programs, such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas, as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with or are adjacent to our operations. (See table at right, which provides a snapshot of relevant species at this reportÕs publication time.) The IUCN regularly updates the Red List species classifications based on new information and improved data from ongoing third party studies, and we update our species list accordingly. We also monitor the addition of new species to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife ServiceÕs national endangered and threatened species lists. As a result of these updated species classifications and new listings, we identify locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans. During the 2021 construction season, a total of 118 onshore projects in the Bakken region required environmental evaluation. Of those 118 projects, 45 required field studies. Based on those field studies, 11 projects required mitigations or adjustments to protect species habitat, including that of the threatened Dakota skipper butterfly, 31 projects necessitated wetlands mitigation and seven projects required adjustments to protect cultural heritage resources. IUCN Red List Species with habitats overlapping Hess operations  Category  Species (Count)  Critically Endangered  22  Endangered  58  Vulnerable  173  Near Threatened  154  In 2021, we expanded our analysis of IUCN protected areas in North Dakota beyond category IÐIII to include categories IVÐVI, which are protected areas with lesser vulnerability than categories IÐIII. Our analysis found that there were four category IÐIII areas adjacent to our operations but not within our operating footprint (Lostwood Wilderness Area, Fort Union Trading Post National Historic Site, Two Top and Big Top Mesas and Theodore Roosevelt National Environment Park). Furthermore, there were eight category IV, 36 category V and 67 category VI areas in our operating footprint, and these protected areas represented 996 hectares, or 0.3%, of the total 331,993 hectares where we operate in North Dakota. While our first priority is avoiding impacts to biodiversity and ecosystems, we work to mitigate or restore any unavoidable impacts throughout the project or asset lifecycle. We implement stakeholder engagement plans as part of our restoration and decommissioning efforts to proactively understand and incorporate the inputs and needs of impacted stakeholders. We also develop asset restoration, retirement and closure plans in consultation with relevant regulatory agencies and other stakeholders. As relevant to each location, these plans may include addressing well and subsurface equipment closure and long term integrity, removing aboveground equipment and restoring impacted lands. We use native vegetation in surface restoration, unless otherwise stipulated by landowners or regulatory agencies, and undertake ongoing monitoring to confirm the effectiveness of restoration efforts. Restoration and closure planning activities are overseen by asset and enterprise leadership, and we allocate funding to adequately address these efforts. In 2021, for example, we continued restoration efforts for the Hawkeye Pipeline Project, which involved replacing affected plant species at a 3:1 ratio and monitoring their establishment for three years after construction. We regularly work with our industry peers on biodiversity related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We participate in the APIÕs Endangered Species Working Group, with the goal of proactively balancing oil and gas development with environmental stewardship. We also participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas, and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. WASTE We generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production activities. For each Hess asset, we manage waste through specific waste management plans designed to comply with all applicable regulatory and Hess requirements for that location, as well as to protect human health and the environment. These plans, which are developed to align with the Hess Waste Management Standard, require the application of our waste minimization principles of ÒRemove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and DisposeÓ Ð with disposal being the least preferred option. In 2021, we generated approximately 47,000 tonnes of solid waste, approximately 99% of which was classified as nonhazardous according to applicable regulations. Our overall waste generation volume was higher in 2021 compared with 2020 due to an increase in storage yard cleanup efforts. We also disposed of approximately 60,224 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota asset at licensed disposal sites in 2021. These drill cuttings, as well as the discharges from our offshore facilities (see page 60), are not included in our overall waste totals per IPIECA reporting guidance. We have continued our efforts to reduce landfilled piping waste by decontaminating it (i.e., removing technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive material or TENORM) and then recycling it. In 2021, we recycled 1,919 tonnes of nonhazardous piping waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. See the Shale Energy section online for more information on naturally occurring radioactive material and TENORM: hess.com/sustainability/environment/ shale-energy Environment Hess and Hess Midstream continue active involvement in iPIPE, a collaboration of oil and gas operators and the University of North DakotaÕs Energy and Environmental Research Center as part of a research contract with the North Dakota Industrial CommissionÕs (NDICÕs) North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Program. The iPIPE consortium was started in 2018 to advance technologies that enhance pipeline integrity efforts and encourage their adoption across the industry. Since then, program participants have invested over $9 million (including a $2.6 million grant from the NDIC and over $4.1 million in matching funds and in-kind cost shares from participating operators and subcontractors) to fund nine projects helping to test innovative new leak detection and prevention technologies and processes. Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few for additional investment and testing. In 2021, iPIPE members supported the following projects: ¥ A leak prevention technology that leverages machine learning and artificial intelligence to examine operator specific and regional data to learn risk profiles within pipeline systems and provide an advanced risk ranking ¥ An application that uses advanced pressure sensing devices to distinguish leaks from normal operation and locate leaks anywhere within a pipeline system, using a simple point measurement of pressure ¥ A measurement technique using stereo paired imagery from satellites to monitor erosion control, a key priority for pipeline crossings of rivers and lakes ¥ A hyperspectral imaging satellite, which provides high resolution imagery to identify points of methane leaks We will continue to test the effectiveness of these systems compared with our current standard optical gas imaging camera based leak detection and repair (LDAR) systems, maintaining our current LDAR practices until remote sensing systems are further improved and accepted as regulatory and/or industry best practice. AIR EMISSIONS The normal operation of fuel combustion equipment as well as flaring activities result in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emissions sources, including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions. In 2021, both our absolute emissions and emissions intensities decreased compared with 2020 for all three of these air pollutants. We observed a 24% decrease in absolute NOX emissions in 2021 due in part to Partnership commitments, and the LDAR program also helps to decrease the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections. The program has a formalized process for assigning work material flows to field personnel, which helps to increase the accountability for and efficiency of any needed repairs. For a detailed description of our LDAR program, visit hess.com/sustainability/ environment REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Assuring compliance with external The majority ($195,000) of our environmental fine and penalty expenditures in 2021 was the result of an administrative penalty resulting from a 2015 EPA inspection of the Tioga Gas Plant that found deficiencies primarily related to spill prevention and control measure documentation, which have since been addressed. The other substantive fine in 2021 was related to a 2019 Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration audit of Hess MidstreamÕs facilities, focused on a valve relocation and operator procedures. significant reductions in flaring and the regulations is an important element of continuing transition to electric driven HOMS. Internal assurance also helps compressors from natural gas fired engines 14,000 120 us to ensure the effectiveness of our in the Bakken. Absolute SO2 emissions management systems. As part of our long 12,000decreased by 17% in 2021 compared term compliance strategy, our regulatory with 2020, mainly as a result of reduced 10,000team uses a compliance tracking tool for Emissions (Tonnes)drilling activity. Absolute VOC emissions our U.S. assets. 8,000 6,000 decreased by 30% from 2020 to 2021, primarily due to reduced flaring and Environmental Expenditures Hess received 23 alleged violations for reductions in our fugitive emissions. 4,000 various administrative activities regarding Leak Detection and Repair 2,000timing on submittals, well status changes We continued our leak detection and and procedural reporting activities, which 0 2019 2020 2021repair (LDAR) program in 2021 across resulted in penalties totaling $351,650 ÷ NOX NOX Intensity our Bakken operations. LDAR helps us to during 2021. ÷ VOC VOC Intensity achieve emissions reductions as part of ÷ SO2 SO2 Intensity our ONE Future and API Environmental