SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility (SR), which is one of the six Hess Values, is foundational to the culture of our company and to our engagement with the communities where we operate. To us, SR means maintaining the highest corporate citizenship standards while delivering the energy the world needs. It includes protecting the health and safety of our workforce, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting positive impact on our communities. Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that provide direct and indirect benefits to the communities where we operate. Our SR activities are designed to generate opportunities for our stakeholders, create valued partnerships and maximize value for shareholders. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK We are committed to implementing ethical and responsible business practices in all that we do. Through the Hess Code of Conduct, we have established the business conduct and practices we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including adherence to the highest standards of human rights. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. We collectively call these our Voluntary Commitments. They include: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Hess’ Voluntary Commitments help to provide a foundation for our SR and Human Rights Policies. Our SR Policy, for example, compels us to demonstrate high standards of ethics and integrity and outlines our commitments to the communities where we operate and to our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy specifically prohibits child labor, forced labor and workplace harassment in our operations; it also covers key issues relating to our supply chain and community engagement. These policies are supported at the local level through training and procedures specific to the needs of our operational locations. Additionally, Hess is a member of the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for the Equality Act. This legislation, which is under review in the U.S. Congress, would guarantee explicit, permanent protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people under existing civil rights laws and would create a federal standard to treat all employees equally. We remain committed to supporting the U.N.’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through the update of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy in 2020, we considered opportunities to further align our business practices and strategic actions to the SDGs and underlying targets that are relevant to our industry. (See the Strategy and Progress section for more information.) Organizational Structure Hess’ External Affairs function serves as an internal coordination body and resource for our assets and project teams as they implement our SR commitments and programs. External Affairs develops governance, reports companywide social performance, provides technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provides assurance across these efforts. The asset and project resources report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset or project specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between our central organization and global locations. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As we work to help meet the world’s energy needs, we collaborate, as appropriate, with resource owners, communities and stakeholders from across the industry and civil society to develop oil and natural gas resources in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible. We prioritize safety, integrity and transparency and are committed to managing our stakeholder relationships with respect. We actively pursue dialogue with stakeholders – including local communities, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors – to share our values, vision and goals and to seek feedback. Stakeholder Planning and Engagement Process Our stakeholder planning and engagement process is aligned with and included in the Hess Risk Management Standard. Alignment with this standard helps to establish clear links between our stakeholder identification and engagement activities and the key external issues impacting each asset. We maintain individualized External Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for each of Hess’ operated locations. The individualized EAS Plans involve a five step process (see graphic on the next page). The first step is understanding the specific risks faced by each asset as SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS identified in the asset level risk register and “heat maps,” as well as identifying external facing issues that are critical to maintaining Hess’ license to operate. In the second step, we establish documented internal accountabilities for managing each key issue – including identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an individual from senior management with accountability for the issue) and an Issue Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals responsible for managing the ongoing strategy and engagement to mitigate stakeholder impacts). In step three, each Issue Manager, with support from our External Affairs function, documents the relevant stakeholders, and then, in step four, outlines the engagement strategies for those stakeholders. The final step is monitoring and tracking the key issues, with updates to the Business Owner and, as required, other senior management at least twice per year. We update these plans annually and use the results to guide our social engagement strategy. Through our 2020 EAS process, we identified an opportunity to expand the education of our workforce on our human rights approach and the mechanisms available for our workforce and local community members to share complaints or concerns. Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders, including the following: • Land Users/Landowners: Residents, landowners, commercial land interests, farmers, ranchers • Resources Users/Rights Holders: Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and users, hunters, fishers, gatherers • Governments: Local, regional and national authorities; national militaries; international governing authorities • Parties with Direct Economic Interests: Investors, vendors and suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholders • Parties with External Business Interests: Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiatives • Special Interest Groups: Nongovernmental organizations, religious groups, cause oriented nonprofits, community groups • Community Services: Police, fire and emergency medical services; health care services; education; human service agencies • Indigenous Groups: Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, indigenous advocacy groups Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities can be found at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility Grievance Mechanisms In the communities where we operate, we do our best to address potential issues early – before they mature into more severe challenges – and we believe that strong and transparent stakeholder relationships help us to do that. Formal grievance mechanisms are an important part of soliciting stakeholder feedback for our company’s operational impacts and help us respond to and act on feedback through an established process. Hess’ grievance mechanisms facilitate stronger relationships with communities, landowners and other stakeholders and allow for a more effective response to community concerns. We have reached out to community members through forums, such as community meetings, town halls and local hearings, to share information about our grievance mechanisms and to establish channels of communication. As an additional step in the process, we survey stakeholders who communicate concerns to assess whether they are satisfied with our response. Through one of the grievance mechanisms at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback and complaints (anonymously, if desired) through several access points, including our Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner Solutions team, our North Dakota front desk staff and our Surface Land team. We receive and address concerns relating to employee and contractor performance, behavior and activities related to external stakeholders. We may also receive feedback on environment, health and safety (EHS) concerns and workplace, procurement and supplier issues. The most commonly raised topics include road conditions, erosion, land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and weed control. In 2020, we received 311 grievances through this process. When alerted to a potential issue, the response team draws employees from various disciplines within Hess – such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources – that are best able to respond to the concern and reach a resolution. For example, safety concerns are forwarded to our EHS function; individual worker complaints are handled by Human Resources; and business integrity or ethics complaints are referred to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, we escalate management of the grievance upward in the company as necessary to help resolve the issue. We maintain an internal database – the stakeholder management system (SMS) – to track grievances from start to completion. (The SMS also supports our stakeholder engagement process described previously.) The response team strives to complete each investigation within 14 days of the original report and to provide a response and/or resolution within 30 days. As a final step before closing a case, we contact the stakeholder to confirm the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership Team, composed of key senior decision makers for the Bakken asset, as part of our regular operating rhythm. In 2020, we enhanced our grievance reporting and tracking process to include quarterly reviews by the asset level General Manager, our External Affairs function and EHS personnel. This approach bolsters accountability and sharing of lessons learned throughout the organization. Separately, we maintain a grievance mechanism for landowners and mineral rights holders associated with the Bakken asset. Specifically, we have an owner relations telephone hotline, webpage and email address through which these individuals can ask questions and share concerns and complaints. Our Owner Relations and Owner Support teams manage this system and use the SMS to track open issues and to help ensure resolution. In 2020, these teams handled more than 35,000 emails and phone calls, assisting an average of 20 customers per hour. SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT When entering a new geography, commissioning a new development or expanding an existing facility, Hess uses strategic planning processes to examine the social, political and reputational environment and to identify nontechnical risks and mitigation activities. Where our We regularly collaborate with external stakeholders to bolster our environmental and social performance. In 2020, we identified a flaring increase from our operations in the Stony Creek Field in North Dakota as a result of gas gathering infrastructure constraints. Addressing this issue required us to work with Kinder Morgan, the company that collects and transports the natural gas produced from our Stony Creek wells. A multidisciplinary Hess team worked together with their counterparts at Kinder Morgan to determine that the flaring increase was due to recent increases in production from both our and other producers’ wells that occurred at a pace above the capacity that Kinder Morgan was able to transport at that time. After identifying the cause, we worked collaboratively with Kinder Morgan on a solution by convening a workshop, visiting the pipeline and reviewing digital models of the pipeline system. Using Lean problem solving principles, we identified the constraints that had limited the pipeline’s transportation volume and developed a range of short and long term solutions. Ultimately, we replaced a 500 foot section of pipeline with higher volume pipe, reconfigured equipment and improved systems for removing the liquids that reduce pipeline gas flow. The project increased gas collection by 3 to 5 million standard cubic feet per day and decreased flaring considerably. The collaboration also strengthened the Hess and Kinder Morgan teams’ working relationship, which is reinforced through weekly meetings as part of their regular operating rhythm and helps to create efficiencies in the performance of both teams. operations are ongoing, we regularly conduct heat map reviews that take into account new and emerging risks and develop recommended mitigating actions. When we expand our operations, we work with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities where we operate. We address human rights considerations throughout these processes, including during due diligence and social risk identification, mitigation and management. In 2020, with the help of an external consultant, we performed a social risk assessment focused on human rights issues for our North Malay Basin asset. The assessment, for which the final report was completed in early 2021, resulted in an overall finding of low risk. Several opportunities for improvement were identified, including enhancing human rights training and establishing a local human rights key point of contact. Mitigations recommended as part of the assessment will be tracked through our Enterprise Risk Management process. Human Rights Everywhere we operate, we work to uphold human rights and to treat everyone with dignity and respect. By engaging with stakeholders, we aim to proactively address potential issues and work to prevent human rights related incidents. We seek to make positive and lasting contributions in governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development. Our business practices are aligned with our SR and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at various phases of our business activities, beginning with due diligence. Hess is committed to educating our personnel on the importance of respecting human rights, as well as raising internal awareness of the best practices outlined in our Human Rights Policy. We include a human rights training module as part of our online Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training for employees that explains the concept and importance of human rights, reviews our Human Rights Policy, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. 2020 Social Investment Spend by Country $ Thousands 1% 2020 Social Investment Spend by Type of Investment $ Thousands ˜ Environment $5,172 ˜ Education $2,699 ˜ Health $1,686 ˜ Community $950 ˜ Matching gifts $449 These charts include all social investments in 2020, including those associated with joint venture operations. Noncash or “in-kind” contributions have been included within the category for the social issue which they support. In 2020, we participated in IPIECA’s Human Rights and Supply Chain working groups, which aim to advance our industry’s approach to human rights and help to inform Hess’ policies and practices. These IPIECA groups are working to develop an online human rights training module for our industry, which is scheduled to be completed in 2021. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING As part of Hess’ commitment to the communities where we operate, we focus on creating local shared value, mutually beneficial relationships and a safe and reliable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets and Houston operational headquarters create, maintain and implement strategic social investment, capacity building and infrastructure improvement programs tailored to each operation and community. We evaluate our programs to confirm a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us meet the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations and projects best aligned with our values and the business and the social risks identified through risk assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for our employees. Our social investment programs contribute to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek opportunities to have a positive impact on economic inclusion and equity in our supply chain to provide lasting benefit to the communities in which we operate. In 2020, our social investments totaled nearly $11 million. This included $5 million going toward our $12.5 million commitment to support the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative research and development program (see page 49) and $2.7 million going toward education projects. Helping our neighbors during the pandemic was an important focus of our social investment activities in 2020. Across our operating regions, we supported local communities through donations to meet COVID-19 related needs and through creative, socially distanced employee volunteer opportunities. In Houston, we partnered with the nonprofit Second Servings to initiate the “Dinner’s on Us” program, and our Food Services team distributed more than 125,000 meals from April to December. We also donated 12,000 “Stay Well” care packages – including items such as hand sanitizer and reusable masks – to emergency and intensive care workers in Houston’s largest hospital network. In North Dakota, Hess contributed $100,000 to the Great Plains Food Bank – a contribution that helped the food bank respond to a 45% increase in need during the COVID-19 pandemic. We also donated nearly 200 computers to Minot State University to support virtual learning during the pandemic. In Malaysia, Hess contributed more than 60,000 units of personal protective supplies – including face masks, hand sanitizers and medical gloves – to hospitals, district health clinics and police headquarters. In addition, we helped distribute almost 4,000 meals to frontline workers and underprivileged communities. In Guyana, Hess and its joint venture contributed $300,000 to COVID-19 relief efforts. The funding helped to provide additional quarantine facilities, food, sanitation items and equipment through the Civil Defense Commission, Salvation Army and Rotary Guyana. Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities in 2020. The following are selected highlights. LEAP Program in Houston In Houston, Hess continued to invest in our LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program and related initiatives, making adjustments for a virtual learning environment due to the pandemic. LEAP aims to support students in economically disadvantaged areas with programs and services to keep them in school and aspiring toward college or vocational training. Since 2013, Hess has contributed approximately $7.4 million to support students in Houston’s underserved Magnolia Park and Second Ward communities. Water Watch Programs in Texas and Louisiana Hess continues to work with the Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GOMA) to support the sustainability and health of the Gulf’s aquatic resources, primarily through programs that help to improve water quality and clean up marine waste. In 2020, for the third year in a row, we contributed $100,000 to the GOMA Gulf Star program to support Water Watch and citizen science programs. JET Apprenticeships in North Dakota Job Experience Training (JET) is an apprenticeship program developed by Hess in 2017, in collaboration with Bismarck State College, to develop local, qualified reliability operators in North Dakota. Since inception, 27 apprentices have entered the JET program, 17 have completed the apprenticeship and 12 have transitioned to be Hess employees. Given the success of the program, we made an additional investment of $50,000 in 2020. In 2021, we plan to fund six new JET apprentices. Toy Trucks in North Dakota In partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office, Hess uses toy trucks as STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) teaching tools. Since 2018, we have shipped these trucks, along with a corresponding STEM curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach, to every public elementary school in North Dakota. The materials provide teachers with ready made plans for STEM educational opportunities and help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic energy and other STEM lessons. Education in Malaysia Hess continues to support local communities in Malaysia by investing in regional education. In 2020, we supported the MyKasih Foundation’s “Love My School” Student Bursary Programme in Kelantan. We “adopted” a school that serves the Orang Asli indigenous community, providing financial assistance to underprivileged primary students to help them complete their educations and build better lives for themselves and their families. Capacity Building in Guyana In 2020, Hess’ joint venture in Guyana invested more than $3 million in an ongoing effort to build the capacity of the local business community and supplier base, with the ultimate aim of improving long term economic prosperity. A continuing focus has been support for the Centre for Local Business Development (see additional detail on page 19). Looking forward, Hess and our joint venture partners remain committed to continuing investment in programs that support capacity building in Guyana. In this context, we and our joint venture partners have committed a further $8 million in 2021 to continue building on the business development, education, health and agricultural programs. See more detail on these programs at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility Local Program Highlights Centre for Local Business Development, Guyana SAFETY AND HEALTH Safety is Hess’ top priority and one of our core values, embodied within the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. Occupational health and safety, process safety and release prevention, and emergency preparedness and response are three of our most material sustainability issues, and we will continue to prioritize improvement in these areas through our updated environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy. (See pages 10–11 for our goals and targets through 2025.) We faced significant health and safety challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the most active hurricane season on record in 2020. We responded to these challenges with what is always our main objective: putting the safety of our workforce first. Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) function and our emergency response organization developed and led Hess’ responses to these events, helping us to keep our workforce safe and maintain business continuity while achieving record health and safety performance. Our safety programs and practices aim to maintain a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job so that everyone across our operations returns home safe every day. Our commitment to safety begins at the top of our company, and we work to reinforce it at every level. For example, we include key enterprisewide safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. We also conduct leadership site visits and safety observations to engage our organization in safety performance. For leadership site visits, we continued to use the “Go to Gemba” approach in 2020 to engage our workforce in conversations about safety. Gemba means “the real place” in Japanese and, in practice, “Going to Gemba” means having leaders from Hess visit our worksites to better understand safety challenges and reinforce our commitment to “everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe.” When a site’s workforce includes contract workers, managers from our contractor companies will often accompany our leaders on these visits. While we had to scale back the site visits in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we still completed approximately 115,000 site visits and observations. In 2020, we held our 12th annual Global Safety Appreciation Day virtually. The event provided an opportunity for the Hess workforce to reflect on safety, review the company’s COVID-19 response and acknowledge our workforce’s contributions to staying safe in a challenging year. We continue to advance our safety leadership training, which focuses on embedding ownership for safe work with frontline leaders by training them on specific Hess safety expectations and processes that help minimize risk and improve safety performance. We began rolling out this approach in our Bakken asset in 2019 by training 275 frontline leaders to be safety role models who help to set expectations and model key leadership and safety behaviors. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, further expansion of this program was delayed. However, we will introduce virtual safety leadership training for frontline leaders at our Bakken, North Malay Basin and Gulf of Mexico assets in 2021, with a particular focus in the Bakken on integrating routine “Go to Gemba” type safety site visits and strategies for more effectively leading discussions about safety. In the Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin, we will begin training frontline safety leaders following the model developed in the Bakken. We also continue to collaborate with the Center for Offshore Safety and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) on a set of process safety fundamentals, which we plan to integrate into our training in the future.  We continued our participation in the development of the American Petroleum Institute’s Onshore Safety Alliance in 2020, drawing on our own experience to support improvement within the oil and gas industry. This effort aims to establish industry standards for managing activities in U.S. onshore exploration and production operations that have historically high incident rates, with the ultimate goal of improving understanding of best practices and creating effective and efficient safety processes that are standardized across onshore upstream operations. MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Hess, our objective is continuous improvement in safety performance. The Hess Operational Management System (HOMS), which is discussed in the How We Operate section (see page 14), serves as a framework for managing and measuring our safety performance. Over the past several years, we have formalized and standardized many of our EHS practices across the company through a global EHS standards project. SAFETY AND HEALTH These safety standards and associated procedures address key areas of safety risk – such as energy isolation, dropped objects and confined space entry – and promote leadership, awareness, consistency and accountability across all levels of the organization. As described in the How We Operate section, the EHS Global Standards are now embedded into HOMS (see page 14). We also maintain a set of Hess Rules to clearly express our universal, mandatory safety requirements to our workforce. We review conformance with the external and internal requirements (e.g., regulations, policies, standards and procedures) related to HOMS through our HOMS Audit Element and associated Assurance Procedure. The HOMS Assurance Procedure operates in three tiers. At the Tier I Assurance level, and as an independent assurance function within the corporation, the Hess Corporate Audit Department (CAD) conducts annual audits following a risk based plan that covers various topics, including occupational safety and health; drilling, completions and production process safety; and management of environmental impacts. CAD’s annual plan is reviewed and approved by both the Audit Committee and the EHS Committee of Hess’ Board of Directors, while audit summaries are reported to and reviewed by the EHS Committee. At the Tier II Assurance level, working collaboratively with Hess assets, subject matter experts and technical authorities conduct assessments to evaluate conformance with corporate and asset EHS standards and procedures, as well as with applicable regulations, and assist the assets in addressing identified improvement opportunities. The Tier III Assurance level constitutes routine self assessments by assets against corporate EHS standards, corporate and asset level procedures, and regulations. In 2020, Hess’ CAD conducted Tier I audits and consulting activities in accordance with a Board approved plan that was adjusted to account for COVID-19 impacts. Based on asset requests, Hess subject matter experts and technical authorities also completed various Tier II assessments in 2020. At the Tier III level, self assessments in the form of behavioral safety observations, leadership site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig inspections and other reviews occurred throughout the year, although these activities were also impacted by COVID-19. Beginning in 2021, we have adopted a revised tiered assurance framework. EHS audits will be conducted as part of our Tier II Assurance program, managed by the central EHS function and performed by technical authorities and subject matter experts. In this revised framework, Hess’ CAD will then perform Tier I “health of process” audits of this Tier II EHS Assurance program. In order to preserve audit independence, an EHS audit role was created within the central EHS function with reporting lines separate from operations. The Tier III Assurance structure and activities remain unchanged in the revised framework.  OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership for occupational safety by empowering workers and giving them the responsibility to identify and mitigate the safety issues relevant to their operations. For example, our behavioral safety observation program (BSOP) trains workers to conduct peer to peer workplace observations in order to identify and track safe and at risk behaviors. Immediate feedback is given to workers who have been observed. We have implemented formal behavioral safety programs at all of our operated assets and provide ongoing training on behavioral safety, analysis and identification, and conversation skills. After pausing in person trainings throughout much of 2020 due to COVID-19, we hosted an enterprisewide BSOP virtual summit in October 2020, followed by a series of BSOP virtual training sessions. In 2021, our BSOP efforts will focus on developing asset steering teams that collect and analyze data on an ongoing basis to identify specific actions for continued improvement and to help remove barriers to improvement. We are in the midst of a multiyear process to build a standardized approach to the competency assurance and learning (CAL) programs that we will use to define, assess and develop workforce competencies. As part of this effort, we are developing a common electronic management system for CAL programs, defining safety critical job profiles across the enterprise and integrating CAL into HOMS. (See page 14 for more on HOMS.) In 2020, our focus was on compliance with regional regulatory training requirements, which we achieved. Transportation is another key focus of our occupational safety efforts at Hess. The Hess Land Transportation Standard has three pillars: driver training and competency, the use of in vehicle monitoring systems for company owned vehicles, and journey management planning. We also reward drivers who have perfect driving records and recognize them at team safety meetings. We believe this approach has helped us reduce collisions per million miles traveled by 69% from 2016 to 2020. We also reduced time spent driving over the speed limit by 99% from 2018 to 2020, thanks in part to an enhanced in vehicle speed monitoring system we implemented in 2018. Hess workers are required to take proactive driver training prior to the first time they operate a motor vehicle on company business, with refresher training required every three years. We modified our in vehicle training program during COVID-19 based on the recommendations of medical and occupational health experts, so we could continue this training safely. For example, we used dedicated, sanitized vehicles; required mask wearing in vehicles; and instructed trainers to ride in the back seat to increase social distancing. Our Land Transportation team publishes weekly safety bulletins that address key topics, such as distracted driving, safe parking and safety technology. These bulletins are also provided to many of our contractors. Our key contractors are required to comply with Land Transportation Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, published by the IOGP. We participate in several industry groups to share best practices and further improve our transportation safety. We are active participants in the IOGP Land Transportation subcommittee, which sets industry standards for upstream oil and gas producers, and we adhere to these standards. We are also a board member of the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety, an employer led collaborative group that works to improve the safety and health of employees, their families and community members where they live and work by preventing traffic crashes. Our Bakken asset is an active member of Vision Zero, a traffic safety organization aiming to reduce collisions in North Dakota that includes participation by law enforcement, the state’s Department of Transportation and Department of Health, and the private sector. Hess’ Corporate Aviation Safety Management System and HOMS form the basis of our aviation safety program. Our aviation standards and procedures frequently go beyond national regulations in our countries of operation, and we regularly conduct aviation contractor safety audits, site visits and readiness reviews to monitor the safe operation of aircraft used to support our operations. While our aviation contractors have experienced no significant Hess related aviation accidents or injuries in more than 25 years, we continuously work with these contractors to further reduce risk. In addition, in response to the expanded use of unmanned aerial systems to survey our assets and operations, we have increased our assurance activities to proactively validate that safe practices are used and regulations are met. While Hess experienced a safe year of aviation operations in 2020, total flying hours were significantly reduced due to COVID-19 and changes to offshore rotations. Key Performance Metrics In 2020, we achieved a 19% reduction in our workforce total recordable incident rate (TRIR) compared with 2019, surpassing our goal of a 10% reduction. Our workforce lost time incident rate also decreased in 2020, from 0.18 in 2019 to 0.09. We experienced no workforce fatalities among either employees or contractors during 2020. Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive plan metrics include a target aimed at reducing the rate of severe and significant safety incidents. As part of our severe and significant safety incident (SSSI) rate, we track near miss incidents that have the potential to result in severe consequences, as well as incidents that result in an actual consequence, including Tier 2 process safety events and recordable incidents. We require that near miss incidents be reported internally and recorded into our incident management system as if an actual consequence had occurred. Our SSSI rate stood at 0.487 for 2020. This represents a 10% reduction compared with 2019 and is better than our target rate of 0.489. In response to incidents throughout the year, our assets conducted root cause analyses and implemented corrective actions across our onshore and offshore operations. Employee and Contractor Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.6 0.57 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 ˜ Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) ˜ Contractor TRIR Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours 0.5 0.43 0.4 0.35 0.32 0.3 0.18 0.2 0.08 0.1 0.0 ˜ Workforce TRIR ˜ Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) *Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar workdays are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. While we did achieve a significant reduction in TRIR for 2020, primarily driven by a 37% decrease in contractor TRIR year over year, we also experienced a significant increase in employee TRIR from 2019. After observing an uptick in employee incidents in the third quarter of 2020, we conducted a systemic review and addressed factors that may have impacted our workers, such as worker distraction due to COVID-19. SAFETY AND HEALTH Local Efforts Across our operating regions, Hess teams delivered outstanding safety results and continuous improvement in 2020 despite the significant safety challenges posed by the pandemic and a record Atlantic hurricane season. Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico achieved their best overall safety record in five years, despite the extraordinary challenges posed by seven hurricanes and the pandemic. Notably, there were zero severe or significant safety incidents in 2020 on the Stampede, Tubular Bells or Baldpate production hubs – including during the six evacuations and subsequent repopulating of the platforms. Additionally, Tubular Bells surpassed its combined safety observation cards/BSOP and leadership site visit target by 22%, and Baldpate achieved a 75% reduction in dropped object incidents year over year. In the North Malay Basin, Hess achieved several notable safety milestones, with employees and contractors logging 3.2 million work hours without any lost time incidents (LTIs) across Operations, Drilling and Completions, Development Projects and Logistics since July 2019. In May 2020, the offshore production platform achieved three years with no LTIs, while in September the Tok Bali Supply Base achieved five years with no LTIs. Of particular note, the North Malay Basin team completed transportation, installation, hookup, commissioning and startup of a major new mercury removal facility without a single recordable injury. We successfully completed a 20 day turnaround at our South Arne platform in the North Sea, involving more than 200 people from different regions, without a single known offshore COVID-19 case. The excellent safety performance at these assets was supported by a strong safety culture, reliance on established Hess standards and procedures for safe operation of the facility, and implementation of a robust control of work process. PROCESS SAFETY The aim of Hess’ process safety program is to prevent the unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. We focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact asset integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment. In particular, we address: • Design integrity: reducing risks in the design and construction of facilities • Technical integrity: inspecting, testing and maintaining hardware and software barriers • Operational integrity: working within operational design parameters Our approach to process safety involves identifying, managing and mitigating risks across Hess operations. We do this by raising awareness of risks among our workforce, providing strong safety leadership and maintaining a commitment to continuously improving our process safety procedures, systems and standards. A key strategy we are using to minimize process safety risk is enhancing our integrity management program. Integrity critical equipment (ICE) are barriers and safeguards that prevent or mitigate process safety events (PSEs) through detection, isolation, containment, control or emergency preparedness and response within our facilities. We have established ICE performance standards, which set specific requirements and criteria for inspections and tests to help ensure ICE barriers are effective. In 2020, we again surpassed our target of 98% inspection and testing of ICE, with approximately 12,000 critical performance standard assurance test work orders completed, further expanding our understanding of barrier health. In 2021, we will continue to measure compliance with planned assurance tests and add corrective critical maintenance to our metric. We also plan to initiate a pilot of Hess technical authority led integrity assessments of barrier health, which was deferred in 2020 due to COVID-19. In 2020, we continued to implement the use of “bow tie” diagrams, which help to visualize threats, barriers and consequences, at our assets in the Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin. We also completed implementation of an electronic Management of Change system at our assets in the Gulf of Mexico and North Dakota. In Denmark, we continue to strengthen barrier effectiveness and maintenance as part of our effort to obtain third party validation for the asset’s performance standards, as required by applicable legislation. Specifically, we are working to validate the existing assessments of threats, barriers and consequences for the asset to identify and mitigate safety risk. In 2021, we plan to continue validating our maintenance management system by conducting a third party audit of selected performance tests. Key Performance Metrics Hess tracks process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports. We experienced an increase in our total number of PSEs in 2020 compared with 2019. However, the overall severity of our Production Operations, North Dakota PSEs was lower than in 2019 because we did not have any Tier 1 PSEs in 2020 – a significant achievement. We have completed investigations of the PSEs that occurred in 2020 and are implementing appropriate corrective actions to help prevent similar incidents in the future. We also track Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs, which are leading process safety indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. Hess uses these KPIs to drive continuous improvement at particular facilities. An example of a global Production Tier 4 KPI is the execution of required maintenance on ICE, which was an indicator that was again included in the 2020 annual incentive plan bonus calculation for employees. 2018 2019 2020 EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Hess’ emergency preparedness and response program is designed to respond to actual or threatened injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to our assets and impacts to the company’s reputation – in that order of priority. We use a three tiered approach to plan for and respond to emergencies that integrates communication and action from the corporate level, in Houston, to asset and facility level response teams. This system helps ensure that standards, plans, information and resources work efficiently so that we understand and address the specific needs of the situation at hand. Preparedness at Hess involves our emergency response organization (illustrated at right), engagement with officials and communities, emergency facilities and response plans. We undertake regular emergency preparedness and response exercises to engage our employees and key stakeholders, including our contractors, in preparing for and responding to an incident. The exercises help to define and clarify roles, responsibilities and resources. They also include notification drills, in which personnel practice the communication protocols required in case of an emergency, and full Incident Support Team HOUSTON Incident Management Team ASSET Emergency Response Team FACILITY scale equipment mobilization exercises. We conduct annual training on hurricane emergency response and choose other topics for training and drills using a risk based approach. For example, we are planning a drill focused on cybersecurity risks in 2021. Continuous improvement is an essential element of our Emergency Preparedness and Response Standard by which we incorporate lessons learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness planning, training and future exercises. Hess’ Gulf of Mexico employees and contractors delivered outstanding safety performance during the record breaking SAFETY AND HEALTH 2020 Atlantic hurricane season. Led by Hess’ emergency response organization, our team responded to seven hurricanes with zero severe or significant safety incidents on the Stampede, Tubular Bells or Baldpate production hubs while simultaneously addressing the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic (see case study on page 33). At our onshore and offshore facilities, operations personnel collaborated with our Gulf of Mexico Incident Management Team – a cross functional group trained to respond to emergencies on a rotational basis – to close down and reopen our offshore facilities before and after the hurricanes. This team not only prepared Hess people and assets for each storm, they also offered recovery essentials, such as lodging, fuel and generators, to those with damaged homes. We also maintain relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels (see page 57). CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT Contractors are critical to Hess, comprising around 70% of our total workforce hours and performing key tasks throughout our operations. We use a recognized industry safety database to standardize our prequalification processes across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information efficiently across Hess operations. HOMS addresses contractor capabilities and competencies, and, as part of this framework, we have implemented a Contractor Management Standard at our operated assets. For in scope contractors, the standard includes requirements from initial sourcing, to contracting, to reviewing the work they do for us. For example, the standard requires that we grade in scope contractors based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade based on EHS criteria, the asset vice president or director must endorse a safety improvement action plan before that contractor may be approved for procurement or provide services on a Hess controlled work location. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight. As an extension of the Contractor Management Standard, we are implementing a new risk based contractor engagement process, developed in 2019, that requires certain engagement activities based on a contractor’s EHS risk profile. One of the required activities is to perform “bridging” for higher risk, in scope contractors using a standard bridging philosophy and methodology that help bring consistency to the exercise and associated documents. The bridging process works to align Hess’ expectations with our contractors’ through a range of other engagement activities including management system reviews and performance evaluations. The process also helps us prioritize engagement with higher risk contractors and focus our contractor management resources accordingly. We audit contractors through annual eligible employees and their spouses, Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of management system reviews, desktop reviews and field verification to confirm compliance with applicable Hess EHS requirements; contractor EHS requirements; local, state and federal requirements; and industry standards and best practices. In 2020, desktop reviews were conducted by third parties in place of in person interviews due to COVID-19. In addition, new contractors working on Hess controlled worksites must take part in an onboarding process. HEALTH AND WELLNESS At Hess, we prioritize the health of our employees and contractors both on and off the job. In key locations – such as Houston and North Dakota – and for we offer a comprehensive wellness program that encompasses emotional, social, physical and financial wellbeing. The program includes annual on site flu vaccines and biometric screenings. In 2020, COVID-19 was the central focus of our employee health and wellness efforts. In addition to the safety protocols we implemented to protect employees from COVID-19 (see below), we provided enhanced mental health and work life balance support. We also continue to evaluate health risks as technologies in drilling and operations evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked with the National Institute for Occupational the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – to stay abreast of changes to regulations and trending health topics and to promote the health of workers. NIOSH studies have helped Hess to improve work practices, raise awareness among oilfield workers of potential hazards, and find and promote ways of reducing risks in our operations and throughout the industry. We maintain a random drug and alcohol testing program for employees and select contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort includes the management of regulatory drug testing programs required by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Coast Guard. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic was a central focus of our occupational safety and emergency response efforts. As always, our first priority in responding to this crisis has been the safety of our workforce, their families and the communities where we live and operate. Per our pandemic response plan, we activated our corporate Crisis Response Team, which is composed of an Incident Support Team (IST) and local Incident Management Teams (IMTs) at our assets and office locations in Europe, Asia and the U.S. The IST took charge of long term business continuity, developing and evolving COVID-19 safety and health protocols, remote working arrangements, corporate communications and regular leadership updates. This team was supported by asset level IMTs focused on supporting our operations and office locations, maintaining the health and safety of our workforce and conducting local stakeholder engagement. A Business Continuity Coordinator served as the conduit between the IMTs and the IST, facilitating resource requests and standardizing and streamlining communications. To help keep our workforce safe, we implemented a range of health and safety measures and evolved those measures based on guidance from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health authorities and with ongoing engagement with various governmental agencies, medical experts, industry peers and suppliers, external industry experts and local communities. For field workers and others who have been unable to work remotely, we implemented testing protocols, hand hygiene requirements, face masks, social distancing, enhanced cleaning procedures and travel restrictions. To reduce the possibility of COVID-19 transmission among offshore and onshore field based workers, we extended work schedules at offshore platforms, reduced the number of personnel on worksites wherever feasible and instituted work team “pods” to minimize interactions among workers. We also postponed scheduled turnaround work at the Tioga Gas Plant, which was to be part of our capacity expansion at the site, to avoid the potential for COVID-19 transmission that could result from the amount of travel and number of people required to complete the work. For most of our office based staff, we focused on helping workers transition to remote work, providing information technology, mental health resources and occupational safety support. In the second quarter of 2020, we began to develop site specific plans to facilitate getting our employees back to office based work. We used a risk based, phased approach to help ensure the continuing safety and health of our workers. This encompassed ongoing review of key criteria, including local COVID-19 case and transmission rates, strain on local health care resources, the availability of essential third party services such as first responders, and the number of our own workers unable to perform their work duties. While the majority of our office based workers continued to work remotely throughout 2020, we were able to restore access to some of our offices with these protocols in place for a limited number of people – primarily employees and contractors who perform tasks that are challenging to do remotely. We continue to keep our workforce informed about updated guidance from government and health authorities, Hess’ actions, and available benefits and resources through internal channels such as emails, the company intranet site, virtual town hall meetings, internal social media posts and supervisor led small group virtual meetings. For more on our workforce support efforts related to COVID-19, see page 37; for community support efforts, see page 24.  Planning Meeting, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 