4.0 Air Quality 4.1 Air Emissions We conduct the following activities in each of our business segments to manage our air permitting and compliance program: • monitor, record, report, and pay emission and permit fees;  • identify, record, and maintain a list of stationary air emission sources including insignificant sources and sources of fugitive emissions; • quantify facility annual emissions per federal, state, provincial, or local requirements and document the basis of the quantification and estimation; • quantify emissions when changes and/or modifications occur at a facility to determine if the facility permitting status is affected (e.g., exempt, minor, synthetic minor or major under Title V);  • develop and maintain a permit requirements list in our compliance tracking system along with required actions, deadlines, and designated responsible persons; and • provide regular training and re-training for operations, engineering and maintenance staffs’ understanding of permit requirements. We plan to include the company-wide criteria air emissions that we report to federal, state, provincial, or local agencies beginning with our 2020 report. Included below are the emissions reported for our Canadian operations annually through ECCC’s NPRI program.  The TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc., which were sold on August 31, 2018, are presented as discontinued operations. 4.2 KML Air Emissions for the Following Pollutants: NOx (excluding N2O), SOx, VOCs, and PM (SASB Midstream EM0102-03, SASB Exploration & Production EM0101-04, SASB Refining & Marketing EM0103-03, GRI 305-7) KML’s air emissions data are provided below in metric tons. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 KML air emissions from continuing operations(a)(b) Cochin Canada(c) NOx (excluding N2O) — — — SOx ——— VOCs — — — PM ——— Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Subtotal — — — Terminals Canada NOx (excluding N2O) — — — SOx ——— VOCs 13 12 PM 41832 Subtotal 17 30 KML total air emissions from continuing operations NOx (excluding N2O) — — — SOx ——— VOCs 13 12 12 PM 41832 KML total air emissions from continuingoperations  17  30  44  KML total air emissions from discontinued operations(d)  128  110  120  KML total air emissions including discontinued operations  145  140  164  (a) Included are the emissions reported annually through ECCC’s NPRI program.  The ECCC NPRI annual emissions reporting thresholds for facilities are as follows: NOx (excluding N2O) - 20 tonnes per year, SOx - 20 tonnes per year, VOCs - 10 tonnes per year, and PM - PM10 0.5 tonnes per year and PM2.5 0.3 tonnes per year. (b) NOx and SOx emissions for KML’s operations were below the reporting thresholds for 2015, 2016, and 2017. (c) Cochin Canada facilities were below the ECCC NPRI reporting thresholds for 2015, 2016, and 2017. (d) Represents emissions from the TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. sold on August 31, 2018, and presented here as discontinued operations. 4.3 Number of Refineries (SASB Refining & Marketing EM0103-04) The number of refineries we own is included below. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Number of refineries in or near areas of dense population 1 1 This refinery is the Galena Park Splitter, located in Galena Park, Texas, operated by our Products Pipelines Business Segment. The Galena Park Splitter is regulated by the EPA as a refinery, although it is not a full-scale refinery.  It is a condensate processing facility consisting of two units which separate condensate into its various components to produce intermediate, semi-finished blend stocks like naphthas and distillates. These blend stocks are generally processed further at full-scale refineries. We commissioned the Galena Park Splitter facility in 2014, began first and second phase start-up operations in March 2015 and July 2015, respectively, and had our first full year of operation in 2016.  5.0 Ecological Impacts 5.1 Environmental Management Policies and Practices for Active Operations (SASB Midstream EM0102-04, SASB Midstream EM0102-05, SASB Exploration & Production EM0101-09, GRI 103-2) We continually evaluate the regulatory landscape for our operations and new projects and look for opportunities to improve. We maintain corporate policies and business segment specific procedures to manage environmental matters across our assets. Through our internal monthly regulatory update and verification program, we identify, assess, and manage compliance with changing regulatory requirements. We review, approve, and implement policy and procedural changes through our management of change or similar established processes. Prior to beginning an expansion project, we develop plans and procedures, including: • surveying, • construction, • impact avoidance, • mitigation, • revegetation, and • operations. Preservation of land is a key component of our construction efforts, whether in designing a new route for a pipeline project or when performing maintenance on facilities that have been in service for many years. To evaluate a proposed route on a new pipeline project, we conduct civil, cultural and environmental surveys. The purpose of the surveys is to gather information about the following: • soil, • topography, • water, • vegetation, • wildlife, • cultural resources, • land use, and • other important biodiversity and social considerations. We use this information to determine an appropriate route to avoid or minimize impacts on critical habitats, people, and lands. Following construction of new facilities, we restore the right-of-way, including seeding and fertilizing the property to specifications agreed with the landowner.  In many instances, our restoration improves habitat compared to the condition in which we found it. We also focus on wildlife preservation in sensitive areas.  Being good stewards of the land requires extra attention in areas impacted by construction. We are actively involved in a number of projects designed to enhance biodiversity within our operating areas. We have made long-term commitments to managing biodiversity and participate in conservation education and community outreach initiatives. Several of these initiatives have received certification from the WHC, a nonprofit organization that promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management.  For a project to receive WHC’s Conservation Certification, a third-party must validate the biodiversity enhancement and conservation education activities. Since 1999 we have placed 14 sites in the program and eight facilities have held WHC certification over the last three years. In 2017, the WHC awarded our Hartford Street Terminal their Remediation Project Award for pollinator forage enhancements as part of a phytoremediation project at the terminal. The Hartford Street Terminal program received its Conservation Certification in 2015. Also in 2017, we received a Tree Champion Award from the City of Tucson for our ongoing commitment to the “Trees for Tucson” program.  The program plants trees at schools across Tucson, Arizona, to improve the environment and provide shade for schoolyards. Over a two-year period, we collaborated with The Nature Conservancy and several industry peers to develop a report enumerating ways to reduce environmental impacts of pipeline construction on steep slopes.16 The report was published in 2018 and includes details on ten recommended and four potential best practices. The report focuses on reducing risks of landslides, slips and erosion, and protecting habitat health and water quality.  The best practices in the report include performing geohazard assessments and post-construction geohazard monitoring, accurately identifying water features, optimizing groundwater management and using hydroseeding and hydromulching. We use compliance tracking systems to manage regulatory requirements, permit conditions, and best practices. We report to our management on a monthly basis a summary of our compliance performance. We maintain an audit program to report on environmental and safety practices and implement corrective measures. We use an incident management database to internally report accidents and nears misses, document incident investigation findings, and corrective action items. Our incident management system provides us with the following capabilities: • gather incident data, • analyze causes, • track actions and deadlines, • identify trends, and • identify and share preventive actions. Our incident reporting system serves as an incident analysis and prevention tool, and a regulatory agency interaction internal reporting tool. Weekly senior management meetings include discussions of notable incidents including injuries, vehicle accidents, releases, third-party encroachments onto our thousands of miles of right-of-way, and near misses that may have occurred during the previous week.  In May 2017, we were chosen by an independent panel of EHS executives to receive the 2017 Verdantix EHS Innovative Technology Award.  The award recognizes our innovative use of technology to improve our EHS performance through the implementation of our incident management system. For more information see our EHS Policy Statement and Biodiversity Policy on our ESG/Sustainability webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ehs/esg_sustainability.aspx. 5.2 Hydrocarbon Spills (SASB Midstream EM0102-07, GRI 306-3) We strive to prevent hydrocarbon releases from our operations.  Sometimes hydrocarbon releases do occur, primarily from equipment failures or from loss of power from natural forces.  The releases usually are: • minimal, • below reportable quantities, • contained in secondary containment, and • immediately remediated. The releases usually do not result in significant environment impacts. 16 Improving Steep-Slope Pipeline Construction to Reduce Impacts to Natural Resources, 2018. https://www.conservationgateway.org/Documents/ImprovingSteepSlopePipelineConstructionReport.pdf. In most cases releases of liquids are confined to our property.  When a release occurs or migrates outside of containment, our emergency response procedures serve to promptly limit the impact to the environment. We anticipate reporting the number and volume of hydrocarbon spills, if any, beginning in 2019. 5.3 Marine Spills and Releases to the Environment (SASB Marine Transportation TR0301-08, GRI 306-3) We own a fleet of 16 medium range Jones Act-qualified product tankers, each with 330,000 barrels of cargo capacity.  Our fleet transports crude oil, condensate, and refined products under long-term contracts with high quality counterparties. Our vessels are operated by Intrepid Ship Management, a subsidiary of Crowley Maritime Corporation, a leading operator and technical manager in the U.S. maritime industry. Intrepid’s management system is designed to fulfill the requirements of the International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, ISO 9001:2008 Quality management system, and ISO 14001:2004 Environmental management systems. One of Crowley’s goals is to continually operate with no harm to people, property, or the environment.  The number of marine spills and releases and the aggregate volume are included below in cubic meters. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 1 Aggregate volume of marine spills and releases to the 0 0 <0.0001 environment In 2015 and 2016, our marine transportation operations had no spills or releases into the environment. In 2017, while ballasting a ship at the Philadelphia Shipyard, a bleeder plug on a ballast pump of one of our vessels failed and released approximately four ounces of hydraulic fluid to water.  The spill was immediately mitigated and the defective equipment repaired. 