Part 1 - Sustainability Report 1.0 Introduction We refer to the SASB portion of our Report as our “Sustainability Report” and the TCFD portion as our “TCFD Report.” We refer to the SASB Report and TCFD Report, collectively, as our “Report.” Our Report builds on our history of disclosure and analysis of our ESG performance. Since 2007, we have posted on our website each month our performance compared to industry averages and our own three-year average. Our performance against these metrics is regularly reported to our Board of Directors (Board), presented at our investor meetings, and used to determine compensation for our employees, including executives. Since 2009, we have posted annually on our website and Operational Excellence Report, listing ESG operational achievements. In 2018, we published our 2017 Report, our first stand.alone ESG Report using the SASB standards and the TCFD’s recommended disclosures.  In this 2018 Report, we have updated and expanded our disclosures to include several additional metrics, more detailed discussion and analysis, and an assessment of our business strategy under a 2°C scenario. In addition to our corporate and business segment EHS leadership teams and departments, our Board has a standing EHS Committee. The EHS Committee’s charter is available on our website at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/content/docs/kmi_ehs_committee%20charter.pdf. This committee assists our Board in overseeing management’s establishment and administration of our EHS policies, programs, procedures, and initiatives. Each of these items helps promote the safety and health of our employees, contractors, customers, the public, and the environment. Our Board has delegated the review and approval of our Report to its EHS Committee. Our Report has also been reviewed and received input from each business segment and our ESG Disclosure Committee, which consists of our: • CEO, • President, • CFO, • Chief Strategy Officer, • Business Segment Presidents, • General Counsel, • Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations, and • Vice President of Corporate EHS. Our Board also has a standing: • Nominating and Governance Committee, • Compensation Committee, and • Audit Committee. These committees assist our Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities including social and governance responsibilities. The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees our Board’s governance. The Compensation Committee oversees our compensation and benefit programs. The Audit Committee monitors our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The Audit Committee also reviews complaints, including confidential and anonymous submissions by our employees, regarding accounting, internal controls, disclosure, or auditing matters. We recognize there are many frameworks available for ESG reporting.  Accordingly, after engaging in extensive stakeholder dialogue and evaluating a number of reporting standards and guidelines, we selected SASB as our primary Sustainability Report framework. We chose the SASB framework and standards based on investor and lender feedback and because SASB focuses on disclosures of industry-specific ESG topics. Our disclosure is also informed by the GRI standards and CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, questionnaires. The metrics we report include the SASB SICSTM codes and, where there is alignment in metrics, GRI’s disclosure codes, and CDP’s question numbers.  We also used The Ceres Roadmap for Sustainability for guidance in developing our Sustainability Report. In this Report, we use SASB’s October 2018 final standards and primarily include metrics from the SASB Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas - Midstream Standard (EM-MD, Version 2018-10). Our Sustainability Report also includes metrics from other SASB standards, including: • Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas - Exploration & Production Standard (EM.EP, Version 2018-10), • Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas - Refining & Marketing Standard (EM-RM, Version 2018-10), • Transportation Sector - Marine Transportation Standard (TR-MT, Version 2018-10), and • Transportation Sector - Rail Transportation Standard (TR-RA, Version 2018-10). In Appendix A – Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Sustainability Accounting Metrics, we summarize our ESG metrics. In Appendix B – Activity Metrics, we include a set of metrics that quantify the scale of our business. These activity metrics are intended to allow users of our Report to normalize data and facilitate comparisons in conjunction with the sustainability accounting metrics. In Appendix C – Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Sustainability Accounting Metrics Reporting Criteria, we include the current SICSTM codes for the SASB metrics we report. Where there is alignment in metrics, we have included GRI’s disclosure codes and CDP’s question numbers.  In Appendix D – Recent SASB Pronouncements, we summarize recent changes to the SASB metrics. In Appendix E – Third Party Assurance and Verification Statements, we include the third-party assurance letter for our Report, which provides limited assurance for specific metrics reported for 2018. We have also included the third-party verification letter for our 2016 and 2017 KML GHG emissions data. 2.0 Overview of Business Our vision is to deliver energy to improve lives and create a better world.  We are one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in North America.  We own an interest in or operate approximately 84,000 miles of pipelines, 24 natural gas storage facilities, and 157 terminals. We have four business segments: • Natural Gas Pipelines, • Products Pipelines, • Terminals, and • CO2. Our pipelines transport: • natural gas, • refined petroleum products, • crude oil, • condensate, • CO2, • biofuels, and • other products. Our terminals store and handle commodities including: • gasoline, • distillate, • crude oil, • chemicals, • petroleum coke, and • other products. We are also a leading provider of CO2 for our and others’ use for enhanced oil recovery projects, primarily in the Permian Basin. On August 31, 2018, KML, our publicly traded Canadian subsidiary, completed the sale of the TMPL, the TMEP, the Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. to the Government of Canada. For 2018, “discontinued operations” includes TMPL data up to the date of sale.  KML continues to manage a portfolio of strategic infrastructure assets across Western Canada, including the: • crude terminal facilities, which constitute the largest merchant terminal storage position in the Edmonton market and the largest origination crude by rail loading facility in North America; • Vancouver Wharves Terminal, the largest mineral concentrate export/import facility on the west coast of North America; • Jet Fuel pipeline system; and • Canadian portion of the U.S. and Canadian Cochin pipeline system. KML has two business segments, Terminals, which consolidates into KMI’s Terminals business segment, and Pipelines, with a small portion consolidating into KMI’s Products Pipelines and a larger portion consolidating into KMI’s Natural Gas Pipelines business segments.  On August 21, 2019, KML announced an agreement under which Pembina Pipeline Corporation will acquire all the outstanding common equity of KML subject to the terms of an arrangement agreement between KML and Pembina. The parties expect to close the transaction late in the fourth quarter of 2019 or in the first quarter of 2020, subject to customary closing conditions, including KML shareholder and applicable regulatory approvals. Our mission is to provide energy transportation and storage services in a safe, efficient, and environmentally responsible manner for the benefit of people, communities, and businesses. We are committed to doing business the right way, every day.  To meet this commitment, our employees and representatives must act in accordance with our core values of: • integrity, • accountability, • safety, and • excellence. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics establishes the high standard of ethical conduct that our employees and representatives are expected to meet and outlines how everyday behavior should align with our core values. We train each of our employees annually on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and maintain compliance programs to prevent and detect potential violations. We encourage employees to speak up, seek guidance, and report issues or concerns through appropriate channels. We also maintain an anonymous third-party ethics hotline. Reported concerns are evaluated and investigated, as appropriate, by our Internal Audit, HR, EHS, and/or Legal Departments.  For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/content/docs/ km_code_of_business_conduct_and_ethics.pdf. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “KMI.”  For more information about us, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which can be found at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1506307/000150630719000033/ kmi-2018x10k.htm 