12.0 Employee Relations 12.1 Employees (SASB Investment Banking & Brokerage FN-IB-330a.1 and GRI 405-1) We are committed to living out our core values of integrity, accountability, safety, and excellence throughout our operations. We use a strategic approach to continue building a diverse, inclusive, and respectful workplace. Our Human Resources department provides expertise and tools to attract, develop, and retain diverse talent and support our employees’ career and development goals. We offer competitive base salaries in the markets in which we operate.  Compensation includes competitive benefits, including retirement plans, opportunities for annual bonuses, and long-term incentives. Employees in our corporate Houston office are offered a 100% transportation subsidy for local public transportation networks, which helps reduce reliance on individual personal vehicles. The overall purpose of our Annual Incentive Plan is to foster our executive officers’ and our employees’ personal stake in our continued success through the possible payment of annual cash bonuses that are dependent on a combination of individual and Company performance. Under the Annual Incentive Plan, a pool of bonus dollars is budgeted at the beginning of each year for annual cash bonuses that may be paid to our executive officers and other employees, depending on the extent to which we meet certain financial performance objectives. The Compensation Committee then establishes the final bonus pool based primarily on the extent to which the financial performance objectives are met. The Compensation Committee may also adjust the budgeted pool of bonus dollars upward or downward based on our overall performance in other areas, including targets for safety and environmental incident rates, regulatory compliance, and financial measurements. Our executive compensation program is designed to reward individuals for: • advancing our business strategies; • advancing the interests of our investors and other stakeholders; • incentivizing compliance with our ESG policies, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our EHS policies; and • meeting our ESG targets, including our safety and environmental targets.  We believe that an effective executive compensation program should link total compensation to our financial performance and to the attainment of our short-term and long-term strategic, operational, and financial objectives. We believe operational objectives should take into account adherence to and promotion of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our EHS policies. The composition of our employees’ age, female, and minority workforce representation are provided below. 2018 Total employees(a)(b) Age representation Average age Percentage under 18 years old Percentage from 18 through 29 years old Percentage from 30 through 50 years old Percentage over 50 years old Female employee representation Number in workforce(c) Percentage of workforce Percentage of management Percentage of Board of Directors Minority employee representation(d) Number in workforce(c) Percentage of workforce Percentage of management Percentage of Board of Directors 11,171 46 0% 11% 51% 39% 1,805 16% 18% 13% 3,111 28% 19% 13% (a) Includes full-time, part-time, and temporary employees in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. (b) U.S. data were queried in November 2018. Canadian and Mexico data were queried in December 2018. (c) Workforce includes positions in management, professional positions, and remaining positions. (d) U.S. and Canada diversity data are categorized per the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO-1) Survey and the Employment Equity Workforce Survey, respectively.  Mexico is excluded, as there is no requirement to collect diversity data. Minority includes the number of U.S. employees who classify themselves as Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native American or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and “Two or more races” and the Canada employees who identify themselves as a visible minority (other than Aboriginal peoples) who are non-white in color or non-Caucasian in race, regardless of their place of birth or citizenship. 12.2 Diversity and Inclusion (GRI 405-1) We consider employee diversity an asset and support equal opportunity employment.  We take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment all persons without regard to their race/ethnicity, sex, veteran status, disability, or other protected categories, and base employment decisions solely on valid job requirements. We prohibit discrimination or harassment against any employee or applicant on the basis of race/ethnicity, sex, or other protected categories listed within our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We are committed to a harassment free workplace, supported with online and face-to-face workplace harassment and discrimination prevention training for our leaders and employees. We seek to engage with a broad range of candidates for open positions and undertake initiatives such as active participation in veteran and other jobs fairs aimed at increasing diversity and fostering inclusion. Diverse, Multi-Generational Workforce We are committed to fostering an inclusive work environment where our diverse, multi-generational workforce can succeed. For example, we offer family-friendly, flexible work schedules for many job functions, where we can without interfering with business requirements, including a 9/80 schedule, half-day Fridays, and flexible time to begin and end the workday.  These flexible work schedules help to manage work commutes and address the needs of four generations in the workplace by balancing work and life commitments. Job Openings Posted on Diversity Sites We use the services of a major job posting board with over 1,000 diversity partners including companies and organizations that specifically target and attract women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities. We also partner with a job-delivery company to post job openings with local employment offices and community-based organizations that focus on women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities. Some of the websites for these organizations include Hire a Hero, Job Opportunities for Disabled American Veterans, RecruitABILITY, and U.S. Diversity. Military Benefits and Recruiting Military veterans have tools and skills that translate into what we do every day.  We value the leadership, drive, discipline, and strong work ethic that is developed in the military.  We are committed to providing opportunities to veterans and do so by building partnerships with military-focused recruiting companies and attending job fairs that focus on placing veterans. Further, we value our employees who are uniformed service members and want them to feel supported when called to active military duty.  When actively deployed, we provide employees the difference between their Kinder Morgan pay and their active military pay for up to two years. Genesys Works Program We are a partner with the Genesys Works program in Houston, Texas.  Genesys Works is a non-profit organization that provides meaningful corporate internships to local high school students from underserved communities, primarily serving minority students. We currently have nine motivated and high-potential students from the Genesys Works program engaged in an internship with us.  During their internships, students are able to develop their business skills, gain professional work experience, and create a plan for a successful future. Cristo Rey Work Study Program We are a partner with the Cristo Rey Jesuit Work-Study Program.  Cristo Rey Jesuit is a private high school offering a rigorous college preparatory education to young people of limited economic resources who live in Houston. 95% of Cristo Rey students are racial minorities. The program places students in Houston businesses where they earn up to 50% of the cost of their education and develop and hone social and technical skills in the workplace. In 2018, we had eight students participating in this work-study program. College Internship Program Building Opportunities through Learning Together (BOLT) is a successful paid internship program for college students. This 11 to 12-week program provides our interns with an opportunity to use their newly-gained skills on a challenging project. Each student is assigned a Kinder Morgan mentor and supervisor who guides them throughout their internship. Supervisors are responsible for determining project scope and conducting periodic evaluations of their intern’s progress.  At the end of the program, interns make presentations to their business segment management, peers, and HR. 12.3 Human Capital Development Programs (GRI 404-1 and 404-2) Our employees are an integral part of our success and we value their health, safety, and development.  We encourage and support professional development and learning for our employees by offering workforce training, tuition reimbursement, and other development programs. These programs help improve recruitment, development, and retention. In an effort to promote an open feedback culture, we engage with our employees through cross business segment teams, focus groups, and a third party administered, confidential survey.  Results from this feedback give us insight into employee satisfaction and help us develop strategies to more effectively engage with our team members. As an example, the results led us to develop updated vision and mission statements in 2019 to reaffirm our direction as a company and what we want to accomplish. Our employees have access to a LMS, a training tool used Company-wide. Through the LMS our employees can take online courses covering technical development, leadership, safety topics, and corporate policies, including our OMS and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. In 2018, Kinder Morgan employees completed over 193,000 hours of health, safety, and emergency response training through our LMS with each employee taking an average of 17 hours of training.  This equates to a roughly $10 million dollar investment in training for health, safety, and emergency response. We support our employees’ ongoing career goals and development through several programs.  These programs help maximize our employees’ potential and give them the skills they need to further enhance their careers. New Employee On-boarding Orientation Program We understand that developing our employees’ skills starts from day one.  New employees participate in an orientation program designed to help them: • learn more about our company, • understand processes and goals for their new positions, and • locate the internal resources available to help them succeed. Performance Review Program Employee performance reviews are conducted to maximize employee productivity and provide development feedback. Our performance review program allows employees to receive a timely and objective review of their job performance at least once a year. New Supervisor Training - Core Leadership Our Core Leadership Training program is for newly promoted or hired leaders to successfully make the transition from an individual contributor to a first-time leader.  This leadership development course takes a blended approach to learning, including: • online learning activities, • monthly virtual conference call roundtables to reinforce desired behaviors, and • follow-up by participants’ leaders.  The program focuses on the knowledge and skills we believe are core to being an effective leader and takes approximately six months to complete, with a time commitment of two to four hours per month. High-Potential Employee Training - Emerging Leaders Institute Our Emerging Leaders Institute is an internal two-year leadership-development training program designed to develop leadership bench strength. Employees who are nominated to participate in this program develop leadership skills, business acumen, and advanced presentation skills. The Next Level Training Program The Next Level program is based on the foundation of leaders developing leaders and is provided to employees transitioning from director-level roles to vice presidents.  This program focuses on the skills needed to transition between these roles and its content includes: • discussions with senior leadership, • self-assessments, and • development planning. Tuition Reimbursement We offer our full-time employees a tuition reimbursement program that provides employees with the opportunity to complete college level courses that encourage and support career growth. Relocation Assistance We provide relocation assistance to eligible employees to provide career development opportunities that may become available at our other locations. 13.0 Community Relations 13.1 Processes to Manage Risks and Opportunities Associated with Community Rights and Interests (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-210b.1, GRI 413-1) Our neighbors, governments, and communities play an important role in how we conduct our business. We live, work, and play in these communities.  Our policies are designed to facilitate our building trust and fostering collaboration within the communities in which we operate, including our commitment to: • community engagement, • respect, • transparency and responsiveness, • negotiate in good faith, • training, • fairness, and • responsible construction. We continually engage our leadership and resources to effectively fulfill these requirements.  Our internal Corporate Communications and Public Affairs employees help develop and implement our community relations strategies to reach a variety of stakeholders identified through our stakeholder mapping. In addition, project-specific team members help fulfill our commitment to communicate and work with communities in an effort to build trust and foster collaboration. Our internal guidelines recognize that it is important to identify project stakeholders, determine their needs and expectations, and then monitor and work with them on meeting those needs and/or expectations as appropriate. As described in Section 6.1 Environmental Management Policies and Practices for Active Operations, we take our local stakeholders’ concerns and feedback into consideration during the development of our growth projects. This process helps address potential issues prior to the start of construction. During construction we also consult with stakeholders directly affected by our operations.  This dialogue is intended to help us resolve issues as they arise or, better still, prevent issues from arising in the first place. The following Section 13.1.1 Stakeholder Engagement and Consultation Mechanisms describes additional ways we engage with stakeholders. We participate in industry trade associations to further communicate the benefits of our customers’ products and our services. We serve on communications committees where we assist in the development of communication materials that address topics such as: • safety, • construction, • restoration activities, • environmental considerations, and • the social and economic benefits of the industry.  We share messages through a variety of delivery methods, such as: • social media, • our website, • our employee ambassador program, • targeted print advertising, and • media statements. For more information, see our Community Relations Policy at https://www.kindermorgan.com/content/ docs/Community_Relations_Policy.pdf. 13.1.1 Stakeholder Engagement and Consultation Mechanisms We strive to build and maintain healthy relationships throughout the areas where we operate.  Many of our Community Relations Policy commitments are accomplished through ongoing stakeholder engagement and consultation. We have helped develop, establish, and promote industry best practices for stakeholder engagement.  We are committed to making stakeholder engagement a priority on our projects. In 2015, we participated in a working group to provide input to the FERC’s Suggested Best Practices for Industry Outreach Programs to Stakeholders.33 This guidance provides an overview of common practices and highlights how to effectively engage stakeholders during the application process for siting, construction, and operation of interstate natural gas facilities and LNG terminals, such as conducting open houses and presenting at community meetings. For new projects, our Public Affairs department develops a project-specific outreach and stakeholder engagement plan and timeline to notify stakeholders early about the project and to open and establish lines of communication. We respond to stakeholder feedback on each project and incorporate that feedback into the project planning process, including community engagement and community development planning. We offer stakeholders a variety of ways to contact us about major growth projects, such as project specific: • toll-free phone numbers, • email addresses, • websites, • public meetings, and • in-person meetings. Throughout a project’s timeline, our personnel may interact with a wide array of stakeholders, such as: • elected officials, • media outlets, • landowners, • local citizens groups, • protesters, and • other members of the public. We have systems in place for communicating with these different interests and training in place for project employees and contractors to prepare them for interactions with varying audiences. Initial project briefings and training sessions educate employees and contractors on communication procedures and resources. This training also provides: • an overview of our Company, • an overview of the project, and • the project’s purpose and benefits. The training reiterates the importance of being a good neighbor in the communities where the project is located. We also provide instructions for accessing relevant project personnel when needed to respond to specific stakeholder questions. The following table summarizes examples of ways we regularly engage and consult with stakeholders, including in the early stages before, during, and after the construction of projects. 33 FERC Office of Energy Projects. “Suggested Best Practices for Industry Outreach Programs to Stakeholders.” FERC. July 2015. 2019. <https://www.ferc.gov/industries/gas/enviro/guidelines/stakeholder-brochure.pdf>. Government andLandowners Community Members Emergency Responders Regulators Town halls and open houses  Town halls and open houses  In-person meetings  Delivering and managingregulatory compliance  In-person meetings Home and site visits Project websites  In-person meetings Project websites Social media  On-line emergencyresponder training Facility tours Emergency responsetabletops and exercises  Public policy and legislativeissue engagement Industry group involvement Facility tours  Public awareness communications  Employee volunteer projects  Emergency Response Plans  Social media  Community investment programs  The Responder E-newsletter  In-person meetings  Partnerships with local andregional organizations  Public awareness communications  Our website, www.kindermorgan.com, includes information about our current key growth projects and provides the following types of project information: • overview descriptions, • fact sheets, • maps, • contacts, and • other background information. For our largest projects, we often also create project-specific websites.  We provide contact information on our webpage where stakeholders can obtain further information if they have a question or concern about a projects’ development or operation. 13.1.1.1 Public Awareness Program Keeping our communities safe is of utmost importance and we keep local stakeholders informed about pipeline safety through our Public Awareness Program. Our Public Awareness Program is designed to: • create public awareness about pipelines in the areas where we operate, • provide important safety information to people living and working near our pipelines, • increase knowledge of the regulations for working around pipelines, • prevent damage to our pipelines, • educate first responders and the public on our emergency preparedness response activities, and • enhance public safety. Our program was developed under federal pipeline safety regulation consultation guidelines.34 Our program is an example of our ongoing stakeholder consultations in which we engage with, provide information to, and receive feedback from our stakeholders. We target communications with the following stakeholder groups as part of our outreach plans: • residents, • business owners, • farmers and ranchers, • schools, • contractors, and • government officials. 34 DOT-PHMSA. “Public Awareness Programs: API RP 1162.” DOT-PHMSA. Dec. 2003. 2019. <https://primis.phmsa.dot.gov/ comm/PublicAwareness/PARPI1162.htm>. Our program advocates pipeline safety and safe digging practices to the public through multiple avenues, including: • brochures; • newsletters; • newspaper, magazine, radio, and television advertisements; • direct contact; and • our website at https://www.kindermorgan.com/pages/public_awareness. The type, language, and formatting of the communication is selected based on the target audience and message to be delivered. To more effectively manage our program’s engagement strategy, we maintain a Public Awareness Program evaluation plan that includes the measures for tracking performance. We track our stakeholder engagement interactions and our responses to comments on a monthly basis. To evaluate the effectiveness of our program, we conduct baseline and supplemental public awareness surveys. We assess progress on the following measures to evaluate whether our public awareness actions are achieving the following intended goals and objectives: • information is reaching the intended stakeholder audiences; • recipient audiences understand the messages being delivered; • recipients are motivated to respond appropriately in alignment with the information provided; and • the program is impacting the underlying intended results, such as reduction in the number of incidents caused by third-party damage. We also conduct audits to assess the program and identify improvements for the program design or implementation. We place a high value on public safety and seek to educate the public to increase not only their understanding of pipeline locations and potential hazards, but also how to identify and respond to a potential leak. In addition to our Public Awareness Program, our project-specific emergency response plans detail how to communicate with external stakeholders to more effectively resolve potential concerns quickly and safely. For more information about our Public Awareness Program, see our website at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/pages/public_awareness/residents/default.aspx. For more information about our Responder E-newsletter, see our website at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/pages/public_awareness/The_Responder/default.aspx. 13.2 Social Investment Programs We are committed to giving back to the communities in which we operate.  We actively look for opportunities for our employees to get involved in community programs and strengthen their relationships with our stakeholders. Connect.Inspire.Give We launched a redesigned volunteer program in 2018 that includes additional volunteer opportunities in the local community, including drives for school supplies, toys, pet food, and other community needs. Our volunteer program schedule includes many diverse events such as: • fun runs benefiting non-profits, • repairing homes for the elderly and disadvantaged, • working at a food pantry, • restoring parks and trails, • feeding the homeless community, and • working with Special Olympics athletes. The goal of our program is to enable employees to connect with each other and the community while working toward a common goal. We hope that the organizations we support through these efforts inspire employees to give their time, talent, and donations. The program provides our employees an opportunity to connect with other employees in various departments and learn more about their community, improve morale, and develop new skills while improving peoples’ lives. Business Segment Community Investments We are committed to investing in the communities in which we operate.  We budget funds annually to distribute to community organizations and initiatives across our business segments and operating regions. The community organizations receiving these contributions typically fit into one of the following categories: • public safety and emergency response, • children’s educational or athletic programs, or • environmental sustainability and education. Contributions are also made to local organizations supporting recovery efforts from natural disasters. Below are some of the local organizations to which we contributed in 2018: • Tucson Clean and Beautiful in Tucson, AZ - Trees for Tucson Campaign • The North Valley Community Foundation in Chico, CA - Camp Wildfire Relief Fund • Cortez Parks Department in Cortez, CO - Community Garden Program • Elk Grove Community Council in Elk Grove, CA -Tree Planting Program Project Community Investments In addition to the community investments made on behalf of the business segments, we also make community investments in areas where major growth projects are proposed or under construction. These contributions are targeted toward local organizations that focus on children’s programs, either in academics or athletics, local public safety and emergency response, or environmental sustainability. Recipient organizations are identified in coordination with local stakeholders in the project area including elected officials and local NGOs. Some examples of these projects include: • Madison Parish Sheriff’s Department in Tallulah, LA - Bulletproof Vest Program • The Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation in Metairie, LA - “Save our Lake” Campaign • Waynedale High School in Waynedale, OH - Athletics Program • Caldwell County Junior Livestock Show in Lockhart, TX Kinder Morgan Foundation The Kinder Morgan Foundation’s mission is to provide today’s youth with opportunities to learn and grow in order to become tomorrow’s leaders.  The Kinder Morgan Foundation’s goal is to help today’s science, math and music students become the engineers, educators, and musicians who will support our diverse communities for many years to come. To accomplish this goal, the Kinder Morgan Foundation funds programs that promote the academic and artistic interests of young people in select cities and towns where we operate across North America.  The Kinder Morgan Foundation’s goal is to donate more than $1 million to qualifying 501(c)(3) organizations in the U.S. and Canada each year. In 2018, the Kinder Morgan Foundation’s activities donated to 614 organizations that provide educational, arts, and cultural programs serving approximately 4.7 million students. The Kinder Morgan Foundation requires that organizations submit applications for consideration and, once accepted, provide reports detailing both the results of the program throughout the year and the level of community development achieved as a result of the funding they received. The Kinder Morgan Foundation provided disaster relief assistance to organizations, such as the Red Cross and Salvation Army, in 2016, 2017, and 2018 when natural disasters significantly impacted our operations or employees. These funds were awarded based on the size and scale of the disaster and determined based on needs assessed by local operations. The Kinder Morgan Foundation also funded our Employee Matching Gift Program.  This program matches gifts made to university foundations, K through 12 education foundations, and non-profits that support arts and culture. Our full-time employees are each eligible to receive an employee matching grant of up to $2,000 per calendar year to a qualifying organization.  14.0 Human Rights and Rights of Indigenous Peoples 14.1 Human Rights (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-210a.3, GRI 103-2, GRI 408-1, GRI 409-1) Our business is driven by our core values of: • integrity, • accountability, • safety, and • excellence. We expect our employees and representatives to: • act with integrity, • do the right thing, and • treat everyone with respect. We consider compliance with laws and support of fundamental human rights to be basic responsibilities in conducting our business. We support the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles, derived from the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which are: • Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We prohibit the use of child labor or forced labor in our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.  Our employees and contractors, with the exception of some interns, must be at least 18 years of age. We also recognize and respect our employees’ right to join associations for the purpose of collective bargaining in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules, regulations and customs. Our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and business partners are expected to: • treat people with dignity and respect with respect to human rights, • adhere to standards of conduct consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics when conducting Company-related business activities, and • adhere to our Human Rights Statement. In the event anyone witnesses or learns of an incident that may involve an ethics, compliance or human rights violation, they can it report it to the Kinder Morgan Ethics Hotline.  Our ethics hotline allows the report to be made confidentially and anonymously. Within the areas of our activity and influence, we are committed to: • being attentive to concerns raised by stakeholders, • working with stakeholders to support human rights, and • providing remedies to correct negative human rights impacts. For more information, see our Human Rights Statement at https://www.kindermorgan.com/content/docs/ Human_Rights_Statement.pdf. 14.2 Rights of Indigenous Peoples (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-210a.3, GRI 103-2) We respect the diversity of culture and unique history of Indigenous Peoples.  We strive to build long-term relationships and commercial partnerships with Indigenous Peoples through meaningful engagement based on mutual respect. In the course of our projects and operations, we conduct business with Indigenous Peoples consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Indigenous Peoples Policy.  We engage in good faith with community members while communicating and cooperating with affected Indigenous Peoples.  We are committed to: • participating in good faith engagement; • continuing to partner with community members in suitable employment opportunities, as well as education, commercial, and community development opportunities; • identifying opportunities to support youth, education, culture, and the environment; and • negotiating in good faith with indigenous and government entities. 