3.0 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 3.1 Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions, Percentage Methane, Percentage Covered under Emissions-Limiting Regulations (SASB Midstream EM-MD-110a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-110a.1, GRI 305-1, CDP C6.1, CDP C6.3, CDP C7.3, CDP C7.6, CDP C7.9, CDP C8.1-8.2f) Our GHG emissions, including methane, are calculated using the methodologies outlined in the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.8 8 World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.” World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Mar. 2004. 2021. <https://ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf>. The Scope 1 GHG emissions reported below include: • GHG emission sources applicable to the EPA’s GHGRP; • facilities that are exempt from the EPA’s GHGRP because they emit less than 25,000 metric tons CO2e per year; and • sources that are exempt from the EPA’s GHGRP, such as mobile equipment and refrigerants. Examples of our Scope 1 GHG emission sources by emission type include: • flared hydrocarbons - flares; • other combustion - engines and turbines that drive compressors, boilers and heaters, vapor combustion devices, and stationary and fleet vehicle engines; • process emissions - dehydration and gas sweetening processes; • other vented emissions - blowdowns and compressor starts; and • fugitive emissions - equipment component leaks, refrigerants, and vapor handling systems. Our gross global operational control Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and GHG emission intensity from our continuing operations are provided below and include 100% of the emissions from assets we operate, even for those assets we do not own 100%. Our gross global equity share Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, which include our share of emissions from assets in which we own an interest, from our continuing operations were 17.1 million metric tons CO2e in 2020 and are included in Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In million metric tons of CO2e, except percentages and emission intensity) Scope 1 GHG emissions Gross global Scope 1 emissions(a)(b)(c) Percentage of gross global Scope 1 emissions fromcontinuing operations by emission type(a)(b) Flared hydrocarbons Other combustion  14.1 4 % 72 %  16.3 2 % 69 %  15.6 2 % 66 %  Process emissions  6 %  6 %  5 %  Other vented emissions  12 %  15 %  18 %  Fugitive emissions from operations Percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations Percentage methane Scope 2 GHG emissions Gross global market-based Scope 2 emissions(a)(c)(d) Total Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions Total gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions GHG emission intensity Company-wide BOE throughput (BBbl/yr)(e) Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity (metric tons CO2e per BOE throughput)(e)  6 % 0 % 18 % 3.4 17.5 5.0 0.004  8 % 0 % 23 % 3.4 19.7 5.6 0.004  9 % 0 % 27 % 3.1 18.7 5.1 0.004  (a) GHG emissions were quantified per the SASB Midstream Standard and the ISO 14064-1:2006, Greenhouse gases - Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for the quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals. Emissions are reported for CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs from direct and indirect sources.  The IPCC AR5 GWPs were used to convert CH4 (28) and N2O (265) emissions to CO2e.  The following GWPs were used for HFCs:  R-410A: 1725, HFC-134a: 1200, HCFC-22: 1760, R-404A: 3260, R-407C: 1526, R1234yf: 4, R-600A: 5, R-407C: 1526, HFC-32: 677, HFC-23: 12,400, CFC-12: 10,200, R-422d: 2,625, R-600: 5.  Gross emissions are GHGs emitted to the atmosphere before accounting for offsets, credits, or other similar mechanisms that have reduced or compensated for emissions.  Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for our continuing operations in Canada and Mexico are less than 500 thousand metric tons. (b) Excludes emissions from construction activities, wastewater treatment, fire suppression activities, enclosed circuit breakers operated by the Natural Gas Pipelines business segment, refrigerants from mobile equipment not tracked in our fleet database, fugitive emissions from natural gas supply lines for the Terminals and Products Pipelines business segments, and insignificant emissions from small combustion activities. (c) Discontinued operations include emissions from divestitures that are greater than 5% of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 total emissions for the applicable business segments.  If emissions from divestitures are less than or equal to 5%, the emissions are included in continuing operations.  In 2018 and 2019, discontinued operations include emissions from TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. up to the sale date of August 31, 2018 and KML and the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline up to the sale date of December 16, 2019.  There were no discontinued operations that met the greater than 5% threshold in 2020.  In 2018 and 2019, Scope 1 emissions from discontinued operations were less than 50,000 metric tons CO2e and Scope 2 emissions from discontinued operations were 0.2 and 0.1 million metric tons CO2e, respectively. (d) Scope 2 GHG emissions include indirect emissions from purchased electricity that were calculated using the market-based method.  Location-based emissions are included in Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics. (e) Annual throughput information was obtained using published definitions from ONE Future and, where no definitions were available, throughput is generally defined as “product receipt.”  Throughput was converted to MMBtu using product-specific heat content, obtained from the EIA, EPA, or business segment data.  This is then converted to BOE by dividing by 5.8 MMBtu per barrel of crude oil. “Other combustion” is our largest emission type and includes fuel combustion emissions from engines and turbines that drive our compressors, boilers and steam generators, and other stationary combustion equipment.  The largest source of emissions within this type are our natural gas fired compressor drivers comprising approximately 50% of our total Scope 1 emissions. “Other vented emissions” is our second largest emission type and includes emissions from blowdowns for maintenance, integrity testing, and emergency activities at our pipelines, compressors, and compressor stations. The increase in our Scope 1 GHG emissions from 2018 to 2019 was primarily driven by our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment’s expansion projects being placed into service. Other increases from 2018 to 2019 include increased utilization of existing assets and additional pipeline blowdowns.  The decrease in our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from 2019 to 2020 was primarily due to lower activity on our assets driven by economy-wide effects from the COVID-19 pandemic. Our strategies to manage our methane and GHG emissions are described in Section 3.2 Strategy to Manage Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions of the Sustainability Report. PwC, a third party, provided limited assurance of our 2020 emissions inventory.  The assurance statement for 2020 is included in Appendix D – Third-Party Assurance Statement. Scope 1 GHG emissions submitted to EPA’s GHGRP undergo additional electronic validation and verification checks.  If potential errors are identified, the EPA notifies the reporter, who can resolve the issue either by providing an acceptable response describing why the flagged issue is not an error or by correcting the flagged issue and resubmitting the annual GHG report. 3.2 Strategy to Manage Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions (SASB Midstream EM-MD-110a.2, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-110a.3, GRI 102-26, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-5, CDP C1.1b, CDP C3.1) We operate or own an interest in approximately 70,000 miles of natural gas pipelines that transport approximately 40% of the natural gas consumed domestically or exported as LNG.  Accordingly, we have been an important part of the transition from coal-fired to natural gas-fired electricity generation; a transition that has benefited the global environment.  Compared to coal, burning natural gas emits: • virtually no SOx, particulate matter, or mercury; • approximately half as much CO2; and 9,10• one-fifth as much carbon monoxide and NOx. These lowered emissions from natural gas-fired plants have contributed to the recent significant drop in U.S. CO2 emissions. Lower SOx emissions also significantly reduce acid rain formation. Natural gas-fired power plants are also an important component of the continued expansion of renewable energy. They provide a reliable source of electricity to back up intermittent renewable sources such as solar and wind. This interconnected electricity generation network helps to further reduce CO2 emissions. A 2018 Environmental Defense Fund report recognized both the long-term climate advantages of using natural gas in electricity generation and the feasibility of achieving significant emission reductions by addressing fugitive emissions.11  The report further recognized that significant fugitive emission reductions are possible through broader adoption of emission measurement and reduction best practices and technologies. We have been focused on and committed to methane emission reductions in our operations for several decades. Our commitment and the actions we have taken are described in Section 3.2.1 GHG Emission Reduction Efforts of the Sustainability Report. 3.2.1 GHG Emission Reduction Efforts (GRI 102-12) We support domestic and international efforts to mitigate climate change.  Some of our efforts to reduce methane and other GHG emissions are described in the sections below. 3.2.1.1 Methane Emission Reduction Commitment (GRI 102-13) We recognize that methane emissions associated with the production, transportation, storage, and distribution of natural gas should be minimized so that those emissions do not diminish the climate advantage of natural gas over other fuels. We have an economic incentive to minimize methane emissions because pipeline quality natural gas has a methane content of approximately 95%.  Minimizing our methane emissions maximizes the amount of natural gas kept in our pipelines and delivered to our customers. We support performance-based federal regulations and have minimized methane emissions in our operations for more than 25 years.  We continue to apply methane emission reduction strategies and report voluntary methane emission reductions, which include emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted, as part of EPA’s Natural Gas STAR and Methane Challenge programs and through the ONE Future Coalition.  Through these programs, we have implemented initiatives that have resulted in over 126 Bcf of methane reductions since 1993. Our reductions have contributed to the overall U.S. methane emission reductions from natural gas systems of approximately 16% from 1990 to 2019, while natural gas production has increased 91% over the same period.12,13 These results reflect both the environmental benefit of 9 EIA. “How much carbon dioxide is produced when different fuels are burned?” EIA, 17 June 2020. 2021. <https:// www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=73&t=11>.10 EIA. “Natural Gas Issues and Trends: Table 2.” EIA. 1998: 58. 11 R. A. Alvarez et al. “Assessment of methane emissions from the U.S. oil and gas supply chain.” Science. 361 (2018): 186-188. 12 EPA. “Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks, 1990-2019.” EPA, 14 Apr. 2021: ES-16, 3-89. 2021. <https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2021-04/documents/us-ghg-inventory-2021-main-text.pdf>.13 EIA. “U.S. Dry Natural Gas Production.” EIA, 26 Feb. 2021. 2021. <https://www.eia.gov/dnav/ng/hist/n9070us2A.htm>. minimizing and preventing methane emissions, and the economic incentive to keep natural gas in our pipelines and storage facilities. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR and Methane Challenge Programs For over a quarter of a century, we have voluntarily participated in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program, implementing initiatives to reduce our methane emissions.  In 2016, we became a partner in the EPA Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program that provides us a flexible way to make specific and transparent commitments to implement methane emission reductions from our operations. We are participating in the Methane Challenge Program under the ONE Future Emission Intensity Commitment Option for our natural gas transmission and storage assets. ONE Future - Founding Member ONE Future is a coalition of members across the natural gas value chain focused on identifying policy and technical solutions for reducing methane emissions associated with the delivery of natural gas.  ONE Future’s members include some of the largest natural gas production, gathering and boosting, processing, transmission and storage, and distribution companies in the U.S.  In 2019, these ONE Future companies accounted for approximately 16% of total natural gas production, 57% of natural gas transmission pipeline miles, and 18% of the total U.S. natural gas delivered by local distribution companies.14 ONE Future members aspire to enhance the energy delivery efficiency of natural gas by: • limiting energy waste, and • achieving a cumulative methane emission intensity target, the “leakage” rate, for member companies of 1% or less of total natural gas production across the natural gas value chain by 2025.  To put the current ONE Future target of 1% methane emission intensity into context, the natural gas supply chain’s methane emission intensity, based on the EPA’s 2012 National Greenhouse Gas Inventory, was 1.44% of total natural gas production. In order to meet the ONE Future 1% target, the natural gas industry required an additional 30% improvement in methane intensity across the natural gas supply chain.  The ONE Future 2019 Methane Emission Intensities Report shows a methane intensity rate of 0.334% for member companies, outperforming the 2025 target by 67%. The ONE Future Emission Intensity Commitment is intended to drive actions to achieve segment-specific methane emission reduction targets established by the ONE Future Coalition.  To meet these targets, we have committed to reducing methane emissions, while maintaining pipeline integrity and safety and minimizing customer impacts.  Our targets and performance are described in greater detail in Section 3.4.3 GHG Targets of the Sustainability Report. INGAA Climate Change Statement We support INGAA’s 2021 Climate Change Statement regarding climate change and building a cleaner energy future for natural gas transmission and storage operations.15  For INGAA members, these commitments include: • reducing GHG emissions throughout member operations; • continuing to implement long-term strategies to lower emissions while working as an industry to reach net zero GHG emissions by 2050, supported by necessary technology advancements and 14 ONE Future Coalition. “ONE Future 2020 Methane Emission Intensities Report.” ONE Future Coalition, 19 Nov. 2020. 2021. <https://onefuture.us/2020-methane-emissions-intensity-report/>.15 INGAA. “2021 Vision Forward: Addressing Climate Change Together.” INGAA, Jan. 2021. 2021. <https://https:// www.ingaa.org/File.aspx?id=38523&v=6553c6c8>. sound public policy initiatives; • reducing both carbon intensity and net global GHG emissions throughout member operations by adopting and investing in innovative technologies; and • working with customers, government agencies, NGOs, and other stakeholders to adopt innovative solutions. Our own Statement on Climate Change can be found at https://www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/ media/Documents/Climate_Change_KM_Statement.pdf. Methane Reduction Strategies We have implemented the following methane reduction strategies at one or more of our facilities: • performing maintenance and repairs on component leaks including those identified through annual methane leak surveys; • providing training to our operations personnel; • communicating policies and procedures detailing program requirements to improve methane management; • minimizing methane emissions from transmission pipeline blowdowns by: . pumping down pipelines when gas evacuation is needed for repair or testing; . repairing pipelines using sleeves and composite wraps; and . performing hot taps to make new connections, eliminating the need for pipeline blowdowns. • conducting performance-based monitoring and replacement for reciprocating compressor rod packing; • using dry seals for new centrifugal compressor installations; • converting our reciprocating engine and turbine gas starters to electric or air operated starters; • cathodically protecting our pipelines which helps prevent pipeline degradation and leaks; • installing electrically operated glycol pumps to replace natural gas-operated pumps; • testing advanced methane emission reduction technologies and work practices such as satellite and aerial methane detection as well as laser absorption monitoring; • installing low- or zero-bleed natural gas pneumatic devices on new facilities; • collaborating with customers, peers, and regulators on best practices and new technologies; and • looking for new ways to reduce emissions. For more examples of how we implement our methane reduction strategies, see Our Commitment to Reducing Methane Emissions case study video and fact sheet athttps://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety.Environment/ESG#tabs-case_studies. Methane Detection Technologies We engage with peer companies and customers to share experiences and strategies concerning methane detection technologies and best practices, both of which are evolving rapidly.  We are using innovative technologies and are evaluating emerging technologies or approaches in many ways, including: • testing different configurations of infrared and laser absorption sensors; • contracting multiple service providers who use sensors mounted on helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft to conduct aerial methane detection surveys. Since 2016, we have conducted such surveys on over 2,000 miles of our natural gas pipelines;  • evaluating satellite-based and continuous methane detection; • using OGI cameras or other EPA-approved technologies to verify suspected leaks. In addition, since the inception of the EPA’s GHGRP, our annual methane leak surveys have included natural gas processing plants and transmission and storage compressor stations subject to the EPA’s GHGRP. At these facilities, we conduct methane leak surveys using OGI cameras or other EPA-approved technologies.  We use EPA-approved methods, such as direct flow measurement, to estimate methane leak rates from compressors and other components. For compressor leaks, we use direct flow measurements to develop entity-specific emission factors. For these facilities we conduct direct measurements at least annually for the following sources, when applicable: • compressor unit rod packing vents, • compressor unit blowdown and isolation valve vents, • compressor wet seal oil degassing vents, • atmospheric storage tanks, and • equipment/pipeline components. Our operations personnel are informed when a leak is detected and are provided with quarterly reminders to review the identified leaks and perform repairs.  Repairs are made either upon discovery, during the next scheduled maintenance at the facility, or when feasible. We anticipate evaluating and potentially implementing other methane emission reduction technologies or methane reduction work practices at our natural gas operations on a case-by-case basis.  We report our use of specific technologies and work practices annually to the EPA. 3.2.1.2 Other GHG Emissions Reduction Efforts In addition to methane emission reductions, we have implemented one or more of the following Scope 1 emission reduction strategies: • developed procedures to shut down our equipment to reduce idle time; • optimized temperature controls and preventative maintenance to reduce fuel consumption; • shut in oil production wells during routine maintenance; • reduced flaring by: . improving compressor reliability, . re-injecting unprocessed gas when processing equipment is down for maintenance activities, . automating gas control, . improving flaring metering, and . optimizing downtime. Efficient equipment uses less energy to maintain equivalent output.  We continue to evaluate new ways to reduce our emissions by increasing the efficiency of our equipment.  For example, we have projects in place to evaluate the operational possibilities of: • dispatching the most efficient compressors first, • replacing lower efficiency valves, and • performing life-cycle cost analysis on equipment. To reduce the GHG emissions related to individual personal vehicles, we offer employees in our corporate Houston office a 100% transportation subsidy to encourage the use of local public transportation. Our current flexible work schedules and the hybrid work schedule we are evaluating are also expected to reduce GHG emissions from employees’ commutes. 3.2.2 Research and Development Emission Reduction Industry Initiatives and Studies We participate in several industry initiatives to implement methane emission reduction strategies.  Below are a few examples of how we actively engage with various trade associations and regulatory entities to share data, our experience with methane monitoring and management, and best practices for achieving methane emission reductions. • IAB for DOE’s ARPA-E Project As a participant in the IAB for DOE’s ARPA-E Project, we advised ARPA-E and Colorado State University on the development of a methane emission test site. This test site simulated actual natural gas leaks that might occur at production and gathering facilities and underground pipelines.  This test site project is part of the ARPA-E Methane Observation Networks with Innovative Technology to Obtain Reduction program. The goal of the program is to develop innovative and cost-effective methane leak detection technologies to more precisely and efficiently locate and measure methane emissions associated with natural gas operations and oil production wells with associated gas production. The next generation leak detection technologies are expected to drive enhanced leak detection and repairs to further reduce methane emissions.  We were actively engaged in multiple aspects of the project including: • development of the test site, • evaluation of the various leak detection technologies being developed, and • providing guidance to the test site developers on industry expectations and steps for regulatory approval of these technologies. The results of the ARPA-E Project show that several leak detection technologies can detect leaks and locate the leak to within two meters of its location. Some technologies are able to differentiate between large and small leaks and minimize false positive detections.  Further development and testing of the technologies in the field are needed to enhance their successful deployment.  The testing site is still used for research involving methane emission detection, safety, and other field measurement projects. It is also used as the location for OGI training courses where operators receive hands-on experience to improve their ability to detect methane leaks. • New York State’s Emission Measurement Project We are participating in a research study, conducted by Harrisburg University and funded by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, to characterize methane emissions from midstream oil and gas facilities in New York State.  The aim of the study is to improve the State’s understanding of spatial and temporal variations of methane emissions from midstream assets and refine available methane emission factors. • DOE National Methane Emission Estimates and Methane Emission Factors Studies We collaborated with the DOE on three additional DOE-funded studies to develop improved national methane emission estimates and methane emission factors; two studies for natural gas gathering compressor stations and one study for underground natural gas storage wells and fields.16,17  The current methane emission factors used for gathering compressor stations are more than 20 years old and are based on a limited dataset.  In October 2018 and April 2019, the DOE issued the final reports for the natural gas gathering compressor station studies, and in May 2019, the DOE completed the study for underground natural gas storage wells and fields.18 These studies establish recommendations for improved and more representative methane emission factors.  Our employees participated on the Steering Committee and Technical Review Committee for each study. We also permitted academic institutions and consultants to perform testing at more than 30 of our natural gas gathering compressor stations. • DOE NETL Methane Emission Life Cycle Analysis We collaborated with DOE’s NETL on a methane emission life cycle analysis.  This analysis, performed by NETL, included input from ONE Future members representing each sector of the natural gas industry value chain. The study evaluated specific emission reduction opportunities in each part of the value chain. The study, which was updated in 2020, indicated that the average life cycle methane emission rate for ONE Future members was below the methane emission rate for the U.S., at 0.76% and 1.06% respectively.19 Results from the study have helped inform ONE Future members and others interested in the impact of ONE Future members’ emission reduction activities on overall methane life cycle emissions. • PRCI GHGRP Methane Emission Factors Study We worked with PRCI on a study of the EPA’s GHGRP methane emission data, resulting in two reports with recommendations for more up-to-date and accurate emission factors.  The first report evaluated emissions from compressor seals, isolation valves, and blowdown valves based on direct measurements as required by GHGRP. The second report evaluated other facility leaks, pneumatic controller venting, condensate tank dump valve leakage, and station blowdown emissions.  The project evaluated and analyzed the dataset and compared methane emission estimates from these sources to historical data used by the EPA in its annual GHG inventory report.  The annual GHG inventory report uses historical emission factors from the June 1996 EPA and Gas Research Institute Report, Methane Emissions from the Natural Gas Industry.20 The results of both these studies can be used to provide more current emission factors, estimate the relative contribution of different methane emission sources, and support more efficient methane emission reduction activities for natural gas transmission and storage operations. • NREL Electric Power Grid and Natural Gas Network Operations and Coordination As part of a consortium of industry partners, we worked with NREL on a study to explore the 16 Zimmerle, Daniel, et al. “Characterization of Methane Emissions from Gathering Compressor Stations: Final Report October 2019 Revision.” Energy Institute Colorado State University, Oct. 2019. 2021. <https://mountainscholar.org/bitstream/ handle/10217/194544/Final%20Report.pdf?sequence=5&isAllowed=y>.17 GSI Environmental Inc. “Integrated Component-Specific Measurements to Develop Emission Factors for Compressors and Gas Gathering Lines.” GSI Environmental Inc, 1 Oct. 2018. 2021. <https://www.netl.doe.gov/sites/default/files/2019-01/ FE0029084_Final.pdf>.18 GSI Environmental Inc. “Long-Term Methane Emissions Rate Quantification and Alert System for Natural Gas Storage Wells and Fields.” GSI Environmental Inc, 29 Jan. 2020. 2021. <https://netl.doe.gov/sites/default/files/2020-01/FE0029085.Final-Report.pdf>.19 NETL. “Industry Partnerships and Their Role in Reducing Natural Gas Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions- Phase 2.” DOE NETL, 12 Feb. 2021: 1-2. 2021. <https://netl.doe.gov/projects/files/NETL-Industry-Partnerships-and-their-Role-in.Reducing-Natural-Gas-Supply-Chain-Greenhouse-Gas-Emissions-Phase-2-12FEB2021.pdf>.20 EPA. “Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks, 1990-2019.” EPA, 11 Apr. 2021: 3-74. 2021. <https:// www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2021-04/documents/us-ghg-inventory-2021-main-text.pdf>. benefits of coordinating power systems and natural gas networks.21 The study used actual power-and gas-system data from the participants, including our Colorado Interstate Gas system.  Study results show that coordination reduced costs and emissions and alleviated fragmented, inefficient, and potentially costly, market operator interventions.  The results also show that greater flexibility in the gas nominations process could cut down on gas curtailments.  This could be particularly important in the future as increased use of renewables is expected to require greater flexibility from gas fired generators. • NREL Renewable Energy Opportunities at Oil and Gas Operations We also partnered with NREL to use an analytical software platform, called REopt, to evaluate the technological and economic potential of various clean energy technologies to support our oil and gas operations. The platform allows us to run and compare multiple scenarios to determine the most economic use of grid electricity and renewable energy technologies at one of our gas plants and some of our electric compressor stations. • Stanford Natural Gas Initiative We are an affiliate member of the Stanford Natural Gas Initiative which is a collaboration of more  than 40 research groups at Stanford University drawn from engineering, science, policy, geopolitical, and business disciplines. This initiative works with a consortium of industry partners and other external stakeholders to generate the knowledge needed to use natural gas to its greatest social, economic, and environmental benefit. As an affiliate member, we have access to informed research and the ability to interact with Stanford faculty and industrial colleagues for issues related to natural gas. The dollar amount we have invested in research and development projects related to GHG emissions and climate change are provided below. For 2020, these amounts include contributions for GHG-related projects through PRCI, ONE Future, the INGAA Foundation, and the Stanford Natural Gas Initiative. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In thousands) Research and development investments in GHG emissions and $ 257 $ 226 $ 251other climate change-related projects(a) (a) The amount invested includes the work hours our employees spent on DOE GHG-related projects. CCUS We participate with other organizations to advance CCUS policy and technology. In 2019, we participated in the National Petroleum Council study to define potential pathways for integrating CCUS into the energy and industrial marketplace.  We participated on the CCUS Technology Task Group and one of our employees co-authored the CO2 transportation chapter. 21 NREL. “Electric Power Grid and Natural Gas Network Operations and Coordination.” NREL, Sept. 2020: 1-63. 2021. <https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy20osti/77096.pdf>. The draft National Petroleum Council report, Meeting the Dual Challenge: A Roadmap to At-Scale Deployment of Carbon Capture, Use, and Storage, was published in December 2019.22 The report concludes that at-scale deployment requires: • strong collaboration between industry and government; • improved policies, financial incentives, and regulations; • broad-based innovation and technology development; and • increased understanding and confidence in CCUS. In 2020, we participated in the Baker Institute for Public Policy’s working group to explore the deployment of CCUS technologies in the state of Texas. The working group consisted of corporations, industry associations, special interest groups, academic institutions, and NGOs.  The paper, Expanding Carbon Capture in Texas, was developed from working group discussions, and summarizes that Texas has a comparative advantage when it comes to implementing CCUS technologies, and that lawmakers and regulators can help assist the development of a CCUS industry in Texas by addressing existing legal and regulatory uncertainties and by carefully considering pathways that can establish Texas as a leader in a low carbon energy future.23 In 2021, we joined the Colorado Energy Office CCUS Task Force along with representatives from industry, government, academia, and nonprofits. The task force is evaluating Colorado’s opportunities for carbon capture, transport, utilization, and storage resources to: • reduce Colorado’s GHG emissions to help achieve emission reduction targets; • complement other emission reduction technologies like zero-carbon electricity production; • improve environmental and air quality in disproportionately impacted communities; and • create economic opportunities, such as retrofit job creation, and other regional economic impacts. 3.2.3 Industry and Agency Participation Our employees have undertaken leadership roles in the INGAA GHG Task Force, serving as co-chairs from late 2008 to 2011, and from 2013 through 2020.  Our employees have also served as co-chairs for the INGAA EHS Air Strategies Task Force. We collaborate with the EPA and DOE on methane emission reductions.  We exchange data with the EPA and engage in discussions about potential emissions management strategies.  This joint effort aims to identify the most effective means of implementing methane emission reductions at natural gas transmission and storage operations. We participate in collaborative meetings with various NGOs to improve their understanding of natural gas storage facilities, operations, emissions, and safety technologies.  Our work is ongoing in numerous federal, state, and industry venues. We participate in the New York City Mayor’s Office of Resiliency CCATF.  The CCATF was established in January 2008 and helped with New York City’s Hurricane Sandy recovery efforts.  The CCATF’s objectives are to: • identify critical infrastructure in New York City that could be at risk from the effects of climate 22 National Petroleum Council. “Meeting the Dual Challenge A Roadmap to At-Scale Deployment of Carbon Capture, Use, and Storage.” National Petroleum Council, Dec. 2019. 2021. <https://dualchallenge.npc.org/ downloads.php>.23 Baker Institute for Public Policy.  “Expanding Carbon Capture in Texas.” Baker Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, Jan. 2021. 2021. <https://www.bakerinstitute.org/media/files/files/8e661418/expanding-ccus-in-texas.pdf>. change, • facilitate knowledge sharing and develop coordinated adaption strategies to secure these assets, and • develop findings and recommendations. We also support Arizona’s Climate Change Action Plan through our participation in an afforestation program called Trees for Tucson in Tucson, Arizona.  The Trees for Tucson program was temporarily suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020; however, since 2017, we have contributed to planting approximately 950 trees in the Tucson metropolitan area. These trees sequester CO2, helping to offset CO2 in the atmosphere. 3.2.4 Compliance Reporting and Regulation Facilities in each of our business segments are subject to greenhouse gas reporting programs with the EPA or ASEA, as applicable, and to federal and state leak detection and repair regulations.  We measure, monitor, and quantify GHG emissions to satisfy the requirements of these rules using our extensive emissions monitoring equipment and measurement programs. We use these tools to conduct leak surveys for both regulatory and voluntary programs.  In 2020, we reported emissions to the EPA, ASEA, and 14 state or local agencies. The EPA’s GHGRP requires annual leak detection surveys at subject facilities.  LDAR inspections to identity and fix equipment leaks are required by the EPA’s New Source Performance Standards for natural gas processing plants and oil and gas production, transmission, and distribution facilities and several state-specific regulations.  Monitoring frequency and methods vary depending on facility type, and surveys may be conducted monthly, quarterly, or annually. We conduct LDAR inspections and identify leaks using OGI, flame ionization detectors, and other technologies.  If we identify a leak during our LDAR surveys, we repair it and then resurvey to confirm that the repair addressed the leak. As described in Section 3.4.3 GHG Targets of the Sustainability Report, we committed to conduct leak surveys at each of our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations by the end 2021. 3.2.5 Energy Management (GRI 102-5, GRI 302-1, GRI 302-4, CDP C8.2, CDP C8.2a) One of the most impactful ways we reduce our overall emissions is by managing our energy consumption.  Per our OMS, which is described in greater detail in Section 2.2 Management System of the Sustainability Report, we strive for continuous improvement in our energy efficiency and have implemented several energy management initiatives. We employ energy management personnel who oversee multiple programs and strategies to both minimize energy costs and monetize our reductions in energy usage. Demand Response We participate in curtailment and demand response programs. By analyzing our operations and energy consumption at a detailed level, we are able to reduce the amount of energy we pull from local electric grids when requested by local electric grid operators. Some of the largest demand response, load management, and utility reliability programs we participate in include the Base Interruptible Program in California and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas Emergency Response Service program.  We also participate in the 4 Coincident Peak program in Texas, which relies on incentives to reduce load when available capacity is low. Engineering Design We also have reduced energy consumption by optimizing our pipeline and facility design to utilize devices that use less energy while maximizing output. For example, we use variable frequency drives on many of our pumps to improve pipeline flow control and increase energy efficiency.  Variable frequency drives also allow us to monitor the efficiency of our pumps, control pump speed, and reduce surges to nearby power suppliers. DRA One of the methods we use to reduce energy consumption in our Products Pipelines and CO2 business segments is the use of DRA. DRA is a long-chain polymer chemical that disrupts the molecular activity at the fluid boundary layer near the inside pipe wall, thereby reducing friction.  DRA decreases the amount of energy lost due to turbulence formation and allows us to move more product through our pipelines using less energy. Our deployment of DRA in key locations has reduced the electricity needed to move products within our Products Pipelines and CO2 business segments. The use of DRA has also allowed us to reduce the use of, or completely shut down unneeded pump stations, and avoid construction of new pump station infrastructure. In 2020, the deployment of DRA, in our Products Pipelines business segment, helped reduce the energy needed to operate and avoided approximately 364 GWh of electricity consumption.24 This energy savings is roughly equivalent to 257,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions avoided, which is comparable to the energy used by approximately 31,000 homes for one year or the carbon sequestered by 316,000 acres of U.S. forests in one year.25 Offices and Buildings We continue to seek ways to improve our energy efficiency in the office buildings we own.  Our Houston headquarters building is LEED Gold certified. To reduce electricity usage, the lights in our Houston headquarters building are on automated timers that turn off lights when not in use.  At many of our other facilities, we have ongoing initiatives to replace compact florescent light bulbs with LED lighting to reduce energy consumption. Electricity Consumption We continue to evaluate opportunities to purchase green power. In 2021, we entered into a two-year retail power agreement in Texas to purchase 4.3 GWh/yr of wind power beginning in 2022. 24 To calculate the avoided energy consumption in each pipeline, actual hourly operational performance data is compared to estimated energy usage with untreated friction loss.25 The equivalent number of homes and tree acreage is calculated using EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. EPA. “Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.” EPA, 15 Oct. 2018. 2021. <https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas.equivalencies-calculator>. Our  electricity consumption for our continuing operations is provided below.  Year End December 31  2018  2019  2020  (In GWh)  Total electricity consumption from continuing operations(a)(b)  Natural Gas Pipelines  2,570  2,684  3,072  Products Pipelines  1,149  1,153  945  Terminals  190  187  172  CO2  3,330  3,421  2,770  Corporate  24  25  25  Total  7,263  7,470  6,984  (a) Total electricity consumption is from purchased power for the assets we operate. (b) Discontinued operations include emissions from TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. up to the sale date of August 31, 2018, and KML and the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline up to the sale date of December  16, 2019. In 2018 and 2019, total electricity consumed from discontinued operations were 492 and 222 GWh, respectively.  There were no significant discontinued operations in 2020. Renewable Energy We have programs to make energy efficiency improvements in our operations and explore new low carbon technologies where and when it is economically feasible. In some cases, we have found renewable energy optimal for powering our operations. For example, some of the equipment at our facilities is powered through solar panels installed on-site. As these locations are often very remote and far from an existing electric grid, these installations have been successful from both an energy-efficiency perspective and cost-saving perspective.  In 2020, we consumed approximately 1,053 MWh of renewable energy from the solar panels we operate, equivalent to approximately 748 metric tons of CO2 avoided.26 The amount of renewable energy consumed from the solar panels we operate are provided below. 2019 2020 (In MWh) Renewable energy consumed from the solar panels we operate(a)  Natural Gas Pipelines  742  742  Products Pipelines  80  87  Terminals  7  10  CO2  189  214  Total 1,018 1,053 (a) The renewable energy we consumed from the solar panels we operate is estimated using the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s PVWatts® Calculator.  The renewable energy we consumed from solar panels prior to January 1, 2019 is not included in this table. The increase in renewable energy consumed by the CO2 business segment was due to the installation of additional solar panels. 26 Estimated renewable energy consumed is equal to the amount generated. Solar panel energy generation is calculated using the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s PVWatts® Calculator. Dobos, Aron P. “PVWatts® Calculator.” PVWatts® Calculator. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, 2020. 2021. <https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/index.php>. Vehicle Fleet We aim to operate our company vehicles in an environmentally sound manner and have policies in place that establish guidelines for safely and efficiently operating our vehicles.  When practical, we replace the vehicles in our fleet with those that are more fuel efficient. In 2020, we began purchasing hybrid vehicles for our fleet. 3.3 Scope 3 Emissions (GRI 305-3, CDP C6.5) Scope 3 emissions are other indirect GHG emissions from sources upstream and downstream of our value chain that are not owned or controlled by us and are not included in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.  Calculating and reporting Scope 3 emissions is complex as these emissions come from a wide range of sources, some of which are difficult to measure or estimate. Emissions reported as our Scope 3 emissions may be reported by other companies as Scope 1 or 2 emissions. For example, our Scope 3 emissions from employee business air travel may be reported by an airline as their Scope 1 emissions.  We are reporting our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the first time in this report and are currently evaluating the feasibility of reporting our Scope 3 emissions in the future. 3.4 GHG Offsetting, Reductions, and Targets 3.4.1 GHG Offsetting (CDP C4.3, CDP C11.2, CDP C11.3) Our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment owns a 50% interest in and operates Ruby Pipeline, L.L.C. (Ruby). Ruby owns a 685-mile 42-inch natural gas transmission pipeline that crosses four states: Wyoming, Utah, Nevada, and Oregon.  Prior to the construction of the pipeline, Ruby committed to make the pipeline carbon-neutral.  Since 2011, we have accomplished this by using emission reduction credits or renewable energy credits to offset Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from construction and ongoing operations. The credits we purchase are verified through a third-party, and in most cases, the purchase takes place within one year from the date emissions have been reviewed and are considered final.  Credit purchases can span multiple years and are not necessarily created during the same year the emission offset is applied.  Emissions are typically offset using credits that were purchased during a different calendar year.  Over-purchases of credits, if any, are held and applied to offset future emissions. The GHG emission credits we purchased to offset our emissions, and the average, minimum, and maximum price per metric ton paid for each credit, are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 GHG emission credits purchased(a)(b)  Purchased credits (metric tons CO2e)  40,923  95,799  113,188  Average price per metric ton CO2e  $  1.15  $  1.75  $  3.75  Maximum price paid per metric ton of CO2e  $  1.15  $  1.75  $  3.75  Minimum price paid per metric ton of CO2e  $  1.15  $  1.75  $  3.75  (a) Actual emissions that were offset, or will be offset by future credit purchases, for 2018, 2019, and 2020 are 66 thousand, 89 thousand, and 146 thousand metric tons of CO2e, respectively. (b) Represents the credits purchased during the calendar year. These credits establish an internal price of carbon to offset Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our Ruby Pipeline. The price is determined by the North American carbon market, which is an external source of pricing. 3.4.2 GHG Reductions (GRI 305-5, CDP C4.3) Our voluntary GHG emission reductions, volume of voluntary methane emission reductions, and estimated value of natural gas saved are provided below.  Methane emission reductions are methane emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Voluntary GHG emission reductions (million metric tons CO2e)(a)  1.9  2.0  2.8  Volume of voluntary methane emission reductions (Bcf)(b)(c)  4.0  4.3  5.9  Estimated value of natural gas saved (millions)(d)  $  12  $  13  $  21  (a) Emission reductions are emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted.  The reported CO2e is based on a GWP of 25 if the methane were directly emitted to the atmosphere (GHGRP Subpart W, IPCC 2007).  Calculation is from 40 CFR Part 98.233, Equation W-36: methane (scf) multiplied by 0.0192 kg/ft3 (methane density) multiplied by 0.001 metrics tons/kg (kg to metric tons conversion) multiplied by 25 metric ton CO2e/metric ton methane (GWP). (b) Methane content of pipeline quality natural gas is estimated at 95% per Methane Challenge Program guidance. (c) Methane emission reductions include reductions from compressor station leak repairs, pipeline drawdowns, gas turbine installations, electric motor installations, and alternative pipeline maintenance technologies that reduce the need for pipeline blowdowns. (d) The estimated value of natural gas saved for 2018 and 2019 is based on an assumed price of $3.00 per thousand cubic feet, as provided in EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Report for the periods presented.  For calendar year 2020, we used EIA’s 2020 U.S. natural gas annual average Citygate price of $3.55.27 We had additional methane emission reductions in 2020 because we completed more leak repairs and installed additional gas-fired turbines and electric motor driven compressors at our compressor stations.  Gas-fired turbines and electric motor driven compressors release less methane in their exhaust compared to natural gas-fired reciprocating engines. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program guidance allows taking credit for methane reductions from turbines for 20 years after the installation date. 3.4.3 GHG Targets (CDP C4.1) Methane Emission Intensity Target Through ONE Future, we have committed to achieving a methane emission intensity target of 0.31% for our natural gas transmission and storage operations by 2025 compared to a baseline year of 2012.  Methane emission intensity is a measure of methane emissions as a percentage of total volumes of throughput.  The transmission and storage industry allocation of the ONE Future target of 0.31% represents an approximate 31% reduction from the 2012 transmission and storage industry segment intensity of 0.45%.28 27 U.S. Energy Information Administration. “U.S. Natural Gas Citygate Price (Dollars per Thousand Cubic Feet)” Jun. 2021. U.S. Energy Information Administration. 2021. <https://www.eia.gov/dnav/ng/hist/n3050us3m.htm>.28 ONE Future Coalition. “Methane Emission Estimation Protocol v.3.” ONE Future Coalition, Aug. 2020.  2021. <https:// onefuture.us/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/ONE-Future-Methane-Intensity-Protocol_V3_3Aug2020.pdf. Our methane emission intensity targets and progress toward achieving those targets are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Methane emission intensity rate target(a) 0.31 % 0.31 % 0.31 % Methane emission intensity rate(a)(b) 0.03 % 0.03 % 0.04 % (a) The emission intensity rate is calculated by dividing our natural gas transmission and storage total methane emissions by our natural gas transmission and storage throughput.  Methane emissions are calculated using the procedures in 40 CFR 98 Subpart W. (b) We have updated the methane intensity rate for 2018 from our 2018 and 2019 reports to include additional methane emissions from blowdowns that were identified through better data collection methods. In 2018, 2019, and 2020 we performed better than our transmission and storage methane emission intensity target of 0.31%. In 2020, our methane emission intensity rate represented an 87% reduction from our target and a 91% reduction from the 2012 transmission and storage industry segment rate. Compressor Station Leak Survey Target In 2017, we set a target to voluntarily conduct 35 additional leak surveys each year from 2017 through 2021 at our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations that were not subject to the EPA’s GHGRP.  By the end of 2021, we expect to have conducted annual leak surveys at each of our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations. We committed to these additional leak surveys as part of our implementation plan to meet the ONE Future emission intensity commitment under EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program. In 2021, we set an additional leak survey target to conduct annual leak surveys at each of our approximate 110 natural gas gathering and boosting compressor stations by the end of 2025. The number of leak surveys conducted at our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations and our leak survey targets are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Targeted number of natural gas transmission and storage 217 252compressor stations to survey(a) Actual number of natural gas transmission and storage 279 306compressor stations surveyed (a) Targets were established by adding an incremental 20% of the transmission and storage facilities that were not required to perform a leak survey under the EPA’s GHGRP to the baseline 147 facilities required to conduct a leak survey in 2016. In each of the past three years, we exceeded our leak survey target.  In 2020, we surveyed over 90% of our total transmission and storage facilities. In addition, we completed annual leak surveys at 16 of our natural gas processing plants in 2020. GHG Reduction Targets We exceeded our GHG reduction targets, which are targets for methane emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted, of 2 Bcf and 2.25 Bcf of methane for 2019 and 2020, respectively.  For 2021, we have increased our GHG reduction target to 2.35 Bcf of methane and have set a GHG reduction target for 2022 of 2.5 Bcf of methane.  Our GHG reduction target and our progress toward achieving that target are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2019 2020 (In million metric tons of CO2e) Target - GHG reductions(a) 1.1 Actual GHG reductions(a)(b) 2.3 (a) Reductions are emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted. (b) The CO2e is based on a GWP of 28 if the methane were directly emitted to the atmosphere (IPCC AR5).  Calculation is from 40 CFR Part 98.233, Equation W-36: methane (scf) multiplied by 0.0192 kg/ft3 (methane density) multiplied by 0.001 metrics tons/kg (kg to metric tons conversion) multiplied by 28 metric ton CO2e/metric ton methane (GWP). Additional Medium and Long-Term GHG Targets Before exploring additional targets, including medium-term or long-term GHG reduction targets, we believe it is necessary to have a deeper understanding of our emissions, emission sources, and the means by and extent to which we may be able to reduce those emissions.  Our efforts to create an assurance-ready GHG emissions inventory, included in this Report, have provided us with a baseline from which to evaluate future GHG reduction targets. We have begun assessing our future GHG emissions and potential reduction opportunities. We expect this process will help us understand reduction opportunities that could provide value to our shareholders, while reducing our emission footprint. 