3.0 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 3.1 Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions We anticipate reporting our company-wide GHG Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions beginning in 2021.  Our current U.S. GHG emissions reporting infrastructure is designed primarily to meet the requirements of the EPA GHGRP, Natural Gas STAR Program, and Methane Challenge Program.  We are currently developing the additional processes, procedures, information technology systems, personnel, and controls necessary to expand our emissions reporting infrastructure to meet the SASB Midstream Standard. In addition, before reporting publicly, we intend to go through pre-assurance readiness testing using the standards of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.  Also before reporting publicly, we intend to address any significant observations and recommendations resulting from the pre-assurance readiness testing. We intend to provide progress updates in future Reports. For our Canadian operations we have the processes, procedures, personnel, and controls in place to report GHG Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, so those data are included below.  The TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc., which were sold on August 31, 2018, are presented as discontinued operations. 3.2 KML Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions, Percentage Methane, Percentage Covered under a Regulatory Program (SASB Midstream TA04-11-01, SASB Exploration & Production TA04-01-01, SASB Refining & Marketing EM0103-01, GRI 305-1, CDP CC7.9, CDP CC8.1-8.2f) Kinder Morgan Canada Limited is KMI’s publicly held Canadian subsidiary, which trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “KML”. KML’s significantly smaller scale relative to KMI makes its GHG emissions more readily measurable than KMI’s, which is why KML’s GHG emissions are available to be included in this report and KMI’s are not.  KML generates Scope 1 direct GHG emissions from various sources through pipeline and terminal operations and Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions through electricity consumption. KML’s gross global Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 (In metric tons CO2e, except percentages) KML gross global Scope 1 emissions from continuingoperations(a) (by business segment) Cochin Canada Terminals Canada  5,327  9,469  15,969  Total KML gross global Scope 1 emissions fromcontinuing operations  5,706  9,869  16,375  KML gross global Scope 1 emissions from discontinuedoperations(b)  6,143  4,779  5,636  KML gross global Scope 1 emissions including discontinuedoperations  11,849  14,648  22,011  KML gross global Scope 1 emissions from continuingoperations(c) (by type of emission) Flared Hydrocarbons 3,542 7,719 14,220 Other Combustion 1,988 1,958 1,959 Process Emissions — — — Other Vented Emissions 176 192 196 Fugitive Emissions from Operations  —  —  —  Total KML gross global Scope 1 emissions fromcontinuing operations  5,706  9,869  16,375  Percentage covered under a regulatory program from continuingoperations(d)  0%  0%  0%  Percentage methane from continuing operations  3%  2%  1%  KML gross global Scope 2 emissions from continuingoperations(a) (by business segment) Cochin Canada  57,711  60,934  69,768  Terminals Canada  6,274  7,964  10,156  Total KML gross global Scope 2 emissions fromcontinuing operations  63,985  68,898  79,924  KML gross global Scope 2 emissions from discontinuedoperations  117,267  114,922  114,870  KML gross global Scope 2 emissions including discontinuedoperations  181,252  183,820  194,794  KML combined gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 69,691 78,767 96,299continuing operations (a) GHG emissions were quantified per the SASB Midstream Standard and the ISO 14064-1:2006, Greenhouse gases - Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for the quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals. Annual emissions are reported for CO2, CH4, and N2O from direct and indirect sources. The IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (2013) GWPs were used to convert CH4 and N2O emissions to equivalent emissions of CO2 (CO2e). A GWP of 28 was used for CH4. A GWP of 265 was used for N2O. Gross emissions are GHGs emitted to the atmosphere before accounting for GHG reduction activities, offsets, or other adjustments for activities in the reporting period that have reduced or compensated for emissions. (b) Represents emissions from the TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. sold on August 31, 2018, and presented here as discontinued operations. (c) Emission source types included combustion from equipment, such as stationary and fleet vehicle engines, generators, process heaters, and other industrial equipment; flaring from vapor control units for vapor displaced from tankers and rail cars during loading; venting from storage tanks and pipeline pigging operations; and fugitive emissions. (d) Regulatory programs include cap-and-trade programs, carbon tax/fee systems, and other emission control and permit based mechanisms. KML has operations in British Columbia and Alberta, which have carbon levies on major fuels including diesel, gasoline, natural gas, and propane. The fuel purchased by KML covered by these carbon levies is not reported here as emissions covered by a regulatory program because the carbon levies are not applied at the point of emissions. If the emissions from fuel purchased by KML were reported to be covered by a regulatory program they would constitute 28%, 15%, and 11% of total Scope 1 emissions from continuing operations for 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively. Even including its discontinued operations, KML’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions represent approximately 0.1% of Canada’s 2016 oil and gas sector emissions of approximately 183 megatonnes of CO2e.2 Over 80% of KML’s GHG emissions from continuing operations were indirect emissions from electricity consumption. KML’s next largest source of GHG emissions from continuing operations were from vapor control operations at our Terminal Business Segment’s Edmonton South Rail Terminal.  The increase in Scope 1 emissions from continuing operations year over year was due to increased operations at our Edmonton South Rail Terminal.  The terminal loaded approximately 12, 19, and 32 MMbls of product during 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively.  This terminal is a 50/50 joint venture with Imperial Oil and is the largest origination crude-by-rail terminal in North America. None of the KML facilities have had emissions greater than 50,000 CO2e metric tons. Beginning with reports for the year 2017, the ECCC threshold was lowered from 50,000 CO2e metric tons to include facilities emitting greater than 10,000 CO2e tons. With the threshold lowered to 10,000 CO2e tons, KML’s Edmonton Rail Terminal reported GHG emissions to the ECCC NPRI for 2017. The percentage of methane from GHG emissions from KML’s continuing operations is minor (1% to 3%) because the products handled by KML generally have very little methane.  A third-party verified our KML emissions data, following the ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse Gases - Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions standard. The verification statement is included in Appendix E. 3.3 Strategy to Manage Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions (SASB Midstream EM0102-02, SASB Exploration & Production EM0101-03, SASB Refining & Marketing EM0103-02, CDP CC3.1) KMI’s overall assets include approximately 70,000 miles of natural gas pipelines that transport approximately 40% of the natural gas consumed domestically.  Accordingly, we have been an important part of the U.S.’s transition from coal-fired to natural gas-fired electricity generation, which has provided numerous environmental benefits. When burned, natural gas emits approximately half as much CO2 and one-fifth as much CO compared to coal, and virtually no SOx, PM, or mercury.3,4 These lowered emissions from natural gas-fired plants have contributed significantly to the recent dramatic drop in U.S. CO2 emissions. 2 https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/environmental-indicators/greenhouse-gas-emissions.html 3  U.S. EIA, “How much carbon dioxide is produced when different fuels are burned?” June 8, 2018. https://www.eia.gov/tools/ faqs/faq.php?id=73&t=114  U.S. EIA - Natural Gas Issues and Trends 1998, pg. 58, Table 2. Largely as a result of natural gas-fired power plants, CO2 emissions from U.S. electricity generation in 2017 were at their lowest rate since 19885, and 28% below their 2007 levels6, notwithstanding an increase in the U.S. population from 245 million in 1988 to 326 million in 2017.7,8  Stated alternatively, over the 29 years from 1988 to 2017, U.S. population increased over 33%, but the CO2 emission from electricity generation remained flat. Additionally and importantly, natural gas-fired power plants provide a reliable source of electricity to back up more intermittent renewable sources that further reduce CO2 emissions in electricity generation, such as solar and wind. Therefore, natural gas-fired power plants are a necessary component in the continued expansion of renewable energy. In a recent EDF report presenting its meta-analysis of methods for assessing methane emissions from the U.S. oil and gas supply chain,9 the EDF recognized both the long-term climate advantages of using natural gas in electricity generation and the feasibility of achieving significant emission reductions by addressing fugitive emissions, one of the primary factors cited as limiting the climate benefits of using natural gas in electricity generation. Significant fugitive emission reductions are possible through broader adoption of emission measurement and reduction best practices and technologies. While several energy companies have made recent headlines for publicly pledging to slash methane emissions from their operations, we have been focused on and committed to methane emission reductions in our operations for years, as discussed in detail in Section 3.3.1 Methane Reduction Commitment below. In 2015 and again in 2016, the EPA finalized rules regulating methane emissions from the production, gathering and processing, and transmission and storage sectors of the oil and natural gas industry.  We strongly supported the implementation of voluntary methane emission reductions. Currently, we are continuing participation in several industry initiatives to implement methane emission reductions. Below are a few examples of how we have been actively engaged with various trade organizations and regulatory entities, sharing our data and experience with methane monitoring and management, as well as best practices for achieving methane emission reductions. 3.3.1 Methane Reduction Commitment We are committed to implementing and reporting our voluntary methane emission reductions as part of EPA’s Natural Gas STAR and Methane Challenge programs, and through the ONE Future Coalition. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program For over 20 years, we have voluntarily participated in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program.  Through the program, we have implemented over 108 billion cubic feet of methane emission reductions since 1993. Our reductions have contributed to the U.S. reducing methane emissions by 15% from 1990 to 2016 while natural gas production has increased 49% over the same period.10,11 These results reflect the substantial economic incentives we have to minimize and prevent methane emissions and to keep the natural gas in our pipelines and storage facilities. 5 EIA, “Monthly Energy Review- Table 12.6,” April 2018. https://www.eia.gov/totalenergy/data/monthly/pdf/sec12_9.pdf 6 EIA, “Monthly Energy Review- Table 12.6,” April 2018. https://www.eia.gov/totalenergy/data/monthly/pdf/sec12_9.pdf 7 U.S. Census Bureau, “Quick Facts.” https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/US/PST045216 8 U.S. Census Bureau, “Historical National Population Estimates.” https://www.census.gov/population/estimates/nation/ popclockest.txt9  R. A. Alvarez et al., Science 10.1126/science.aar7204 (2018). 10  U.S. EPA, “Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks, 1990-2016,” April 2018. https://www.epa.gov/sites/ production/files/2018-01/documents/2018_complete_report.pdf11  U.S. EIA, “U.S. Dry Natural Gas Production,” August 2018. https://www.eia.gov/dnav/ng/hist/n9070us2m.htm The EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Summary Report for our reported activities from 1993 through 2016 is included in Appendix D. ONE Future - Founding Member ONE Future is a unique coalition of members across the natural gas value chain who are focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that reduce methane emissions associated with the production, gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future’s members include some of the largest natural gas production, gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution companies in the U.S. ONE Future’s goal is to enhance the energy delivery efficiency of natural gas by limiting energy waste and achieving a total methane emission or “leakage” rate of one percent (or less) of total natural gas production across the natural gas value chain by 2025. That rate represents the point at which the use of natural gas provides obvious and immediate GHG reduction benefits. To put this one percent target in context, a recent EDF article and a recent NETL report estimate current natural gas supply chain emissions at 2.3 and 1.6 percent, respectively, of total natural gas production.12,13 So, meeting the ONE Future target of one percent would require an additional 57% to 38% reduction in emissions. We are a founding member of ONE Future, and through ONE Future we have taken a leadership role working with the EPA to identify the most effective means of implementing methane emissions reductions at natural gas transmission and storage operations. Through ONE Future, we have committed to achieve a methane emissions intensity target for our natural gas transmission and storage operations by 2025.  Our target is methane emissions per volume of throughput of 0.31%.  We expect to complete our first ONE Future status report before the end of 2018, in which we expect to include 2017 actual methane emissions compared to our target. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program In 2016, we became a partner in the EPA Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program.  The Methane Challenge Program builds upon the Natural Gas STAR Program and provides U.S. oil and gas companies a flexible way to make specific and transparent commitments to implement methane emissions reductions from their operations. We are participating in the Methane Challenge Program under the ONE Future Emission Intensity Commitment Option for our natural gas transmission and storage assets. The ONE Future Emissions Intensity Commitment is intended to drive actions to achieve segment-specific methane emission reduction targets established by the ONE Future Coalition.  Our ONE Future Commitment includes minimizing transmission pipeline blowdown volumes and implementing annual methane leak surveys and maintenance at our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations. 12  R. A. Alvarez et al., Science 10.1126/science.aar7204 (2018). 13 T. J. Scone, J. Littlefield, D. Augustine, A. Pegallapati, S. Roman-White, G. Zaimes, J. Marriott, and G. Cooney, Industry Partnerships and Their Role in Reducing Natural Gas Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions. May 1, 2018. https:// www.netl.doe.gov/energy-analyses/temp/NETL-ONE-Future-LCA-Report-01MAY18.pdf 3.3.2 Industry and Agency Participation We have undertaken leadership roles in the INGAA GHG Task Force with our employees serving as co-chairs from late 2008 to 2011, from 2013 to early 2017, and again in 2018.  As part of that leadership role we, along with INGAA, participated in the Quadrennial Energy Review by the DOE.  The Quadrennial Energy Review included a joint effort by the natural gas industry, several federal agencies, and other stakeholders to better understand the issues confronting the natural gas transportation sector and to develop mutually beneficial solutions. In our leadership role we collaborate with the EPA and DOE on methane emissions reductions.  We meet routinely with the EPA to share data and engage in discussions about potential emissions management strategies in an effort to identify the most effective means for implementing methane emission reductions at natural gas transmission and storage operations. Steve Kean, our CEO, has participated in the DOE’s roundtable discussions with government, industry, non-profit, union, and environmental leaders to help identify opportunities, share technical solutions and coordinate best practices for implementing methane emissions reductions. In 2016 we participated in the Joint Industry Task Force on the regulation of natural gas storage facilities. Our employees contributed to industry technical papers presented in joint hearings of the DOE and PHMSA as well as collaborative meetings with various NGOs developing an understanding of storage facilities, operations, and emissions and safety technologies. Our work is ongoing in numerous federal, state, and industry venues. We have also worked closely with the DOE, academic institutions, environmental groups, and consultants on several independent technology evaluations and scientific studies. We participate in the DOE’s ARPA-E Project.  We are a member of the IAB advising ARPA-E and Colorado State University on the development of a methane emission test site to simulate actual natural gas leaks that might occur at production, gathering, and underground pipeline facilities.  This project is part of the ARPA-E MONITOR program.  The MONITOR program’s goal is to develop innovative and cost-effective methane leak detection technologies to more precisely and efficiently locate and measure methane emissions associated with natural gas operations. The next generation leak detection technologies should drive enhanced leak detection and repairs to further reduce methane emissions. We are actively engaged in the development of the test site, in the evaluation of the various leak detection technologies being developed, and in providing guidance on industry expectations and steps for regulatory approval of these technologies to the test site developers. We collaborate with the DOE on methane emission estimates and emission factors from gathering compressor stations and underground natural gas storage facilities.  We are participating in two DOE-funded studies to develop improved national methane emission estimates and methane emission factors for natural gas gathering compressor stations. The current methane emission factors used for gathering compressor stations are more than twenty years old and based on a limited dataset. The DOE-funded studies are intended to establish improved methane emission factors more representative of the current state of natural gas gathering compressor station operations. Our employees participate on the Steering Committee and Technical Review Committee of each study.  We also permitted academic institutions and consultants to perform testing at more than 30 of our natural gas gathering compressor stations. A third DOE-funded study involves estimating methane emissions from underground natural gas storage field operations. We are working with the consultant leading the study and permitting testing at some of our natural gas storage fields. We collaborate with DOE’s NETL.  We participated in a methane emissions life cycle analysis performed by NETL with input from ONE Future members representing each sector of the natural gas industry value chain. The study evaluated specific emission reduction opportunities in each part of the natural gas value chain. The study’s analysis informed ONE Future members and others interested in the impact on overall methane life cycle emissions. The study results indicated that the average life cycle methane emission rate for ONE Future members was below the methane emission rate for the U.S., at 0.67% and 1.6% respectively.14 Also, ONE Future represents 5 to 12% of total throughput in the respective segment of the natural gas industry value chain. We collaborate with the EDF on GHG emissions.  We are one of seven natural gas transmission companies that worked with the EDF to develop a comprehensive GHG emissions inventory for the natural gas transmission and storage sector.  Importantly, the results of the EDF study demonstrated that due to actions taken in the natural gas transportation sector over the years to address methane emissions, the EPA had been overstating emissions from natural gas transmission and storage facilities.15 Since the release of the EDF study, the EPA has used the results to improve its GHG emission estimates for natural gas transmission and storage facilities in its National GHG Emission Inventory report. We have participated in the New York City Mayor’s CCATF since 2016.  The CCATF was established in January 2013 to assist in New York City’s Hurricane Sandy recovery efforts.  The CCATF’s objectives are to: • identify critical infrastructure in New York City that could be at-risk from the effects of climate change, • facilitate knowledge sharing and develop coordinated adaption strategies to secure these assets, and • develop findings and recommendations. We have supported sector trade group communication efforts to explain the need for and benefits of the critical energy infrastructure we own and operate, and of our customers’ products that we transport and store. These materials are available at the following websites: • http://www.ingaa.org/energylink/, • https://twitter.com/yourenergy/, and • http://www.aopl.org/consumer-benefits/. 3.3.3 Reporting and Compliance Regulation Facilities in each of our business segments are subject to the EPA or ECCC GHGRPs, as well as to federal and state leak detection and repair regulations. We have extensive emissions monitoring equipment and measurement programs, and conduct leak surveys under regulatory and voluntary programs. For 2017, we reported emissions to the EPA, ECCC, and thirteen state or local agencies. 14 T. J. Scone, J. Littlefield, D. Augustine, A. Pegallapati, S. Roman-White, G. Zaimes, J. Marriott, and G. Cooney, Industry Partnerships and Their Role in Reducing Natural Gas Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions. May 1, 2018. https:// www.netl.doe.gov/energy-analyses/temp/NETL-ONE-Future-LCA-Report-01MAY18.pdf15 D. J. Zimmerle, L. L. Williams, T. L. Vaughn, C. Quinn, R. Subramanian, G. P. Duggan, B. Willson, J. D. Opsomer, A. J. Marchese, D. M. Martinez, A. L. Robinson, Methane emissions from the natural gas transmission and storage system in the United States. Environ. Sci. Technol. 49, 9374-9383 (2015). doi:10.1021/acs.est.5b01669 Medline The EPA’s GHGRP requires annual leak detection surveys at subject facilities.  We have conducted the GHGRP leak surveys at subject facilities and used the data in annual EPA GHGRP reports. The EPA’s new source performance standards for natural gas processing plants and oil and gas production, transmission, and distribution facilities, and several state specific regulations also require LDAR inspections to identity and fix equipment leaks. For facilities subject to these LDAR inspections, monitoring frequency and methods vary depending on facility type. Surveys may be conducted monthly, quarterly, or annually.  We conduct LDAR inspections and identify leaks using optical gas imaging technology or flame ionizing detectors. If we identify a leak during our LDAR inspections, we repair it and then resurvey to document that the repair addressed the leak. 3.3.4 Energy Management (CDP CC8.2) We strive to be energy efficient and have implemented several energy management initiatives that reduce our energy consumption and Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions.  We employ energy management personnel who oversee multiple programs and strategies to both minimize energy costs and monetize our reductions in energy usage.  We optimize our operations to reduce peak demand by participating in curtailment and demand response programs, where we reduce energy usage when requested. Our Houston headquarters building, which we own, is LEED Gold certified. At many facilities we have replaced compact florescent light bulbs with light-emitting diode lighting. We have ongoing initiatives to replace additional compact florescent light bulbs at other facilities. We participate in demand response, load management, and utility reliability programs, such as the Base Interruptible Program in California and the 4 Coincident Peak Program in Texas.  We use variable frequency drives at many pumps to improve pipeline flow control and increase energy efficiency.  Variable frequency drives also allow us to monitor the efficiency of our pumps.  The most significant method of reducing energy consumption in our Products Pipelines Business Segment is the use of DRA. DRA is a long-chain polymer chemical that disrupts the molecular activity at the fluid boundary layer near the inside pipe wall, thereby reducing friction loss. Our deployment of DRA in key locations has reduced the electricity needed to move products, allowing us to shut down pump stations that were no longer needed, and avoid building additional pump stations. In 2018, EnterSolar completed construction of a 2.6 megawatt ground-mounted solar panel array on land leased from us at our Staten Island Terminal.  EnterSolar’s array consists of 9,000 panels, at the time of completion, the largest in New York City, and will provide power to commercial and residential properties on Staten Island. We are considering similar arrangements at other locations where we may also be able to take advantage of this renewable resource to power our equipment. We are also developing plans to install capacitors at a number of facilities in our Terminals Business Segment to increase power efficiency. 3.4 GHG Reductions and Targets 3.4.1 GHG Reductions (CDP CC 4.3) One of the largest sources of methane emissions from a natural gas transmission pipeline results from a pipeline blowdown. Natural gas transmission pipeline blowdowns can occur between compressor stations during planned maintenance or an emergency.  We look for opportunities, where practicable, to use maintenance methods that do not require pipeline blowdowns. If maintenance-related blowdowns are required, our procedures minimize blowdown emissions by evaluating and using minimization technologies, where available. Our natural gas transmission pipeline methane emission reductions reported to EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program are provided below.  The estimated value of natural gas saved is based on an assumed price of $3.00 per Mcf for all periods presented. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Summary Report for our reported activities from 1993 through 2016 is included in Appendix D. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Volume of voluntary methane emissions reductions (Mcf)(a)(b)  3,389,548  2,676,969  4,603,489  Estimated value of natural gas saved (millions of US dollars)  $  11  $  8  $  15  Voluntary GHG emissions reductions (metric tons CO2e)(c)  1,626,983  1,284,945  2,209,674  (a) Methane content of pipeline quality natural gas is estimated at 95% per Methane Challenge Program Guidance. (b) Projected submittal date for 2017 methane reductions is based on availability of reporting forms from EPA for the Methane Challenge Program. Schedule is projected to be late Q4 2018. Methane emissions reductions will be reported in metric tons beginning in 2017 going forward per Methane Challenge requirements. (c) The reported CO2e is based on a GWP of 25 if the methane were directly emitted to the atmosphere (GHGRP Subpart W, IPCC 2007). Calculation is from 40 CFR Part 98.233, Equation W-36: Methane (scf) multiplied by methane density (0.0192 kg/ft3) multiplied by .001 (kg to metric tons conversion) multiplied by 25 (GWP). The methane reductions we reported to EPA for 2015 and 2016 were associated with pipeline drawdowns where gas blowdowns are minimized to the extent practicable by reducing line pressures prior to blowing the pipeline down for maintenance and prior to turbine and electric compression installations. In addition to the pipeline drawdown activities, for calendar year 2017, we will report methane reductions associated with compressor station leak repairs and alternative pipeline maintenance technologies that reduce the need for pipeline blowdowns. 3.4.2 GHG Targets (CDP CC 4.1) Through ONE Future, we have committed to achieve a methane emissions intensity target for our natural gas transmission and storage operations by 2025. Our target is methane emissions per volume of throughput of 0.31%. We expect to complete our first ONE Future status report before the end of 2018, in which we expect to include 2017 actual methane emissions compared to our target. Since the inception of the EPA GHGRP, our annual leak inspections included compressor stations subject to the EPA GHGRP.  In 2017, we inspected additional natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations not subject to the GHGRP, as part of our plan to implement voluntary annual leak inspections at each of our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations by 2021. We plan to expand voluntary inspections in annual increments of approximately 20% on average over the five years from 2017-2021. We conduct leak inspections using optical gas imaging cameras, or other EPA-approved technologies.  We conduct methane emission surveys with the components operating in the as-found condition. We identify and evaluate leaks during the inspections and repair them as appropriate. We plan to evaluate and implement other methane emission reduction technologies or work practices on a case-by-case basis. We report to EPA annually other specific technologies and work practices that we implement. 