7.0 Employee and Contractor Health and Safety 7.1 Discussion of Safety Management Systems to Integrate Culture of Safety and Emergency Preparedness (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.4, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-320a.2, GRI 403-1/11.9.2, GRI 403-4/11.9.5, GRI 403-6/11.9.7, GRI 403-8/11.9.9, GRI 403-9/11.9.10) Our employee and contractor safety management systems are integrated into our OMS. An overview of our OMS, including our health and safety training, are described in Section 2.2 Management System of the Sustainability Report.  Additional details about our contractor safety policies are also provided in Section 8.0 Supply Chain Management of the Sustainability Report. Safety Initiatives Our safety initiatives are managed at the business segment level and safety programs are tailored to specific operations. • Safety In Motion® In 2021, our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment expanded the implementation of the SIM® program, which offers a multifaceted approach to eliminating sprain and strain injuries.  The SIM® process uses an action and education process that has a track record of preventing, reducing or managing strain, pain, and musculoskeletal injuries. The process includes a training program that, through physical demonstrations during training, allows employees to experience how small changes in physical techniques significantly reduce the risk factors that lead to unnecessary stress and strain. The SIM® system encompasses: • ergonomics; • body mechanics; • fitness; and • auditing, observation, coaching, and medical management. • Hazard Recognition Training The ability to recognize and mitigate hazards in the workplace prior to and during work reduces the likelihood of an employee injury. Our business segments have developed training programs designed to provide employees with real world scenarios to help improve their hazard identification skills. • Incident Investigation Training This training module is designed to help employees, who conduct incident investigations, understand the importance of evaluating the processes and systems linked to the work or task being conducted at the time of the incident. By identifying where there may be opportunities for improvement within our processes and systems, we are better able to provide our employees with the training and knowledge that they need to perform their jobs safely and successfully. • Safety Culture Surveys Periodically, our full-time business segment employees participate in confidential safety culture surveys. These surveys are designed to engage with our employees and collect information about our safety culture. The results of these surveys are communicated to employees and used to develop safety action plans. • Safety Meeting Packets Our business segments distribute safety meeting packets periodically with the goal of fostering a culture of continuous improvement and providing consistent safety messaging.  The packets include lessons learned from internal and external incidents. Additional contractor safety initiatives are described in Section 8.0 Supply Chain Management of the Sustainability Report. 7.2 Employee and Contractor Safety Statistics and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-320a.1, SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-320.a.1, GRI 403-2/11.9.3, GRI 403-5/11.9.6, GRI 403-7/11.9.8, GRI 403-9/11.9.10) We strive for continuous improvement in our safety performance. Although our ultimate target is zero incidents, we also have non-zero employee safety performance targets that we establish at the beginning of each year. The first is to outperform the annual industry average TRIR and the second is to outperform our own three-year TRIR average. Our 2022 company-wide TRIR target is 0.8, which is the average of the baseline years 2019, 2020, and 2021. In 2020, we established a longer-term, company-wide employee TRIR target to improve our TRIR to 0.7 by 2024 compared to the baseline of 1.0 in 2019. This target was established to drive improvement in our safety performance and represents a TRIR reduction of 30% over a five-year period. Our performance against our previous targets is specified in the table below.  Employee Safety Metrics Employee incident rates, employee incident rate targets, and the number of employee work-related fatalities are provided below. The table below excludes self-reported COVID-19 cases classified as recordable incidents per OSHA guidance. Incident rates including work-related, self-reported COVID-19 cases can be found in Appendix A.1 – ESG Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In number of recordable incidents per 100 full-timeworkers, except fatalities) Employee total recordable incident rate(a)(b)(c) 1.0 0.7 Target – employee TRIR industry three-year average(d) 2.0 2.0 1.8 (a) TRIR calculation: total number of incidents multiplied by 200,000 divided by the number of employee hours actually worked.  The 200,000 represents the hours 100 employees worked per year. 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year is a standard base for calculating incident rates. (b) Employee TRIR includes regular full-time, regular part-time, and temporary employees.  It also includes Natural Gas Pipelines and Terminals business segment contractors we supervise on a day-to-day basis. (c) 2019, 2020, and 2021 employee rates and fatalities are calculated using incident classifications as of January 15, 2020, January 15, 2021, and February 9, 2022 respectively.  2019, 2020, and 2021 short-service employee rates are calculated using incident classifications as of April 9, 2020, May 11, 2021, and March 29, 2022. Injuries or illnesses may later be reclassified. (d) The BLS typically publishes incident rate data for a given year in the fourth quarter of the following calendar year.  We use the most recent BLS data available at the beginning of each year. We calculate the industry average using the weighted average of BLS industry rates based on codes from the North American Industry Classification System.  For 2020, these include 4862-pipeline transportation of natural gas, 49319-other warehousing and storage, 4883-support activities for water transportation, and others.  The 2019 and 2020 target industry rates are annual rates and the 2021 target industry rate is an average of the most recent three-year period.  For example, to calculate our 2020 target industry TRIR, we weighted the 2018 BLS industry rates using our 2019 employee hours.  To calculate our 2021 target industry TRIR, we averaged the annual industry TRIR values that were calculated for 2019, 2020, and 2021. (e) The three-year target is based on the average TRIR for previous three-year period.  The 2019 Kinder Morgan three-year average excludes the Kinder Morgan Canada business segment. (f) Short-service employees include full-time, part-time, and temporary employees that have been in their position for six months or less from their hire or rehire date. 2019 rates exclude Canadian employees. Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training Hours Our health, safety, and emergency response training programs are described in Section 2.2 Management System of the Sustainability Report.  In 2021, our employees completed over 128,000 hours of health, safety, and emergency response training through our LMS, with each employee taking an average of 12 hours of training.  This is equivalent to a roughly $7.1 million annual investment in training for health, safety, and emergency response.19 The average number of employee hours spent on health, safety, emergency response, and other safety training topics not required under OSHA 1910, are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Average hours per employee of health, safety, and emergency 17 13response training(a)(b)(c) (a) Training time is assigned to the business segment the employee was active under at the end of the calendar year. (b) Includes the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline and KML data up to the sale date on December 16, 2019. (c) Our health, safety, and emergency response training covers topics required under the U.S. 29 CFR Part 1910 OSHA standards; Canada Labour Code; and Mexican, state, and provincial equivalent programs, including training on: confined spaces, crane safety, electrical safety, emergency response, fall protection, fire protection, hazard communication, lockout/tagout, personal protective equipment, process safety management, and respiratory protection. This metric also includes position-relevant training on other safety topics that are not explicitly required under OSHA 1910, such as: safe driving, which addresses hazards such as distractions while driving and adverse weather conditions; back safety, which explores the factors that lead to back injuries such as physical activity, posture, and load positioning; and ergonomics, which explains how various postures and movements affect the body and how to mitigate ergonomic hazards. Contractor Safety Metrics Our contractor incident rates and the number of contractor fatalities are provided below.  These incident rates and contractor work-related fatalities exclude self-reported COVID-19 cases classified as recordable incidents per OSHA guidance. Incident rates including work-related, self-reported COVID-19 cases can be found in Appendix A.1 – ESG Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics. 19 This is calculated by multiplying our total training hours by our employees’ hourly median salary, calculated from the annual employee median salary disclosed in our 2022 Proxy Statement. Year Ended December 31, 2019  2020  2021  (In number of recordable incidents per 100 full-timeworkers, except fatalities)  Contractor total recordable incident rate(a)(b)  0.6  0.4  0.2  Number of contractor fatalities(b)  0  0  0  (a) Contractor rates are based on incidents contractors incurred while doing work for us on a defined major project.  Major projects are capital expansion projects that meet a minimum total estimated project cost.  If hours for a major project were not available, hours were estimated based on major project spend. Incidents for the contractor’s employees operating our marine tankers are not included but are included in the marine LTIR in Section 7.3 Marine Transportation Lost Time Incident Rate of the Sustainability Report. (b) 2019, 2020, and 2021 rates and fatalities are calculated using incident classifications as of January 21, 2020, January 20, 2021, and January 26, 2022 respectively. Injuries or illnesses may later be reclassified. 7.3 Marine Transportation Lost Time Incident Rate (SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-320a.1, GRI 403-9/11.9.10) As described in Section 6.4 Marine Transportation Spills and Releases to the Environment of the Sustainability Report, Intrepid Ship Management operates our Jones Act marine transportation vessels.  Intrepid maintains processes and procedures for reporting, investigating, and recordkeeping and determines the classification for each case of injury or illness related to our Jones Act marine vessels.  In the event of a marine injury or illness, Intrepid engages contracted medical services, including: • physician advice at sea, • maritime telemedicine, • physician and nurse case management, and • arrangement and management of shore side medical services. Intrepid has initiatives and programs for fleet safety officers and quality training focused on the following topics: • safety leadership, • sharing best practices, and • increasing crew training on . job safety, . work permits, and . housekeeping. Intrepid has also initiated job safety training programs to improve hazard recognition and incident prevention, and to prevent common musculoskeletal injuries. We do not include Intrepid’s incidents or hours worked in our contractor TRIR in Section 7.2 Employee and Contractor Safety Statistics and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training of the Sustainability Report. Intrepid’s LTIR on our marine transportation vessels are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2019 2020 2021 (In number of lost time incidents per 1,000,000 hours worked) Marine lost time incident rate(a) 0.3 0.6 (a) Marine LTIR calculation: total number of lost time injuries multiplied by 1,000,000 divided by number of employee hours on-board per Oil Companies International Marine Forum Marine Injury Reporting Guidelines. 8.0 Supply Chain Management (GRI 407-1/11.13.2) We developed a Supplier Code of Conduct that outlines our expectations for our consultants, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and business partners. Our Supplier Code of Conduct specifies that the third parties we work with are expected to adhere to these requirements and our core values.  We detail our expectations for the following topics: • environmental, health, and safety, • freedom of association and collective bargaining, • forced labor, • living wages and remuneration, • working conditions, • transacting business, and • anti-corruption. In addition to adhering to our Supplier Code of Conduct, we encourage our suppliers to communicate these expectations, or those set forth by a similar standard or policy, throughout their own business operations and supply chains. Please see our Supplier Code of Conduct for more details on the expectations we have for our consultants, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and business partners located at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety.Environment/ESG#tabs-social. Supplier Due Diligence We conduct due diligence on potential new suppliers and regularly check our existing suppliers to monitor their compliance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, including steps to prevent corruption, and other social standards. Potential and existing suppliers are checked to verify whether they are excluded from receiving federal contracts, certain subcontracts, and certain types of federal financial and non-financial assistance and benefits. We do not issue new contracts with suppliers that have an active company-wide exclusion in the U.S. Government’s System for Award Management. Suppliers can be excluded for the following reasons: • fraud, • bribery, • corruption, • failure to pay minimum wage, • violating federal criminal laws, and • unfair trade practices. If we identify an active exclusion for an existing supplier, we contact the supplier to inquire about the nature of the exclusion and to initiate reductions in our business with them.  In response to our inquiries, a supplier can often resolve its active exclusion with the U.S. Government and may then continue to serve as our supplier. We also screen service suppliers during our selection process using ISNetworld, a nationally recognized contractor management firm. We require service suppliers to provide documentation including: • safety performance, • environmental performance, • operator qualifications, • insurance, • drug and alcohol tests results, and • a management system questionnaire. We require certain subcontractors to provide documentation including: • safety performance, • environmental performance, and • operator qualifications. We manage service supplier and subcontractor compliance with our requirements using a risk-ranking scorecard to grade each supplier as recommended, acceptable, or at-risk.  Suppliers considered at-risk must go through a variance process and improve their grade, or the suppliers are not approved for work. Supplier Demographics We aim to build relationships with diverse suppliers including minority-owned, women-owned, veteran-owned, Indigenous Peoples, and small businesses.  We review the diversity status of our suppliers and encourage diverse suppliers to bid on our projects. We are working to further diversify our supplier and contractor network. In 2021 we joined the HMSDC, whose mission is to bring together major corporations and certified Minority Business Enterprises. As a member of HMSDC, we participate in the Supplier Diversity Advisory Committee and the Pathways to Excellence program. Within the Supplier Diversity Advisory Committee’s Procurement Process subcommittee, we work with peer companies to define and document procurement program frameworks, assisting HMSDC members in developing and strengthening their strategic sourcing, contracting, and supplier qualification and management programs. Through the Pathways to Excellence program, we are introduced to Minority Business Enterprises who have earned a designation from HMSDC verifying their ability to meet corporate standards and business requirements within their category or field. If a potential fit is identified, we invite qualified Minority Business Enterprises on-site to meet with, learn from, and build relationships with our procurement category experts to explore capabilities, fit, and growth opportunities within our company’s project needs.  We believe these relationships are instrumental in developing and growing a robust diverse supplier base. The percentage and equivalent dollars of our small business, minority-owned, women-owned, and veteran-owned supplier procurement spend is provided below. Year End December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Percentage of small business, diverse, and veteran-owned supplier procurement spend vs. total supplier procurement spend(a)(b)  31 %  41 %  48 %  Small business spend  — %  — %  37 %  Minority-owned supplier spend  — %  — %  3 %  Women-owned supplier spend  — %  — %  6 %  Veteran-owned supplier spend  — %  — %  1 %  Multiple-category supplier spend(c)  — %  — %  1 %  Small business, diverse, and veteran-owned supplier spend(millions)(a)  $  1,593  $  1,675  $  1,249  (a) For 2019 and 2020, small business, minority-owned, women-owned, and veteran-owned suppliers are based on supplier diversity status as designated by Dun & Bradstreet as of Q4 2020.  For 2021, we determined supplier diversity status quarterly through Dun & Bradstreet; if a supplier was diverse in any quarter, it is reflected as diverse in our overall statistics for 2021. (b) Procurement spend is expenditures related to the purchase of goods and services under the purview of our Procurement department.  This excludes legal costs, benefit costs, payments to JV partners and intercompany payments, payments to customers, and other expenditures outside the scope of our Procurement department, e.g., royalties, tax assessments, and permit fees. (c) Multiple-category supplier spend is defined as having at least two of the following categories: minority-owned, women-owned, and veteran-owned. Service Supplier Safety We use a multi-faceted approach to foster a culture of safety among our service suppliers, i.e., contractors.  Our approach begins with our due diligence processes, described above.  Additional actions we undertake to integrate a culture of safety with our service suppliers include: • facility safety orientations, • field, project, and desktop audits, • job evaluations, • training, • benchmarking and safety statistical analysis, and • safety inspector placement and training. Our contractor safety statistics are shown in Section 7.2 Employee and Contractor Safety Statistics and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training of the Sustainability Report. For more information, see our Contractor Environmental/Safety Manual at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/media/Documents/Contractor%20Safety%20Manual/ KMContractorSafetyManual.pdf. Supplier Audits We monitor our service suppliers’ environmental and safety performance through multiple audit programs. We conduct both random and prioritized audits based on a supplier’s past performance and the amount of risk the project presents. Our field audits follow our Field Audit Network process, which describes the steps for preparing for the audit, conducting the audit, and uploading the findings and recommendations to our internal tracking systems. Audits are completed by our internal auditors or by third-party auditors. In addition to our regular service supplier audits, we maintain other risk-specific supplier audits such as audits for asbestos remediation contractors and waste treatment, storage, disposal, and recycling facilities. Our supplier monitoring statistics are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Service supplier monitoring(a)  Percentage of service suppliers subject to performance audits  100 %  100 %  100 %  Number of service suppliers audited(b)(c)  242  548  503  Percentage of service suppliers audited(b)(c)  7 %  16 %  15 %  (a)  Includes field and desktop audits.  (b)  Includes active, medium-and high-risk service suppliers. Audits are generally not performed for inactive, low-risk, or minimal-risk  service suppliers.  (c)  The number and percentage of service suppliers audited for 2019 and 2020 have been revised due to new methodology.  The increase in service supplier audits from 2019 to 2020 is due to an increased number of desktop audits as a result of COVID-19 protocols limiting the number of in-person field audits.  Going forward, we expect the more efficient desktop audits to continue to make up the greatest percentage of our audits. 9.0 Waste Management (SASB Refining & Marketing EM-RM-150a.1, GRI 306-2/11.5.3, GRI 306-3/11.5.4, GRI 306-4/11.5.5) We are committed to managing our hazardous and non-hazardous waste through multiple strategies for both environmental and economic benefits. Our routine business operations generate various types of waste including: • municipal waste, • construction and demolition debris, • exempt oil and gas exploration and production waste, and • hazardous liquid and solid waste. Our employees receive position-relevant training about: • products we handle and use; • safe practices for working with hazardous waste; • site-specific emergency plans; • spill prevention, control, and countermeasure plans; and • documentation methods. We seek to reduce the amount of waste generated throughout our operations by: • reducing sources of waste, • substituting less-hazardous or non-hazardous products, and • reusing materials. Hazardous Materials Management Hazardous waste that cannot be reduced or reused is shipped to permitted facilities for recycling, energy recovery, treatment to remove the hazardous constituents, or disposal.  We profile, manage, and track our hazardous waste. By tracking hazardous waste from generation to disposal, we reduce the likelihood of environmental impacts and potential long-term liabilities. We use software to track and internally report the amount of hazardous waste generated and recycled as well as third-party transportation, treatment, and disposal details. The amount of hazardous waste generated and the percentage recycled are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In metric tons, except percentages)  Amount of hazardous waste generated(a)(b)  9,539  6,255  4,836  Percentage recycled(c)  55 %  54 %  64 %  (a) Values as of May 2022 for 2021 data, July 2021 for 2020 data and as of September 2020 for 2019 data.  They exclude universal hazardous waste and hazardous waste generated within Canada and Mexico.  Hazardous waste weights are reported in the year the waste was shipped. (b) States must follow EPA hazardous waste classifications although they may create regulations for additional state specific hazardous waste. To provide greater consistency our hazardous waste methodology was updated in this Report to only include waste classified by EPA as hazardous. Consequently, waste with only state hazardous waste codes, but no EPA hazardous waste codes are excluded. 2019 and 2020 waste values were revised to reflect this methodology. (c) Hazardous waste recycled from U.S. operations includes shipments with the reclamation and recovery handling type and the handling codes H010, H020, H039, H050, and H061. Due to the uneven nature of hazardous waste generation in our operations, there can be large changes in the amount of hazardous waste generated and recycled year-over-year.  The primary factors that can affect waste generation during a given year include the number and size of construction, remediation, and maintenance activities. Non-Hazardous Waste Management – Business Waste Recycling Our efforts to reduce non-hazardous waste include business waste recycling programs in our Houston headquarters building and educating our employees about recycling opportunities.  The recycling program at our Houston headquarters is a single-stream program that includes office paper, cardboard, glass, plastic, and aluminum.  We send our retired or unused IT equipment, company-wide, to third-party companies who break down the equipment into materials that can be recycled.  When we close or reduce square footage in existing offices, we inventory furniture and send items to nearby offices or donate it to local non-profit organizations. The amount of recycled business waste from our Houston headquarters is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In tons) Recycled aluminum, cardboard, glass, paper, and plastic 119 46 The decrease in recycled business waste from our Houston headquarters from 2019 to 2020 resulted from COVID-19-related work-from-home protocols that led to less waste being produced and recycled.  The increase from 2020 to 2021 can be attributed to the return of employees to the office and is less than 2019 because most office employees participate in a hybrid work schedule. Chemical Management As part of Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act Tier II reporting, we maintain an inventory of hazardous chemicals stored at many of our facilities.  Our facilities that exceed reporting thresholds submit annual reports documenting the quantity and type of hazardous material on site. These reports help agencies such as local fire departments, local emergency planning committees, and state emergency response commissions prepare for chemical emergencies.  More information about how we work with first responders to prepare for emergencies is detailed in Section 12.3 Business Continuity Planning and Emergency Preparedness of the Sustainability Report. 10.0 Competitive Behavior (SASB Midstream EM-MD-520a.1) Our policies prohibit improper conduct that is intended to impede competition, eliminate a competitor, or control prices or services in a market. We strive to compete fairly and honestly in each phase of our business and to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable federal, state, provincial, and foreign antitrust laws. Some of our U.S. natural gas, refined petroleum products, and crude oil transmission pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or ICA, or by various state regulators including the Railroad Commission of Texas. These regulations set forth the rules and regulations governing the services we provide, and in many instances require that we maintain posted tariffs that set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation and storage services on our regulated pipelines. Our Mexico assets are regulated by various Mexican regulatory agencies and operate under a permit that establishes certain conditions and specifications, including for maintenance, safety, and economics. For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ WWWKM/media/Documents/Governance/KM_Code_of_Business_Conduct_and_Ethics.pdf. Our monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with federal pipeline and storage, rate, access, and pricing regulations are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In millions) Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with federal pipeline and storage, rate, access, and pricing $ 19.5 $ 1.3 $ regulations(a) (a) Excludes legal fees and FERC rate settlements. Includes the amount of fines or settlements associated with the enforcement of federal pipeline and storage regulations, including those related to rates, pipeline access, price gouging, or price fixing, enacted by the FERC, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, CER, Mexico Energy Regulatory Commission, or civil actions (e.g., civil judgment, settlements, or regulatory penalties), or criminal actions (e.g., criminal judgment, penalties, or restitutions) asserted by an entity, whether a regulatory agency, business, or individual. The settlements paid in 2019 and 2020 were for matters that were alleged to have occurred more than a decade prior to our ownership and control of El Paso Corporation and El Paso Marketing L.P.  Beginning in 2003, several lawsuits were filed by purchasers of natural gas against El Paso Corporation, El Paso Marketing L.P., and numerous other energy companies. The purchasers claimed the energy companies conspired to manipulate the price of natural gas by providing false price information to industry trade publications that published gas indices. These cases have been settled or dismissed.  The payment made in 2020 was for a contractual true-up claim arising from the previous El Paso Corporation and El Paso Marketing L.P. settlement. 11.0 Prevention of Corruption and Bribery throughout the Value Chain (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-510a.2, GRI 205-2/11.20.3, GRI 206-1/11.19.2) Our policies prohibit us and our employees from engaging in corrupt practices and provide guidelines on acceptable behavior. Our employees, directors, agents, contractors, business partners, and third-party representatives are prohibited from giving or accepting bribes, kickbacks, or other improper payments in conjunction with our business. While the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act contains a narrow exception that allows for small-dollar facilitation payments to be made to a foreign official in order to expedite routine governmental actions that are non-discretionary in nature, our policies do not allow facilitation payments of any kind. As part of our management system for preventing corruption and bribery, our internal controls require that transactions be: • accurately described with an explanation of the purpose of the transaction; • sufficiently supported by documentation; and • appropriately approved by the required level of management, based on the dollar value of the transaction, prior to entering into a commitment and again before processing for payment. Additionally, we have internal controls for adding payees to our accounting system and for approving payments to vendors. Our controls require review and approval by one or more individual(s) a level higher in our accounting system reporting chain than the person requesting the new payee or payment. The amount of legal or regulatory fines, settlements, or penalties associated with bribery and corruption is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Legal or regulatory fines, settlements, or penalties associated with $ 0 $ 0 $ 0bribery and corruption For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ WWWKM/media/Documents/Governance/KM_Code_of_Business_Conduct_and_Ethics.pdf. 