7.0 Employee and Contractor Health and Safety 7.1 Discussion of Safety Management Systems to Integrate Culture of Safety and Emergency Preparedness (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.4, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-320a.2, SASB Refining & Marketing EM-RM-320a.2, GRI 103-2, GRI 403-1, GRI 403-4) 7.1.1 Management System Overview We value the safety of our workforce and integrate a culture of safety, emergency preparedness, and environmental responsibility through our OMS. Our OMS conforms to API Recommended Practice 1173 for Pipeline Safety Management Systems and establishes a framework that helps us: • provide employees and contractors with a safe work environment; • comply with laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; and • identify opportunities to improve. Specifically, our OMS provides a detailed road map to build and sustain a robust safety and environmentally sustainable culture based around: • leadership and management commitment; • risk and opportunity management; • operational controls; • incident investigation, evaluation, and lessons learned; • safety assurance; • emergency management; • stakeholder engagement; • management review; and • continuous improvement. The main components of our OMS include: • setting forth our goals and policies for our physical operations; • describing our approach to sound operations; • setting forth the roles and responsibilities for conducting sound operations; • establishing a set of processes to be followed in pursuit of our operations; • incorporating our EHS requirements; and • providing for periodic changes, audits, and assessments to improve and assess compliance with the OMS. We routinely evaluate and drive improvements in each business segment’s implementation of the OMS, and employees receive annual training on the OMS and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Through our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our OMS, we establish that our employees are expected to share our commitment to the goals of: • keeping people safe, • using material and energy efficiently, • protecting the environment, and • promoting best practices. We are constantly looking for opportunities to improve our business.  Our employees are expected to help us meet our goals and expectations by: • following and improving Company and business segment policies and procedures, • complying with laws and regulations, • identifying opportunities for improvement, • operating our assets safely, and • identifying and addressing risks to people and the environment. We strive to be a good neighbor and contribute to sustainable development through our systematic approach to EHS management. This approach supports our ability to: • comply with laws and regulations; • train employees to be aware of and meet their responsibilities for protection of the environment, health, and safety; and • achieve continuous performance improvement. Environmental Training We create a culture of excellence throughout our operations by seeking skilled employees and contractors with a high degree of competence in terms of education, training, knowledge, and experience. We provide initial training for employees and subsequent recurring training at regular intervals. Under the guidance of our OMS, employees across the organization receive environmental, health and safety training to meet position-specific needs. Our training program promotes continuous improvement and helps us meet objectives for an informed and knowledgeable workforce. Environmental training is required for employees, based on their job position, and is delivered through: • computer-based training through our LMS, • instructor-led classroom training, and • hands-on training. Employees receive position-relevant training for environmental topics including: • environmental awareness; • waste management procedures; • spill control procedures; • environmental sampling procedures; and • stormwater runoff handling procedures, such as water treatment. Additional information about our health and safety training can be found in Section 7.2 Total Recordable Incident Rate, Fatalities, and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training. For more information, see our OMS webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/pages/ehs/ ops_mgmt_system.aspx. We are also participating in other successful management system initiatives. ACC’s Responsible Care® Program Fourteen of our liquid terminals, including our largest, participate in the ACC’s Responsible Care® Program. Responsible Care® is an EHS and security performance initiative that includes a management system framework that drives improvement in key EHS and security operational areas. The program elements include monitoring and reporting our measures for environmental, energy, safety, and accountability performance. As part of the Responsible Care® program, once every three years we undergo third-party audits of our headquarters and each of the participating facilities to certify our performance. OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) An example of our dedication to workplace health and safety is our Lomita Ethanol and Rail Terminal in Carson, California. The Lomita Terminal participates in OSHA’s VPP and is a designated Cal/VPP STAR site, the highest level in the program. OSHA’s VPP program promotes and recognizes effective workplace safety and health management by partnering with businesses and work-sites that demonstrate a commitment to employee protection beyond the requirements of OSHA standards.  As a participant, we have developed and implemented systems to effectively identify, evaluate, prevent, and control occupational hazards to prevent employee injuries and illnesses. 7.1.2 Employee and Contractor Safety As part of our OMS, our employees are encouraged to improve and build upon our established safety culture by sharing information on incidents, completing training, and participating in periodic safety culture surveys. Our employees are empowered to perform their work in a safe and effective manner, taking into account the safety-related components of each job. We expect our employees to stop work if an activity is not well understood or could lead to potential harm, and we regularly communicate that expectation to them. Our policies and procedures require the internal reporting and investigation of incidents. Incident reporting and investigation includes identification of incident details, impacts, causes, and corrective actions. We use the incident investigation process to identify immediate and/or root causes that contributed to the incident, to determine the necessary corrective actions, and to provide timely follow-up to check that corrective actions have been completed. We share lessons learned and evolving best practices across our business segments in regular cross-segment operations meetings. Another feature of our OMS is contractor safety and contractor management. We use a multi-faceted approach to foster a culture of safety among our contractors. Our approach begins with our procurement process, which includes contractor vetting using ISNetworld, a nationally recognized contractor management firm. Additional actions we undertake to integrate a culture of safety with our contractors include: • facility safety orientations; • field, project, and desktop audits; • job evaluations; • training; • benchmarking and safety statistical analysis; and • safety inspector placement and training. For more information, see our Contractor Environmental/Safety Manual at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/content/docs/KMContractorSafetyManual.pdf. 7.2 Total Recordable Incident Rate, Fatalities, and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-320a.1, Refining & Marketing EM-RM-320a.1, GRI 403-9) We strive for continuous improvement in our safety performance.  We have two employee safety performance targets.  The first is to perform better than annual industry averages, and the second is to be better than our own three-year average. Ultimately, we have a target of zero incidents. Incident Reporting As a way to both monitor and maintain progress toward our safety goal, we have developed policies, procedures, and processes to record, report, and manage work-related injuries and illnesses. Our employees and contractors are required to report and document workplace incidents, including illnesses and injuries. These safety performance metrics are used across the organization to analyze causes, identify trends, establish preventative actions, and ultimately help keep our people safe. Our senior management plays a vital role in establishing a strong safety culture and they value the insights gained from our safety performance metrics and incident investigations. Weekly senior management meetings, chaired by our CEO, include reports and discussions of notable workplace incidents and near misses that may have occurred during the previous week. Our senior management has established detailed safety performance metrics at the business segment level to focus performance on factors related to both safety and operational reliability.  We also have a committee of safety and operations personnel who meet monthly to share information related to safety and other incidents. This committee reviews incidents and applies insights learned across our business segment operations. Health, Safety and Emergency Response Training Our employees receive initial health, safety, and emergency management training and subsequent recurring training, appropriate for their positions, at regular intervals. Our health, safety, and emergency response training program promotes performance improvement and helps us meet our objectives for an informed and knowledgeable workforce. We deliver health, safety, and emergency management training to our employees through: • computer-based training through our LMS, • instructor-led classroom training, and • hands-on training. Our health, safety, and emergency management training covers topics required under the U.S. 29 CFR Part 1910 OSHA standards; Canada Labour Code; and Mexican, state, and provincial equivalent programs, including training on: • confined spaces, • crane safety, • electrical safety, • emergency response, • fall protection, • fire protection, • hazard communication, • lockout/tagout, • personal protective equipment, • process safety management, and • respiratory protection. Employees also receive position-relevant training in other safety topics that are not required under OSHA 1910, such as: • safe driving, which addresses hazards such as distractions while driving and adverse weather conditions; • back safety, which explores the factors that lead to back injuries such as physical activity, posture, and load positioning; and • ergonomics, which explains how various postures and movements affect the body and how to mitigate ergonomic hazards. We provide emergency management training consistent with USCG, EPA, DOT, CER, and ASEA requirements. We also have an extensive pipeline safety OQ program. Contractor Safety We seek to constantly improve our contractor TRIR performance through initiatives to address recent incident trends and new best practices. The following initiatives were undertaken in 2018: • increased the number of contractor audits; • increased the number of safety inspectors dedicated to major projects; and • added staff to provide quality control of incident data entry into our incident management system, to improve incident investigation quality, and to follow-up on corrective actions. Safety and Training Metrics The annual employee and contractor incident rates, annual employee incident rate targets, the number of employee and contractor fatalities, and the average number of employee hours spent on health, safety, emergency management, and other safety training topics not required under OSHA 1910 are provided in the table below. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Total recordable incident rate(a)(b) Employees(c) Natural Gas Pipelines 1.2 1.2 1.2 Products Pipelines 0.3 0.6 0.8 Terminals  1.6  0.9  1.1  CO2  1.0  0.7  0.9  Kinder Morgan Canada(d)  0.6  0.5  0.4  Corporate Shared Services  0.2  0.7  0.1  Company-wide  1.1  1.0  1.0  Target - Industry average(e)  2.8  2.8  2.3  Target - Kinder Morgan three-year average(f)  1.2  1.2  1.2  Contractors(g)(h) Natural Gas Pipelines 0.6 1.0 Products Pipelines 0.0 0.9 0.9 Terminals  0.6  0.8  0.4  CO2  0.0  0.8  0.9  Kinder Morgan Canada(d)  0.0  0.0  0.4  Corporate Shared Services  0.0  0.0  0.0  Company-wide  0.2  0.8  0.7  Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities Employees 2 0 Contractors 0 1 0 Average hours of health, safety, and emergency responsetraining(i) Hours per employee Natural Gas Pipelines 18 20 Products Pipelines 24 28 22 Terminals  12  14  11  CO2  19  30  27  Kinder Morgan Canada(j)(k)  9  12  12  Corporate Shared Services  5  3  4  Company-wide  15  17  17  (a) TRIR calculation: total number of incidents multiplied by 200,000 divided by the number of employee hours actually worked. The 200,000 represents the hours 100 employees worked per year.  100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year.  It is a standard base for calculating incident rates. (b) For 2018, rates are calculated using incident classifications as of February 27, 2019. For 2017, rates are calculated using incident classifications as of January 15, 2018. For 2016, rates are calculated using incident classifications as of January 15, 2017. Injuries or illnesses may later be reclassified. (c) Employee rates include regular full-time, regular part-time, and temporary employees. (d) Represents Kinder Morgan Canada employee TRIR until the date of the TMPL sale, August 31, 2018. (e) The target industry TRIR is based on the most recent U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics incident rate data available at the beginning of each year.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics typically publishes data in the 4th quarter for the prior calendar year.  The rate is established by weighing industry rates based on the North American Industry Classification System codes by prior year employee hours at facilities under each code. Multiple codes are used to determine the industry rates for comparison in 2018, including 4862 pipeline transportation of natural gas, 49319 other warehousing and storage, 48832 marine cargo handling, and others. (f) Kinder Morgan three-year target is based on the actual TRIR for previous three-year period.  For example, the 2018 target is based on the TRIR from 2015 through 2017.  The 2017 target is based on the TRIR from 2014 through 2016. (g) Contractor rates are based on incidents contractors incurred while doing work for Kinder Morgan on a defined major project. This metric may not be inclusive of all major projects. Incidents for the contractor’s employees operating our marine tankers are not included in the contractor hours here, but are included in the marine LTIR below. (h) Contractor TRIR has been updated from our 2017 Report to only include contractor incidents from major projects. Major projects are capital expansion projects that meet a minimum total estimated project cost. (i) Training time is assigned to the business segment the employee was active under at the end of the year. (j) Represents Kinder Morgan Canada employee average training time until the date of the TMPL sale, August 31, 2018. (k) Kinder Morgan Canada average training time has been revised from the previously reported in our 2017 Report for 2016 and 2017 to include more representative course training times. We experienced two employee fatalities in 2016 and one contractor fatality in 2017.  For any fatality, we conduct a root cause investigation. We may establish committees to study similar incidents and near misses, and, where warranted, develop and implement improvements to our policies and procedures. Irrespective of fault, we make adjustments to plans and procedures where appropriate with the goal of eliminating or reducing the chance that a similar incident will happen in the future. 7.3 Marine Lost Time Incident Rate (SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-320a.1, GRI 403-9) As described in Section 6.4 Marine Spills and Releases to the Environment, Intrepid Ship Management operates our Jones Act marine transportation vessels.  Intrepid’s management is actively engaged in monitoring each injury or illness case. Intrepid maintains processes and procedures for reporting, investigating, and recordkeeping. Intrepid determines the classification for each case. In the event of a marine injury or illness, Intrepid engages contracted medical services, including: • physician advice at sea, • maritime telemedicine, • physician and nurse case management, and • arrangement and management of shore side medical services. Intrepid has initiatives and programs for fleet safety officers and quality training focused on the following topics: • safety leadership, • sharing best practices, and • increasing crew training on . job safety, . work permits, and . housekeeping. Intrepid has also initiated job safety training programs to improve hazard recognition and incident prevention, and to prevent common musculoskeletal injuries. We do not include Intrepid’s incidents or hours worked in our contractor TRIR in Section 7.2 Total Recordable Incident Rate, Fatalities, and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training. Intrepid’s LTIR on our marine transportation vessels are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Marine lost time incident rate(a) (a) Marine lost time incident rate calculation: total number of lost time injuries multiplied by 1,000,000 divided by number of employee hours on-board per Oil Companies International Marine Forum Marine Injury Reporting Guidelines. 8.0 Competitive Behavior (SASB Midstream EM-MD-520a.1) Our policies prohibit improper conduct that is intended to impede competition, eliminate a competitor, or control prices or services in a market. We strive to compete fairly and honestly in each phase of our business and to conduct our operations in compliance with federal, state, provincial, and foreign antitrust laws. Some of our U.S. natural gas, refined petroleum products, and crude oil transmission pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or ICA.  Both the NGA and ICA require that we maintain our tariffs on file with the FERC.  Those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation and storage services on our FERC regulated pipelines, as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. The Canadian portions of the Cochin pipeline and Utopia pipeline are regulated under the CER, formerly the National Energy Board of Canada.  The CER’s responsibilities and authority are established in the Canadian Energy Regulatory Act.  The CER regulates the following for pipelines that cross international borders or provincial boundaries: • construction, • operation, • abandonment, • tolls, and • tariffs.  Our Mexico assets are regulated by the Mexico Energy Regulatory Commission.  The pipeline operates under a permit that establishes certain conditions and specifications, including for maintenance, safety, and economics. We have policies and procedures that support our ability to comply with and enforce pipeline tariff provisions in a consistent manner and in accordance with the following principles: • we do not engage in transactions that could be seen as manipulating a market; • we do not participate in transactions that do not have a legitimate business purpose; • we do not submit false or misleading price and volume information; • we do not provide an undue preference to shippers, including an affiliate shipper; • we do not share, whether directly or through someone else, non-public information about a shipper unless the shipper has given its written consent to do so; and • we do not make untrue or misleading statements or take actions that would defraud a party. For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ content/docs/km_code_of_business_conduct_and_ethics.pdf. Our monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with federal pipeline and storage, rate, access, and pricing regulations are provided below in millions of U.S. dollars. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legalproceedings associated with federal pipeline and storagerate, access, and pricing regulations (millions of U.S.dollars)(a) Natural Gas Pipelines  $  0  $  10  $  0  Products Pipelines  $  0  $  0  $  0  Terminals  $  0  $  0  $  0  CO2 $0 $0 $0 Kinder Morgan Canada(b) $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Total $ 0 $ 10 $0 (a) Disclosure includes the amount, excluding legal fees, of fines or settlements associated with the enforcement of federal pipeline and storage regulations, including those related to rates, pipeline access, price gouging, or price fixing by the FERC, CFTC, FTC, or civil actions (e.g., civil judgment, settlements, or regulatory penalties), or criminal actions (e.g., criminal judgment, penalties, or restitutions) asserted by an entity, whether a regulatory agency, business, or individual. (b) Includes TMPL (Kinder Morgan Canada) data up to date of its sale on August 31, 2018. The settlement paid in 2017 was for matters that were alleged to have occurred more than a decade prior to our ownership and control of El Paso Corporation and El Paso Marketing L.P.  Beginning in 2003, several lawsuits were filed by purchasers of natural gas against El Paso Corporation, El Paso Marketing L.P., and numerous other energy companies.  The purchasers claimed the energy companies conspired to manipulate the price of natural gas by providing false price information to industry trade publications that published gas indices. All of the cases have been settled or dismissed, including the last remaining case where a final settlement was approved by the court in 2019. 9.0 Prevention of Corruption and Bribery throughout the Value Chain (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-510a.2, GRI 205-2) Our policies prohibit us and our employees from engaging in corrupt practices and provide guidelines on acceptable behavior.  Our employees, directors, agents, contractors, business partners, and third-party representatives are prohibited from giving or accepting bribes, kickbacks, or other improper payments in conjunction with our business. Employees receive annual training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. While the FCPA contains a narrow exception that allows for small-dollar facilitation payments to be made to a foreign official in order to expedite routine governmental actions that are non-discretionary in nature, our policies do not allow facilitation payments of any kind. Our ethics hotline enables employees and third parties to anonymously report concerns about corruption and bribery.  As part of our management system for preventing corruption and bribery, our internal controls require that transactions be: • accurately described with an explanation of the purpose of the transaction, • sufficiently supported by documentation, and • appropriately approved by the required level of management, based on the dollar value of the transaction, prior to entering into a commitment and again before processing for payment. Additionally, we have controls regarding the addition of payees to our accounting system.  The internal controls require review and approval by an individual(s) higher in the reporting chain than the person approving the payment in our accounting system. For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ content/docs/km_code_of_business_conduct_and_ethics.pdf.