10.0 Operational Safety 10.1 Asset Integrity Management We work to provide safe, reliable, and efficient system operations.  Through our OMS, our employees comprehensively assess operational risks related to our assets. We develop programs, policies, and procedures to address those risks. Our primary tools for maintaining safe operations include our asset integrity management programs. Pipelines Pipelines are the safest and most efficient method of transporting natural gas and petroleum products.28,29,30  Pipelines are safer than other modes of transportation such as rail, barge, and truck.  While the amount of natural gas and petroleum products being used in the U.S. continues to increase, the 28DOT-PHMSA. ÒGeneral Pipeline FAQs.Ó DOT-PHMSA. 26 Feb. 2019. 2019. <https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/faqs/general.pipeline-faqs>.29 Furchtgott-Roth, Diana. ÒPipelines are Safest for Transportation of Oil and Gas.Ó Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. 23 (2013). 2019 <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/pdf/ib_23.pdf>.  30 Hughes, Charles. ÒThe Energy Bottleneck: Why America needs more pipelines.Ó Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. July 2017: 9-12. 2019. <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/download/10472/article.pdf>. industryÕs safety performance in recent years has improved significantly and serious accidents are infrequent.31,32 We use state-of-the-art technology for maintenance and integrity testing at our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquids terminals facilities. We conduct activities to monitor the integrity of our transmission pipelines and facilities, and liquids terminals, including: ¥ monitoring transmission pipelines and liquids terminals 24 hours a day, seven days a week by trained personnel using SCADA computer systems; ¥ visually inspecting pipeline rights-of-way by air and/or ground on a regular basis; ¥ performing internal transmission pipeline inspections periodically using Òsmart pigsÓ; ¥ using cathodic protection to protect our pipelines, storage tanks, and storage wells from external corrosion; ¥ using our public awareness program, described in greater detail in Section 13.1.1.1 Public Awareness Program, to communicate with stakeholders in an effort to prevent third-party damage to our pipelines; ¥ participating in the Pipeline Safety Management Systems Group to share best practices for safe operations; ¥ working to develop and improve our business processes, operations procedures, and risk and opportunity assessments; ¥ maintaining well defined roles and responsibilities; ¥ providing employee training; and ¥ executing quality assurance programs such as third-party audits and application of performance metrics. Underground Natural Gas Storage Facilities We maintain risk management programs and monitoring systems for well and reservoir integrity and deliverability at each of our underground natural gas storage facilities.  Our operations and maintenance procedures are subject to periodic inspections and audits by regulators and our own internal independent auditors. We have procedures in place to maintain the compliance, safety, and reliability of our underground natural gas storage facilities over the long term. 10.2 Damage Prevention Because one of our greatest operational risks is third-party line strikes, we actively support organizations whose mission is to promote safe digging, including: ¥ CGA - we are a platinum-level sponsor and regularly promote CGAÕs message to Òcall 811 before you digÓ on our website and social media channels; ¥ Pipeline Ag Safety Alliance - a member-driven organization whose mission is to prevent damage to buried pipelines through education and improved communication with agricultural communities; and ¥ Gold Shovel Standard - a nonprofit organization committed to improving workplace safety, public safety, and buried infrastructure integrity through greater transparency among buried-asset operators, locators, and excavators to drive continuous improvement in damage prevention. 31 API-AOPL. ÒPipeline Safety Excellence Performance: 2019 Annual Liquids Report.Ó API-AOPL. 08 Apr. 2019: 26-31. 2019. <http://www.aopl.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/2019-API-AOPL-Pipeline-Performance-Report.pdf>. 32 INGAA. ÒPipeline Safety & Reliability: Safety and Reliability Metrics.Ó INGAA. 2019. <https://www.ingaa.org/File.aspx? id=28478&v=6dac677e>. 10.3 Emergency Preparedness and Business Continuity Planning Our ability to respond quickly in an emergency is part of our commitment to the safety of the communities in which we operate. Our plans cover the preparation and recovery of functions for addressing potential business or supply chain disruptions. To manage the risk of potentially disruptive events, we work to continuously improve: ¥ our planning prior to events, ¥ procedures for managing unfolding disruptions, and ¥ our ability to get back to normal operations quickly. We maintain site-specific emergency response plans that include agency notifications and actions to respond quickly and efficiently in an emergency.  We provide our employees and contractors with emergency response training.  Our emergency response personnel are trained to respond by: ¥ securing the safety of the public and employees, ¥ promptly notifying governmental response organizations and agencies, ¥ isolating the emergency, ¥ containment and control, ¥ coordinating response activities, and ¥ restoring service. First Responder Joint Exercises To practice our emergency response and better prepare personnel, we regularly conduct joint mock emergency exercises with first responders.  By conducting these exercises, employees and emergency responders are not only able to test their equipment, personnel, and procedures, but also to meet and work together face-to-face prior to an actual emergency.  The more familiar we are with one another and each otherÕs procedures, the more effective our integrated response can be in the event of a real emergency. Example drill scenarios include, among others, the following: ¥ pipeline releases; ¥ line strikes; ¥ tank failures; ¥ well blowouts; ¥ loss of communications; ¥ severe weather events (e.g. hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and blizzards); ¥ security incidents, including physical or cyber-attacks; ¥ pipeline explosions; ¥ third-party train derailments; and ¥ events that test our ability to maintain business continuity with our corporate functions. Natural Disaster Preparedness and Response As part of our commitment to emergency preparedness, we plan for and have established procedures for responding to a wide variety of natural disasters. We maintain hazard identifications and risk assessments for our transmission pipelines. The purpose of these risk assessments is to identify potential risks and natural disaster scenarios, and to develop response plans. This planning involves local response officials, other operators and their facilities, and land and right-of-way personnel. We utilize a variety of tools to forecast and monitor weather-related events, including: ¥ weather event monitoring through . third party meteorological services, . local and national weather and news feeds, and . internal and external situational reports specific to impacted areas; ¥ GIS mapping of real time situational data overlaid on our asset maps; ¥ internal communication processes to provide situational updates to affected personnel, management, and executives as events unfold; ¥ annual testing of backup work locations that would support critical business functions in the event of natural disasters by checking . day-to-day communications capabilities, . infrastructure readiness, . awareness of the potential for natural events and risks, . understanding and accuracy of the disaster response and business continuity plans, and . training completions. When our assets are threatened by a potential hazard, such as a hurricane, we monitor the event and location based on the threat level and projected storm paths in relation to our assets. Situation-specific communications are sent to key personnel at potentially affected facilities and in related corporate functions. These communications provide daily event updates for assets that may be impacted and include notifications tied to our disaster preparedness and response procedures. Using GIS technology, we monitor forecasted paths and impact areas. Our internal GIS platform also allows us to analyze location-specific data, including local supply chain resources that are useful in supporting effective responses. Emergency Response To promptly resolve issues and problems created by incidents, we maintain an emergency response notification system to inform internal support personnel. Our process is designed to facilitate real-time communication of emergency events to our personnel with incident response or reporting responsibilities. Our process allows for more timely, effective, and efficient responses in emergency situations and reporting to regulatory agencies. During an emergency, we seek to respond effectively, contain the situation, and restore customer services as soon as possible. We seek to provide for the well-being and safety of our employees, the public, and the environment, while maintaining or restoring service to our customers. We practice a disciplined, competent, and proactive approach when an event occurs. Once the event has passed, a final notification is sent to the distribution list notifying them to begin the demobilization process and to gather information for the lessons learned phase. Emergency Response Support To support our ability to operate under various conditions, we have developed and maintained a reliable supply chain. For planning prior to an emergency, we maintain response and support capabilities to provide significant additional resources to supplement those of our potentially affected local operations. Our supply chain management personnel maintain lists of emergency response contractors, materials and supplies vendors, and transportation and fuel sources. We also maintain a database of our emergency response equipment. We have procedures in place to raise spending limits for affected personnel, to assist affected employees, and to increase security resources. 10.4 Reportable Pipeline Incidents (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.1) One of our primary goals is to prevent pipeline incidents. Should an incident occur, we investigate the causes and contributing factors in an effort to prevent similar incidents going forward.  Despite our prevention efforts, incidents did occur over the reporting period.  The number of reportable pipeline incidents, number of significant reportable pipeline incidents, and percentage of significant reportable pipeline incidents are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Number of reportable pipeline incidents(a)(b)(c) Natural Gas Pipelines 21 27 22 Products Pipelines 15 10 13 Terminals 11 11 13 CO2 9 2 5 Kinder Morgan Canada(d) 2 0 0 Total 58 50 53 Number of significant reportable pipeline incidents(c)(e) Natural Gas Pipelines(f) 9 14 9 Products Pipelines 5 4 7 Terminals  3  5  5  CO2  3  0  2  Kinder Morgan Canada(d)  0  0  0  Total  20  23  23  Percentage significant of reportable pipeline incidents Natural Gas Pipelines 43% 52% 41% Products Pipelines 33% 40% 54% Terminals 27% 45% 38% CO2  33%  0%  40%  Kinder Morgan Canada(d)  0%  0%  0%  Company-wide  34%  46%  43%  (a) Reportable hazardous liquid pipeline incidents include explosions or fires, release of five gallons or more (excluding releases less than five bbls associated with pipeline maintenance activities), a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, or estimated property damage, including cost of clean-up and recovery, value of lost product, and damage to the property of the operator or others, or both, exceeding $50,000. Where relevant, prior years data have been updated from our 2017 Report to reflect improvements in data quality over time. (b) Reportable gas gathering, transmission, storage, and distribution incidents include: i) an event that involves a release of gas from a pipeline or of LNG, liquefied petroleum gas, refrigerant gas, or gas from an LNG facility, and that results in one or more of the following consequences: death or personal injury necessitating in-patient hospitalization; estimated property damage of $50,000 U.S. dollars or more, including loss to the operator and others, or both, but excluding cost of gas lost; or unintentional estimated gas loss of three million cubic feet or more; ii) an event that results in an emergency shutdown of an LNG facility.  Activation of an emergency shutdown system for reasons other than an actual emergency does not constitute an incident; iii) an event that is significant in the judgment of the operator, even though it did not meet the criteria of the above paragraphs of this definition. (c) The number of pipeline incidents and significant incidents reported for 2016, 2017, and 2018 uses data as of July 2019. (d) Includes TMPL (Kinder Morgan Canada) data up to date of its sale on August 31, 2018. (e) Significant reportable pipeline incidents are defined as an incident that includes one of the following conditions: a liquid release volume greater than or equal to 50 bbls, a highly volatile liquid release greater than five bbls, a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization; or total cost that exceeds $50,000 in 1984 dollars. PHMSA combines the unintentional and intentional release volumes to determine if the incident meets the 50 bbl liquid release significant threshold. (f) We have updated the number of significant incidents for 2016 and 2017 from our 2017 Report to better align with the PHMSA definition for significant incidents and its methodology for determining total costs in 1984 dollars. In each year, the most frequent reason the incidents reported were categorized as significant was total costs exceeding the monetary threshold of $50,000 in 1984 dollars. 10.5 Natural Gas and Hazardous Liquid Pipelines Inspection (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.2) We aim for safe operations and zero pipeline incidents.  As described in Section 10.1 Asset Integrity Management, we use risk management programs and state-of-the-art technology for maintenance and integrity testing at our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquid terminal facilities. We work to comply with regulatory requirements, to find opportunities to improve, and to apply sound integrity management principles and technologies. To assist in these efforts, we use a robust IMP that incorporates integrity assessment measures including those to: ¥ identify, analyze, and prioritize potential threats to our pipelines, including incorporating actual and potential precursor events that can result in pipeline incidents; ¥ use a comprehensive and integrated means for examining, prioritizing, and comparing the spectrum of risks and risk reduction activities available; ¥ implement structured and easily communicated means for selecting and implementing risk reduction activities including integrity assessments, remediation, and preventive measures; ¥ track system performance with the goal of improving performance; and ¥ communicate emerging needs and new technology application opportunities to top management to provide timely resource allocation. Annually, we conduct a significant number of pipeline inspections using various methods including: ¥ in-line inspections, ¥ non-destructive testing, ¥ aboveground surveys, ¥ hydrostatic pressure tests, and ¥ direct assessments. These inspections help us determine the physical condition of our pipelines and gather information to assist us in keeping our pipelines operational and safe. The majority of our inspections utilize ILI technology referred to as Òsmart pigs.Ó ILI is the preferred method because it provides more detailed data about corrosion and other material defects. In our ongoing pursuit of operational excellence, we developed KMAPª, a patented innovative pipeline integrity solution designed to search for flaws in longitudinal welds. KMAPª is a unique analytical process that provides a more comprehensive and efficient analysis of pipelines than traditional ILI tools. We developed KMAPª as a proactive solution to conduct more thorough inspections of our pipelines, and have been successfully using this technology since 2011.  We also provide KMAPª as a service to other pipeline companies across North America. The number of inspections varies from year to year depending on our annual integrity program requirements. The percentage of natural gas pipelines and hazardous liquid pipelines inspected through ILIs, pressure tests, direct assessments, or other technologies is presented in the table below. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of natural gas pipelines inspected(a) 14% 14% 14% Percentage of hazardous liquid pipelines inspected(a)(b) 22% 19% 18% (a) For segments of pipe that are inspected more than once for the same types of anomalies during the same calendar year, the mileage inspected used in this calculation is counted once. In some limited instances where multiple inspections for different types of anomalies are conducted on the same segment in the same year, the mileage for each inspection may be counted separately. (b) Includes pipeline inspection data from Kinder Morgan Canada until the date of TMPL sale, August 31, 2018. From 2016 to 2018, over 25,000 miles of our natural gas pipelines and 8,000 miles of hazardous liquid pipelines were assessed using ILIs, hydrostatic testing, or direct assessments. 10.6 Number of FRA Recommended Violation Defects (SASB Rail Transportation TR-RA-540a.3) We operate liquids and bulk products rail loading and unloading facilities across our Natural Gas Pipelines, Products Pipelines, and Terminals business segments.  As operator of these facilities, we are regulated and regularly inspected by the FRA. We maintain business segment and site-specific procedures for the safe, efficient, and compliant operation of the facilities and loading and/or unloading of rail cars. The number of FRA recommended violation defects received are provided below. Year Ended December 31 Num    ber of FRA recommended violation defects Natural Gas Pipelines  Products Pipelines  Terminals  Total   The majority of the FRA recommended violation defects followed FRA inspections of rail cars at rail yards not owned or operated by us, many of which are several hundred miles from our facility where a rail car was loaded or unloaded. The FRA recommended violation defects included such matters as loose bolts, valves, or plugs; defective safety equipment, such as gasket or pins; rail car weight; and in some cases vapor releases from loose equipment. Vapor releases were promptly mitigated by personnel at the rail yards where the releases were detected. Defective and loose equipment was promptly corrected after identification. Although these violations involved less than 0.01% of the total rail cars we processed, we instituted additional cross-check procedures in an effort to eliminate the problems identified in these violations, which has resulted in the improvement reflected in the table above. 11.0 Management of Changes to the Legal & Regulatory Environment (SASB Refining & Marketing EM-RM-530a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-530a.1) Multiple government agencies regulate our business activities, including the EPA, PHMSA, CER, ASEA, OSHA, USCG, and other federal, state, provincial, and local agencies. To identify, assess, and manage new ESG regulatory risks and opportunities, we maintain a process for identifying, communicating, and verifying compliance with changes in applicable regulatory requirements. Dedicated internal regulatory personnel work with internal and third-party subject matter specialists, industry trade groups, and agency personnel to identify changes in the following topics that may affect our operations: ¥ environmental, personal safety, process safety, and pipeline safety regulatory requirements, interpretations, and guidance; ¥ industry codes and standards; and ¥ external incident reports, including: . NTSB, TSB, and CSB incident investigations; . CER and PHMSA advisory bulletins and failure reports; and . ASEA reports. We distribute a monthly regulatory update internally to personnel with compliance roles and responsibilities. The monthly regulatory update includes both proposed and final publications. Our compliance personnel assess the potential impacts of proposed rules across our business segments. Personnel from our business segments discuss and coordinate potential compliance approaches and evaluate which proposed requirements warrant providing feedback to a proposing agency.  We typically work through trade groups to provide feedback. In some instances, we may provide feedback directly to the proposing agency, typically where trade groups do not address specific issues that are important to us or where the potential impact of a proposal is substantial. We brief the BoardÕs EHS Committee on the most significant proposed regulatory changes. We also make the EHS Committee aware of the national trade groups in which we participate at the board or committee level and of other proposed regulations on which we have provided feedback. Our experience has generally been that it is most effective to take a collaborative approach to identify the most effective means of addressing proposed regulatory changes for our types of assets and operations. We often share data with industry groups and regulatory agencies and engage in discussions with both about potential regulatory and compliance strategies. In some instances, we may have confidence in the likely final form of a proposed regulation and our compliance with the regulation may require substantial upfront work. In some cases, we may start making preparations for compliance prior to a regulation being finalized. We track final publications identified in our monthly regulatory update in an internal application and database. Through the application, business segment and corporate compliance professionals verify that they have reviewed the updated requirements that may impact their business and completed the necessary compliance activities. The Vice President of Corporate EHS and business segment COOs review progress quarterly.  We brief the EHS Committee on the most significant of these regulatory changes and compliance activities. The number of new regulations, interpretations, and guidance for proposed and final regulations impacting our business segments are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Number of new regulations, interpretations, and guidance(a) Proposed 1,044 1,335 1,301 Final 528 480 Total 1,572 1,815 1,802 (a) 2017 amounts have been updated from those reported in our 2017 Report for the number of proposed regulations, interpretations, and guidance to address double counting. 11.1 Corporate Positions Related to Government Regulations (GRI 415-1) We do not have corporate-sponsored political action committees.  We comment on the formulation of legislative and regulatory policies at the federal, state, provincial, and local levels both as an individual company and, more often, through trade associations. We do not contribute to political parties or candidates for public office.  We encourage employees, contractors, and others affiliated with us to vote and keep informed on political matters and to support, with their own funds and on their own time, the candidates or parties of their choice. We also encourage and support employees who take a role in community affairs in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.