Part 1 - Sustainability Report 1.0 Introduction (SASB Midstream EM-MD-110a.2, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-110a.3, SASB Rail Transportation TR-RA-110a.2, SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-110a.2, GRI 102-18, GRI 102-20, GRI 102-32, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-50, GRI 102-52, CDP C1.1b, CDP C1.2, CDP C1.2a) Our ESG Strategy Our vision is to deliver energy to improve lives and create a better world.  We do this by pursuing our mission to provide energy transportation and storage services in a safe, efficient, and environmentally responsible manner for the benefit of people, communities, and businesses.  Our ESG strategy is consistent with our vision and mission. Environmental While delivering the secure and reliable energy the world needs, we also pursue opportunities that contribute to the global effort to address climate change. We continue to support a low carbon future through: • expansion of our natural gas transmission, responsibly sourced natural gas, RNG, and LNG businesses; • investments in biodiesel, ethanol, renewable diesel, and sustainable aviation fuel projects; • the formation of our energy transition ventures group, tasked with pursuing low carbon commercial opportunities; and • evaluation of CCUS opportunities. We focus on minimizing our environmental impacts by: • reducing methane and other GHG emissions from our operations; and • employing a variety of strategies to minimize our impact on areas such as: . sensitive habitats and conservation areas for threatened or endangered species; . water bodies; and . wetlands. Social It is important to us to build and maintain healthy relationships with our employees, contractors, suppliers, and other stakeholders throughout the communities where we operate and have expansion projects. We work to attract, develop, and retain a diverse, inclusive, and respectful workforce. We support our employees’ career development goals through workforce training, tuition reimbursement, and other development programs.  We actively look for opportunities for our employees to get involved in community programs and strengthen their relationships with our stakeholders. We expect our consultants, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and business partners to adhere to standards of conduct consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Supplier Code of Conduct when conducting company-related business activities.  We recognize that it is important to identify project stakeholders, determine their needs and expectations, and then monitor and work with them to meet those needs and expectations as appropriate before, during, and after project completion. Governance Our Board of Directors (Board) oversees our risks and opportunities through recurring meetings of the Board and its committees. Likewise, our management team convenes a series of regularly scheduled meetings to engage our CEO, President, COO, business segment presidents and COOs, corporate function heads, and subject matter personnel on day-to-day issues related to our business.  We use these meetings to continually monitor our progress and performance and to identify, evaluate, and address risks and opportunities, including, where appropriate, climate-related risks and opportunities. Oversight of ESG Reporting We regularly report our performance against ESG-related environmental and safety metrics to our Board and investors.  These metrics are reviewed and discussed in our regularly scheduled meetings with senior management. Certain ESG metrics are included in performance criteria used to determine incentive compensation for our employees, including executives.  The environmental metrics include an incentive to minimize natural gas and CO2 releases from our operations, which helps us meet our Natural Gas business segment GHG targets.  Our GHG targets and performance against those targets are described in Section 3.4.3 GHG Targets of the Sustainability Report. Our EHS leadership includes a standing EHS Committee of our Board.  The EHS Committee’s charter is available on our website at https://www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/media/Documents/Governance/ KMI_EHS_COMMITTEE-CHARTER.pdf. This committee assists our Board in overseeing management’s establishment and administration of our EHS policies, programs, procedures, and initiatives. Each of these items helps promote the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers, the public, and the environment. Our Board has delegated the review and approval of our Report to its EHS Committee. Our Report has been reviewed by and received input from each business segment and our ESG Disclosure Committee, which consists of our: • CEO, • President, • COO, • CFO, • CAO, • General Counsel, • Corporate Secretary, • Treasurer, • business segment presidents, and • other corporate officers. Our Report We refer to the SASB portion of our Report as our “Sustainability Report” and the TCFD portion as our “TCFD Report”. We refer to our Sustainability Report together with our TCFD Report as our “Report”.  We have posted additional ESG disclosures, including case studies and policies.  These additional disclosures are not part of our Report and are not incorporated by reference herein.  We also post a summary spreadsheet of our sustainability policies and metrics.  This summary spreadsheet  also includes the Energy Infrastructure Council/GPA Midstream ESG Reporting template. These disclosures can be found on our ESG/Sustainability webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety.Environment/ESG. In this Report, we use SASB’s October 2018 final standards and primarily include metrics from the SASB Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas - Midstream Standard (EM-MD, Version 2018-10) as well as the TCFD recommendations.  In 2020, there were no pronouncements of changes to the SASB standards used in this Report. We chose the SASB framework and standards based on investor and lender feedback and because SASB focuses on disclosure of sustainability issues that are likely to affect the financial condition or operating performance of companies within an industry. Our Sustainability Report also includes metrics from other SASB standards, including: • Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas - Exploration & Production Standard       (EM-EP, Version 2018-10), • Transportation Sector - Marine Transportation Standard (TR-MT, Version 2018-10), and • Transportation Sector - Rail Transportation Standard (TR-RA, Version 2018-10). We incorporate metrics from CDP, GRI, and other SASB sectors applicable to our business.  We also use third-party guidance in developing our Report including: • The Ceres Roadmap for Sustainability, and • Investor-published guidance on engagement priorities. We reference the activities where our business contributes to SDGs.  The United Nations General Assembly has adopted 17 SDGs to set a global agenda for equitable, socially inclusive, and environmentally sustainable economic development. Our mission aligns with the Assembly’s goals of: • Goal 3: ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages; and • Goal 7: ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all. In addition, many of our business and community investment activities support other SDGs such as those relating to: • Goal 8: decent work and economic growth; • Goal 9: industry, infrastructure, and innovation; • Goal 14: life below water; and • Goal 15: life on land. New to our Report We have added several new metrics to our Report, including our company-wide GHG emission intensity and gross global Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions for both operational control and equity share reporting boundaries. Operational control includes 100% of emissions from assets we operate and equity share includes our share of emissions from assets in which we own an interest.  We have added our diverse supplier spend, an additional contractor safety metric, environmental fines and penalties, and have expanded our disclosures on water usage and employee training time.  Additionally, we have updated our TCFD report to describe new initiatives and additional investments in low carbon and responsibly sourced products. Description of Appendices In Appendix A.1 – ESG Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics, we summarize the ESG metrics included throughout the Report. Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics summarizes our GHG metrics. In Appendix B – Activity Metrics, we include a set of metrics that quantify the scale of our business.  These activity metrics are intended to allow users of our Report to normalize data and facilitate comparisons in conjunction with our ESG accounting metrics.  In Appendix C – ESG Content Index, we include a cross-reference table of ESG topics covered in our Report and other Kinder Morgan-published documents, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 (2020 Form 10-K) and 2021 Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, to the corresponding SASB Sustainable Industry Classification SystemTM code, GRI disclosure code, CDP question number, and SDGs target.  This cross-reference table also includes the relevant page number of the Report and other Kinder Morgan published documents. In Appendix D – Third-Party Assurance Statement, we include the Report of Independent Accountants for our Report provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), an independent registered public accounting firm. PwC performed a limited assurance engagement on specific metrics included in our Report for 2020.  The review engagement was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements, and standards established by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board in ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. The majority of the 2020 company-wide quantitative metrics disclosed throughout this Report have either undergone third-party assurance by PwC or were tested by our Internal Audit department.  The testing process by our Internal Audit department includes reviewing and re-performing the processes and procedures for compiling and calculating the metric and performing sample testing of supporting documentation to check accuracy. Appendix A.1 – ESG Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics, Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics, and Appendix B – Activity Metrics include tick marks that indicate which metrics were assured by a third-party or by our Internal Audit department. 1.1 COVID-19 Pandemic Response When COVID-19 emerged in the United States in early 2020, we had to adjust our operations to keep our colleagues safe and our business running. For some, that meant transitioning to remote work, and for others, it meant innovating and adhering to new protocols in the field.  We didn’t just let the pandemic happen to us; rather, we navigated through it by implementing health screenings, social distancing, mask requirements, and contact tracing each time an employee tested positive for COVID-19, as applicable.  We minimized person-to-person contact as much as possible and deployed Plexiglass shields to limit exposure and protect our employees on the front lines.  Through the hard work and dedication of our employees, we were able to prioritize the health and safety of our co-workers and their families while maintaining safe and reliable operations of our assets. To better communicate with our employees, our CEO and our President regularly provide recorded audio updates and company-wide emails to employees on relevant topics such as COVID-related safety protocols, new business initiatives, and progress against goals.  Our CEO and our President also hold periodic virtual meetings with randomly selected managers and directors to answer questions about topics of interest such as company operations, energy transition, workforce planning, and diversity to name a few. Below is more information about some of the actions we have taken to keep our employees and their families safe, our businesses running, and our plans for bringing our employees back to the office. Pandemic Preparedness Plans We leveraged our well-established and long-standing business continuity plans, Pandemic Preparedness Committee, and Pandemic Preparedness Plan to reduce and mitigate risk while also minimizing impacts to workers and critical business functions during the pandemic.  The Pandemic Preparedness Committee actively monitors diseases that could impact our employees and regularly adapts response plans to consider guidance from the CDC and other health organizations. Read more about our Pandemic Preparedness Plan in Section 12.3 Business Continuity Planning and Emergency Preparedness of our Sustainability Report. Workplace Mitigation Efforts To protect our colleagues and their families, we implemented several initiatives at our offices and facilities including: • implementing telecommuting for most of our office-based employees; • for the work that required a physical presence, modifying tasks or making alternate arrangements to maintain adequate social distance; • securing the necessary PPE for our employees; • enhancing our cleaning protocols; • limiting access to certain facilities; • implementing screening procedures; and • following established protocols for notifying employees who had direct contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19 to begin mitigation efforts. More information about our telecommuting strategy and return to work plans is described in Section 12.3 Business Continuity Planning and Emergency Preparedness of the Sustainability Report. Employee and Contractor Safety Our mitigation efforts included distributing masks and other PPE for tasks where social distancing or alternatives were not possible, including critical roles in field operations, control centers, IT, and network operations.  In 2020, we spent an incremental $15 million on safety costs associated with our COVID-19 mitigation efforts, primarily for PPE, enhanced cleaning protocols, temperature screening, and other measures adopted to protect our employees.  These initiatives are described in Section 7.1 Discussion of Safety Management Systems to Integrate Culture of Safety and Emergency Preparedness of the Sustainability Report. Auditing We remain committed to auditing both our internal facilities and service suppliers through the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Internal Audit department, which normally visits facilities to perform location audits, successfully performed these audits remotely in 2020. Our Contractor Safety department audited a greater percentage of our service suppliers’ environmental and safety performance using remote audits as described in Section 8.0 Supply Chain Management of the Sustainability Report. Giving Back As part of our focus on giving back to our communities during this time, we donated $250,000 to COVID-19 response and recovery programs in 2020 through the Kinder Morgan Foundation’s disaster relief program, described in Section 16.2 Social Investment Programs of the Sustainability Report. Return to Office and Hybrid Work Model Throughout the pandemic, we monitored our employees’ COVID-19 positive infection rates, data from medical professionals, local and national protocol guidelines, our peers’ responses, and our employees’ vaccination rates. After factoring in information from these sources, some of our vice presidents as well as directors and managers with direct reports, returned to our offices in June 2021.  We plan to reintegrate our remaining employees into the workplace in phases.  We have encouraged our employees to get vaccinated and provide proof of vaccination, hosted vaccination clinics at our Houston office, and held virtual seminars to educate our employees about the benefits of the COVID-19 vaccines. Developing plans for bringing our employees back to the office and determining how we will work going forward is important for the future performance of our company. Our goal is to leverage what we have learned during the pandemic to strengthen the culture and effectiveness of our company to benefit our stakeholders and help us perform in this highly competitive marketplace.  In making this important decision, a team of business segment and HR leaders: • researched information on telecommuting and remote work; • spoke to peer companies; • reviewed surveys and white papers from major consulting firms; and • evaluated data related to our employees, such as the commute time of our Houston-based employees. We then pulled together a cross-functional team of leaders from across our organization to discuss ideas and opinions. We believe that a flexible hybrid model can work for certain functions and may make us more effective and efficient as a company, while also increasing employee retention and enhancing talent recruitment. The proposed hybrid work model consists of three core workdays, with the option to work from home up to two days a week. We are implementing this hybrid work model for the majority of our office-based employees on a trial basis. 2.0 Overview of Business (GRI 102-2, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-6, GRI 203-1) We are committed to doing business the right way, every day.  To meet this commitment, our employees and representatives must act in accordance with our core values of: • integrity, • accountability, • safety, and • excellence. We are one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in North America.  Our four business segments are: • Natural Gas Pipelines, • Products Pipelines, • Terminals, and • CO2. We own an interest in or operate approximately 83,000 miles of pipelines and 144 terminals. We also have 23 natural gas storage facilities with a working capacity of 659 Bcf.1 Our pipelines transport: • natural gas, • refined petroleum products, 1 Assets as of December 31, 2020. • crude oil, • condensate, • CO2, • biofuels, and • other products. Pipelines are the safest, most efficient, and least costly method of transporting natural gas and petroleum products compared to other modes of transportation such as rail, barge, and truck.2,3,4,5 The industry’s safety performance in recent years has experienced continuous improvement and the total number of incidents and incidents impacting people or the environment continues to decline.6 Our terminals store and handle various commodities including: • gasoline, • diesel fuel, • jet fuel, • chemicals, • ethanol, • metals, • petroleum coke, and • other products. We are also the largest transporter of CO2 in North America for use by us and others in EOR projects, primarily in the Permian Basin.  Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “KMI.”  For more information about us, please see our 2020 Form 10-K, which can be found at https:// s24.q4cdn.com/126708163/files/doc_financials/2020/ar/KMI-2020-10K-Final-as-Filed.pdf. 2.1 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics establishes the high standard of ethical conduct that our employees and representatives are expected to meet and outlines how everyday behavior should align with our core values. Our Board’s Audit Committee has responsibility for the: • oversight of the implementation and administration of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; 2 DOT-PHMSA. “General Pipeline FAQs.” DOT-PHMSA, 23 Aug. 2019. 2021. <https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/about-phmsa/ phmsa-faqs>.3 Furchtgott-Roth, Diana. “Pipelines are Safest for Transportation of Oil and Gas.” Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, June 2013. 2021. <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/pdf/ib_23.pdf>.    4 Hughes, Charles. “The Energy Bottleneck: Why America needs more pipelines.” Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, July 2017: 9-12. 2021. <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/download/10472/article.pdf>.5 INGAA. “Pipeline Safety & Reliability: Safety and Reliability Metrics.” INGAA. 2021. <https://www.ingaa.org/File.aspx? id=28478&v=6dac677e>. 6 API-AOPL. “2020 Pipeline Safety Excellence Performance Report & 2020-2022 Strategic Plan.” API-AOPL, 17 June 2021: 12-13. 2021. <https://www.api.org/-/media/APIWebsite/oil-and-natural-gas/primers/2020-API-AOPL-Pipeline-Safety.Excellence-Performance-Report-and-20202022-Strategic-Plan.pdf? la=en&hash=3F9DB3F7D2FFA2FAD78E14E6146FC89BA3C1CDDD>. • review and assessment, at least annually, of the effectiveness of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and • recommendations to the Board of suggested changes to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We maintain programs to prevent and detect potential violations.  Annually, each of our employees, including management, is required to demonstrate an understanding of or undergo additional training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, including sections on anti-corruption and human rights.  The training explicitly promotes an open feedback culture.  Our Internal Audit department distributes an annual Code of Business Conduct and Ethics questionnaire, to both employees and contractors, which provides an opportunity to report violations. The questionnaire responses received are evaluated by our Internal Audit department. Responses requiring follow-up are overseen by the Internal Audit department or delegated to the appropriate company personnel. We encourage employees to speak up, seek guidance, and report issues or concerns through appropriate channels and grievance mechanisms. In the event anyone witnesses or learns of an incident that may involve an ethics, compliance, or human rights violation, they can report it through several channels including the Kinder Morgan Ethics Hotline, a third-party platform.  Our ethics hotline allows reports to be made confidentially and anonymously. Reported concerns and grievances are evaluated and investigated, as appropriate, by our Internal Audit, HR, EHS, or Legal Departments. For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/ media/Documents/Governance/KM_Code_of_Business_Conduct_and_Ethics.pdf. 2.2 Management System Management System Overview We value the safety of our workforce and integrate a culture of safety, emergency preparedness, and environmental responsibility through our OMS. Our OMS conforms to API Recommended Practice 1173 for Pipeline Safety Management Systems and establishes a framework that helps us: • provide employees and contractors with a safe work environment; • comply with laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; and • identify opportunities to improve.  Specifically, our OMS provides a detailed road map to build and sustain a robust culture focused on safety and environmental sustainability including: • leadership and management commitment; • risk and opportunity management; • operational controls; • incident investigation, evaluation, and lessons learned; • safety assurance; • emergency management; • stakeholder engagement; • management review; and • continuous improvement. The main components of our OMS include: • setting forth goals and policies for our physical operations; • describing our approach to sound operations; • setting forth the roles and responsibilities for conducting sound operations; • establishing a set of processes to be followed in our operations; • incorporating our EHS requirements; and • providing for audits, assessment, and periodic changes to improve and maintain compliance with our OMS. Employees receive annual training on the OMS, and we routinely evaluate and drive improvements in each business segment’s implementation of the OMS. We are constantly looking for opportunities to improve our business.  Our employees are expected to help us meet our goals and expectations by: • following our policies and procedures, • complying with laws and regulations, • operating our assets safely, • identifying and addressing risks to people and the environment, and • identifying opportunities for improvement. We strive to be a good neighbor and contribute to sustainable development through our systematic approach to EHS management. This approach supports our ability to: • comply with laws and regulations; • train employees to be aware of and meet their responsibilities for protection of the environment, health, and safety; and • strive for environmental performance improvement. As part of our OMS, our employees are encouraged to improve and build upon our established safety culture by sharing information on incidents, completing training, and participating in periodic safety culture surveys. Our employees are empowered to perform their work in a safe and effective manner, taking into account the safety-related components of each job. Our employees and contractors have the power to stop work if an activity is not well understood or could lead to potential harm, and we regularly communicate that they have that authority. Management of Change We review, approve, and implement policy and procedural changes through our management of change process or similar established processes. Through this process our ESG disclosure committee or select senior management reviews or approves ESG-related policies, including but not limited to our: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, • Human Rights Statement, • EHS Policy Statement, • Biodiversity Policy, • Supplier Code of Conduct, • Indigenous Peoples Policy, and • Community Relations Policy. Audit Program We maintain an operations audit program that monitors, among other things, our environmental and safety practices. Our operating facilities with site-specific requirements, permits, or plans are audited every three to five years, depending upon the nature of the facility. Management system audits are conducted at least once every three years for each business segment.  Audits are performed by qualified third parties or internal personnel not involved in the operations being audited. The audit results are used to develop and implement corrective measures where warranted. Incident Management Our policies and procedures require the internal reporting of incidents and investigation of significant incidents, including work-related injuries and illnesses.  Our employees and contractors are required to report and document workplace incidents, including illnesses and injuries. Our incident management system provides us with the capability to: • gather incident data, • analyze causes, • track actions and deadlines, • identify trends, and • identify and share preventive actions. Incident reporting and investigation includes identifying incident details, impacts, causes, and corrective actions. We use the incident investigation process to identify immediate and/or root causes that contributed to the incident, determine corrective actions where necessary, and verify that corrective actions have been completed. Our senior management plays a vital role in establishing a strong safety culture and values the insights gained from our safety performance metrics relative to our targets and incident investigations.  Weekly senior management meetings, chaired by our CEO, include reports and discussions of notable workplace incidents and near misses that may have occurred during the previous week.  Our senior management has established detailed safety performance metrics at the business segment level and with our COOs to focus performance on factors related to both safety and operational reliability.  These metrics are reviewed during each business segment’s quarterly business review. Incidents, including injuries, are continually reviewed by our business segments to identify potential trends. These trends are communicated to appropriate persons within the company, who meet regularly to share information about incidents and related improvements. Insights and lessons learned are shared across our business segment operations, as appropriate.  Trends are included in discussions at weekly safety meetings, monthly operations meetings, and other regular operations meetings. Periodically, our management has discussions with worker representatives about health and safety. Lessons Learned Sharing lessons learned is an integral part of our OMS and reinforces our commitment to performance improvement.  Our emphasis on timely incident assessment, information sharing and tracking corrections reinforces our employees’ understanding that risk management is a top priority.  Sharing lessons learned not only helps our employees understand the importance of continuous learning and improvement, it also helps protect against complacency. Equally important is that everyone understands that sharing and voicing concerns is not only encouraged but is considered a responsibility.  Our lessons learned processes contribute to an environment in which employees and contractors are comfortable identifying and speaking up about risks and help emphasize the urgency of communicating risk information up, down, and across the organization. Asset Integrity Management For most of our pipelines, we use an IMP that incorporates integrity assessment measures to: • identify, analyze, and prioritize potential threats to our pipelines, including incorporating actual and potential precursor events that can result in pipeline incidents; • use a comprehensive and integrated means for examining, prioritizing, and comparing the spectrum of risks and risk reduction activities available; • implement structured and easily communicated means for selecting and implementing risk reduction activities, including integrity assessments, remediation, and preventive measures; • track system performance with the goal of improving performance; and • communicate emerging needs and new technology application opportunities to top management to provide timely resource allocation. We conduct pipeline inspections using various methods including: • ILIs, • non-destructive testing, • above-ground surveys, • hydrostatic pressure tests, and • direct assessments. These inspection methods help us determine the physical condition of most of our pipelines and gather information to assist us in keeping our pipelines operational and safe.  Most of our inspections utilize ILI technology referred to as smart pigs, which provides more detailed data about corrosion and other material defects. In our ongoing pursuit of operational excellence, we developed KMAP™, a patented, innovative pipeline integrity solution designed to search for flaws in longitudinal welds.  KMAP™ is a unique analytical process that we employ to provide additional analysis beyond traditional ILI analytical methods.  We developed KMAP™ as a proactive solution for conducting more thorough inspections of our pipelines.  We have been successfully using this technology since 2011. Health, Safety and Emergency Response Training We use an LMS to provide and track training for our employees.  Through the LMS, our employees can take online courses covering technical development, leadership, safety, environmental, and corporate policies, including our OMS and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. In 2020, our employees completed over 133,500 hours of health, safety, and emergency response training through our LMS, with each employee taking an average of 13 hours of training.  This is described in Section 7.2 Employee and Contractor Safety Statistics and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training of the Sustainability Report.  This is equivalent to a roughly $7.5 million annual investment in training for health, safety, and emergency response.7 Our operations employees receive initial health, safety, and emergency response training and subsequent recurring training, appropriate for their positions, at regular intervals.  Training assignments are determined by training matrices developed by internal training and safety specialists and are specific to each job category.  Training can be individually tailored by an employee’s supervisor or the employee, who can self-register for any course in our LMS.  Our training target is to have 100% of training courses assigned to employees in our LMS completed by the end of each year.  We have processes in place to help employees meet this target. We provide emergency management training consistent with USCG, EPA, DOT, CER, and ASEA requirements.  We also have an extensive pipeline safety operator qualification program. 7 This is calculated by multiplying our total training hours by our employees’ hourly median salary, calculated from the annual employee median salary disclosed in our 2021 Proxy Statement. Environmental Training Through our OMS, employees across the organization are required to take environmental training at regular intervals to meet position-specific needs. Environmental training is delivered through a combination of: • computer-based training through our LMS, • instructor-led classroom training, and • hands-on training. Employees receive position-relevant training on environmental topics including: • environmental awareness; • waste management procedures; • spill control procedures; • environmental sampling procedures; and • stormwater runoff handling procedures, such as water treatment. Our health, safety, emergency response, and environmental training program promotes performance improvement and helps us meet our objectives for an informed and knowledgeable workforce.  For more information, see our OMS webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/About-Us/OMS. 2.2.1 Third-Party Certifications ACC’s Responsible Care® Program Fifteen of our liquids terminals, including our largest, participate in the ACC’s Responsible Care® Program. Responsible Care® is an EHS and security performance initiative that includes a management system framework that drives improvement in key EHS and security operational areas.  The program elements include monitoring and reporting our measures for environmental, energy, safety, and accountability performance. As part of the Responsible Care® program, we undergo third-party audits of our headquarters and each of the participating facilities once every three years to certify our performance. In recognition of our team’s response during COVID-19, the ACC awarded 11 of our terminals the “Outstanding COVID-19 Response Efforts Award” for 2020. 