9.0 Operational Safety 9.1 Asset Integrity Management Pipelines are the safest and most efficient method of transporting natural gas and petroleum products.17,18 Pipelines are safer than other modes of transportation such as rail, barge, and truck.  While the amount of natural gas and petroleum products being used in the U.S. continues to increase, the industryÕs safety performance in recent years has improved significantly and serious accidents are infrequent. We are proud of our safety record.  We utilize state-of-the-art technology for transmission pipeline and liquid terminal facility integrity and maintenance. We conduct activities to monitor the integrity of our transmission pipelines and liquid terminals including: ¥ monitoring pipelines and liquid terminals 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by trained personnel using SCADA computer systems; ¥ visually inspecting pipeline rights-of-way by air and/or ground on a regular basis; ¥ performing internal pipeline inspections periodically using Òsmart pigsÓ; ¥ using cathodic protection to protect our pipelines, storage tanks, and storage wells from external corrosion; ¥ using our pipeline public awareness program to communicate with stakeholders and prevent third-party damage to our pipelines; ¥ participating in the Pipeline Safety Management Systems Group to share best practices for safe operations; ¥ working to continuously develop and improve of our business processes, operations procedures, and risk and opportunity assessments; ¥ maintaining well defined roles and responsibilities; ¥ providing employee training; and ¥ executing quality assurance programs such as third-party audits and application of performance metrics. 17 ÒPipelines are Safest for Transportation of Oil and Gas,Ó Manhattan Institute, June 2013, https://www.manhattan.institute.org/pdf/ib_23.pdf18 ÒThe Energy Bottleneck,Ó Manhattan Institute, July 16, 2017, https://www.manhattan-institute.org/download/10472/ article.pdf At each of our natural gas storage facilities, we maintain risk management programs and monitoring systems for well and reservoir integrity and deliverability.  In 2016, PHMSA issued rules establishing federal standards for underground natural gas storage facilities.  These rules respond to Section 12 of the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016, which was enacted following the serious natural gas leak at Southern California Gas CompanyÕs Aliso Canyon facility in California in 2015. In 2017, PHMSA and additional subject matter experts conducted facility safety site assessments at a cross-section of natural gas storage operators. We volunteered one of our facilities to participate in one of the first site assessments. 9.2 Damage Prevention Because one of our greatest operational risks is third-party line strikes, we actively support organizations whose missions are to promote safe digging, including: ¥ CGA - we are a platinum-level sponsor and regularly promote CGAÕs message to Òcall 811 before you digÓ on our website and social media channels; ¥ Pipeline Ag Safety Alliance - a member-driven organization whose mission is to prevent damage to buried pipelines through education and improved communication with agricultural communities; and ¥ Gold Shovel Standard - a nonprofit organization that aims to reduce and prevent damage to buried infrastructure through greater transparency in damage prevention activities among buried-asset operators, locators, and excavators to drive continuous improvement. 9.3 Public Awareness Our public awareness program is designed to: ¥ create public awareness about pipelines in the areas where we operate, ¥ provide important safety information to people living and working near our pipelines, ¥ increase knowledge of the regulations for working around pipelines, ¥ prevent damage to our pipelines, ¥ educate first responders and the public on our emergency preparedness response activities, and ¥ enhance public safety. Our public awareness program advocates pipeline safety and safe digging practices to the public through multiple avenues, including: ¥ brochures, ¥ newsletters, ¥ direct mailings, and ¥ our website at https://www.kindermorgan.com/pages/public_awareness. 9.4 Emergency Preparedness and Business Continuity Planning Our ability to respond quickly in an emergency is part of our commitment to the safety of the communities where we operate. We maintain site-specific emergency response plans that include agency notifications and response actions to act quickly and efficiently to an emergency.  We provide our employees and contractors with regular emergency response training.  Our emergency response personnel are trained to conduct response actions including: ¥ securing the safety of the public and employees, ¥ promptly notify appropriate governmental response organizations and agencies, ¥ isolation of the emergency, ¥ containment and control, ¥ co-ordination of response activities, and ¥ restoration of service. To practice our emergency response and better prepare personnel, we regularly conduct joint mock emergency exercises with first responders.  By conducting joint mock emergency exercises, pipeline operators and emergency responders are not only able to test their equipment, personnel, and procedures, but also to meet and work together face-to-face prior to an actual incident. The more familiar we are with one another and each otherÕs procedures, the more effective our integrated response will be in the unlikely event of a real incident. Example drill scenarios include the following: ¥ security incidents, including terrorist attacks or bomb threats; ¥ hurricanes; ¥ floods; ¥ tornadoes; ¥ blizzards; ¥ pipeline explosions; ¥ third-party train derailments; and ¥ events that test our ability to maintain business continuity with our corporate functions. As part of our commitment to emergency preparedness, we plan for and establish procedures for responding to a wide variety of natural disasters. We complete hazard identification and risk assessments for transmission pipelines. The purpose of these assessments is to identify potential risks and disasters that might occur, and to develop plans for mitigating each scenario.  This planning involves local response officials, other operators and their facilities, and land and right-of-way personnel. To promptly resolve issues and problems created by incidents, we maintain an emergency response notification process and system to inform internal support personnel. Our process is designed to facilitate real-time communication of emergency events to our personnel with incident response or reporting responsibilities. Our process allows for more timely, effective, and efficient responses in emergency situations and reporting to regulatory agencies. Our leading objectives during an emergency are to contain the situation, respond effectively, and restore customer services as soon as possible. Our responsibility is to provide valuable products and services to our customers and manage our facilities safely and efficiently.  In this capacity, our goal is to provide for the well-being and safety of our employees, the public, and the environment. We practice a disciplined, competent, and proactive approach when an emergency occurs. We mitigate impacts of natural disasters by: ¥ day-to-day communication, ¥ infrastructure maintenance, ¥ awareness of natural events and risks, ¥ understanding disaster response and business continuity plans, and ¥ regular training. We exercise operational and safety practices frequently and regularly check integrity management and disaster recovery plans for our assets. We maintain a reliable supply chain to support our ability to operate under various conditions.  For planning prior to an event, we maintain response and support capabilities to provide significant additional resources beyond the capabilities of our local potentially affected operations.  Our supply chain management personnel are responsible for maintaining an accurate resource list of emergency response consultants, materials and supplies vendors, and transportation and fuel sources. We maintain a database of our emergency equipment.  We have procedures in place to raise spending limits for affected personnel, to assist affected employees, and to increase security resources. 9.5 Reportable Pipeline Incidents (SASB Midstream EM0102-09) Despite our preparedness and prevention efforts, incidents did occur over the reporting period.  The number of reportable pipeline incidents, number of significant reportable pipeline incidents, and percentage of significant reportable pipeline incidents are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Number of reportable pipeline incidents(a)(b) Natural Gas Pipelines 23 19 27 CO2 7 9 2 Terminals 11 11 11 Products Pipelines 15 15 10 Kinder Morgan Canada 2 2 0 Total 58 56 50 Number of significant reportable pipeline incidents(c) Natural Gas Pipelines 3 1 4 CO2 130 Terminals  5  3  5  Products Pipelines  6  4  1  Kinder Morgan Canada  0  0  0  Total  15  11  10  Percentage significant of reportable pipeline incidents Natural Gas Pipelines 13% 5% 15% CO2 14% 33% 0% Terminals 45% 27% 45% Products Pipelines 40% 27% 10% Kinder Morgan Canada 0% 0% 0% Company-wide 26% 20% 20% (a) Reportable liquid pipeline incidents include explosions or fires, release of 5 gallons or more (excluding releases of 5 bbls associated with pipeline maintenance activities), a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, and property damage exceeding $50,000. (b) Reportable gas gathering, transmission, storage, and distribution incidents include an event that involves a release of gas from a pipeline, or of liquefied natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, refrigerant gas, or gas from an LNG facility, and that results in one or more of the following consequences: death, or personal injury necessitating in-patient hospitalization; estimated property damage of $50,000 or more including loss to the operator and others, or both, but excluding cost of gas lost; unintentional estimated gas loss of three million cubic feet or more; an event that results in an emergency shutdown of an LNG facility.  Activation of an emergency shutdown system for reasons other than an actual emergency does not constitute an incident. An event that is significant in the judgment of the operator, even though it did not meet the criteria of the above paragraphs of this definition. (c) Significant incidents are defined as greater than or equal to 50 bbls release, greater than 5 bbls highly volatile liquid release, a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization; or property damage that exceeds $50,000 in 1984 dollars. The majority of incidents we reported were minor; however, a small portion of the incidents reported were categorized as significant due to the incident resulting in property damage exceeding the monetary threshold of $50,000 or releases being greater than 50 bbls. 9.6 Natural Gas and Hazardous Liquid Pipelines Inspection (SASB Midstream TA04-13-01) We constantly strive for safe operations and zero pipeline integrity incidents.  As described in Section 9.1 Asset Integrity Management, we utilize risk management programs and state-of-the-art technology for transmission pipeline and liquid terminal facility integrity and maintenance. We work to comply with regulatory requirements, to find opportunities to improve, and to apply sound integrity management principles and technologies. To assist in these efforts, we use a robust IMP that incorporates integrity assessment measures including those to: ¥ identify, analyze, and prioritize the potential threats to the pipeline, including incorporating actual and potential precursor events that can result in pipeline incidents; ¥ use a comprehensive and integrated means for examining, prioritizing, and comparing the spectrum of risks and risk reduction activities available; ¥ implement structured and easily communicated methods for selecting and implementing risk reduction activities including integrity assessments, remediation, and preventive measures; ¥ track system performance with the goal of improving performance; and ¥ communicate emerging needs and new technology application opportunities to top management to provide timely resource allocation. Annually, we conduct a significant number of pipeline inspections using various methods including: ¥ inline inspections, ¥ integrity digs, ¥ hydrostatic tests, and ¥ direct assessments. These inspections allow us to monitor the physical condition of our pipelines and gather the information we need to keep our pipeline systems operational and safe. In our ongoing pursuit of operational excellence, we developed KMAPª, a patented innovative pipeline integrity solution designed to search for flaws in longitudinal welds. KMAPª is a unique analytical process that provides a more comprehensive and efficient analysis of pipelines than traditional inline inspection tools. We developed KMAPª as a proactive solution to more thoroughly inspect our pipelines, and have been successfully using this technology since 2011.  We also provide KMAPª as a service to third party pipeline companies across North America. The percentage of natural gas pipelines and hazardous liquid pipelines inspected by inline inspections, pressure tests, direct assessment, or other technology is presented in the table below. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of natural gas pipelines inspected  14%  14%  14%  Percentage of hazardous liquid pipelines inspected  24%  22%  19%  .  From 2015 to 2017 over 25,000 miles of our natural gas pipelines and 9,000 miles of hazardous liquid pipelines were assessed using inline inspections, hydrostatic testing, or direct assessments. The number of inspections varies from year to year depending on our annual integrity program requirements, best practices, and decisions. On average, we inspected our natural gas and liquid pipelines on roughly a 7 and 4 year interval, respectively. 9.7 Number of FRA Recommended Violation Defects (SASB Rail Transportation TR0401-09) We operate liquids and bulk products rail loading and unloading facilities across our Terminals, Natural Gas Pipelines, and Products Pipelines business segments. As operator of the facilities, we are regulated and regularly inspected by the FRA. We maintain business segment and site-specific procedures for the safe and efficient operation of the facilities and loading or unloading of rail cars and for compliance with hazardous materials transportation regulations. The number of FRA recommended violation defects received are provided below. Year Ended December 31 Num   ber of FRA recommended violation defects Natural Gas Pipelines  Terminals  Products Pipelines  Total  The majority of the violations presented were the result of agency inspections at rail yards, many of which are several hundred miles from our facility where a rail car was loaded or unloaded. The violations included such matters as loose bolts, valves, or plugs; defective safety equipment, such as gasket or pins; and in some cases vapor releases from loose equipment. Vapor releases were promptly mitigated by personnel at the rail yards where the releases were detected. Although these violations involved less than .01% of the total rail cars we processed, we have instituted additional cross-check procedures in an effort eliminate the problems identified in these violations. 10.0 Management of the Legal & Regulatory Environment Multiple government agencies regulate our business activities, including EPA, PHMSA, NEB, ASEA, OSHA, USCG, and other federal, state, provincial, and local agencies. To identify, assess, and manage new ESG regulatory risks and opportunities we maintain a process for identifying, communicating, and verifying compliance with changes in applicable regulatory requirements. Dedicated internal regulatory experts work with internal and third-party subject matter experts, industry trade groups, and agency personnel to identify changes in the following topics that may affect our operations: ¥ environmental, personal safety, process safety, and pipeline safety regulatory requirements, interpretations and guidance; ¥ industry codes and standards; and ¥ external incident reports, including: . NTSB, TSB, and CSB incident investigations; . NEB and PHMSA advisory bulletins and failure reports; and . ASEA reports. We distribute a monthly regulatory update internally to personnel with compliance roles and responsibilities. The monthly regulatory update includes both proposed and final publications. Our compliance professionals assess the potential impacts of proposed rules across our business segments. The business segments discuss and coordinate potential compliance approaches and evaluate which proposed requirements warrant providing feedback to a proposing agency.  We typically work through trade groups to provide feedback. In some instances we may provide feedback directly to the proposing agency, typically where trade groups do not address specific issues that are important to us or where the potential impact of a proposal is substantial. Our experience has generally been that it is most effective to take a collaborative approach in an effort to identify the most effective means of addressing issues around our type of assets and operations. Where warranted, we work to share data and engage in discussions about potential regulatory and compliance strategies. In some instances where there is confidence in the likely final form of regulation that has been proposed and compliance may require substantial upfront work, we may start making preparations for compliance prior to a regulation being finalized. We track final publications identified in the monthly regulatory update in an internal application and database. Through the application, business segment and corporate compliance professionals verify that they have reviewed the updated requirements that may impact their business and completed the necessary compliance activities. The Vice President of Corporate EHS and business segment COOs review progress quarterly.  The Board EHS Committee is briefed on the most significant of these regulatory changes and compliance activities. The number of new regulations, interpretations, and guidance for proposed and final regulations impacting our business segments are provided below. Year Ended December 31 10.1 Corporate Positions Related to Government Regulations (SASB Refining & Marketing TA04-16-01, SASB Exploration & Production TA04-10-01, GRI 415-1) We do not have corporate-sponsored political action committees.  We comment on the formulation of legislative and regulatory policy both as an individual company and, more often, through trade associations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level. We do not contribute to political parties or candidates for public office.  We encourage employees, contractors, and others affiliated with us to vote and keep informed on political matters and to support, with their own funds and on their own time, the candidates or parties of their choice. We also encourage and support employees who take a role in community affairs in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 