4.0 Air Quality 4.1 Air Emissions To manage our air permitting and compliance program in each of our business segments, we conduct the following activities: • monitor, record, report, and pay emission and permit fees;  • identify, record, and maintain a list of stationary air emission sources; • quantify facility annual emissions per federal, state, provincial, or local requirements and document the basis of the quantification and estimation; • quantify emissions when changes and/or modifications occur at a facility to determine if the facility permitting status is affected (e.g., exempt, minor, synthetic minor or major under Title V);  • deconstruct and manage permit requirements in our compliance tracking system along with required actions, deadlines, and designated responsible persons; and • provide regular training and re-training for operations, engineering and maintenance staffs’ understanding of permit requirements. We are committed to minimizing emissions by operating our facilities in a manner consistent with good air quality control standards. We expect to include the Company-wide criteria air emissions that we report to federal, state, provincial, or local agencies beginning with our 2020 report. Included below are the emissions reported for our Canadian operations annually through ECCC’s NPRI program. These operations include the TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. that were sold on August 31, 2018, which are presented in the tables below as discontinued operations up to the date of sale. 4.2 KML Air Emissions for the Following Pollutants: NOx (excluding N2O), SOx, VOCs, and PM10 (SASB Midstream EM-MD-120a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-120a.1, SASB Refining & Marketing EM-RM-120a.1, GRI 305-7) KML’s air emissions data are provided below in metric tons. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 KML air emissions from continuing operations(a)(b)(c) Pipelines(d) NOx (excluding N2O) — — — SOx ——— VOCs — — — PM10 ——— Subtotal — — — Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Terminals NOx (excluding N2O)  —  —  —  SOx  —  —  —  VOCs  12  12  32  PM10  10  17  15  Subtotal  22  29  47  KML total air emissions from continuing operations  NOx (excluding N2O)  —  —  —  SOx  —  —  —  VOCs  12  12  32  PM10  10  17  15  KML total air emissions from continuingoperations  22  29  47  KML total air emissions from discontinued operations(e)  110  120  113  KML total air emissions including discontinued operations  132  149  160  (a) Included are the emissions reported annually through ECCC’s NPRI program.  The ECCC NPRI annual emission reporting thresholds for facilities are as follows: NOx (excluding N2O) - 20 metric tons per year, SOx - 20 metric tons per year, VOCs - 10 metric tons per year, and PM - PM10 0.5 metric tons per year and PM2.5 0.3 metric tons per year.  We have updated the 2016 and 2017 PM values from our 2017 Report to align with updates to the final SASB standard. (b) NOx and SOx emissions for KML’s operations were below the reporting thresholds for 2016, 2017, and 2018. (c) Subject to KML shareholders and regulatory approvals, KML is expected to be sold in the fourth quarter of 2019 or first quarter 2020. (d) Pipeline facilities were below the ECCC NPRI reporting thresholds for 2016, 2017, and 2018. (e) For 2018, discontinued operations contain TMPL data up to date of sale on August 31, 2018. The increase in VOC emissions from 2017 to 2018 is due to the startup of a new terminal, and the addition of VOC emissions from two terminals that met the NPRI VOC reporting threshold.  The change in PM10 emissions from year to year is due to changes in natural gas combustion from vapor control activities in the Terminals business segment. 4.3 Number of Refineries (SASB Refining & Marketing EM-RM-120a.2) The number of refineries we own is included below. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Number of refineries in or near areas of dense population 1 1 We own and operate a splitter facility in Galena Park, Texas, which is regulated by the EPA as a refinery, although it is not a full-scale refinery.  The Galena Park Splitter is a condensate processing facility consisting of two units that separate condensate into its various components to produce intermediate, semi-finished blend stocks like naphthas and distillates. These blend stocks are generally processed further at full-scale refineries. 5.0 Water Management (CDP W1.1, CDP W1.2, CDP W6.1) Water resources are important to the ecosystems and communities in which we operate.  We are committed to responsibly managing our consumption and disposal of the water we use. We have policies and procedures focused on compliance with water and wastewater effluent monitoring, measurement, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. While certain sectors of the energy industry can be relatively water intensive, our primary business is in the energy infrastructure sector where water usage is less intensive. Because of this, we can readily build and operate pipelines and terminals without creating an undue burden on the environment, even in water-stressed areas.  Water management is more important for our CO2 segment’s enhanced oil recovery projects.  Although the risks to our operations associated with water management are low, we are nevertheless committed to responsibly managing the consumption and disposal of the water we do use. Some of the ways we use water include: • hydrostatic testing of the integrity of new and existing pipelines and related equipment prior to operation, • dust control, • cooling and processing in natural gas processing facilities, and • cleaning our equipment. We are committed to efficient operations, including the management of water and reduction of water usage and wastewater effluent.  For example, when performing hydrostatic testing on large segments of pipe, we often test in smaller sections and reuse the same water from one section to the next. This approach minimizes the amount of wastewater effluent from hydrostatic testing and the amount requiring subsequent disposal. This approach also minimizes risk associated with storing and transporting larger volumes of water.  As another example, we collect condensation from the air conditioning units at our corporate headquarters in Houston, Texas, and reuse it to irrigate the flowerbeds around our building. We monitor our stormwater and wastewater discharges to determine whether treatment is necessary before being safely released back into the environment. Some of our facilities require on-site treatment systems to process stormwater and wastewater discharges to meet water quality standards that protect humans and aquatic life. In addition, our operations follow procedures to minimize the risk of accidental discharges. If we do experience a non-permitted wastewater discharge, we have detailed response and incident management procedures. Significant discharge incidents are investigated and corrective actions are developed to address incident causes. 6.0 Ecological Impacts 6.1 Environmental Management Policies and Practices for Active Operations (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-160a.1, GRI 103-2) We continually evaluate the regulatory landscape for our operations and new projects and look for opportunities to improve. To manage environmental matters across our assets, we maintain corporate policies and business segment-specific procedures. Through our internal monthly regulatory update and verification program, we identify, assess, and manage compliance with changing regulatory requirements. We review, approve, and implement policy and procedural changes through our Management of Change process or similar established processes. Project Development Prior to beginning new construction or an expansion project, we develop plans and procedures that consider a number of important factors that help: • maintain operational efficiency, • minimize our impact on biodiversity, and • take into consideration our stakeholders’ concerns.  Our project development plans look at the overall impact of the project and include: • surveying, • environmental and cultural impact avoidance, • mitigation, • construction, • revegetation, and • operation. Pre-construction To evaluate a proposed route for a new pipeline project, we conduct surveys in the following areas: • civil surveys that provide soil, topography and land use information; • cultural surveys that provide cultural significance and archaeological information; and • environmental surveys that provide information about water, vegetation, wildlife and other important biodiversity considerations. In addition to the information collected in these surveys, our teams also consult with local stakeholders about project-specific considerations, including environmental issues. We consider and use this information to help develop a pipeline route that avoids or minimizes impacts on people, critical habitats, and lands. We follow construction and mitigation procedures that take into account several biodiversity issues by employing: • mitigation measures to minimize erosion and enhance revegetation; • plans to maintain existing drainage and water flow near our projects, including drain tiles; • project-specific spill prevention and response procedures; • plans to minimize impacts to nearby residents; and • traffic plans to keep affected roadway crossings safe and accessible. We work to minimize impacts on biodiversity in the areas where we work and operate.  Land preservation is a key component of our construction efforts both when designing a new route for a pipeline project and when performing maintenance on facilities that have been in service for many years. We coordinate with regulatory agencies and landowners, as appropriate, to minimize our impacts to the local environment by developing plans to: • prevent the introduction or spread of invasive species during construction or restoration, and • allow for the movement and protection of wildlife and livestock during construction. High Conservation Value Areas Mitigation We employ a variety of strategies to minimize our operating assets’ impact on high conservation or biodiversity value areas, such as sensitive habitats and conservation areas for threatened or endangered species,24 water bodies, and wetlands. Business segment integrity management teams assess whether our pipelines and facilities could affect commercially navigable waterways, populated areas, or environmentally sensitive areas with high biodiversity value.25 We work to meet or exceed the regulatory standards that protect these important areas. When our internal analysis determines that our asset is located within an environmentally sensitive area, the asset is subjected to more stringent and frequent integrity management measures to improve the asset’s resilience and help protect the surrounding environment. Read more about our integrity management program in Section 10.1 Asset Integrity Management. Where warranted, based on the nature of the project and project areas, our project framework requirements include: • presence of an environmental inspector with wetlands or water body knowledge to check that environmental conditions are met during construction; • establishment of baseline characteristics for high conservation areas to help develop mitigation measures during a project; • routing to avoid construction through or minimize disturbances to wetlands and water body crossings; • spill prevention and response procedures that provide for prompt and effective spill cleanup in the event of a spill; • wetlands delineation; and • detailed mitigation and avoidance plans for project areas identified as a habitat for a threatened or endangered species and fisheries. We also focus on wildlife preservation in sensitive areas.  Being good stewards of the land requires extra attention in areas impacted by construction. For more information about our assets identified in or near high conservation areas, such as protected conservation land and endangered species habitats, see Section 6.2 Percentage of Land Owned, Leased, and/or Operated within Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitat. Restoration Overall, post-construction actions for new projects include restoring the right-of-way, including landowner agreed upon specifications, and restoring the land within our facility fence lines where appropriate. In some instances, our restoration improves a habitat compared to the condition in which we found it. For example, we plant indigenous vegetation seed mixes to promote a healthy ecosystem that adapts quickly to the local conditions. In other projects, we have also constructed new habitats, including wetlands, or improved existing conservation or reservation areas. Our restoration and revegetation efforts include: • grading construction right-of-way to restore pre-construction contours and leave the soil in the proper condition for planting; 24 Threatened or endangered species defined by federal, state, provincial, and local regulatory agencies.25 Environmentally sensitive areas in the U.S. are defined by the 49 CFR 195.6 designation of unusually sensitive areas. Canada’s CER rules define environmentally sensitive areas in the GEOGratis database published by The Natural Resources Canada. • stabilizing streambeds and banks, natural drainage ways, and steep grades to meet permit requirements; • establishing successful revegetation of soils disturbed by project-related activities; and • working with affected landowners to restore structures, fences, hedges, buildings, and/or other property displaced or damaged during construction. After completing construction on a new or existing project, we strive to meet the biodiversity targets and deadlines established in our project plans. Biodiversity Enhancement Initiatives We are actively involved in a number of projects designed to enhance biodiversity within our operating areas. We have made long-term commitments to managing biodiversity and participate in conservation education and community outreach initiatives as described below.  • The Conservation Fund Donation: We consider local threats to biodiversity beyond our operations.  For example, in 2018 we made a $100,000 donation to The Conservation Fund to purchase wildlife corridors for the improvement and preservation of wildlife habitats. • USFWS Collaboration: During the construction of our Gulf Coast Express Pipeline in south Texas, we worked with USFWS to develop a biodiversity mitigation and avoidance strategy.  This area is home to many important wildlife species including ocelots as well as several threatened plant species such as the Tobusch fishhook cactus.  USFWS was instrumental in helping us avoid potential ocelot habitats during the planning of our project route. This collaboration also helped us transplant over one hundred Tobusch fishhook cacti from our construction right-of-way and help reestablish this species throughout the region. • Wildlife Habitat Council Certifications: We have received several certifications from the WHC, a nonprofit organization that promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management. For a project to receive WHC’s Conservation Certification, a third party must validate the biodiversity enhancement and conservation education activities. Since 1999, we have received certification at 14 sites, and seven of our facilities have held WHC certification over the last three years.  In 2017, the WHC awarded our Hartford Street Terminal their Remediation Project Award for pollinator forage enhancements as part of a phytoremediation project at the terminal. The Hartford Street Terminal program received its Conservation Certification in 2015 for the removal of invasive species vegetation and planting of approximately 3,000 native trees. • Trees for Tucson: We are a designated Tree Champion to the Tucson Clean and Beautiful organization for our ongoing commitment to the Trees for Tucson program.  The program provides tree plantings for neighborhoods and community sites, such as schoolyards, to improve the environment and provide shade. In 2018, we sponsored tree plantings at 16 schools in the Tucson metro area.  Our team also met with school and administration staff to provide: • landscape planning and design services, • irrigation infrastructure, and • helping hands. Over two thousand students helped plant 153 new trees. Our representatives attended many of the plantings and spoke with students about the importance of civic engagement and respecting the environment. • Nature Conservancy Collaboration: Over a two-year period, we collaborated with The Nature Conservancy and several industry peers to develop a report enumerating ways to reduce the environmental impacts of pipeline construction on steep slopes.26 The report was published in 2018 and includes details on ten recommended and four potential best practices. The report focuses on reducing the risk of landslides, slips and erosion, and protecting habitat health and water quality.  The best practices in the report include: • performing geohazard assessments and post-construction geohazard monitoring, • accurately identifying water features, • optimizing groundwater management, and • using hydroseeding and hydromulching. Managing our Impacts We use compliance tracking systems to manage: • regulatory requirements, • permit conditions, and • best practices. We present a summary of our compliance performance to our management on a monthly basis.  We maintain an operations audit program that monitors, among other factors, environmental and safety practices. The audit results are used to implement corrective measures where warranted. Audits are performed by qualified external or internal personnel not involved in the operations being audited. Audits are conducted at our operating facilities every three to five years based on the nature of facilities. We use an incident management database to internally report accidents and near misses, document incident investigation findings, and corrective action items. Our incident management system provides us with the following capabilities: • gather incident data, • analyze causes, • track actions and deadlines, • identify trends, and • identify and share preventive actions. Our incident reporting system serves as an analysis and prevention tool. Weekly senior management meetings include discussions of notable incidents including injuries, vehicle accidents, releases, third-party encroachments onto our thousands of miles of right-of-way, and near misses that may have occurred during the previous week. In May 2017, we were chosen by an independent panel of EHS executives to receive the 2017 Verdantix EHS Innovative Technology Award.  The award recognized our innovative use of technology to improve our EHS performance through the implementation of our incident management system. 26 The Nature Conservancy, et al. “Improving Steep-Slope Pipeline Construction to Reduce Impacts to Natural Resources.” July 2018. Conservation Gateway: The Nature Conservancy. 2019. <https://www.conservationgateway.org/ ConservationByGeography/NorthAmerica/UnitedStates/virginia/Pages/Steep-Slope-Report-July2018.aspx>. For more information, see our EHS Policy Statement and Biodiversity Policy on our ESG/Sustainability webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ehs/esg_sustainability.aspx. 6.2 Percentage of Land Owned, Leased, and/or Operated within Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitat (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.2, GRI 304-1) We are committed to protecting the environment and conserving environmentally sensitive areas and areas of high conservation value. Our Biodiversity Policy outlines the approaches we implement to minimize impacts on biodiversity in areas where we operate. This includes evaluating design options and, where warranted, making adjustments to the location, scope, and/or timing of a new project to minimize or avoid impacts to vulnerable species or sensitive ecosystems. Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitats The percentage of land operated within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat is provided below.  2018  Near  Inside  Inside or Near  DesignatedAreas(a)  DesignatedAreas(b)  DesignatedAreas  Percentage of Land Operated within or near Areas ofProtected Conservation Status or Endangered SpeciesHabitat(c)  Natural Gas Pipelines  28%  4%  32%  Products Pipelines  33%  8%  41%  Terminals (d)(e)  84%  0%  84%  CO2 (d)  8%  0%  8%  Company-wide 29% 4% 33% (a) Defined as operated land within five kilometers of the boundary of a protected conservation area or endangered species habitat. (b) Defined as operated land within the boundary of protected conservation area or endangered species habitat. (c) Acreage of land used in this analysis is based on acreage we operate, which is most of the land we own and lease. There may be additional land that is owned and leased, but not operated, which is not included in this analysis. Acreage operated for pipelines includes land within the 50-foot corridor of a pipeline’s centerline, and excludes gathering lines in the CO2 business segment. Acreage operated for a facility includes land within the facility’s security fence line for the Natural Gas Pipelines, Terminals, and CO2 business segments and acreage we own, in and outside the security fence line, for the Products Pipelines business segment. The areas characterized as protected conservation areas are determined by the WDPA. The areas characterized as endangered species habitats are determined by the IUCN designations of “critically endangered” and “endangered” species for our Canada and Mexico operations. This analysis deviated from the SASB standard for our U.S. operations and used the USFWS designated areas for “endangered species” as this dataset better reflects the biodiversity risk for our operations. The WDPA and IUCN datasets were acquired in the first quarter of 2019 from the IBAT Alliance. The USFWS dataset was acquired in the third quarter of 2019 from the USFWS website. Analysis was completed using our asset GIS datasets as of the first quarter 2019. (d) Land operated within designated areas for Terminals and CO2 business segments is not zero, but instead rounds to zero as a percentage of the total land operated inside designated areas. (e) Our Terminals business segment assets are often located in coastal areas for marine transportation access; these coastal areas have a higher concentration of conservation areas. 6.3 Hydrocarbon Spills (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.4, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-160a.2, GRI 306-3) We strive to prevent hydrocarbon releases from our operations, but sometimes such releases do occur. They usually are: • minimal, • below reportable quantities, • contained in secondary containment facilities, and • promptly remediated. In most cases, releases of liquids are confined to our property.  Our emergency response procedures are designed to promptly limit the impact to the environment if a release occurs or migrates outside of containment. Although measures are in place to prevent environmental contact, there are infrequent cases where some volume of hydrocarbon migrates outside containment. The number of hydrocarbon spills, the aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, and the volume recovered are included below in barrels. The percentage recovered is also included. Year Ended December 31 2016 2017 2018 Number of hydrocarbon spills(a)(b) Natural Gas Pipelines 12 13 9 Products Pipelines 12 6 7 Terminals 9 6 9 CO2 20 13 11 Kinder Morgan Canada(c) 2 1 1 Corporate Shared Services 0 0 0 Company-wide 55 39 37 Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills(a) Natural Gas Pipelines 100 141 23 Products Pipelines 457 254 11,180 Terminals 570 90 70 CO2 90 90 229 Kinder Morgan Canada(c) 16 3 28 Corporate Shared Services 0 0 0 Company-wide 1,233 578 11,530 Volume recovered(d) Natural Gas Pipelines 82 45 23 Products Pipelines 221 234 7,047 Terminals 552 10 32 CO2  59  63  211  Kinder Morgan Canada(c)  16  0  19  Corporate Shared Services  0  0  0  Company-wide  930  352  7,332  Percentage recovered Company-wide (a) A spill is defined as greater than one barrel, excluding spills contained within impermeable secondary containment. (b) We did not have any spills in the Arctic and did not determine the volume of spills in Unusually Sensitive Areas as identified by the National Pipeline Mapping System of the Office of Pipeline Safety. (c) Includes TMPL (Kinder Morgan Canada) data up to date of its sale on August 31, 2018. (d) The volume of spills recovered is the amount of spilled hydrocarbons (in bbls) removed from the environment through short-term spill response activities, excluding: amounts that were recovered during longer-term remediation at spill sites and amounts that evaporated, burned, or were dispersed. The volume recovered is reported for the year the associated spill occurred. The data for 2018 includes a 10,910 barrel release from our Products Pipelines business segment of which, as of August 2019, 6,779 barrels have been recovered.  Installation of a remediation system is planned, following regulatory agency approval, to remediate the remainder. 6.4 Marine Spills and Releases to the Environment (SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-160a.3, GRI 306-3) We own a fleet of 16 medium range Jones Act-qualified product tankers, each with 330,000 barrels of cargo capacity.  Our fleet is the largest and most modern fleet in the industry.27 Our fleet transports crude oil, condensate, and refined products under long-term contracts. Our vessels are operated by Intrepid Ship Management, a subsidiary of Crowley Maritime Corporation, a leading operator and technical manager in the U.S. maritime industry. Intrepid’s management system is designed to fulfill the requirements of: • International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, • ISO 9001:2008 Quality management system, and • ISO 14001:2004 Environmental management systems. Consistent with our own philosophy, one of Intrepid’s goals is to continually operate with no harm to people, property, or the environment.  The number of marine spills and releases and the aggregate volume are included below in cubic meters. Year Ended December 31 Number of marine spills and releases to the environment Aggregate volume of marine spills and releases to the 0 <0.0001 0.0002 environment 2017 includes a release of approximately four ounces of hydraulic fluid from a ballast pump bleeder plug. 2018 includes a release of approximately six ounces from a ballast valve. 27Based on average ship age and number of latest generation vessels operated. Fleet age assessment based on Wilson Gillette December 2018 report of operational Jones Act product tankers and large oceangoing barges. 