4.0 Air Quality 4.1 Air Emissions We are committed to minimizing our emissions by operating our facilities in a manner consistent with air quality control standards. To manage our air permitting and compliance program in each of our business segments, we conduct the following activities: • monitor, record, report, and pay emission and permit fees; • identify, record, and maintain a list of stationary air emission sources; • quantify facility annual emissions per federal, state, provincial, or local requirements and document the basis of our quantification and estimation; • quantify emissions when changes or modifications occur at a facility to determine if the facility permitting status is affected; • deconstruct and manage permit requirements in our compliance tracking system along with required actions, deadlines, and designated responsible persons; and • provide regular training to increase our operations, engineering and maintenance employees’ understanding of permit requirements. We also have initiatives in place to reduce our NOx, SOx, VOCs, PM10, and other relevant air emissions by enhancing processes that improve efficiency, reduce leaks, and reduce fuel usage.  We implement the following practices on a case-by-case basis: • implementing procedures to shut down our equipment and reduce idle time; • minimizing tank roof landings; • optimizing temperature controls to reduce fuel consumption; • replacing existing engines with newer, more efficient equipment; and • reducing flaring by: . improving compressor reliability, . automating gas control, . improving flaring metering, and . optimizing downtime. 4.2 Air Emissions for the Following Pollutants: NOx (excluding N2O), SOx, VOCs, and PM10 (SASB Midstream EM-MD-120a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-120a.1, GRI 305-7/11.3.2) Our criteria air pollutant emissions that are reportable to regulatory agencies are provided below. Year Ended December 31,  2019  2020  2021  (In thousand metric tons)  Air emissions(a)(b)(c)  NOx (excluding N2O)  57.9  52.2  50.6  SOx  0.4  0.3  0.2  VOCs  14.4  12.7  12.0  PM10  1.4  1.4  1.3  (a) Includes emissions that are reportable to a U.S. state, U.S. federal, or Mexican federal agency.  For the year ended 2021, emissions were calculated or reported as of June 28, 2022. Due to timing of regulatory agency submittals, these emissions may differ from what is reported to a regulatory agency. (b) For locations that report emissions less frequently than annually, emissions are included from emission fee estimates or from the most recent agency submittal. (c) There were no significant discontinued operations in 2020 or 2021.  In 2019, SOx, NOx, and PM10 emissions from discontinued operations were less than 50 metric tons. In 2019, VOC emissions from discontinued operations were 0.1 thousand metric tons. 5.0 Water Management (GRI 303-1/11.6.2, GRI 303-2/11.6.3, CDP W1.1, CDP W1.2, CDP W6.1) Water resources are important to the ecosystems and communities in which we operate.  Our commitment to efficient operations includes responsibly managing our water consumption, our wastewater effluent, and disposal of the water we use. We have policies and procedures to meet or exceed water and wastewater effluent monitoring, measurement, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. While certain sectors of the energy industry can be relatively water intensive, our primary business is in the energy infrastructure sector where water usage is less intensive. Because of this, we can readily build and operate pipelines and terminals without creating an undue burden on the water supply, even in water-stressed areas.  Although our operations’ water-related risks are low, we are nevertheless committed to responsibly managing the consumption and disposal of the water we do use. Our water uses are primarily for: • cooling for our CO2 business segment power plant, • hydrostatic integrity testing of new and existing pipelines and related equipment prior to operation, • processing in natural gas processing facilities, • dust control, and • cleaning our equipment. Our water management practices also apply to produced water, a by-product of our CO2 business segment’s EOR projects. Produced water is either re-injected into an oil-producing formation or disposed of by injecting it into a non-oil-producing formation. One of the ways we reduce our water usage and wastewater effluent is when performing hydrostatic integrity testing on large segments of pipe, we often test in smaller sections and reuse the same water from one section to the next. This minimizes the amount of water used and the amount requiring disposal.  We also collect condensation from the air conditioning units at our Houston headquarters to irrigate the building’s flowerbeds. We monitor our stormwater and wastewater discharges and, if necessary, treat it prior to release in order to meet water quality standards that protect human and aquatic life. In addition, our operations follow procedures to minimize the risk of accidental discharges. In the event of a non-permitted wastewater discharge, we have response and incident management procedures and reporting processes.  Significant discharge incidents are investigated, and corrective actions are implemented, if necessary, to address incident causes. 5.1 Water Usage (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-140a.1, GRI 303-3/11.6.4, GRI 303-5/11.6.6, CDP W1.1, CDP W1.2, CDP W6) Hydrostatic Integrity Testing As part of our asset IMP, described in Section 12.1 Asset Integrity Management of the Sustainability Report, we conduct regular testing of new and existing pipelines and tanks.  For some of these tests, we use hydrostatic integrity testing, a process where water is injected into a pipeline or tank and is pressurized to a certain level to test the integrity of the pipeline or tank.  Often a portion of the hydrostatic integrity test water used is returned to the source and is available to be used again.  In some hydrostatic integrity tests, we use water from non-fresh water sources. The volume of water we used for hydrostatic integrity testing in 2019, 2020, and 2021 of our in-service PHMSA-regulated pipelines is provided below. For 2020 and 2021, this volume also includes water used for hydrostatic integrity testing of our tanks. We have developed processes to track the water we use for hydrostatic integrity testing of pipelines not regulated by PHMSA and newly constructed pipelines as they are placed in service and we expect to include these volumes in a future report. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In thousand cubic meters) Water use for hydrostatic integrity testing(a)(b)(c) 24 57 159 (a) For pipelines, water volumes are calculated using the dimensions of the pipeline tested. Volumes may not account for water reuse or water loss. (b) For tanks, water volumes are calculated using tank strapping tables in accordance with API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, 14.10, 2nd Edition, 2.2D. Tanks using non-fresh water for testing are excluded. (c) Volumes for tank hydrostatic testing are excluded for 2019. 2020 and 2021 includes water usage volumes from tank hydrostatic integrity testing. Water usage can vary year-over-year depending on the pipeline and tank integrity assessment methods and reassessment intervals. Where possible and allowed by the regulations, we use ILI technology to assess the integrity of pipelines in lieu of hydrostatic testing. ILI technology provides a more detailed assessment of the integrity of the pipeline and does not use water.  In 2020, PHMSA implemented the “Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure Reconfirmation Rule.” We use hydrostatic testing as the predominant method to comply with this regulation; as a result, our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment's water usage from 2019 to 2021 increased and is expected to continue to do so until we have completed the requirements of the rule. In 2021, 60% of the water usage for hydrostatic integrity testing in our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment is attributable to the implementation of this rule. Water Usage from our CO2 Business Segment Our CO2 business segment operates multiple gas processing plants and a power plant that powers equipment in the SACROC oil field.  The power plant and gas processing plants consume fresh water for cooling and steam. Our fresh water supplies come from local water utilities and groundwater sources.  Less frequently, fresh water is trucked to our operations located in remote areas.  The amount of fresh water used during the EOR process is relatively insignificant compared to the amount used at the gas processing plants and power plant.  We assume fresh water withdrawn is equal to fresh water consumed since the majority of fresh water used in our CO2 business segment operations evaporates. The amount of fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed, and fresh water withdrawn intensity for our CO2 business segment are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In thousand cubic meters, except water withdrawn intensity) Fresh water withdrawn(a) 1,489 1,208 1,361 Fresh water consumed(a) 1,489 1,208 1,361 Fresh water withdrawn intensity (thousand cubic meters of fresh 0.04 0.04water consumed per BOE throughput)(b) (a) Water usage volumes from certain facilities or processes may be excluded if the volumes are insignificant to the overall volumes presented above. (b) Calculated using the total fresh water withdrawn divided by our CO2 business segment’s BOE throughput. 6.0 Ecological Impacts 6.1 Environmental Management Policies and Practices for Active Operations (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-160a.1, GRI 2-29, GRI 304-2/11.4.3, GRI 304-3/11.4.4) Our Biodiversity Policy outlines the approaches we use to address our impacts on biodiversity in areas where we operate. We assess the environmental risk and impact from many of our new or existing project sites and where warranted, make adjustments to the location, scope, or timing of a new project in an effort to minimize or avoid impacts to critical habitats with high biodiversity value, including vulnerable species or sensitive ecosystems. Project Development Prior to beginning new construction or an expansion project, we develop plans and procedures that consider a number of important factors that help: • maintain operational efficiency, • minimize our impact on biodiversity, and • take into consideration our stakeholders’ concerns. Our project development plans look at the overall impact of the project and may include: • surveying, • environmental and cultural impact avoidance, • monitoring, • mitigation, • construction, • revegetation, and • operation. Pre-construction and Construction To evaluate a proposed route for a new pipeline project, we conduct the following surveys: • civil surveys that provide information on soil, topography, and land use; • cultural surveys that provide cultural significance and archaeological information; and • environmental surveys that provide information about water, vegetation, wildlife, and other important biodiversity considerations. In addition to the information collected in these surveys, our teams also consult with local stakeholders during development and pre-construction about project-specific considerations, including environmental issues.  We consider and use this information to help us select facility sites and develop pipeline routes that avoid or minimize impacts on people, critical habitats, and land.  We work to minimize impacts on biodiversity in the areas where we work and operate.  Land and habitat reclamation is a key component of our construction efforts, both when designing a new route for a pipeline project and when performing maintenance on facilities that have been in service for many years.  We may employ the following construction and mitigative procedures to take into account biodiversity issues: • erosion and sediment control plans to stabilize soil and prevent sediment flow into sensitive areas; • revegetation plans to ensure successful revegetation of soils disturbed by project-related activities; • construction techniques that allow for the movement and protection of wildlife and livestock during construction; • horizontal directional drilling technology to install pipelines while minimizing and or eliminating impact to sensitive areas; • project-specific spill prevention and response procedures; and • traffic plans to keep affected roadway crossings safe and accessible. Mitigation in High Conservation Value Areas We employ a variety of strategies to minimize our operating assets’ impact on high conservation value or biodiversity areas, such as sensitive habitats and conservation areas with threatened or endangered species, wetlands, and waterbodies.15  Our integrity management teams assess whether our pipelines and facilities could affect commercially navigable waterways, populated areas, or environmentally sensitive areas.16 We work to meet or exceed the regulatory standards that protect these important areas. Our assets determined to be located within environmentally sensitive areas are subjected to more stringent and frequent integrity management measures to improve the assets’ resilience and help protect the surrounding environment. Read more about our IMP described in Section 12.1 Asset Integrity Management of the Sustainability Report. Based on the nature of the project and project area, our project framework requirements may include some or all of the following: • designating an environmental inspector with wetlands or waterbody knowledge to verify that environmental conditions are met during construction; • establishing baseline characteristics for high conservation value areas to help develop mitigation measures during a project; • routing to avoid construction through or minimize disturbances to wetlands and waterbody crossings; • establishing spill prevention and response procedures that provide for prompt and effective cleanup in the event of a spill; • delineating wetlands and waterbodies; and • developing detailed mitigation and avoidance plans for project areas identified as habitat for threatened or endangered species and fisheries. Restoration When impacts to the environment cannot be completely avoided or minimized, we can employ measures to restore an ecosystem’s composition, structure, and function. Post-construction actions for new projects include restoring the right-of-way, including landowner agreed-upon specifications, and restoring the land within our facility fence lines where appropriate. In some instances, we are able to improve habitats with our restoration work.  For example, for some pipeline replacement projects we plant native vegetation, such as shrubs and seed mixes, to promote a healthy ecosystem that is expected to quickly adapt to local conditions, and then monitor its progress.  In tandem with these efforts, we may also use weed control to minimize encroachment of invasive species.  In other projects, we have constructed new habitats; preserved, restored, enhanced, or created wetlands; and improved existing conservation or preservation areas. Our restoration, revegetation, and reclamation efforts include: • grading construction right-of-way to restore pre-construction contours and leave the soil in the proper condition for planting; 15 Threatened or endangered species defined by federal, state, provincial, and local regulatory agencies. 16 Environmentally sensitive areas in the U.S. are defined by the 49 CFR 195.6 designation of unusually sensitive areas. Canada’s CER rules define environmentally sensitive areas in the GeoGratis database published by Natural Resources Canada. • stabilizing streambeds and banks, natural drainage ways, and steep grades to meet permit requirements; • establishing successful revegetation of soils disturbed by project-related activities; • working with affected landowners to restore structures, fences, hedges, buildings, and/or other property displaced or damaged during construction; • implementing spray programs for noxious weeds and ongoing environmental monitoring to identify and repair post-construction areas of concern; and • striving to meet the post-construction biodiversity targets and deadlines established in our project plans. Biodiversity Enhancement Initiatives We are involved in a number of projects designed to enhance biodiversity within our operating areas.  We have made long-term commitments to managing biodiversity and participate in conservation education and community outreach initiatives as described below. • Trees for Tucson We are a designated Tree Champion by the Tucson Clean and Beautiful organization for our ongoing commitment to the Trees for Tucson program that plants trees in communities to increase shading, mitigate extreme heat, absorb CO2, and improve the environment in support of the City of Tucson’s Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Plan. In 2021, we contributed to planting 1,309 new shade trees in the Tucson metro area. • Mojave Desert Tortoise Conservation In 2021, we purchased 0.25 acres of credits from the Mojave Desert Tortoise Conservation Bank as compensation for the loss of 0.1 acres of similar habitat from the implementation of the Calnev ML-1 Pipeline Sleeve Dig project. The Mojave Desert Tortoise Conservation Bank is approved by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife and the USFWS for the mitigation of potential impacts to special status species and their habitats as well as to California waters of the state. • Terminal Four Wharf Removal Project In 2021, as part of the Carquinez Strait Pipeline Cover Restoration Project, we contributed approximately $216,000 to the Terminal Four Wharf Removal Project, which is planned for implementation in 2022 by the City of Richmond, California. This project will result in removal of artificial fill and debris including sources of creosote and other harmful contaminants.  The fill removal is expected to improve water quality, increase the San Francisco Bay surface area, and allow for protection and restoration of subtidal and soft bottom habitats.  This will help support multiple fish and wildlife species such as Pacific herring, Red rock crabs, Olympia oysters, and Eelgrass. • Bergen County Tree Planting & Wooded Acreage Conservation In 2021, as part of the TGP Bergen County Class Change project, we contributed $500,000 to Bergen County, New Jersey for the temporary use of 0.64 acres of workspace.  Bergen County will use a portion of the compensation payment to purchase a 1.5 acre wooded parcel.  In addition, to compensate for the removal of mature trees, we planted the 0.64 acres with trees and shrubs to actively restore the disturbed area and promote rapid restoration of wildlife habitat with native species. • Headgates Dam Removal Project In May 2021, we reached an agreement with the New Jersey Department of Environment Protection to offset the damages allegedly caused by facility discharges in Somerset County, New Jersey. We committed resources to remove the Headgates Dam, replace and relocate a sanitary sewer line, and replace the Raritan Water Power Canal. This project is expected to improve migratory fish passage, water quality and the Raritan River aquatic habitat. For more information, see our EHS Policy Statement, our Biodiversity Policy, and for examples of how we operationalize our Biodiversity Policy, see our case studies, on our ESG/Sustainability webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG. 6.2 Percentage of Land Owned, Leased, and/or Operated within Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitat (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.2, GRI 304-1/11.4.2, GRI 304-3/11.4.4) Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitats The percentage of land we operate within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat is provided below. 2019  2020  2021  Percentage of land operated within or near areas of protectedconservation status or endangered species habitat(a)  Near designated areas(b)  27 %  27 %  28 %  Within designated areas(c)  3 %  3 %  3 %  Within or near designated areas  30 %  30 %  30 %  (a) The acreage of land used in this analysis is based on acreage where we have active operations.  We may own or lease, but do not operate, additional land that is not included in this analysis. This calculation assumes that the acreage operated for pipelines includes land within the 50-foot corridor of a pipeline’s centerline and excludes production facilities and non-PHMSA jurisdictional gathering lines in the CO2 business segment.  Acreage operated for a facility includes land within the facility’s security fence line for the Natural Gas Pipelines, Terminals, and CO2 business segments and acreage we own, within and outside the security fence line, for the Products Pipelines business segment. We use WDPA determinations for the areas characterized as protected conservation areas.  For our Mexico operations, the areas characterized as endangered species habitats are determined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature endangered or critically endangered designations. For our U.S. operations, we used the USFWS designated areas for endangered species instead of the International Union for Conservation of Nature designations, recommended by SASB, because we believe the USFWS dataset better reflects the biodiversity risk for our operations.  For the 2021 reporting year, we downloaded the USFWS dataset in the fourth quarter of 2021, the WDPA dataset in the second quarter of 2021, and used our GIS datasets as of the fourth quarter of 2021 to complete our analysis. (b) Defined as operated land within five kilometers of the boundary of a protected conservation area or endangered species habitat. (c) Defined as operated land within the boundary of protected conservation area or endangered species habitat. Acreage Disturbed and Restored In 2020, a large portion of the acreage disturbed by our operations was due to the PHP project.  During the project, PHP used approximately 7,600 acres for permanent right-of-way, temporary construction right-of.way, facility sites, and road access. The temporary construction right-of-way acreage and permanent right-of-way totaled approximately 7,000 acres, which was restored in 2021.  A relatively small amount of land, specifically the long-term use surface sites, facility sites, and access roads, was not restored.  In order to minimize our impact during our projects, we use existing access roads whenever possible rather than building new ones. Our restoration includes replacing topsoil that was conserved during construction and seeding the appropriate plant species for the area. 6.3 Hydrocarbon Spills (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.4, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-160a.2, GRI 306-3/11.8.2) According to data from PHMSA and FERC, 99.999% of crude oil, petroleum products, and natural gas transported by pipelines reach their destinations safely and uneventfully.17 We work to prevent hydrocarbon releases from our operations, but sometimes such releases do occur.  They usually are: • minimal, • below reportable quantities, • contained in secondary containment facilities, and • promptly remediated. Our emergency response procedures are designed to promptly limit the impact to the environment if a release occurs or migrates outside of containment. Although measures are in place to prevent environmental contact, there are infrequent cases where some volume of hydrocarbon migrates outside containment. Hydrocarbon spills reported in Unusually Sensitive Areas, as defined in the footnote of the table below, may not necessarily impact an Unusually Sensitive Area if the spill occurred within our facility fence line and did not reach the Unusually Sensitive Areas. The number, volume, volume in Unusually Sensitive Areas, and recovered volume of hydrocarbon spills are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In barrels, except percentages and number of spills) Number of hydrocarbon spills(a)(b) 4341 41 Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills(a) 975 2,380 3,035 Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in Unusually Sensitive 52 1,398Areas(a)(c) Volume recovered(d) 861 1,769 1,827 Percentage recovered 88 % 74 % 60 % (a) A spill is defined as greater than one barrel released to surface water, soil, or groundwater, and ice covered surfaces excluding spills contained within impermeable or sufficiently impervious secondary containment. (b) We do not operate in the Arctic and therefore have nothing to report for SASB EM-MD160a.4. (c) Includes spills, as defined in note (a), in Unusually Sensitive Areas in the U.S. as identified in the National Pipeline Mapping System by PHMSA. Unusually Sensitive Areas in Canada are identified by the Canadian Council on Ecological Areas Conservation Areas Reporting and Tracking System; the National Hydro Network – 2016, Government of Canada; Natural Resources Canada; Earth Sciences Sector; and Canada Centre for Mapping and Earth Observation.  If the National Pipeline Mapping System data was unavailable for a spill location, we used the protected conservation areas by the WDPA and the areas characterized as endangered species habitats by the USFWS, as the basis for whether the spill occurred in an Unusually Sensitive Area. (d) The volume of spills recovered is the amount of spilled hydrocarbons (in bbls) removed from the environment through short-term spill response activities, excluding amounts that were recovered during longer-term remediation at spill sites and amounts that evaporated, burned, or were dispersed. The volume recovered is reported for the year the associated spill occurred. The increase in the volume of hydrocarbon spills in 2021 was driven by an estimated 913 bbl release of crude oil from our CO2 business segment, most of which has been recovered. An additional driver was an estimated 609 bbl release of gasoline from our Products Pipelines business segment, where investigation and product recovery activities are ongoing. 17 API-AOPL. “2020 Pipeline Safety Excellence Performance Report & 2020-2022 Strategic Plan.” API-AOPL, 17 Jun 2021: 45. 2021. <https://www.api.org/-/media/APIWebsite/oil-and-natural-gas/primers/2020-API-AOPL-Pipeline-Safety-Excellence.Performance-Report-and-20202022-Strategic-Plan.pdf? la=en&hash=3F9DB3F7D2FFA2FAD78E14E6146FC89BA3C1CDDD>. 6.4 Marine Transportation Spills and Releases to the Environment (SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-160a.3) We own a fleet of 16 medium-range Jones Act-qualified product tankers, each with 330,000 barrels of cargo capacity. The fleet is the largest and most modern in the industry and transports crude oil, condensate, and refined products under long-term contracts.18 Our vessels are operated by Intrepid Ship Management, a subsidiary of Crowley Maritime Corporation, a leading operator and technical manager in the U.S. maritime industry.  Consistent with our own philosophy, one of Intrepid’s goals is to continually operate with no harm to people, property, or the environment. Intrepid’s management system is designed to fulfill the requirements of: • International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, • ISO 9001:2008 Quality management system, and • ISO 14001:2004 Environmental management systems. The number and aggregate volume of marine spills and releases from our Jones Act-qualified product tankers are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Number of marine spills and releases to the environment 01 Aggregate volume of marine spills and releases to the environment 00(cubic meters)(a) (a) The 2020 aggregate volume of marine spills and releases to the environment are less than half of a cubic meter.  There were no marine spills or releases to the environment in 2019 and 2021. 6.5 Environmental Fines and Penalties (GRI 307-1) In line with our OMS, we strive to comply with applicable environmental regulations.  Notwithstanding our efforts, we occasionally receive environmental fines and penalties for alleged releases, permit violations and similar events. Payments for environmental fines and penalties may not occur in the same year of the incident and may occur several years after an incident. Our environmental fines and penalties paid are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In thousands) Environmental fines and penalties paid(a)(b) $ 215 $ 119 $ 475 (a) Environmental fines and penalties paid include monetary fines, penalties, and settlements greater than $5,000 paid to environmental regulatory agencies and excludes the costs of supplementary environmental projects, any work we were mandated to complete as part of the enforcement action, and the amounts paid to non-environmental regulatory agencies.  Environmental fines and penalties are reported based on the year the payment was made. The year when the payment was made may differ from the year the incident took place. (b) The 2020 environmental fines and penalties paid has been revised to include additional fines. 18 Based on average ship age and number of latest generation vessels operated. Fleet age assessment based on Appendix A of the Wilson Gillette December 2021 report of operational Jones Act product tankers and large oceangoing barges. The increase in environmental fines paid in 2021, as compared to 2020, is predominantly due to fines associated with three facilities in California related to allegations of improper management of waste, underground storage tank and hazardous waste generator requirements, and liquid storage tank air quality violations. 