12.0 Operational Safety 12.1 Asset Integrity Management We work to provide safe, reliable, and efficient system operations.  Our employees use our OMS to assess operational risks related to our assets.  We develop programs, policies, and procedures to address those risks. Our primary tools for maintaining safe operations include our asset IMPs. Pipelines and Liquids Terminals We conduct activities to monitor the integrity of our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquids terminals, including: • monitoring transmission pipelines and liquids terminals 24 hours a day, seven days a week by trained personnel using SCADA computer systems; • visually inspecting pipeline rights-of-way by air and/or ground on a regular basis; • performing internal transmission pipeline inspections periodically using smart pigs; • using cathodic protection to protect our pipelines, storage tanks, and storage wells from external corrosion; • evaluating new technologies for maintenance and integrity testing; • using our public awareness program, described in Section 16.1.1.1 Public Awareness Program of the Sustainability Report, to communicate with stakeholders in an effort to prevent third-party damage to our pipelines; • participating in the Pipeline Safety Management Systems Group to share best practices for safe operations; • working to develop and improve our business processes, operations procedures, and risk and opportunity assessments; • maintaining and improving our integrity management procedures in compliance with applicable regulations; • maintaining roles and responsibilities as defined in our OMS and integrity management procedures; • providing employee training; and • executing quality assurance programs such as third-party audits and application of performance metrics. Our OMS addresses the oversight of and fosters a culture of excellence and continuous improvement of our asset IMP. It includes annual, quarterly, and monthly reviews. • The annual review is attended by our COO, each business segment President, and senior pipeline integrity management team members. The review may include any known threats for each business segment and covers assessment methodologies, effectiveness, repair criteria and reassessment needs, and the adequacy of the IMP.  This review may include new technology that could enhance pipeline safety, if applicable. • The quarterly and monthly reviews include progress and plans for reducing risks associated with high consequence assets and operations. More information on how we use smart pigs as part of our IMP can be found on our Maintaining our pipelines’ integrity through in-line inspections case study video and fact sheet at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG#tabs-case_studies. Underground Natural Gas Storage Facilities We maintain risk management programs and monitoring systems for well and reservoir integrity and deliverability at each of our underground natural gas storage facilities.  Our operations and maintenance procedures are subject to periodic inspections and audits by regulators and our own internal auditors that are independent of the business segments. We have procedures in place to meet or exceed regulations to maintain the safety and reliability of our underground natural gas storage facilities over the long term.  We collaborate with industry regulators and other stakeholders to improve standards around underground natural gas storage and to begin creating standards for the underground storage of hydrogen by: • Co-leading the updates of API RP 1170 Design and Operation of Solutionmined Salt Caverns Used for Natural Gas Storage and API RP 1171 Functional Integrity of Natural Gas Storage in Depleted Hydrocarbon Reservoirs and Aquifer Reservoirs; • Participating on PHMSA’s Integrity of Underground Natural Gas and Hydrogen Storage team that recommends funding of research projects to enhance the reliability and safety of underground natural gas storage in aquifers, depleted reservoirs, and salt caverns; and • Chairing the Pipeline Research Council’s underground storage committee that will publish a paper outlining the knowns and unknowns of storing hydrogen in underground natural gas storage facilities. 12.2 Damage Prevention Because one of our greatest operational risks is line strikes by third parties, we support organizations whose mission is to promote safe digging, including: • CGA – we are a platinum-level sponsor and regularly promote CGA’s message to “call 811 before you dig” on our website and social media channels; • Pipeline Ag Safety Alliance – a member-driven organization whose mission is to prevent damage to buried pipelines through education and improved communication with agricultural communities; • Gold Shovel Standard – a nonprofit organization committed to improving workplace safety, public safety, and buried infrastructure integrity through greater transparency among buried-asset operators, locators, and excavators to drive continuous improvement in damage prevention; • Drain Tile Safety Coalition – a nonprofit coalition sponsored by pipeline and utility operators and One Call Centers committed to improving drain tile safety and preventing accidents involving underground infrastructure; and • Area Damage Prevention Councils, State One Call Centers, and One Call Boards in the states where we operate. 12.3 Business Continuity Planning and Emergency Preparedness Our ability to respond quickly in an emergency is part of our commitment to the safety of the communities in which we operate and our commercial obligations to customers.  Our business continuity plans cover the preparation for and the recovery of functions to address potential business or supply chain disruptions.  To manage the associated risk, we work to continuously improve and incorporate lessons learned from emergency events. We maintain site-specific emergency response plans for notifying and communicating with external stakeholders, including regulatory agencies, and actions to respond quickly and efficiently in an emergency. We have backup control centers in different parts of the country so we can relocate our critical control room personnel and maintain operations during emergencies.  Our corporate Crisis Support Team augments our business segments’ existing emergency response procedures and capabilities with additional resources as needed.  We monitor events that present risks to our assets by utilizing GIS platforms and other tools to identify potential operational disruptions.  We provide certain employees and contractors with emergency response training. Our emergency response personnel are trained to use the National Incident Management System Incident Command System and to respond to emergencies by: • securing the safety of the public, our employees, and the environment; • promptly notifying governmental response organizations and agencies; • engaging with the local utility provider; • managing the emergency; • coordinating response activities; and • restoring service. Pandemic Preparedness Since 2006, we have had a Pandemic Preparedness Plan and Pandemic Preparedness Committee to plan, reduce risk, and mitigate impacts to employees and critical business functions.  Our Pandemic Preparedness Committee, which consists of leaders across our business segments and corporate functions, is charged with determining the appropriate planning and response measures should a pandemic occur.  The Pandemic Preparedness Committee has regularly scheduled meetings to evaluate potential events presenting risk to our operations. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we leveraged our business continuity plans, Pandemic Preparedness Plan, and Pandemic Preparedness Committee to reduce and mitigate risk while also minimizing impacts to workers and critical business functions. Our Pandemic Preparedness Plan generally follows guidance set forth by the following organizations: • World Health Organization, • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, • U.S. Food and Drug Administration, • OSHA, • API, • state and local health agencies, and • other governmental regulatory agencies. Based on the size and scope of an event, our crisis support team works with our business segments and corporate functions to implement a standardized pandemic tracking process.  Functional areas report back to the Crisis Support Team, giving us the ability to detect abnormal clusters of pandemic-like illnesses to better identify potential risk areas and take corrective actions. To help prevent the spread of disease during a pandemic, we may implement certain non-medical interventions, such as: • educating our employees and raising employee awareness with the latest CDC guidance; • having our office-based employees work remotely; • providing return to the office safety guidelines to remote employees prior to their return; • enhancing our workplace cleaning procedures, including improving office air circulation and filtration systems; • establishing a secure supply chain to provide the necessary personal protective equipment to our workforce; • establishing testing programs for early detection, contact tracing, and mitigation; • hosting on-site vaccine distribution clinics; • promoting social distancing and workforce modifications; and • isolating employees that perform critical work tasks and job functions. First Responder Joint Exercises To better prepare personnel and practice our emergency response, we regularly conduct joint mock emergency exercises with first responders. By conducting these exercises, employees and emergency responders are not only able to test their equipment, personnel, and procedures, but also to meet and work together face-to-face prior to an actual emergency. Example drill scenarios include, among others, the following: • pipeline ruptures, releases, and line strikes; • severe weather events, e.g., hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and blizzards; • wildfires; and • security incidents, including physical or cyber-attacks. Natural Disaster Preparedness and Response We plan for and have established procedures for responding to a wide variety of natural disasters.  We maintain hazard identification and risk assessments for our transmission pipelines to identify potential risks and natural disaster scenarios and develop response plans.  This planning involves local response officials, other operators and their facilities, and land and right-of-way personnel. We use a variety of tools to forecast and monitor weather-related events, including: • weather event and tide level monitoring through news feeds and third-party services; • GIS mapping of real-time situational data to monitor forecasted paths and impacted areas, including supply chain resources; • internal communication to provide updates to affected personnel and management; and • annual testing of backup work locations that support critical business functions. Our preparation for Hurricane Ida in 2021 helped mitigate the storm impacts on our assets and employees.  As part of our preparation, response, and recovery support we: • secured backup power options for our affected operations to prevent delivery disruptions; • provided food to our employees, their family members, and local response personnel; • secured multiple nitrogen supply chains and transportation solutions during a “force majeure” mandate to keep Elba Island LNG Terminal operational; and • provided onsite COVID-19 testing options to field locations when locally unavailable. Emergency Response Notification System We maintain an emergency response notification system to inform internal support personnel and enable efficient communication and decision-making in response to emergency events, including reporting to regulatory agencies. Our process facilitates real-time communication of emergency events to our personnel with incident response or reporting responsibilities.  Once an incident has ended, we determine and document lessons learned and track corrective actions, if any, to completion. Emergency Response Supply Chain Support We endeavor to maintain a reliable supply chain to operate under various conditions.  For planning prior to an emergency, we maintain: • lists of emergency response contractors, supply vendors, and transportation and fuel sources; • a database of our emergency response equipment; and • procedures to change spending authority to assist affected employees and increase security resources. 12.4 Reportable Pipeline Incidents (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.1) One of our primary goals is to prevent pipeline incidents. Should an incident occur, we investigate the causes and contributing factors in an effort to prevent similar incidents going forward. Despite our prevention efforts, incidents occurred in the reporting period. The number of reportable pipeline incidents, number of significant reportable pipeline incidents, and percentage of reportable pipeline incidents that are significant are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Number of reportable pipeline incidents(a)(b)(c) 60 55 Percentage of reportable pipeline incidents that are significant(d) 40 % 45 % 46 % (a) Reportable hazardous liquid pipeline incidents include explosions or fires not intentionally set by the operator, releases of five gallons or more (excluding releases of less than five bbls associated with pipeline maintenance activities), a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, or estimated property damage, including cost of clean-up and recovery, value of lost product, and damage to the property of the operator or others, or both, exceeding $50,000. (b) Reportable gas gathering, transmission, storage, and distribution incidents include: (1) an event that involves a release of gas from a pipeline, gas from an underground natural gas storage facility, liquefied natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, refrigerant gas, or gas from an LNG facility, and that results in one or more of the following consequences: (i) a death, or personal injury necessitating in-patient hospitalization; (ii) estimated property damage of $50,000 or more in 2019 and 2020, and per January 2021 PHMSA rule change, $122,000 as of March 2021, including loss to the operator and others, or both, but excluding cost of gas lost; (iii) or unintentional estimated gas loss of three MMcf or more; (2) an event that results in an emergency shutdown of an LNG facility.  Activation of an emergency shutdown system for reasons other than an actual emergency does not constitute an incident; and (3) an event that is significant in the judgment of the operator, even though it did not meet the criteria of item (1) or (2) of this definition. (c) The number of pipeline incidents and significant incidents reported for 2019, 2020 and 2021 uses data as of February 2020, March 2021, and March 2022, respectively. (d) Significant reportable pipeline incidents are defined as an incident that includes any of the following conditions: (1) a fatality or injury requiring in-patient hospitalization (2) $50,000 or more in total costs, measured in 1984 dollars. For 2019, 2020, and 2021, the thresholds in 1984 dollars are $106,762, $108,926, and $111,098, respectively. (3) Highly volatile liquid releases of 5 barrels or more or other liquid releases of 50 barrels or more; and (4) Liquid releases resulting in an unintentional fire or explosion. Gas distribution incidents caused by a nearby fire or explosion that impacted the pipeline system are excluded from this definition. For highly volatile liquid and CO2 releases, PHMSA combines the unintentional and intentional release volumes to determine if the incident meets the significant liquid release threshold. In each year presented above company-wide, the most frequent reason that reported incidents were categorized as significant was due to total incident costs exceeding the monetary threshold of $50,000 in 1984 dollars, or $111,098 for 2021. Reporting-Regulated-Only Gathering Pipeline Incidents PHMSA’s RROG rule, extending the annual, accident, and safety related condition reporting requirements to all hazardous liquid gathering lines, went into effect January 1, 2021.  The hazardous liquid gathering lines covered by this rule are defined as reporting-regulated only gathering.  We are reporting these incidents separately because the other requirements of PHMSA 49 CFR 195 – Pipeline Safety: Transportation of Hazardous Liquids by Pipeline regulation do not apply to these gathering lines. The number of reportable RROG pipeline incidents and percentage of reportable RROG pipeline incidents that are significant are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Number of reportable RROG pipeline incidents(a)(b)(c) 8 Percentage of reportable RROG pipeline incidents that are significant(d) 13 % (a) Reportable RROG hazardous liquid pipeline incidents include explosions or fires not intentionally set by the operator, releases of five gallons or more (excluding releases of less than five bbls associated with pipeline maintenance activities), a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, or estimated property damage, including cost of clean-up and recovery, value of lost product, and damage to the property of the operator or others, or both, exceeding $50,000. (b) The number of reportable RROG pipeline incidents and significant incidents reported for 2021 uses data as of March 2022. (c) The Terminals business segment does not have any pipelines to which the PHMSA RROG rules apply. (d) Significant reportable RROG hazardous liquid pipeline incidents are defined by SASB as an incident that includes one of the following conditions: a liquid release volume greater than or equal to 50 bbls, a highly volatile liquid release greater than five bbls, a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, liquid releases resulting in a fire or explosion, or total cost that exceeds $50,000 in 1984 dollars.  For 2021, the threshold in 1984 dollars is $111,098, respectively. For highly volatile liquid and CO2 releases, the unintentional and intentional release volumes were combined to determine if the incident meets the significant liquid release threshold.  These incidents are not classified as significant by PHMSA. 12.5 Natural Gas and Hazardous Liquid Pipelines Inspection (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.2) We aim for safe operations and zero pipeline incidents. As described in Sections 2.2 Management System and 12.1 Asset Integrity Management of the Sustainability Report, we use risk management programs and state-of-the-art technology for maintenance and integrity testing at our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquids terminals facilities. We work to meet or exceed the regulatory requirements for testing and inspecting our pipelines, find opportunities to improve, and apply sound integrity management principles and technologies. The number of inspections we make varies from year to year depending on our annual integrity program requirements. The percentage of natural gas pipelines and hazardous liquid pipelines inspected through ILIs, pressure tests, direct assessments, or other technologies are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Percentage of natural gas pipelines inspected(a)(b) 19 % 20 % 15 % Percentage of hazardous liquid pipelines inspected(a)(b)(c) 27 % 28 % 25 % (a) For segments of pipe that are inspected more than once for the same types of anomalies during the same calendar year, the mileage inspected used in this calculation is counted once. In some limited instances where multiple inspections for different types of anomalies are conducted on the same segment in the same year, the mileage for each inspection is counted separately. (b) The GIS pipeline mileage used to calculate the percentage of natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines inspected is as of the third quarter of 2021. It excludes production and flow lines in the CO2 business segment. (c) Includes pipeline inspection data from the U.S portion of the Cochin Pipeline and KML up to the sale date of December 16, 2019. From 2019 through 2021, over 33,200 miles of our natural gas pipelines and 9,600 miles of hazardous liquid pipelines were assessed using ILIs, pressure testing, or direct assessments. 13.0 Management of Changes to the Legal and Regulatory Environment (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-530a.1) Our businesses are regulated by multiple government agencies, including the EPA, PHMSA, CER, ASEA, OSHA, USCG, and other federal, state, provincial, and local agencies.  To identify, assess, and manage new ESG regulatory risks and opportunities, we maintain a process for identifying, communicating, and verifying compliance with changes in applicable regulatory requirements.  Dedicated internal regulatory personnel work with internal and third-party subject matter specialists, industry trade groups, and agency personnel to identify changes in the following topics that may affect our operations: • environmental, personal safety, process safety, and pipeline safety, hazardous material transport, climate change, cyber and physical security regulatory requirements, interpretations, and guidance; • industry codes and standards; and • external incident reports, including: . U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and Chemical Safety Board incident investigations, . CER and PHMSA advisory bulletins and failure reports, and . ASEA reports. We distribute a monthly regulatory update of proposed and final published rules to internal personnel with compliance roles and responsibilities. Our compliance and business segment personnel evaluate which proposed requirements warrant providing our feedback, assess the potential impact of proposed rules, and coordinate potential compliance approaches. In the U.S., we engage with policy makers from both major political parties at the federal, state, and local levels. We generally advocate for fair and transparent policies that are practical, economical, and have a positive benefit to our stakeholders and customers. The focus of our engagement is on policy that impacts our business including, but not limited to, pipeline safety policies, environmental and safety regulations, methane regulation, cybersecurity policies, and corporate taxation.  We also engage in and support incentives that could help advance the use of CCUS, RNG, renewable diesel, and hydrogen. We comment on the formulation of legislative and regulatory policies at the federal, state, provincial, and local levels at times as an individual company but, more often, through trade associations.  These trade associations primarily include INGAA, Energy Infrastructure Council, GPA Midstream, AGA, AOPL, and the International Liquid Terminals Association. We prefer that the trade associations and other business organizations with which we work take positions, such as those related to climate change, that are consistent with our own. We recognize that this may not always be possible due to the variety of companies and other stakeholders that work with these organizations.  However, we continue to work with these groups to develop solutions and find common ground on issues that are relevant to our industry. In 2021, our trade associations with dues in excess of $50,000 included: • American Gas Association, • Association of Oil Pipe Lines, • Common Ground Alliance, • GPA Midstream, • Independent Fuel Terminals Operators Association, • Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, • Pipeline Research Council International, • Texas Oil and Gas Association, and • Texas Pipeline Association. In 2021, our employees served on the board of directors for the following trade associations: • Association of Oil Pipe Lines, • Common Ground Alliance, • Drain Tile Safety Coalition, • Energy Infrastructure Council, • GPA Midstream, • International Liquid Terminals Association, • Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, • Southern Gas Association, • Texas Oil and Gas Association, and • Texas Pipeline Association. Our Board oversees our participation in national trade associations through periodic reports by our COO to our Board’s EHS Committee. We generally find that it is more effective to take a collaborative approach in identifying and addressing proposed regulatory changes related to our assets and operations.  We often share data with industry groups and regulatory agencies and engage in discussions with both about potential regulatory changes and compliance strategies. We track applicable final regulations, interpretations, and guidance in our internal database.  Using the database, business segment and corporate compliance professionals verify that they have reviewed the updated regulations, interpretations, and guidance that may impact their business and completed the necessary compliance activities. The COO and business segment COOs review progress quarterly.  The COO briefs our Board’s EHS Committee on the most significant proposed and final regulatory changes, any comments we have provided on proposed regulations, and any resulting compliance activities. 13.1 Political Contributions and Lobbying Expenses (GRI 415-1/11.22.2) As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, it is our policy to not sponsor employee-funded political action committees nor make contributions to political parties or candidates for public office.  This policy extends to 527 groups, 501(c)(4) groups, and independent political spending. Contributions we make toward ballot measures, lobbying or lobbying groups, and trade associations are intended to promote the interests of our company and its stockholders and are made without regard to the private political preferences of our executives. Any lobbying expenditures, including by trade associations, are limited to expenses related to advocating on matters of public policy and are not made to political campaigns, candidates, or political parties. Our CEO, President or General Counsel signs-off on and oversees any contributions made toward ballot measures, lobbying, or lobbying groups. We encourage employees, contractors, and others affiliated with us to vote and keep informed on political matters and to support, with their own funds and on their own time, the candidates, or parties of their choice. Employees may not use the company’s funds to contribute to political parties or candidates for public office. We also encourage and support employees who take a role in community affairs in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. While we made no contributions to political campaigns, candidates, or parties, the payments we made to lobbyists or lobbying organizations, our trade associations dues, the portion of our trade association dues attributed to lobbying, and payments made in relation to ballot measures are provided below. Year Ended December 31,  2019  2020  2021  (In thousands)  Contributions to political campaigns, candidates, and parties  $  0  $  0  $  0  Payments to lobbying organizations(a)  265  197  514  Trade association dues(b)  2,523  2,680  2,241  Non-deductible portion of trade association dues attributed to lobbying and political expenditures  225  212  195  Payments made in relation to ballot measures  0  0  0  (a) These are not payments for political expenditures, i.e., political campaigns, candidates, and parties. (b) Includes trade associations where our dues were greater than or equal to $25,000 for the calendar year.  Excludes Canadian trade associations related to our divested assets. 13.2 Tax Transparency (GRI 201-1/11.14/2/11.21.2, GRI 201-4/11.21.3, GRI 207-1/11.21.4) We are committed to complying with tax laws, as well as following the spirit of those laws, in the countries in which we operate. In line with our core values of integrity and accountability and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, we manage our tax affairs by applying responsible tax practices and acting transparently. Driven by large depreciation expenses, partially created by bonus depreciation for capital expenditures, we have generated taxable losses for the past several years.  Given the large investments we made in prior years, we now have a large federal net operating loss balance, which can be used to offset taxable income. Additionally, we monetized certain minimum tax credits on our 2016 and 2017 tax returns, related to a previous overpayment of federal income taxes that resulted in refunds received in 2020. A significant portion of our tax contribution is in the form of property taxes that support the local communities in areas where we operate. Income taxes paid by country, property taxes paid, and royalties and duties paid are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In millions)  Income taxes paid(a)(b)(c)  U.S. Federal  $  47  $ 32  $  48  U.S. State  17  16  19  Canada  360  236  (2)  Mexico  7  5  5  (a) We do not have current operations in Brazil, the Cayman Islands, Scotland, or the Netherlands.  There were no taxes paid in the Cayman Islands, Scotland, or the Netherlands in 2019, 2020, and 2021.  The entities in Brazil and the Cayman Islands are from legacy acquisitions and we are working to close these entities. (b) Negative amounts indicate a refund was received. (c) Includes cash taxes from the following unconsolidated C-corp joint ventures: Citrus LLC, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America LLC, and Products (SE) Pipe Line Corporation. 2019 and 2020 income taxes paid have been adjusted to include income taxes paid for these joint ventures. (d)  Property taxes paid include the net tax paid for a reporting year for each business segment where we operate, inclusive of non-operated joint ventures and corporate owned assets. Property taxes are budgeted for in October of the year prior to the reporting year, based on projected property valuations and tax rates, and taxes are accrued based on the estimated budget.  In the reporting year, tax bills are received, verified and payments submitted. Property tax returns and related findings are filed in the first and second quarter of the reporting year and any adjustments are accounted for in the final property tax payments. (e) Non-operated joint ventures are included in the net property taxes using either actual paid amounts or property tax expensed, adjusted for KM percentage ownership of each joint venture. (f) Royalties and duties paid for the CO2 business segment include royalty payments, severance taxes, state-specific tax levies, conservation taxes, and school taxes. For the Natural Gas Pipelines business segment royalties and duties paid include royalty payments, severance taxes and state-specific tax levies. The Terminals and Products Pipelines business segments do not pay royalties and duties. The Canada tax payments in 2019 and 2020 represent the income tax impact of gains recognized on the sales of our Canadian pipelines and terminals. Post-sale, we have minimal active operations in Canada and expect to have no material tax liability in future years. We do not have a presence in countries that are considered as partially compliant or non-compliant with the exchange of information request standard according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development tax transparency report. Additionally, the countries to which we pay taxes are members of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes. We also provide extensive tax information in our 2021 Form 10-K, which can be found at https:// sec.report/Document/0001506307-22-000018/kmi-20211231.htm. 14.0 Data Security (SASB Services SV-PS-230a.1) We employ a comprehensive strategy for identifying and addressing data security risks that is aligned with the U.S. Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and Technology Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity. This framework outlines standards and practices to promote the protection of critical infrastructure. The framework is overseen by third-party experts who provide guidelines on how to manage supply chain cybersecurity. Our strategy includes both short- and long-term initiatives to increase the security surrounding our assets and is supplemented using third-party threat monitoring, rigorous security protocols, and government partnerships. Governance Structures We are committed to protecting sensitive information and have a dedicated cybersecurity group within our IT department. This group: • reports quarterly to senior management including the CEO, President, CFO, COO, CAO, Chief Information Officer, General Counsel, business segment Presidents, and Corporate Security; • prepares management briefings that include company-wide cybersecurity status and initiatives; and • provides a forum for discussing data security risk solutions and formulating action plans. Our Board’s Audit Committee is briefed quarterly on cybersecurity risk and our cybersecurity management program and initiatives. Measures to Monitor and Respond to Data Breaches and Cyberattacks We have made investments to address data security risks through: • continuous third-party security monitoring of our network perimeters, • advanced persistent threat group monitoring to keep informed of emerging serious threats, • standardization of network security architecture which separates business and SCADA networks, and • Security Information and Event Management software systems. Our risk-based approach focuses on critical systems where failure or exploitation could potentially impact pipeline safety or reliability. As such, our critical business systems are fully redundant and are backed-up at separate locations. Separate business and SCADA networks allow for isolation of potential threats and enhances the security of these systems. Our security information and event management software systems correlate security events and aggregate security-related incident data, such as malware activity and other possible malicious activities. This program sends alerts if the data analysis shows that an activity could be a potential security issue. Security functionality is continuously monitored by our network operations center, which: • monitors critical SCADA systems and telecommunications circuits, • communicates directly with control centers, • assigns support staff and management to address identified issues, and • monitors data centers’ physical operating conditions. In addition to the monitoring performed by the network operations center, our network traffic is analyzed for signs of malicious activity through the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency’s CyberSentry program and third-party Security Operations Center, which operates continuously.  If malicious activity is detected, our cybersecurity staff are notified. We maintain a dedicated SCADA group within our IT department to evaluate and respond to significant events and incidents that may impact our operations.  Anti-virus solutions are deployed on the SCADA systems and workstations in our data centers and control centers. Our processes and cybersecurity plans are part of our overall emergency response plans, and we conduct multi-agency worst case drills for continual process improvement. In the event that data and network defenses are bypassed, processes detailed in our Cyber Incident Response Plan would help identify, contain and eradicate threats, and bring our systems back online if needed. Additionally, the plan requires that the appropriate level of our management be made aware of incidents and be updated as the situation warrants. Vulnerability Assessments and Penetration Testing On an annual basis, we hire an independent third-party cybersecurity firm to perform penetration testing.  The third-party checks for vulnerabilities on our external and internal network perimeters, such as our website and our internal network and sites. In 2022, we initiated regular internal vulnerability assessments and penetration testing of our systems. If vulnerabilities are found, corrective actions are implemented to prioritize and remediate any issues. Government and Industry Group Engagement We engage with a wide variety of government agencies and industry groups to enable cross-sharing and to identify opportunities to improve our security, including: • active participation in IT Sector Coordinating Councils; and • attendance at classified briefings and security architecture reviews hosted by the: . DOE, . Federal Bureau of Investigation, and . Department of Homeland Security. Partnership with these security agencies provides us with intelligence on a wide range of critical infrastructure protection and cybersecurity activities and issues as well as an opportunity to exchange best practices. Employee Training Employees are required to take annual cyber and physical security training.  This training is designed to help employees guard our cyber and physical data. The key objectives of the training are to teach employees how to: • spot the common types of phishing emails, • understand the key concepts for safely browsing the internet, • identify physical risks to the security of our data, and • report suspicious emails to the proper channels. Employees are tested on their ability to identify phishing emails. Quarterly, our business segments compete and an employee from the business segment with the fewest clicks on phishing campaign email links is selected to win a prize. Cybersecurity performance is also considered in annual employee performance reviews. 