12.0 Operational Safety 12.1 Asset Integrity Management We work to provide safe, reliable, and efficient system operations.  Through our OMS, our employees comprehensively assess operational risks related to our assets.  We develop programs, policies, and procedures to address those risks. Our primary tools for maintaining safe operations include our asset integrity management programs. Pipelines and Liquids Terminals We use state-of-the-art technology for maintenance and integrity testing at our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquids terminals facilities. We conduct activities to monitor the integrity of our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquids terminals, including: • monitoring transmission pipelines and liquids terminals 24 hours a day, seven days a week by trained personnel using SCADA computer systems; • visually inspecting pipeline rights-of-way by air and/or ground on a regular basis; • performing internal transmission pipeline inspections periodically using smart pigs; • using cathodic protection to protect our pipelines, storage tanks, and storage wells from external corrosion; • using our public awareness program, described in Section 16.1.1.1 Public Awareness Program of the Sustainability Report, to communicate with stakeholders in an effort to prevent third-party damage to our pipelines; • participating in the Pipeline Safety Management Systems Group to share best practices for safe operations; • working to develop and improve our business processes, operations procedures, and risk and opportunity assessments; • maintaining well-defined roles and responsibilities; • providing employee training; and • executing quality assurance programs such as third-party audits and application of performance metrics. More information on how we use smart pigs as part of our integrity management program can be found on our Maintaining our pipelines’ integrity through in-line inspections case study video and fact sheet at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG#tabs-case_studies. Underground Natural Gas Storage Facilities We maintain risk management programs and monitoring systems for well and reservoir integrity and deliverability at each of our underground natural gas storage facilities.  Our operations and maintenance procedures are subject to periodic inspections and audits by regulators and our own internal auditors that are independent of the business segments. We have procedures in place to meet or exceed regulations to maintain the safety and reliability of our underground natural gas storage facilities over the long term. 12.2 Damage Prevention Because one of our greatest operational risks is third-party line strikes, we actively support organizations whose mission is to promote safe digging, including: • CGA - we are a platinum-level sponsor and regularly promote CGA’s message to “call 811 before you dig” on our website and social media channels; • Pipeline Ag Safety Alliance - a member-driven organization whose mission is to prevent damage to buried pipelines through education and improved communication with agricultural communities; • Gold Shovel Standard - a nonprofit organization committed to improving workplace safety, public safety, and buried infrastructure integrity through greater transparency among buried-asset operators, locators, and excavators to drive continuous improvement in damage prevention; • Drain Tile Safety Coalition - a nonprofit coalition sponsored by pipeline and utility operators and One Call Centers committed to improving drain tile safety and preventing accidents involving underground infrastructure; and • Area Damage Prevention Councils, State One Call Centers, and One Call Boards in the states where we operate. 12.3 Business Continuity Planning and Emergency Preparedness Our ability to respond quickly in an emergency is part of our commitment to the safety of the communities in which we operate and our commercial obligations to customers.  Our business continuity plans cover the preparation for and the recovery of functions to address potential business or supply chain disruptions.  To manage the associated risk, we work to continuously improve: • our planning prior to events; • procedures for safely responding to, and managing disruptions; • our ability to quickly recover and assume normal operations; and • engineering controls to prevent or limit business interruptions. We maintain site-specific emergency response plans and protocols for communicating with external stakeholders that include notifications to regulatory agencies and actions to respond quickly and efficiently in an emergency. Our corporate Crisis Support Team augments our business segments’ existing emergency response procedures and capabilities with additional resources as needed.  We monitor events that present risks to our assets by utilizing GIS platforms and other tools to identify potential operational disruptions. We provide certain employees and contractors with emergency response training.  Our emergency response personnel are trained to use the National Incident Management System Incident Command System and to respond to emergencies by: • securing the safety of the public, our employees, and the environment; • promptly notifying governmental response organizations and agencies; • engaging with the local utility provider; • managing the emergency; • coordinating response activities; and • restoring service. Pandemic Preparedness Since 2006, we have had a Pandemic Preparedness Committee and Pandemic Preparedness Plan to plan, reduce risk, and mitigate impacts to employees and critical business functions.  Our Pandemic Preparedness Committee, which consists of leaders across our business segments and corporate functions, is charged with determining the appropriate planning and response measures should a pandemic occur.  The Pandemic Preparedness Committee has regularly scheduled meetings to evaluate conditions and potential events presenting risk to our operations. During a pandemic, our priorities are to protect our employees and their families, and to keep our critical infrastructure businesses running. Pandemic planning assumptions and recommendations are included as part of our business continuity and business segment asset planning and preparedness. Our Pandemic Preparedness Plan follows guidance set forth by the following organizations: • World Health Organization, • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, • U.S. Food and Drug Administration, • OSHA, • API, • state and local health agencies, and • other governmental regulatory agencies. Our Pandemic Preparedness Plan has been designed to enhance existing business continuity planning and to be scalable with various phases of a pandemic event. At each phase of a pandemic we review and incorporate applicable lessons learned. Using the corporate plan as a baseline, each business segment develops and maintains plans addressing operational risk associated with their specific assets during a pandemic. Based on the size and scope of an event, our Crisis Support Team works with our business segments and corporate functions to implement a standardized pandemic tracking process.  Functional areas report back to the Crisis Support Team, giving us the ability to detect abnormal clusters of pandemic-like illness to better identify potential risk areas and take corrective actions. In order to prevent the spread of disease during a pandemic, certain non-medical interventions are implemented, such as: • monitoring federal, state, and local pandemic-related guidelines; • educating our employees with the latest CDC guidance; • having our office-based employees work remotely; • providing return to the office safety guidelines and protocols to remote employees prior to their return; • communicating proper hygiene etiquette, such as hand washing; • enhancing our workplace cleaning procedures and protocols; • establishing a secure supply chain to provide the necessary PPE to our workforce; • complying with international testing requirements for employees that travel internationally to maintain our assets; • establishing testing programs for early detection, contact tracing, and mitigation; • hosting on-site vaccine distribution clinics; • promoting social distancing and workforce modifications; • isolating employees that perform critical work tasks and job functions; and • raising employee awareness through communications prepared by our Crisis Support Team and approved by our Pandemic Preparedness Committee. During the COVID-19 pandemic, our Pandemic Preparedness Plan allowed us to adapt to the changing circumstances of the pandemic. The Plan was used to help limit our employees’ exposure to the virus while continuing to provide uninterrupted operations of our assets.  We engaged with peer companies and other organizations to consider their pandemic preparedness activities and to share best practices. We protected the compensation of our employees who were required to quarantine until vaccines became widely available. We implemented a testing program for our essential workers at our strategic operational assets and conducted over 11,000 COVID-19 tests for our employees. Many of our office-based employees successfully worked from home during the pandemic, and during that time, we were able to achieve many company-related accomplishments, such as a company reorganization and the start-up of the PHP. First Responder Joint Exercises To better prepare personnel and practice our emergency response, we regularly conduct joint mock emergency exercises with first responders. By conducting these exercises, employees and emergency responders are not only able to test their equipment, personnel, and procedures, but also to meet and work together face-to-face prior to an actual emergency. Example drill scenarios include, among others, the following: • pipeline releases; • line strikes; • tank failures; • well blowouts; • loss of communications; • severe weather events,.e.g., hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and blizzards; • wildfires; • security incidents, including physical or cyber-attacks; • pipeline explosions; • third-party train derailments; and • events that test our ability to maintain business continuity within our corporate functions. Natural Disaster Preparedness and Response As part of our commitment to emergency preparedness, we plan for and have established procedures for responding to a wide variety of natural disasters. We maintain hazard identification and risk assessments for our transmission pipelines. The purpose of these risk assessments is to identify potential risks and natural disaster scenarios and develop response plans.  This planning involves local response officials, other operators and their facilities, and land and right-of-way personnel. We use a variety of tools to forecast and monitor weather-related events, including: • weather event and tide level monitoring through: . third-party meteorological services, . local and national weather and news feeds, and . internal and external situational reports specific to impacted areas; • GIS mapping of real-time situational data overlaid on our asset maps; • internal communication processes to provide situational updates to affected personnel, management, and executives as events unfold; • annual testing of backup work locations that support critical business functions in the event of natural disasters by checking: . day-to-day communications capabilities, . infrastructure readiness, . awareness of the potential for natural events and risks, . accuracy of the disaster response and business continuity plans, and . training completions. When our assets are threatened by a potential hazard, such as a hurricane, we monitor the event and location based on the threat level and forecasted storm paths in relation to our assets.  Situation-specific communications are sent to key personnel at potentially affected facilities and in related corporate functions. These communications provide daily event updates for assets that may be impacted and include notifications tied to our disaster preparedness and response procedures.  Using GIS technology, we monitor forecasted paths and impact areas. Our internal GIS platform also allows us to analyze location-specific data, including local supply chain resources that are useful in supporting effective responses. Emergency Response We maintain an emergency response notification system to inform internal support personnel and enable efficient communication and decision-making in responding to emergency events.  Our process is designed to facilitate real-time communication of emergency events to our personnel with incident response or reporting responsibilities. Our process allows for more timely, effective, and efficient responses in emergency situations and reporting to regulatory agencies. During an emergency, we seek to respond effectively, contain the situation, and restore customer services as soon as possible. We seek to provide for the well-being and safety of our employees, first responders, the public, and the environment. We practice a disciplined, competent, and proactive approach when an event occurs. We maintain backup control centers in different parts of the country so we can relocate our critical control room personnel and maintain operations during emergencies.  Once the event has passed, a final notification is sent to the distribution list of personnel notifying them to begin the demobilization process and gather information for the lessons learned phase.  We have procedures to determine and document lessons learned so that risk assessments are updated and performance improvements are tracked and completed. Emergency Response Support To support our ability to operate under various conditions, we have developed and maintain a reliable supply chain. For planning prior to an emergency, we maintain response and support capabilities to provide additional resources to supplement those of our potentially affected local operations.  Our supply chain management personnel maintain lists of emergency response contractors, materials and supplies vendors, and transportation and fuel sources. We also maintain a database of our emergency response equipment.  We have procedures in place to raise spending limits for affected personnel, to assist affected employees, and to increase security resources. 12.4 Reportable Pipeline Incidents (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.1) One of our primary goals is to prevent pipeline incidents.  Should an incident occur, we investigate the causes and contributing factors in an effort to prevent similar incidents going forward.  Despite our prevention efforts, incidents occurred in the reporting period.  The number of reportable pipeline incidents, number of significant reportable pipeline incidents, and percentage of reportable pipeline incidents that are significant are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Number of reportable pipeline incidents(a)(b)(c) Natural Gas Pipelines 22 27 18 Products Pipelines 13 12 16 Terminals 13 16 16 CO2 555 Kinder Morgan Canada(d) 0 — — Total  53  60  55  Number of significant reportable pipeline incidents(c)(e) Natural Gas Pipelines  9  14  15  Products Pipelines  7  4  5  Terminals  5  5  3  CO2  2  1  2  Kinder Morgan Canada(d)  0  —  —  Total  23  24  25  Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Percentage of reportable pipeline incidents that are significant Natural Gas Pipelines 41 % 52 % 83 % Products Pipelines 54 % 33 % 31 % Terminals 38 % 31 % 19 % CO2 40 % 20 % 40 % Kinder Morgan Canada(d) 0 % — — Total 43 % 40 % 45 % (a) Reportable hazardous liquid pipeline incidents include explosions or fires not intentionally set by the operator, releases of five gallons or more (excluding releases of less than five bbl associated with pipeline maintenance activities), a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, or estimated property damage, including cost of clean-up and recovery, value of lost product, and damage to the property of the operator or others, or both, exceeding $50,000. (b) Reportable gas gathering, transmission, storage, and distribution incidents include: i) an event that involves a release of gas from a pipeline, liquified natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, refrigerant gas, or gas from an LNG facility, and that results in one or more of the following consequences: death or personal injury necessitating in-patient hospitalization; estimated property damage of $50,000 or more, including loss to the operator and others, or both, but excluding cost of gas lost; or unintentional estimated gas loss of three million ft3 or more; ii) an event that results in an emergency shutdown of an LNG facility.  Activation of an emergency shutdown system for reasons other than an actual emergency does not constitute an incident; iii) an event that is significant in the judgment of the operator, even though it did not meet the criteria of the above paragraphs of this definition. (c) The number of pipeline incidents and significant incidents reported for 2018, 2019, and 2020 uses data as of July 2019, February 2020, and March 2021, respectively. (d) On August 31, 2018, the assets comprising the Kinder Morgan Canada business segment were sold, so this segment does not have results of operations on a prospective basis. (e) Significant reportable pipeline incidents are defined as an incident that includes one of the following conditions: a liquid release volume greater than or equal to 50 bbl, a highly volatile liquid release greater than five bbl, a fatality, an injury necessitating hospitalization, liquid releases resulting in a fire or explosion, or total cost that exceeds $50,000 in 1984 dollars.  For 2018, 2019, and 2020, the thresholds in 1984 dollars are $104,659, $106,762, and $108,926, respectively.  For highly volatile liquid and CO2 releases, PHMSA combines the unintentional and intentional release volumes to determine if the incident meets the significant liquid release threshold. In each year presented above, the most frequent reason that reported incidents were categorized as significant was due to total incident costs exceeding the monetary threshold of $50,000 in 1984 dollars, or $108,926 for 2020. 12.5 Natural Gas and Hazardous Liquid Pipelines Inspection (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.2) We aim for safe operations and zero pipeline incidents. As described in Sections 2.2 Management System and 12.1 Asset Integrity Management of the Sustainability Report, we use risk management programs and state-of-the-art technology for maintenance and integrity testing at our transmission pipelines and facilities and liquids terminals facilities. We work to meet or exceed the regulatory requirements for testing and inspecting our pipelines, find opportunities to improve, and apply sound integrity management principles and technologies. The number of inspections we make varies from year to year depending on our annual integrity program requirements. The percentage of natural gas pipelines and hazardous liquid pipelines inspected through ILIs, pressure tests, direct assessments, or other technologies are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Percentage of natural gas pipelines inspected(a)(b) 14 % 19 % 20 % Percentage of hazardous liquid pipelines inspected(a)(b)(c) 18 % 27 % 28 % (a)  For segments of pipe that are inspected more than once for the same types of anomalies during the same calendar year, the mileage inspected used in this calculation is counted once.  In some limited instances where multiple inspections for different types of anomalies are conducted on the same segment in the same year, the mileage for each inspection is counted separately. (b) The GIS pipeline mileage used to calculate the percentage of natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines inspected is as of the first quarter of 2021. (c) Includes pipeline inspection data from TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc. up to the sale date of August 31, 2018 and the U.S portion of the Cochin Pipeline and KML up to the sale date of December 16, 2019. From 2018 through 2020, over 32,500 miles of our natural gas pipelines and 8,900 miles of hazardous liquid pipelines were assessed using ILIs, pressure testing, or direct assessments. 12.6 Rail Transportation Operational Safety - Accident and Non-Accident Releases and FRA Recommended Violation Defects (SASB Midstream EM-MD-540a.3, SASB Rail Transportation TR-RA-540a.2, SASB Rail Transportation TR-RA-540a.3) We operate liquids and bulk products rail loading and unloading facilities across our Natural Gas Pipelines, Products Pipelines, and Terminals business segments.  We maintain business segment and site-specific procedures for the safe, efficient, and compliant operation of the facilities and loading and/or unloading of rail cars. Release events from rail cars can fall into two categories. Accident releases are those that result from derailment, collision, or other rail-related accidents. Non-accident releases are those that occur when there is no derailment, collision, or other rail-related accidents. Accident and non-accident releases and alleged FRA recommended violation defects usually occur at rail yards not owned or operated by us, many of which are several hundred miles from our facility where a rail car was loaded or unloaded. We may be listed as the shipper or carrier on the required reporting form, depending on our involvement in the shipping process. In most cases, we do not own or transport the rail car, nor do we own the product contained within the rail cars. Unintentional releases of hazardous material from rail cars can occur for many reasons, such as defective equipment, tampering, or human error.  If there is a release while we are in possession of the rail car, we employ the emergency response procedures that are described in Section 6.3 Hydrocarbon Spills of the Sustainability Report. FRA recommended violation defects include matters such as loose bolts, valves, or plugs, defective safety equipment, such as gaskets or pins, and in some cases, vapor releases from loose equipment.  If a vapor release occurs at one of our facilities, it is promptly mitigated by personnel at our rail yards.  Any defective or loose equipment identified at our facilities is promptly corrected. The number of accident releases and non-accident releases from rail transportation, where we were listed as the shipper or carrier on the required reporting form, and the number of FRA recommended violation defects are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Number of accident releases from rail transportation(a)(b)  Natural Gas Pipelines  0  0  0  Products Pipelines  0  0  0  Terminals  0  0  0  Total  0  0  0  Number of non-accident releases from rail  transportation(a)(b)  Natural Gas Pipelines  0  0  0  Products Pipelines  0  0  0  Terminals  1  1  3  Total  1  1  3  Number of FRA recommended violation defects  Natural Gas Pipelines  0  0  0  Products Pipelines  0  0  3  Terminals  5  32  11  Total  5  32  14  (a) Non-accident and accident releases are defined using the reporting criteria in U.S. 49 CFR 171.16. (b) Includes releases where a Kinder Morgan entity is listed as a Shipper or Carrier on the DOT PHMSA Incident Report Form 5800.1. As shown in Appendix B – Activity Metrics, we loaded and unloaded approximately 1.3 million rail cars over the past three years. The number of non-accident releases and FRA recommended violation defects reported during that time period involved less than 0.0004% and 0.004% of the rail cars processed, respectively. 13.0 Management of Changes to the Legal and Regulatory Environment (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-530a.1) Our businesses are regulated by multiple government agencies, including the EPA, PHMSA, CER, ASEA, OSHA, USCG, and other federal, state, provincial, and local agencies.  To identify, assess, and manage new ESG regulatory risks and opportunities, we maintain a process for identifying, communicating, and verifying compliance with changes in applicable regulatory requirements.  Dedicated internal regulatory personnel work with internal and third-party subject matter specialists, industry trade groups, and agency personnel to identify changes in the following topics that may affect our operations: • environmental, personal safety, process safety, and pipeline safety regulatory requirements, interpretations, and guidance; • industry codes and standards; and • external incident reports, including: . U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and Chemical Safety Board incident investigations, . CER and PHMSA advisory bulletins and failure reports, and . ASEA reports. We distribute a monthly regulatory update to internal personnel with compliance roles and responsibilities.  This update includes both proposed and final published rules.  Our compliance personnel assess the potential impact of proposed rules across our business segments.  Personnel from our business segments discuss and coordinate potential compliance approaches and evaluate which proposed requirements warrant providing our feedback to a proposing agency. In the U.S., we engage with policy makers from both major political parties at the federal, state, and local levels. We generally advocate for fair and transparent policies that are practical, economical, and have a positive benefit to our stakeholders and customers. The focus of our engagement is on policy that impacts our business including, but not limited to, pipeline safety policies, environmental and safety regulations, methane regulation, cybersecurity policies, and corporate taxation.  We also engage in and support incentives that could help advance the use of CCUS, RNG, renewable diesel, and hydrogen. We comment on the formulation of legislative and regulatory policies at the federal, state, provincial, and local levels at times as an individual company but, more often, through trade associations. These trade associations primarily include INGAA, AOPL, and the International Liquids Terminals Association.  We prefer that the trade associations and other business organizations with which we work take positions, such as those related to climate change, that are consistent with our own.  We recognize that this may not always be possible due to the variety of companies and other stakeholders that work with these organizations. However, we continue to work with these groups to develop solutions and find common ground on issues that are relevant to our industry. In 2020, our trade associations with dues in excess of $50,000 included: • American Gas Association, • Association of Oil Pipe Lines, • Common Ground Alliance, • GPA Midstream, • Independent Fuel Terminals Operators Association, • Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, • Pipeline Research Council International, • Texas Oil and Gas Association, and • Texas Pipeline Association. In 2020, our employees served on the board of directors for the following trade associations: • Common Ground Alliance, • Drain Tile Safety Coalition, • Energy Infrastructure Council, • GPA Midstream, • International Liquid Terminals Association, • Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, • Southern Gas Association, and • Texas Oil and Gas Association. Our Board oversees our participation in national trade associations through periodic reports by our COO to our Board’s EHS Committee. We generally find that it is most effective to take a collaborative approach in identifying and addressing proposed regulatory changes related to our assets and operations.  We often share data with industry groups and regulatory agencies and engage in discussions with both about potential regulatory changes and compliance strategies.  When we have confidence in the likely final form of a proposed regulation and determine that our compliance with the proposed regulation may require substantial upfront work, we may start making preparations for compliance prior to a regulation being finalized. We track applicable final regulations, interpretations, and guidance in our internal database.  Using the database, business segment and corporate compliance professionals verify that they have reviewed the updated regulations, interpretations, and guidance that may impact their business and completed the necessary compliance activities.  The COO and business segment COOs review progress quarterly.  The COO briefs our Board’s EHS Committee on the most significant proposed and final regulatory changes, any comments we have provided on proposed regulations, and any resulting compliance activities. The number of new regulations, interpretations, and guidance for proposed and final regulations impacting our business segments is provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Number of new regulations, interpretations, and guidance  Proposed  1,301  1,296  1,646  Final  501  505  518  Total 1,802 1,801 2,164 13.1 Political Contributions and Lobbying Expenses (GRI 415-1) As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, it is our policy to not sponsor employee-funded political action committees nor make contributions to political parties or candidates for public office.  This policy extends to 527 groups, 501(c)(4) groups, and independent political spending. Contributions we make toward ballot measures, lobbying or lobbying groups, and trade associations are intended to promote the interests of our company and its shareholders and are made without regard to the private political preferences of our executives. Any lobbying expenditures, including by trade associations, are limited to expenses related to advocating on matters of public policy and are not made to political campaigns, candidates, or political parties. Our CEO, President or General Counsel signs off on and oversees any contributions made toward ballot measures, lobbying, or lobbying groups. We encourage employees, contractors, and others affiliated with us to vote and keep informed on political matters and to support, with their own funds and on their own time, the candidates, or parties of their choice. Employees may not use Company funds to contribute to political parties or candidates for public office. We also encourage and support employees who take a role in community affairs in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. While we made no contributions to political campaigns, candidates, or parties, the payments we made to lobbyists or lobbying organizations, our trade associations dues, the portion of our trade association dues attributed to lobbying, and payments made in relation to ballot measures are provided below. 2018  Year Ended December 31 2019  2020  Contributions to political campaigns, candidates, and parties Payments to lobbying organizations(a) Trade association dues(b) Non-deductible portion of trade association dues attributed to lobbying and political expenditures Payments made in relation to ballot measures(c)  $ $  0 575 2,502 180 10  (In thousands) $ 0 265 2,523 225 $ 0  $ $  0 197 2,680 212 0  (a) Exclude payments to lobbying groups made through TMPL, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada business segment sold on August 31, 2018.  These are not payments for political expenditures. (b) Includes trade associations where our dues were greater than $25,000 for the calendar year.  Excludes Canadian trade associations related to our divested assets. (c) The 2018 payment was made to a 501(c)(4) organization, Protect Colorado. 13.2 Tax Transparency (GRI 201-1, GRI 201-4, GRI 207-1) We are committed to complying with tax laws, as well as following the spirit of those laws, in the countries in which we operate. In line with our core values of integrity and accountability and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, we are committed to managing our tax affairs by applying responsible tax practices and acting transparently.  Driven by large depreciation expenses, partially created by bonus depreciation for capital expenditures, we have generated taxable losses for the past several years.  Given the large investments we made in prior years, we now have a large federal net operating loss balance, which can be used to offset taxable income.  Additionally, we monetized certain minimum tax credits on our 2016 and 2017 tax returns, related to a previous overpayment of federal income taxes, that resulted in refunds received in 2018 and 2020. Income taxes paid by country and royalties and duties paid are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In millions) Income taxes paid(a)(b) U.S. Federal U.S. State  $  (149) 26  $  (1) 4  $  (20) 6  Canada  11  360  236  Mexico  3  8  5  Brazil  0  1  0  Total income taxes paid, net Royalties and duties paid(c) Natural Gas Pipelines Products Pipelines Terminals  (109) 1 0 0  372 0 0 0  227 1 0 0  CO2 Total  $  71 72  $  70 70  $  46 47  (a)  We do not have current operations in Brazil, the Cayman Islands, Scotland, or the Netherlands.  There were no taxes paid in the Cayman Islands, Scotland, or the Netherlands in 2018, 2019, or 2020.  The entities in Brazil and the Cayman Islands are from legacy acquisitions and we are working to close these entities.  (b) Negative amounts indicate a refund was received. (c)  Royalties and duties paid do not include property taxes paid to government agencies. The Canada tax payments in 2019 and 2020 represent the income tax impact of gains recognized on the sales of our Canadian pipelines and terminals. Post-sale, we have minimal active operations in Canada and expect to have no material tax liability in future years. We do not have a presence in countries that are considered as partially compliant or non-compliant with the exchange of information request standard according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development tax transparency report. Additionally, the countries to which we pay taxes are members of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes. We also provide extensive tax information in our 2020 Form 10-K, which can be found athttps:// s24.q4cdn.com/126708163/files/doc_financials/2020/ar/KMI-2020-10K-Final-as-Filed.pdf. 14.0 Data Security (SASB Services SV-PS-230a.1) We employ a comprehensive strategy for identifying and addressing data security risks that is aligned with the U.S. Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and Technology Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity. This framework outlines standards and practices to promote the protection of critical infrastructure. The framework is overseen by third-party experts who provide guidelines on how to manage supply chain cybersecurity. Our strategy includes both short- and long-term initiatives to increase the security surrounding our assets and is supplemented using third-party threat monitoring, rigorous security protocols, and government partnerships. We are committed to protecting sensitive information and have a dedicated cybersecurity group within our IT department. This group: • reports quarterly to senior management including the CEO, President, CFO, COO, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Information Officer, General Counsel, business segment Presidents, and Corporate Security; • prepares management briefings that include company-wide cybersecurity status and initiatives; and • provides a forum for discussing data security risk solutions and formulating action plans. We have a Cyber Incident Response Plan designed to identify, contain, and eradicate threats.  If needed, the plan includes recovery steps to bring our systems back online.  Additionally, the plan requires that the appropriate level of our management be made aware of incidents and be updated as the situation warrants. Our Board’s Audit Committee is briefed quarterly on cybersecurity risk and our cybersecurity management program and initiatives. We have made investments to address data security risks through: • continuous third-party security monitoring of our network perimeters, • advanced persistent threat group monitoring to keep informed of emerging serious threats, • standardization of network security architecture which separates business and SCADA networks, and • Security Information and Event Management software systems. Our critical business systems are fully redundant and are backed-up at separate locations.  Separate business and SCADA networks allow for isolation of potential threats and enhances the security of these systems. The Security Information and Event Management software systems correlate security events and aggregate security-related incident data, such as malware activity and other possible malicious activities.  This program sends alerts if the data analysis shows that an activity could be a potential security issue. On an annual basis, we hire an independent third party to perform penetration testing.  The third-party checks for vulnerabilities on our external and internal network perimeters, such as our website and our internal network and sites. If vulnerabilities are found, corrective actions are implemented to prioritize and remediate any issues. We engage with a wide variety of government and industry groups to enable cross-sharing and to identify opportunities to improve our security, including: • active participation in IT Sector Coordinating Councils; and • attendance at classified briefings hosted by the: . DOE, . Federal Bureau of Investigation, and . Department of Homeland Security. Partnership with these security agencies provides us with intelligence on a wide range of critical infrastructure protection and cybersecurity activities and issues. Security functionality is continuously monitored by our network operations center, which: • monitors critical SCADA systems and telecommunications circuits, • communicates directly with control centers, • assigns support staff and management, and • monitors environmental systems. We maintain a dedicated SCADA group within our IT department to evaluate and respond to significant events and incidents that may impact our operations and deploy anti-virus solutions on SCADA devices.  The SCADA systems and workstations within our data centers and control centers have anti-virus coverage. Employees are required to take annual cyber and physical security training.  This training is designed to help employees guard our cyber and physical data. The key objectives of the training are to teach employees how to: • recognize the difference between phishing and spear phishing, • spot the common types of phishing emails, • understand the key concepts for safely browsing the internet, • identify physical risks to the security of our data, and • report suspicious emails to the proper channels. We also employ a program to test our employees’ ability to identify phishing emails.  As part of this program, our IT department sends mock phishing emails to employees. Employees who click the links in these emails are required to re-complete cyber and physical security training within 30 days.  If the employee repeatedly clicks on links within these emails, the matter may be escalated as a performance concern and may affect compensation.  Cybersecurity performance is also considered in annual employee performance reviews.  As positive reinforcement, our business segments compete against one another each quarter for the fewest clicks on links within phishing campaign emails.  An employee from the winning business segment is selected for a prize.   In the event that data and network defenses were to be bypassed, we have the ability to sever communication between business networks and the internet and between SCADA and business networks. 