A Message from Our CEO 2021 was a very strong year for Kinder Morgan.  The continuation of the pandemic created hardships, but our people and our businesses were resilient. We continued to get the job done; building projects and developing new business.  We added a gas storage asset to our portfolio with the acquisition of Stagecoach; started our energy transition ventures group; and acquired Kinetrex, a renewable natural gas, or RNG, operator with one facility in operation and three shovel-ready projects that are currently being built out. As we entered 2022, the tragic conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the resulting price increases and disruptions to energy supply, caused many nations to focus on energy security – rethinking both their reliance on traditional fuels and the provenance of their fuel supplies. Kinder Morgan’s traditional LNG exports and new RNG business deliver fuel from reliable and sustainable sources, helping to reduce vulnerabilities to disruption. As a major energy transportation and storage company, we take pride in doing our part to deliver safe, reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy to our customers and the communities that depend on it. Reducing Our Emissions We are making enhancements to our operations and business practices to reduce our emissions footprint. For example, we are adding five vapor recovery units at our terminals on the Houston Ship Channel. These units are projected to reduce GHG emissions by approximately 34,000 metric tons of CO2e annually – equivalent to approximately 38 million pounds of burned coal. We continue to work with other sectors of the natural gas industry to improve the efficiency of the natural gas value chain. In 2021, we joined three pilot projects that bring together participants across the value chain to transport responsibly sourced natural gas to communities in Colorado and the Northeast U.S. Another example is our recently announced collaboration with a number of midstream operators, methane detection technology providers, and leading academic institutions on a project to quantify, monitor, report, and verify GHG emissions associated with natural gas gathering, processing, transmission and storage system operations. We believe industry-led projects like these will help expand the responsible delivery of lower carbon energy. Lower Carbon Energy Future We are exploring opportunities in the energy transition space, both in our traditional lines of business and through our energy transition ventures group. Increasingly, our customers have been setting climate targets and, consequently, seeking to transport and store lower emission products. We have been able to handle these lower emission products for our customers with our existing infrastructure and expect this infrastructure to remain essential to moving liquid and gaseous fuels in a lower carbon future. While moving these lower carbon fuels may not reduce our own operational GHG emissions, our assets are critical in facilitating the end-use of these products, which ultimately helps reduce global GHG emissions. We are expanding our customer-serving businesses for natural gas transmission, responsibly sourced natural gas, RNG, and LNG.  We are also investing in midstream infrastructure in support of renewable fuels and fuel feedstocks, sustainable aviation fuel projects and evaluating CCUS and hydrogen opportunities. Our TCFD report details some of these initiatives. Our Products Pipelines business segment is working on two renewable diesel hubs in California, which will receive renewable diesel into California by rail or marine vessel and distribute it to California end-use markets by pipeline and truck. Our Terminals business segment has begun work on the initial phase of a potential renewable fuel feedstock storage and logistics hub at our Harvey, Louisiana facility. Upon completion, the facility will be used by a leading provider of renewable and circular solutions to store a variety of raw materials such as used cooking oil. Cybersecurity Safeguarding the security of our part of the nation’s energy infrastructure through cyber risk management is an operational imperative. Our cybersecurity processes are an integral part of our business continuity planning and emergency preparedness and response plans. Community Engagement, Indigenous Peoples, and Environmental and Energy Justice We consider stakeholder engagement a priority.  Our policies are designed to help build trust and foster collaboration with the communities in which we operate. We are committed to engaging with various stakeholder groups in accordance with our core values of integrity, accountability, safety, and excellence; treating everyone with respect; being transparent in our interactions and being responsive to community questions and concerns. Our operations groups and Land and Right-of-Way personnel strive to deal fairly with local governments, business owners, farmers, ranchers, residents, and others in communities that may be impacted by our operations. We respect the diversity of culture and unique history of Indigenous Peoples; recognizing their legal and constitutional protected rights. We also recognize there are vulnerable communities that can be at greater risk from the impacts of industrial activities. We are committed to the fair treatment and involvement of people affected by our operations, including environmental justice communities. Diversity and Employee Development We value and take a strategic approach to building a diverse, inclusive and respectful workplace. We monitor and work to improve our hiring practices to ensure a fair and equitable process that produces a workforce reflective of the communities in which we operate. In this report, we have added a breakdown of participants in our leadership training programs, to illustrate our investment in diverse leaders. We are also committed to paying our employees a fair, living wage and have a number of policies and programs to help promote a healthy work-life balance. Conclusion As we celebrate our 25th year in business, we are certain that adhering to our values of integrity, accountability, safety and excellence will become even more important in the face of changing circumstances, new lines of business and new ways of thinking. As you read this report, you will not only learn about our approach to ESG, you will also gain insight into how we run this company.  We remain dedicated to doing business the right way, every day – serving our investors, our colleagues, our customers, and our neighbors to improve lives and create a better world. Steve Kean, Chief Executive Officer Part 1 – Sustainability Report 1.0 Introduction (SASB Midstream EM-MD-110a.2, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-110a.3, SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-110a.2, GRI 2-3, GRI 2-9, GRI 2-13, GRI 2-14, GRI 3-1, CDP C1.1b, CDP C1.2, CDP C1.2a) Our ESG Strategy Our vision is to deliver energy to improve lives and create a better world.  We do this by pursuing our mission to provide energy transportation and storage services in a safe, efficient, and environmentally responsible manner for the benefit of people, communities, and businesses. Our ESG strategy is consistent with our vision and mission. Environmental While delivering the secure and reliable energy the world needs, we also pursue opportunities that contribute to the global effort to address climate change. We continue to support a low carbon future and enable our downstream customers to meet their GHG goals through: • expansion of our natural gas transmission, responsibly sourced natural gas, RNG, and LNG businesses; • investments in midstream assets supporting the transportation and handling of renewable fuels, including renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel, and associated feedstocks; • the formation of our energy transition ventures group, tasked with pursuing lower carbon commercial opportunities; and  • evaluation of CCUS and hydrogen opportunities. We seek to minimize our environmental impacts by: • reducing methane and other GHG emissions from our operations; and • employing a variety of strategies to lessen our impact on areas such as: . sensitive habitats and conservation areas for threatened or endangered species, . wetlands, and . waterbodies. Social It is important to us to build and maintain healthy relationships with our employees, contractors, suppliers, and other stakeholders throughout the communities where we operate and have expansion projects.  We work to attract, develop, and retain a diverse, inclusive, and respectful workforce. We support our employees’ career development goals through workforce training, tuition reimbursement, and other development programs.  We look for opportunities for our employees to get involved in community programs and strengthen their relationships with our stakeholders. We expect our consultants, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and business partners to adhere to standards of conduct consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Supplier Code of Conduct when conducting company-related business activities. We recognize that it is important to identify project stakeholders, determine and monitor their needs and expectations, and then work with them to address those needs and expectations as appropriate before, during, and after project completion. Governance Our Board oversees our management of risks and opportunities through recurring meetings of the Board and its committees. Likewise, our management team convenes a series of regularly scheduled meetings to engage our CEO, President, COO, business segment presidents and COOs, corporate function heads, and subject matter personnel on day-to-day issues related to our business.  We use these meetings to monitor our progress and performance and to identify, evaluate, and address risks and opportunities, including, where appropriate, climate-related risks and opportunities. Oversight of ESG Reporting We regularly report our performance against ESG-related environmental and safety metrics to our Board and investors. These metrics are reviewed and discussed in our regularly scheduled meetings with senior management. Certain ESG metrics are included in performance criteria used to determine incentive compensation for our employees, including executives. The environmental metrics include an incentive to minimize releases of natural gas and CO2 from our operations, which helps us meet our Natural Gas business segment GHG targets.  Our GHG targets and performance against those targets are described in Section 3.4.3 GHG Targets of the Sustainability Report. Our EHS leadership includes a standing EHS Committee of our Board.  The EHS Committee’s charter is available on our website at https://www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/media/Documents/Governance/ KMI_EHS_COMMITTEE-CHARTER.pdf. This committee assists our Board in overseeing management’s establishment and administration of our EHS policies, programs, procedures, and initiatives. Each of these items helps promote the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers, the public, and the environment. Our Board has delegated the review and approval of our Report to its EHS Committee. Our Report has also been reviewed by and received input from each business segment and our ESG Disclosure Committee, which consists of our: • CEO, • President, • COO, • CFO, • CAO, • General Counsel, • Corporate Secretary, • Treasurer, • business segment presidents, and • other corporate officers. Our Report Our Report is comprised of our “Sustainability Report” and our “TCFD Report.”  We post a summary spreadsheet of our sustainability policies and metrics. This summary spreadsheet also includes the Energy Infrastructure Council/GPA Midstream ESG Reporting template.  These disclosures can be found on our ESG/Sustainability webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG. In this Report, we use SASB’s latest final standards and primarily include metrics from the SASB Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas – Midstream Standard (EM-MD, Version 2018-10) as well as the TCFD recommendations. We also incorporate metrics from CDP and GRI, as well as other SASB sectors applicable to our business,  noting both the topic standard reference number and Oil & Gas Sector Standard reference numbers, where applicable.  In addition, we use third-party guidance in developing our Report including: • The Ceres Roadmap for Sustainability, and • Investor-published guidance on engagement priorities. We reference the activities where our business contributes to SDGs.  The United Nations General Assembly has adopted 17 SDGs to set a global agenda for equitable, socially inclusive, and environmentally sustainable economic development. Our mission aligns with the Assembly’s: • Goal 3: ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages; and • Goal 7: ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all. In addition, many of our business and community investment activities support other SDGs such as those relating to: • Goal 8: decent work and economic growth; • Goal 9: industry, infrastructure, and innovation; • Goal 14: life below water; and • Goal 15: life on land. New to our Report In this year’s report, we have added a section on our energy and environmental justice initiatives and disclosed new metrics, including a breakdown of diverse participation in our leadership training and property taxes paid. Description of Appendices In Appendix A.1 – ESG Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics, we summarize the ESG metrics included throughout the Report. Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics summarizes our GHG metrics. In Appendix B – Activity Metrics, we include a set of metrics that quantify the scale of our business.  These activity metrics are intended to allow users of our Report to normalize data and facilitate comparisons in conjunction with our ESG accounting metrics. In Appendix C – ESG Content Index, we include a cross-reference table of ESG topics covered in our Report and other Kinder Morgan-published documents, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (2021 Form 10-K) and 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement (2022 Proxy Statement), to the corresponding SASB Sustainable Industry Classification SystemTM code, GRI disclosure code, CDP question number, and SDGs target. This cross-reference table also includes the relevant page number of the Report and other Kinder Morgan published documents. In Appendix D – Third-Party Assurance Statement, we include the Report of Independent Accountants for our Report provided by PwC an independent registered public accounting firm. PwC performed a limited assurance engagement on specific metrics included in our Report for 2021.  As indicated in Appendix A.1 – ESG Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics, Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics, and Appendix B – Activity Metrics, certain of the 2021 company-wide quantitative metrics disclosed throughout this Report have either undergone third-party assurance by PwC or were tested by our Internal Audit department. The testing process by our Internal Audit department includes reviewing and re-performing the processes and procedures for compiling and calculating the metric and performing sample testing of supporting documentation to check accuracy.  Tick marks in the Appendices indicate which metrics were assured by PwC or our Internal Audit department. 1.1 Return to Office and Hybrid Work Model Our goal for our employees going forward is to leverage what we learned during the pandemic to strengthen our culture and the effectiveness and efficiency of our company – for the benefit of our stakeholders and to help us perform in this highly competitive industry.  In 2021, a cross-functional team of leaders from across our organization discussed ideas and opinions and proposed a flexible hybrid work model for certain functions. We then implemented this hybrid model for the majority of our office-based employees. The schedule consists of three core in-office workdays and each department had the option to submit for approval a plan for employees to work remotely up to two non-core days a week.  We are evaluating this model quarterly, and any necessary adjustments and refinements to a final program will be considered in the fourth quarter of 2022. 2.0 Overview of Business (GRI 2-1, GRI 2-6, GRI 203-1/11.14.4) We are committed to doing business the right way, every day. To meet this commitment, our employees and representatives are expected to act in accordance with our core values of: • integrity, • accountability, • safety, and • excellence. We are one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in North America.  Our four business segments are: • Natural Gas Pipelines, • Products Pipelines, • Terminals, and • CO2. As of December 31, 2021, we owned an interest in or operate approximately 83,000 miles of pipelines, 143 terminals, and 700 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity. Our pipelines transport: • natural gas, • refined petroleum products, • crude oil, • condensate, • CO2, • renewable fuels, and • other products. Pipelines are the safest, most efficient, and least costly method of transporting natural gas and petroleum products compared to other modes of transportation such as rail, barge, and truck.1,2,3,4 The industry’s safety performance in recent years continues to improve and the total number of incidents and incidents impacting people or the environment continues to decline.5 Our terminals store and handle various commodities including: • gasoline, • diesel fuel, • chemicals, • metals, • petroleum coke, and • renewable fuels and feedstocks. We are also the largest transporter of CO2 in North America for use by us and others in EOR projects, primarily in the Permian Basin. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “KMI.”  For more information about us, please see our 2021 Form 10-K, which can be found at https://sec.report/ Document/0001506307-22-000018/kmi-20211231.htm. 2.1 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics establishes the standards of ethical conduct that our employees and representatives are expected to meet and outlines how everyday behavior should align with our core values. Our Board’s Audit Committee has responsibility for: • oversight of the implementation and administration of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; • review and assessment, at least annually, of the effectiveness of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and • recommendations to the Board of suggested changes to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We maintain programs to prevent and detect potential violations.  Annually, each of our employees, including management, is required to demonstrate an understanding of or undergo additional training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, including sections on anti-corruption, human rights, and information governance.  The training explicitly promotes an open feedback culture. Our Internal Audit department distributes an annual Code of Business Conduct and Ethics questionnaire to both employees and contractors, providing an opportunity to report violations, in addition to the reporting channels 1 DOT-PHMSA. “General Pipeline FAQs.” DOT-PHMSA, 6 Nov 2018. 2022. <https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/about-phmsa/phmsa-faqs>.2 Furchtgott-Roth, Diana. “Pipelines are Safest for Transportation of Oil and Gas.” Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, Jun 2013. 2021. <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/pdf/ib_23.pdf>.    3 Hughes, Charles. “The Energy Bottleneck: Why America Needs More Pipelines.” Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, Jul 2017: 9-12. 2021. <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/download/10472/article.pdf>.4 INGAA. “Pipeline Safety & Reliability: Safety and Reliability Metrics.” INGAA, Apr 2022. <https://www.ingaa.org/File.aspx?id=28478&v=6dac677e>.5 API-AOPL. “2020 Pipeline Safety Excellence Performance Report & 2020-2022 Strategic Plan.” API-AOPL, 17 Jun 2021: 12-13. 2021. <https://www.api.org/-/media/APIWebsite/oil-and-natural-gas/primers/2020-API-AOPL-Pipeline-Safety.Excellence-Performance-Report-and-20202022-Strategic-Plan.pdf? la=en&hash=3F9DB3F7D2FFA2FAD78E14E6146FC89BA3C1CDDD>. discussed below.  Our Internal Audit department evaluates the questionnaire responses and oversees follow-up as necessary. We encourage employees to speak up, seek guidance, and report issues or concerns through appropriate channels and grievance mechanisms. Employees can report incidents involving any ethics, compliance, or human rights violation through several channels including the Kinder Morgan Ethics Hotline, a third-party platform.  Our ethics hotline allows reports to be made confidentially and anonymously. Reported concerns and grievances are evaluated and investigated, as appropriate, by our Internal Audit, HR, EHS, or Legal Departments. For more information, see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/media/Documents/Governance/ KM_Code_of_Business_Conduct_and_Ethics.pdf. 2.2 Management System Management System Overview We value the safety of our workforce and integrate a culture of safety, emergency preparedness, and environmental responsibility through our OMS. Our OMS conforms to API RP 1173 for Pipeline Safety Management Systems and establishes a framework that helps us: • provide employees and contractors with a safe work environment; • comply with laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; and • identify opportunities to improve. Specifically, our OMS provides a detailed road map to build and sustain a culture focused on safety and environmental compliance.  Employees receive annual training on our OMS, and we routinely evaluate and drive improvements in each business segment’s implementation of our OMS.  The main components of our OMS include: • setting forth goals and policies for our physical operations; • describing our approach to sound operations; • setting forth the roles and responsibilities for conducting sound operations; • establishing a set of processes to be followed in our operations; • incorporating our EHS requirements; and • providing for audits, assessments, and periodic changes to improve and maintain compliance with our OMS. We strive to be a good neighbor and contribute to responsible development through our systematic approach to EHS management. This approach supports our ability to: • comply with laws and regulations; and • strive to improve our environmental, health, and safety performance. As part of our OMS, our employees are expected to help us meet our goals and expectations, identify and address risks to people and the environment, and identify opportunities for improvement.  Our employees are required to complete training, participate in periodic safety culture surveys, and are encouraged to share information on incidents. Our employees and contractors have the power to stop work if an activity is not well understood or could lead to potential harm, and we regularly communicate that they have that authority. Management of Change We review, approve, and implement policy and procedural changes through our management of change process or similar established processes.  Through this process our ESG Disclosure Committee or select senior management reviews or approves ESG-related policies, including but not limited to our: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, • Human Rights Statement, • EHS Policy Statement, • Biodiversity Policy, • Supplier Code of Conduct, • Indigenous Peoples Policy, and • Community Relations Policy. Audit Program We maintain an operations audit program that monitors, among other things, our environmental and safety practices. Our operating facilities with site-specific requirements, permits, or plans are audited every three to five years, depending upon the nature of the facility. OMS audits are conducted at least once every three years for each business segment. Audits are performed by qualified third parties or internal personnel not involved in the operations being audited. The audit results are used to develop and implement corrective measures where warranted. Incident Management Our policies and procedures require the internal reporting of incidents and investigation of significant incidents, including work-related injuries and illnesses. Our employees and contractors are required to report and document workplace incidents, including illnesses and injuries.  Our incident management system provides us with the capability to: • gather incident data and impacts; • identify and analyze immediate or root causes, or both; • determine corrective actions and deadlines; • verify corrective actions have been completed; and • identify trends and share preventive actions. Our senior management plays a vital role in fostering a strong safety culture and values the insights gained from our safety performance metrics relative to our targets and incident investigations.  Weekly senior management meetings, chaired by our CEO, include reports and discussions of notable workplace incidents and near misses that may have occurred during the previous week.  Our senior management has established detailed safety performance metrics at the business segment level and with our corporate and business segment COOs to focus performance on factors related to both safety and operational reliability.  These metrics are reviewed during each business segment’s quarterly business review. Incidents, including injuries, are regularly reviewed by our business segments to identify potential trends.  These trends are communicated to appropriate persons within the company, who meet regularly to share information about incidents and related improvements. Trends are included in discussions at weekly safety meetings, monthly operations meetings, and other regular operations meetings. In addition, management has periodic discussions with worker representatives about health and safety. Lessons Learned Sharing lessons learned is an integral part of our OMS and reinforces our commitment to performance improvement. Our emphasis on timely incident assessment, information sharing, and tracking corrective actions reinforces our employees’ understanding that risk management is a top priority.  Sharing lessons learned not only helps our employees understand the importance of continuous learning and improvement, it also helps protect against complacency. Equally important is that everyone understands that sharing and voicing concerns is not only encouraged but is considered a responsibility.  Our lessons learned processes contribute to an environment in which employees and contractors are comfortable identifying and speaking up about risks and help emphasize the urgency of communicating risk information up, down, and across the organization. Asset Integrity Management For most of our pipelines, where appropriate, we have established an IMP that incorporates integrity assessment measures to: • identify, analyze, and prioritize potential threats to our pipelines, including incorporating actual and potential precursor events that can result in pipeline incidents; • use a comprehensive and integrated means for examining, prioritizing, and comparing the spectrum of risks and risk reduction activities available; • implement structured and easily communicated means for selecting and implementing risk reduction activities, including integrity assessments, remediation, and preventive measures; • track system performance with the goal of improving performance; and • communicate emerging needs and new technology application opportunities to top management to provide timely resource allocation. We conduct pipeline inspections using various methods including: • ILIs, • non-destructive testing, • above-ground surveys, • hydrostatic integrity tests, and • direct assessments. These inspection methods help us determine the physical condition of most of our pipelines and gather information to assist us in keeping our pipelines operational and safe.  For our inspections, where possible, we prefer to utilize ILI technology referred to as smart pigs, which provides more detailed data about corrosion and other material defects. In our ongoing pursuit of operational excellence, we developed KMAP™, a patented, innovative pipeline integrity solution designed to search for flaws in longitudinal welds.  KMAP™ is a unique analytical process that we employ to provide additional analysis beyond traditional ILI analytical methods.  We developed KMAP™ as a proactive solution for conducting more thorough inspections of our pipelines.  We have been successfully using this technology since 2011. Environmental, Health, Safety and Emergency Response Training We use an LMS to provide and track training for our employees who take required and voluntary online courses covering technical development, leadership, safety, environmental, and corporate policies, including our OMS and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our operations employees receive initial environmental, health, safety, and emergency response training and subsequent recurring training, appropriate for their positions. Training can be individually tailored by an employee’s supervisor or the employee, who can self-register for any course in our LMS. Employees receive position-relevant training on environmental topics including: • environmental awareness; • waste management procedures; • spill control procedures; • environmental sampling procedures; and • stormwater runoff handling procedures, such as water treatment. For employees who are likely to respond to emergencies, we provide emergency management training consistent with USCG, EPA, DOT, CER, and ASEA requirements.  We also have an extensive pipeline safety operator qualification program. In 2021, we achieved our target to have 100% of training courses assigned to employees in our LMS completed by the end of the year.  We have processes in place to help employees meet this target; including email reminders and training administrators who monitor completion of training.  We also report overdue training to management on a monthly basis. For more information, see our Section 7.2 Employee and Contractor Safety Statistics and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training of the Sustainability Report and our OMS webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/About-Us/OMS. 2.2.1 Third-Party Certifications ACC Responsible Care® Program Our Terminals business segment has been involved in the ACC Responsible Care® Program since 2010. The Responsible Care® Program is an EHS and security performance initiative that includes a management system framework and allows members to demonstrate their commitment to health and safety of their employees, the communities in which they operate, and the environment.  As part of the Responsible Care® program, we undergo third-party audits of our Terminals business segment headquarters in Houston, Texas and each of the participating facilities once every three years to certify our performance. Fifteen of our terminals, including our largest, participate in the program.  In 2021, eight terminals were awarded an “Excellence in Safety,” designation, which recognizes facilities with zero deaths, zero days away from work cases, and zero job transfer or restriction cases among both employees and contractors during the prior year. 