6.0 Employee and Contractor Health and Safety 6.1 Discussion of Safety Management Systems to Integrate Culture of Safety and Emergency Preparedness (SASB Midstream EM0102-11, SASB Exploration & Production TA01-06-01, SASB Refining & Marketing TA04-15-01, GRI 103-2) 6.1.1 Management System Overview We integrate a culture of safety and emergency preparedness through our OMS.  Our OMS establishes a framework that helps us provide employees and contractors with a safe work environment; comply with laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; and identify opportunities to improve. Specifically, our OMS provides a detailed road map to build and sustain a robust safety culture based around: • leadership and management commitment; • risk and opportunity management; • operational controls; • incident investigation, evaluation, and lessons learned; • safety assurance; • emergency management; • stakeholder engagement; • management review; and • continuous improvement. The main components of our OMS include: • setting forth our goals and policies for our physical operations; • describing our approach to sound operations; • setting forth the roles and responsibilities for conducting sound operations; • establishing a set of processes to be followed in pursuit of our operations; • incorporating our EHS requirements; and • providing for periodic changes, audits, and assessments to improve and assess compliance with the OMS. Our OMS conforms with API Recommended Practice 1173 for Pipeline Safety Management Systems.  We routinely evaluate and drive improvements in each business segment’s implementation of the OMS and employees receive annual training on the system. Through our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our OMS we establish that every employee is expected to share our commitment to the goals of: • keeping people safe, • using material and energy efficiently, • protecting the environment, and • promoting best practices. We are continuously looking for opportunities to improve our business.  Our employees are expected to help us meet our goals and expectations by: • following and improving Company and business segment policies and procedures, • complying with laws and regulations, • identifying opportunities for improvement, • operating our assets safely, and • identifying and addressing risks to people and the environment. We strive to be a good neighbor and contribute to sustainable development through our systematic approach to EHS management. This approach supports our ability to: • comply with laws and regulations; • train employees to be aware of and meet their responsibilities for protection of the environment, health, and safety; and • achieve continual performance improvement. For more information, see our OMS webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/pages/ehs/ ops_mgmt_system.aspx. Fourteen of our liquid terminals, including our largest, participate in the ACC’s Responsible Care® Program. Responsible Care® is an EHS and security performance initiative that includes a management system framework that drives improvement in key EHS and security operational areas. The program elements include monitoring and reporting our measures for environmental, energy, safety, and accountability performance. As part of the Responsible Care® program, we undergo third-party audits of our headquarters and each of the participating facilities to certify our performance. 6.1.2 Employee and Contractor Safety As part of our OMS, our employees are encouraged to improve and build upon our established safety culture by sharing information on incidents, completing training, and participating in periodic safety culture surveys. Our employees are empowered to perform their work in a safe and effective manner, taking into account safety-related components of each job. We expect our employees to stop work if an activity is not well understood or could lead to potential harm, and we regularly communicate that expectation to them. Our policies and procedures require the internal reporting and investigation of incidents, including identification of incident details, impacts, causes, and corrective actions. We use the incident investigation process to identify immediate and root causes that contributed to the incident, to determine the necessary corrective actions, and to provide timely follow-up to check that corrective actions have been completed. We share lessons learned and evolving best practices across our business segments in regular cross-segment operations meetings. Another feature of our OMS is contractor safety and contractor management. We utilize a multi-faceted approach to foster a culture of safety among our contractors. Our approach begins with our procurement process, which includes contractor vetting using ISNetworld, a nationally recognized contractor management firm. Additional actions we undertake to integrate a culture of safety with our contractors include: • facility safety orientations; • field, project, and desktop audits; • job evaluations; • training; • benchmarking and safety statistical analysis; and • safety inspector placement and training. For more information see our Contractor Environmental/Safety Manual at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/content/docs/KMContractorSafetyManual.pdf. 6.2 Total Recordable Injury Rate, Fatalities, and Average Hours of Health, Safety, and Emergency Response Training (SASB Exploration & Production TA04-05-01, Refining & Marketing EM0103-09, GRI 403-2) We have developed policies, procedures, and processes to record, report, and manage work-related injuries and illnesses. Our senior management plays a vital role in establishing a culture that supports occupational health and safety programs and initiatives. Weekly senior management meetings include reports and discussions of notable workplace incidents and near misses that may have occurred during the previous week. Our senior management has established detailed safety performance metrics at the business segment level to focus performance on factors related to both safety and operational reliability.  We have a committee of safety and operations personnel who meet monthly to share information related to safety and other incidents. The committee reviews incidents and applies insights learned across our business segment operations. We strive for a culture of excellence throughout our operations by seeking skilled employees and contractors with a high degree of competence in terms of education, training, knowledge, and experience. We provide initial training for employees and recurring training on regular intervals.  Our training program promotes continuous improvement and helps us meet objectives for an informed and knowledgeable workforce. We deliver safety training to our employees through: • computer based training through our LMS, • instructor-led classroom training, and • hands-on training. Our health, safety, and emergency management training covers topics required under the U.S. 29 CFR Part 1910 OSHA standards; Canada Labour Code; and Mexican, state, and provincial equivalent programs, including training on: • confined spaces, • crane safety, • electrical safety, • emergency response, • fall protection, • fire protection, • hazard communication, • lockout/tagout, • personal protective equipment, • process safety management, and • respiratory protection. Employees also receive training in other safety topics that are not required under OSHA 1910 including: • safe driving, • back safety, and • ergonomics. We provide emergency management training consistent with USCG, EPA, DOT, NEB, and ASEA requirements. We also have an extensive pipeline safety OQ training program. The annual employee and contractor injury rates, the number of employee and contractor fatalities, and the average number of employee hours spent on health, safety, emergency management, and other safety training topics are provided below. Year Ended December 31 Total recordable injury rate(a)(b) Employees(c) Natural Gas Pipelines 1.6 1.2 1.2 CO2 0.7 1.0 0.7 Terminals 1.2 1.6 0.9 Products Pipelines 0.9 0.3 0.6 Kinder Morgan Canada 0.9 0.6 Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Corporate Shared Services 0.3 0.2 0.7 Company-wide 1.2 1.1 1.0 Contractors(d) Natural Gas Pipelines 1.0 1.1 CO2 1.1 1.3 1.4 Terminals  0.6  0.6  0.7  Products Pipelines  1.0  0.2  0.7  Kinder Morgan Canada  0.4  0.2  0.4  Corporate Shared Services  0.0  0.0  0.0  Company-wide  0.9  0.8  0.8  Fatalities Employees 1 2 0 Contractors 1 0 1 Average hours of health, safety, and emergency responsetraining Hours per employee Natural Gas Pipelines 16 18 20 CO2 201930 Terminals  11  12  14  Products Pipelines  26  24  28  Kinder Morgan Canada  5  7  7  Corporate Shared Services  3  5  3  Company-wide  14  15  17  (a) TRIR calculation: total number of injuries multiplied by 200,000 divided by the number of employee hours actually worked. The 200,000 represents the hours 100 employees worked per year.  100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year.  It is a standard base for calculating injury rates. (b) Rates are as of December 31 of each year.  Injuries or illnesses may be reclassified after the end of the year. (c) Employee rates include regular full-time, regular part-time, and temporary employees. (d) Contractor rates are based on injuries contractors incurred while doing work for KMI on a defined major project or an operations and maintenance project. Injury rates for the contractor’s employees operating our marine tankers are not included in the contractor hours here, and are included in the marine lost time injury rates below. The following initiatives contributed to the contractor TRIR performance improvements: • increased the number of contractor audits; • increased the number of safety inspectors dedicated to major projects; and • added staff to provide quality control of incident data entry into our internal incident management system, to improve incident investigation quality, and to follow-up on related action items. We experienced one employee fatality in 2015, two in 2016, and none in 2017.  There was one contractor fatality in 2015 and one in 2017. For any fatality, we ensure that a root cause investigation is conducted. We may establish committees to study similar incidents and near misses, and where warranted, develop and implement improvements to our policies and procedures. Irrespective of fault, we make adjustments to plans and procedures where appropriate with the goal of eliminating or reducing the chance that a similar incident will happen in the future. 6.3 Marine Lost Time Injury Rate (SASB Marine Transportation TR0301-12, GRI 403-2) As noted above, Intrepid Ship Management operates our Jones Act marine transportation vessels. Intrepid’s management is actively engaged in monitoring each injury or illness case.  Intrepid determines the case classification, as well as reporting, investigating, and recordkeeping requirements based upon regulatory requirements, industry guidelines, and Intrepid’s processes and procedures.  For a marine injury or illness, Intrepid engages contracted medical services, including: • physician advice at sea, • maritime telemedicine, • physician and nurse case management, and • arrangement and management of shore side medical services. We do not include Intrepid’s injuries and illnesses or hours worked in our contractor TRIR above. Intrepid’s lost time injury rates on our marine transportation vessels are provided below. Year Ended December 31 Marine lost time injury rate(a) (a) Marine lost time injury rate calculation: total number of lost time injuries multiplied by 1,000,000 divided by number of employee hours actually worked. Between December 2015 and December 2016, the number of vessels in active service increased from seven to 12. This vessel increase and the associated increase in the number of new merchant mariners contributed to the increase in lost time injury rate from 2015 to 2016. The lost time injury rate decreased from 2016 to 2017 due to, among other programs, the implementation of a fleet safety officers’ program and a quality training program focused on safety leadership, sharing best practices, and increasing crew training on job safety, work permits, and housekeeping.  The job safety training programs included a hazard recognition and incident prevention program, and a program designed to prevent common musculoskeletal injuries. 7.0 Competitive Behavior (SASB Midstream EM0102-08) Our policies prohibit improper conduct that is intended to exclude competition, eliminate a competitor, or control prices or services in a market. We strive to compete fairly and honestly in each phase of our business and to conduct our operations in compliance with federal, state, provincial, and foreign antitrust laws. Certain of our U.S. natural gas, refined petroleum products, and crude oil transmission pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or ICA.  Both the NGA and ICA require that we maintain our tariffs on file with the FERC.  Those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation and storage services on our FERC regulated pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. We have policies and procedures that support our ability to comply with and enforce pipeline tariff provisions in a consistent manner and in accordance with the following principles: • we do not engage in transactions that could be seen as manipulating a market; • we do not participate in transactions that do not have a legitimate business purpose; • we do not submit false or misleading price and volume information; • we do not provide an undue preference to shippers, including an affiliate shipper; • we do not share, whether directly or through someone else, non-public information about a shipper unless the shipper has given its written consent to do so; and • we do not make untrue or misleading statements or take actions that would defraud a party. For more information see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ content/docs/km_code_of_business_conduct_and_ethics.pdf. The legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with federal pipeline and storage, rate, access, and pricing regulations are provided below in millions of U.S. dollars. Year Ended December 31 2015 2016 2017 Amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements fromFederal pipeline and storage, rate, access, and pricingregulations(a) Natural Gas Pipelines $ 0 $ 0 $ 10 $  0  $  0  $  0  $  0  $  10  (a) Disclosure includes the amount, excluding legal fees, of fines or settlements associated with federal pipeline and storage regulations, including those related to rates, pipeline access, price gouging, or price fixing. Disclosure includes enforcements from the FERC, the U.S. CFTC, and the U.S. FTC. Disclosure includes civil actions (e.g., civil judgment, settlements, or regulatory penalties) and criminal actions (e.g., criminal judgment, penalties, or restitutions) taken by an entity (government, businesses, or individuals). The settlement paid in 2017 was for matters that were alleged to have occurred over a decade prior to our ownership and control of El Paso Corporation and El Paso Marketing L.P.  Beginning in 2003, several lawsuits were filed by purchasers of natural gas against El Paso Corporation, El Paso Marketing L.P., and numerous other energy companies based on a claim under state antitrust law that such defendants conspired to manipulate the price of natural gas by providing false price information to industry trade publications that published gas indices. Several of the cases have been settled or dismissed. The remaining cases, which are pending in a U.S. District Court in Nevada, include a lawsuit brought by an industrial consumer in Kansas in which approximately $500 million in damages plus interest has been alleged against all defendants, and a Wisconsin class action in which approximately $300 million in damages plus interest has been alleged against all defendants. In the Wisconsin class action , the U.S. District Court denied plaintiff’s motion for class certification, but on appeal the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the case with instructions to the U.S. District Court to provide a more detailed analysis of class certification issues. There remains significant uncertainty regarding the validity of the causes of action, the damages asserted and the level of damages, if any, which may be allocated to us in the remaining lawsuits and therefore, our legal exposure, if any, and costs are not currently determinable. 8.0 Prevention of Corruption and Bribery throughout the Value Chain (SASB Exploration & Production EM0101-21, GRI 205-2 and 205-3) We have policies that prohibit us and our employees from participating in corrupt practices.  Our policies do not permit our employees, directors, agents, contractors, business partners, or third-party representatives to give or accept bribes, kickbacks, or other improper payments in conjunction with our business. Our employees receive annual training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. While the U.S. FCPA contains a narrow exception that allows for small-dollar facilitation payments to be made to a foreign official in order to expedite routine governmental actions that are non-discretionary in nature, our policies do not allow facilitation payments of any kind. Our ethics hotline enables employees or third parties to anonymously report concerns about corruption and bribery.  Our internal accounting controls require that transactions are: • accurately described with an explanation of the purpose of the transaction, • sufficiently supported by documentation, and • appropriately approved by the required level of management based on the dollar value of the transaction prior to entering into a commitment and again before processing for payment. Additionally, we have accounting controls around payees being added to our accounting system.  The controls require the review and approval by an individual(s) higher in the reporting chain than the person approving the payment in our accounting system. For more information see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ content/docs/km_code_of_business_conduct_and_ethics.pdf. 