15.0 Employee Relations 15.1 Employees (SASB Investment Banking & Brokerage FN-IB-330a.1, Professional & Commercial Services SV.PS-330a.2, GRI 401-1/11.10.2, GRI 405-1/11.11.5) We use a strategic approach to building a diverse, inclusive, and respectful workplace.  Our HR department provides expertise and tools to attract, develop, and retain diverse talent and support our employees’ career and development goals. We value our employees’ opinions and encourage them to engage with management and ask questions on topics such as our goals, challenges, and employee concerns. Employees are encouraged to submit questions to our CEO and our President during our semi.annual employee meetings, either before or during the meeting. Although the semi-annual employee meetings were suspended during the pandemic, our CEO and our President maintained communication with our employees through regular emails and audio messages; a practice they have continued post pandemic. They also hold periodic video meetings with randomly selected manager- and director-level employees. Employee Compensation We link total compensation to our financial performance and to the attainment of our short-term and long.term strategic, operational, and financial objectives. We believe that an effective compensation program should reward employees for: • advancing our business strategies; • advancing the interests of our investors and other stakeholders; • upholding and complying with our policies, including contributing to a discrimination-free workplace; • incentivizing compliance with our ESG policies, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our EHS policies; and • meeting our environmental, safety, and compliance targets. We are committed to paying a fair wage to our employees and our pay policies help establish a living wage. Pay is based on a thorough analysis of the market, salaries of employees in similar jobs, and applicable laws. We establish competitive pay rates with the external market and facilitate equitable pay internally for similar jobs.  Employee compensation includes competitive base salaries in the markets in which we operate and competitive benefits, including retirement plans, opportunities for annual bonuses, and, for eligible employees, long-term incentives, and an employee stock purchase plan.  In 2021, over 96% of our employees were eligible for the employee stock purchase plan.  Annual Incentive Plan Our Annual Incentive Plan is designed to foster our executive officers’ and employees’ personal stake in our continued success through the possible payment of annual cash bonuses that are dependent on a combination of individual and company performance. Under the Annual Incentive Plan, a pool of bonus dollars is budgeted at the beginning of each year for annual cash bonuses that may be paid to our executive officers and other employees, depending on the extent to which we meet certain financial performance objectives set at the beginning of the year by our Board’s Compensation Committee.  The Compensation Committee then establishes the final bonus pool based primarily on the extent to which the financial performance objectives are met. The Compensation Committee may also adjust the budgeted pool of bonus dollars upward or downward based on our overall performance in other areas, including targets for safety and environmental incident rates, regulatory compliance, and other financial measures. Employee Benefits We offer a variety of benefits to eligible employees, their children, spouses, domestic partners, and the children of domestic partners. These programs are described in more detail below: • PTO: Our PTO program offers employees flexibility to schedule time away from work to handle personal and family commitments. PTO hours may be used for various reasons, including but not limited to: short-term illnesses, vacations, bonding with a newborn or newly adopted or fostered child, or attending school functions. • Maternity leave: Short-term disability coverage is available to new mothers for the birth of a child.  Eligible employees receive up to 100% pay based on years of service for six or eight weeks.  • Parental leave: Starting in 2022, employees welcoming a new child, either through birth or adoption, are eligible for 80 hours of paid parental bonding time, which can be used at any time within six months from the birth or adoption of the child. • Mother’s Rooms: Private rooms with refrigerators are designated for nursing mothers in our Houston headquarters and most of our other regional offices. • Flexible work schedules: Flexible starting and ending work times, and reduced schedules are options to help manage work/life balance. • Variable work schedules: The 9/80 work schedule gives employees the opportunity to have every other Friday off by adding an additional hour to eight of the nine workdays in the pay period.  Half-day off workweeks provide the option to work nine hours each day Monday through Thursday and four hours on Friday of each week. • Hybrid work schedule: On a trial basis, eligible employees have the ability to participate in a remote work pilot for up to two days a week on non-core in-office work days. • Bereavement leave: Three days of PTO for the death of an immediate family member. • Military leave: Actively serving employees are paid the difference between their KMI pay and their active military pay for up to two years. • Disability leave: Sick or injured employees who are unable to work for more than seven consecutive days may be eligible for short-term disability leave.  Employees on an approved leave can receive up to 100% of pay for up to 26 weeks based on years of service. • Tuition reimbursement: Up to $5,250 per calendar year. • Financial support: Employees may apply for disaster relief grants if they suffer an emergency hardship as a result of certain natural disasters and live in a state or county with a major disaster declaration. Wellness Initiatives Our Wellness 360° program provides a holistic approach to wellness for our employees and their eligible dependents, focusing not only on physical well-being, but emotional and financial health as well.  Participants are able to access helpful resources designed to support a healthy lifestyle such as a behavioral science-based weight loss program, a flexible fitness program membership, and monthly webinars related to physical, mental, and financial health among many others. Our employees also have access to ergonomic training through our LMS system, which explains how various postures and movement affect the body and how to mitigate ergonomic hazards both on the job and on personal time. Employee and Board of Directors Composition The number of full-time, part-time, and temporary employees; voluntary and involuntary turnover rates; and composition of our workforce by age, gender, disability status, and minority representation are provided below. The gender and minority representation of our Board of Directors is also provided below. 2019 2020 2021 Full-time employees(a)  11,086  10,525  10,529  Part-time employees(a)  6  7  9  Temporary employees(a)  5  2  2  Employee age representation(b)  Average age  45  45  45  Percentage under 18 years old  0 %  0 %  0 %  Percentage from 18 through 29 years old  11 %  10 %  10 %  Percentage from 30 through 50 years old  52 %  53 %  54 %  Percentage over 50 years old  38 %  37 %  37 %  Female employee representation(b)(c)  Percentage of workforce(d)  16 %  16 %  16 %  Percentage of management  19 %  20 %  20 %  Percentage of executive officers(e)  27 %  25 %  25 %  Percentage of Board of Directors(f)  13 %  13 %  13 %  Minority employee representation(b)(g)  Percentage of workforce(d)  29 %  30 %  30 %  Percentage of management  19 %  20 %  21 %  Percentage of executive officers(e)  18 %  17 %  17 %  Involuntary employee turnover(i)(j)  4 %  6 %  3 %  Voluntary employee turnover(j)(k)  6 %  4 %  8 %  Total employee turnover  10 %  10 %  11 %  (a) 2019, 2020, and 2021 employee counts are as of December 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.  The total number of full-time employees in Mexico for 2019, 2020, and 2021 were 4, 1, and 14, respectively. (b) 2019 U.S. data was queried in November 2019. 2019 Mexico data was queried in December 2019.  2019 employee data for KML was not included. 2020 U.S and Mexico data were queried in November 2020.  2021 U.S and Mexico data were queried in December 2021. The total number of employees used to calculate these percentages, from our EEO-1 reports, for 2019, 2020, and 2021 were 11,115, 10,592, and 10,529 respectively. Both full-time and part-time employees are included. (c) In 2019, 2020 and 2021, 0.7%, 0.9%, and 0.6% of employees, respectively, selected “I prefer not to answer” for gender. (d) Workforce includes positions in management, professional positions, and remaining positions. (e) Executive officers are as defined by Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and listed in the 2022 Proxy Statement. (f) For 2021, minority representation for the Board of Directors is confirmed by board members and gender representation is consistent with the pronouns used in the 2022 Proxy Statement, reported as of April 2022. (g) U.S. and Canada diversity data are categorized per the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s Employer Information Report EEO-1 and the Employment Equity Workforce Survey, respectively.  Mexico is excluded, as there is no requirement to collect diversity data. Minority includes the number of U.S. employees who classify themselves as Asian, Black, or African American, Hispanic, or Latino, Native American, or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander, and “Two or more races” and the Canada employees who identified themselves as a visible minority, other than Aboriginal peoples, who are non-white in color or non-Caucasian in race, regardless of their place of birth or citizenship. (h) Data is captured by using an Office of Federal Contract Compliance voluntary self-identification survey. (i) Includes count of involuntary terminations from full-time and part-time positions.  Excludes divestitures. Approximately one-third of the 6% involuntary turnover percentage for 2020 includes employees who voluntarily requested and were given severance packages as part of the organizational effectiveness and efficiency program. (j) Percentage based on count of terminations divided by average number of full- and part-time employees.  Excludes employees in Mexico. (k) Includes count of employee-initiated voluntary terminations from full- and part-time employment.  Excludes retirees. 15.2 Diversity and Inclusion We consider employee diversity an asset and support equal opportunity employment.  We take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment all persons without regard to their race/ethnicity; sex; sexual orientation; gender, including gender identity and expression; veteran status; disability; or other protected categories, and base employment decisions solely on valid job requirements. We prohibit discrimination or harassment against any employee or applicant on the basis of race, gender, or other protected categories listed in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  We are committed to a harassment free workplace, supported with workplace harassment and discrimination prevention training for our employees.  Employees and supervisors review our Harassment and Discrimination Prevention policy every two years as part of our HR Policy Renewal training.  Diversity Initiatives We seek to engage with a broad range of candidates for open positions and undertake initiatives such as active participation in veteran and other job fairs aimed at increasing diversity representation in our workplace. Additionally, we partner with organizations whose focus is providing employment opportunities, including apprenticeships and internships, for minority candidates.  • Board Oversight As part of our annual succession planning process, we identify minority and female candidates to include in the plan for senior positions. We review our succession plan, including a discussion on development opportunities for potential successors, with the Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board. • Board Diversity The Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for advising our Board on matters of diversity. Over time, our Board’s intention is to decrease the size and enhance the gender and racial diversity of our Board. • Executive Leadership In 2020, our CEO added a leadership expectation for our President, COO, business segment presidents, General Counsel, CFO, VP of Government Relations and Communications, CAO, and VP of Corporate Development to establish a plan for enhancing diversity and equality of opportunity in hiring, development, and promotion decisions. These expectations are discussed and reinforced during the annual performance review process.  Currently, 42% of our executive officers are female or a minority. A diversity lead from HR has been assigned to each business segment to support their efforts to enhance diversity and equality of opportunity in hiring, development, and promotion decisions. • Seeking Diverse Applicants We use the services of a major job posting board with over 1,000 diversity partners including companies and organizations that specifically target and attract women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities. We also partner with a job-delivery company as part of our commitment to post job openings with local employment offices and community-based organizations that focus on women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities. Some of the websites for these organizations include: • Hire a Hero, • Job Opportunities for Disabled American Veterans, • RecruitABILITY, and • U.S. Diversity. To increase our opportunities to recruit minority and female job candidates, we have identified contingency search firms and job-posting sites for broadening and diversifying our job applicant pool, such as: • Women in Technology, • Society of Women Engineers, • National Society of Black Engineers, and • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Military veterans have tools and skills that translate into what we do every day.  We value the leadership, drive, discipline, and strong work ethic that is developed in the military.  We are committed to providing opportunities to veterans and do so by building partnerships with military-focused recruiting companies and attending job fairs that focus on placing veterans. • Hiring Process In order to promote a more diverse workforce, we have enacted certain practices that we believe make our hiring process more inclusive and helps promote the hiring of talent regardless of an applicant’s gender, ethnicity, or other status. We seek to have a diverse candidate pool for consideration for our job openings. To help eliminate bias during interviews, we aim to select interview panels that have diverse representation. • Employing Locally We recognize the importance of hiring locally and benefiting the economies of those communities in which we operate. We post our job openings to a variety of organizations’ job boards including local employment offices, veteran’s offices, colleges and universities, and vocational rehabilitation centers. In addition to job postings, we also attend local job fairs to hire talent from the communities in which we operate. We are often one of the major employers in many smaller communities and we offer local talent rewarding, well-paying jobs that allow employees to build a career within the energy industry. We have, along with other industry professionals, formed part of an advisory committee that provided input into the newly developed Associate of Applied Science degree in corrosion technology offered by Lone Star College-University Park located near the Houston metropolitan area. The two-year program gives students a career path in integrity management and corrosion control to prevent deterioration of metal piping. As part of the advisory committee, we helped Lone Star College-University Park develop a corrosion lab that gives students the opportunity to experience atmospheric controls, cathodic controls and various other tools universal to the industry. • Internship and Work Study Programs We are a partner with the Genesys Works program in Houston, Texas.  Genesys Works is a non.profit organization that provides meaningful corporate internships to local high school students from underserved communities, primarily serving minority students.  In 2021, we had 7 motivated, high-potential students from the Genesys Works program engaged in an internship with us. During their internships, students are able to develop business skills, gain professional work experience, and create a plan for a successful future. We are a partner with the Cristo Rey Jesuit Work-Study Program. Cristo Rey Jesuit is a private high school offering a rigorous college preparatory education to young people of limited economic resources who live in Houston. Approximately 95% of Cristo Rey students are racial minorities. The program places students in Houston businesses where they earn up to 50% of the cost of their education and develop and hone social and technical skills in the workplace.  In 2021, we had 8 students participating in this work-study program. Building Opportunities and Learning Together is a paid internship program for college students.  This 11- to 12-week program provides our interns with an opportunity to use their newly gained skills on a challenging project. Each student is assigned a mentor and supervisor who guides them throughout their internship. Supervisors are responsible for determining project scope and conducting periodic evaluations of their intern’s progress. At the end of the program, interns make presentations on their projects, with recommendations, to their business segment management, peers, and HR. For our 2021 summer internship program, we partnered with INROADS to increase minority and female representation in the program. We also partnered with San Jacinto College on an apprenticeship program that focuses on IT-related roles and the Energy Education Center to educate diverse high school students about our industry. We expect to draw from such Energy Education Center students for future internship opportunities at our company once they have completed their freshman year of college. • Leadership Training We have updated our internal leadership training programs, described in Section 15.3 Human Capital Development Programs of our Sustainability Report, to incorporate more diversity and inclusion content. 15.3 Human Capital Development Programs (GRI 401-2/11.10.3, GRI 404-1/11.10.6/11.11.4, GRI 404-2/11.10.7) Our employees are an integral part of our success, and we value their career development.  We encourage and support professional development and learning for our employees by offering workforce training, tuition reimbursement, and other development programs.  These programs help improve recruitment, development, and retention. In an effort to promote an open feedback culture, we engage with our employees through cross business segment teams, focus groups, and a third-party administered confidential survey.  In 2021, 68% of our Houston based employees participated in a third-party administered survey that helped gauge workplace satisfaction and engagement. Results from our employee engagement activities provide us insight into employee satisfaction and help us develop strategies to engage with our team members more effectively.  The results led us to develop updated vision and mission statements to reaffirm our direction as a company, what we want to accomplish, and why what we do matters. We support our employees’ ongoing career goals and development through several programs.  These programs help maximize our employees’ potential and give them the skills they need to further enhance their careers. New Employee On-boarding Orientation Program We understand that developing our employees’ skills starts from day one.  New employees participate in an orientation program designed to help them: • learn more about our company, • understand processes and goals for their new positions, and • locate the internal resources available to help them succeed. Performance Review Program Employee performance reviews are conducted to maximize employee productivity and provide development feedback. Our performance review program allows employees to receive a timely and objective review of their job performance at least once a year. New Supervisor Training – Core Leadership Our Core Leadership Training program is for newly promoted or hired managers to successfully make the transition from an individual contributor to a first-time manager. 95 employees successfully completed the program in 2021.  This leadership development course takes a blended approach to learning, including: • online learning activities, • monthly virtual conference call roundtables to reinforce desired behaviors, and • follow-up by participants’ supervisors. The program focuses on the knowledge and skills we believe are core to being an effective leader and takes approximately six months to complete, with a time commitment of two to four hours per month. Leadership Development Training – Emerging Leaders Institute Our Emerging Leaders Institute is an internal two-year leadership-development training program designed to develop leadership bench strength. Employees who are nominated to participate in this program develop leadership skills, business acumen, and advanced presentation skills.  New Vice President Training – The Next Level Training Program Our Next Level program is based on the concept of leaders developing leaders and is provided to employees transitioning from director-level roles to vice presidents.  This program focuses on the skills needed to transition between these roles and its content includes: • discussions with senior leadership, • self-assessments, and • development planning. The percentage of female and minority participants in our leadership training programs, Core Leadership, Emerging Leaders Institute, and Next Level Training Program, are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019  2020  2021  Participation in leadership training programs(a)  Percentage female  20 %  16 %  13 %  Percentage minority  20 %  28 %  28 %  (a) There were no Emerging Leaders Institute and Next Level Training Program participants in 2020 and 2021 because the programs were paused due to COVID-19. Total Employee Training Hours In addition to health, safety, emergency response, and other safety topics, we provide employee development training on topics including: • corporate policies, • environmental protection, • leadership and management, • on the job skills, and • software and IT systems. The total hours spent on employee development training are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In thousands) Total hours of employee development training(a)(b)(c) 228 350 (a) Training time is assigned to the business segment the employee was active under at the end of the calendar year. (b) Includes the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline and KML data up to the sale date on December 16, 2019. (c) Excludes operator qualification for 2019. In addition to our investments in health, safety, and emergency response training, we invested roughly $23 million in other employee development training in 2021, or about $2,200 per full-time employee.  Together with health, safety, and emergency response training we have invested approximately $30 million, or about $2,900 per employee.20 We explore innovative opportunities for other employee development training.  For example, in 2021, we engaged Mustang Sampling’s Mobile Training Lab to provide real world on-the-job field installation training experience to our employees. The lab uses analytical equipment, sample conditioning systems and guided instruction to allow students to learn firsthand how equipment operates. Tuition Reimbursement We offer our full-time employees a tuition reimbursement program that gives employees the opportunity to complete college level courses that encourage and support career growth. Relocation Assistance We provide relocation assistance to eligible employees for career development opportunities that may become available at our other locations. 20 This is calculated by multiplying our total training hours by our employees’ hourly median salary, calculated from the annual employee median salary disclosed in our 2022 Proxy Statement. 16.0 Community Relations 16.1 Processes to Manage Risks and Opportunities Associated with Community Rights and Interests (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-210b.1, GRI 413-1/11.15.2) Our neighbors, governments, and communities play an important role in how we conduct our business.  We live, work, and play in these communities. Our policies are designed to facilitate our building trust and fostering collaboration within the communities in which we operate, including our commitment to: • community engagement, • respect, • transparency and responsiveness, • good faith negotiations, • employee and contractor training, • fairness, and • responsible construction. We engage our leadership and deploy resources to help us fulfill these requirements.  Our internal Corporate Communications and Public Affairs department helps develop and implement our community relations strategies to reach a variety of stakeholders identified through stakeholder mapping.  Our internal community consultation guidelines recognize that it is important to identify project stakeholders, determine and monitor their needs and expectations, and then work with them to meet those needs and expectations as appropriate. In addition, project-specific team members help fulfill our commitment to communicate and work with communities in an effort to build trust and foster collaboration.  Our Public Affairs team provides insights, guidance, and resources to operations and project-specific employees. As described in Section 6.1 Environmental Management Policies and Practices for Active Operations of the Sustainability Report, we take our local stakeholders’ concerns and feedback into consideration during the development of our growth projects and follow our construction and mitigative procedures that take into account plans to minimize impacts to nearby residents. This process helps address potential issues prior to the start of construction. During construction we also consult with stakeholders directly affected by our operations. This dialogue is intended to help us resolve issues as they arise or, better still, prevent issues from arising in the first place. Information about the additional ways we engage with stakeholders is described in Section 16.1.1 Stakeholder Engagement and Consultation Mechanisms of the Sustainability Report. We participate in industry trade associations to further communicate the benefits of our customers’ products and our services. We serve on communications committees where we assist in the development of communication materials that address topics such as: • safety, • construction, • restoration activities, • environmental considerations, and • the social and economic benefits of the industry. In 2020, we joined an industry group called “Natural Allies for a Clean Energy Future,” whose goals include educating the general public on the benefits of clean and affordable natural gas. For more information, see our Community Relations Policy at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ WWWKM/media/Documents/Community_Relations_Policy.pdf. 16.1.1 Stakeholder Engagement and Consultation Mechanisms (GRI 2-12, GRI 2-29) We strive to build and maintain healthy relationships throughout the areas where we operate.  Many of our Community Relations Policy commitments are accomplished through ongoing stakeholder engagement and consultation. We are committed to making stakeholder engagement a priority on our projects.  For certain new projects, our Corporate Communications and Public Affairs department develops a project-specific outreach and stakeholder engagement plan and timeline to notify stakeholders early about the project and to open and establish lines of communication. We respond to stakeholder feedback on each project and incorporate that feedback into the project planning process, including community engagement and community development planning. We offer stakeholders a variety of ways to contact us about major growth projects, such as project specific: • toll-free phone numbers, • email addresses, • websites, • public meetings, and • in-person meetings. Throughout a project’s timeline, our personnel may interact with a wide array of stakeholders, including: • elected officials, • environmental justice communities, • Indigenous Peoples, • landowners, • local citizens groups, • media outlets, • protesters, and • other members of the public. We have systems in place for communicating with these different interest groups and training in place for project employees and contractors to prepare them for interactions with varying audiences.  Initial project briefings and training sessions educate employees and contractors on communication procedures and resources. This training also provides: • an overview of our company, • an overview of the project, and • the project’s purpose and benefits. The training reiterates the importance of our being a good neighbor in the communities where the project is located. We also provide instructions for accessing relevant project personnel when needed to respond to specific stakeholder questions. A summary of the ways we regularly engage and consult with stakeholders is provided below, including in the stages before, during, and after the construction of projects. Government and Landowners Community Members Emergency Responders Regulators Town halls and open houses  Town halls and open houses  In-person meetings  Regulatory filings  In-person meetings  In-person meetings  On-line emergency responder training  Public policy and legislativeissue engagement  Home and site visits  Project websites or printed materials  Facility tours  Industry group involvement  Project websites  Social media  Emergency responsetabletops and exercises  Facility tours  Social media  Community investment programs  The Responder E-newsletter  In-person meetings  Public awareness communications  Employee volunteer projects  Emergency Response Plans  Partnerships with local and regional organizations  Public awareness communications  For certain projects, and particularly our larger projects, we create project-specific websites.  We provide contact information on our webpage where stakeholders can obtain further information if they have a question or concern about a projects’ development or operation. Our newly created Community Engagement website details our community and stakeholder engagement efforts at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/Community-Engagement. 16.1.1.1 Public Awareness Program Keeping our communities safe is of utmost importance and we use our Public Awareness Program to keep local stakeholders informed about pipeline safety. Our Public Awareness Program is designed to: • create public awareness about pipelines in the areas where we operate, • provide important safety information to people living and working near our pipelines, • increase knowledge of the regulations for working around pipelines, • prevent damage to our pipelines, • educate first responders and the public on our emergency preparedness response activities, and • enhance public safety. Our program was developed under federal pipeline safety regulation consultation guidelines.21 Our program is an example of our ongoing stakeholder consultations in which we engage with, provide information to, and receive feedback from our stakeholders. As part of our outreach plans, we target communications to the following stakeholder groups: • residents, • business owners, • farmers and ranchers, • schools, • contractors, and • government officials. 21 DOT-PHMSA. “Public Awareness Programs: API RP 1162.” DOT-PHMSA, Dec 2003. 2021. <https://primis.phmsa.dot.gov/ comm/PublicAwareness/PARPI1162.htm>. Our program advocates pipeline safety and safe digging practices to the public through multiple avenues, including: • brochures; • newsletters; • newspaper, magazine, radio, and television advertisements; • direct mail; • social media; • direct contact; and • our website at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/Public-Awareness/Index. We tailor the type, language, and formatting of our communications to the target audience, message to be delivered, and best practices for the selected medium. To manage our program’s engagement strategy, we maintain a Public Awareness Program evaluation plan that includes measures for evaluating effectiveness. For example, we track our stakeholder engagement interactions and our responses to requests for information. Each year we receive on average over 300 requests for information about our assets. We also receive requests for training and safety information from emergency responders. To assess the effectiveness of our program, we conduct public awareness surveys.  We evaluate whether our public awareness actions are achieving the following intended goals and objectives: • information is reaching the intended stakeholder audiences; • recipient audiences understand the messages being delivered; • recipients are motivated to respond appropriately to the information provided; and • the program is impacting the underlying intended results, such as reduction in the number of incidents caused by third-party damage. We also conduct audits to assess the program and identify program improvements and changes. We place a high value on public safety and seek to educate the public to increase their: • awareness of pipeline locations, • understanding of potential hazards from an unintentional release, and • ability to identify and respond to a potential release. In addition to our Public Awareness Program, our project-specific emergency response plans detail how to communicate with external stakeholders to more effectively resolve potential concerns quickly and safely. For more information about our Public Awareness Program, see our website at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/Public-Awareness/Index. For more information about our Responder E-newsletter, see our website at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/Public-Awareness/The-Responder. 16.1.1.2 Energy and Environmental Justice Energy Justice Affordable, reliable energy is essential to human development. One aspect of energy justice is the equitable distribution of affordable energy. We believe we contribute to energy justice by fulfilling our vision to deliver energy to improve lives and create a better world.  Moving the fuels of today and those of the future helps create a clean, reliable, affordable energy future for our customers and the communities they serve. As the owner of one of the most extensive energy infrastructure networks in North America, we recognize our important responsibility in this area. Throughout 2021, we maintained robust reliability plans that helped prevent supply disruptions to our customers. Our pipeline integrity and maintenance efforts help our systems operate with the least disruption possible as described in greater detail in Section 12.0 Operational Safety.  Geopolitical issues, such as the war in Ukraine, make it more important than ever to keep domestic supplies and exports stable and dependable. Environmental Justice We recognize that vulnerable communities can be at greater risk from the impacts of industrial activities. We are committed to the fair treatment and involvement of people affected by our operations regardless of race, color, national origin, or income. This commitment helps us incorporate a more diverse set of views in our public engagement process. We are committed to: • engaging with communities, governments, stakeholders in accordance with our core values of integrity, accountability, safety, and excellence; • treating everyone with respect and striving to understand community concerns while also sharing our perspective; • showing transparency in our interactions and being responsive to community questions and concerns; • treating affected parties fairly; • complying with applicable environmental justice laws and regulations; and • seeking opportunities to partner with our stakeholders on environmental justice concerns. Environmental Justice Community Outreach We are proud of our community engagement efforts to date.  We expect our approach to environmental justice will continue to evolve based on our interactions with the communities in which we operate and the requirements of new government policies and regulations. Our Corporate Communications and Public Affairs department serves as a central point of contact to develop and implement our community relations strategies for both our existing assets and new projects. That department, along with Land & Right-of-Way and local operations personnel, work with communities to foster transparent and collaborative relationships. We recognize that every environmental justice community has its own unique historical experience, priorities, and needs, and we work to identify effective ways to engage these communities on a case.by-case basis rather than applying a one-size-fits all approach. Some examples of our outreach efforts include: • Once we were informed by county officials that area residents had limited internet access, we printed and distributed project materials instead of relying on a project website. • Hosting open house meetings in environmental justice communities neighboring the project areas to identify and address issues and concerns. • Door knocking to provide residents with project information and identify necessary special accommodations during construction. • Hiring local, dedicated community liaisons to be on-site during construction activities to respond to residents’ questions and concerns. FERC Process Our existing interstate natural gas pipeline expansion projects follow the FERC traditional or voluntary pre-filing process to engage affected stakeholders prior to submitting a formal project certificate application. Both processes may include public meetings and consultations with elected officials, community leaders, and affected landowners. As part of these processes, our employees identify potential environmental justice communities. These communities are commonly identified using EPA’s EJScreen, an environmental justice mapping and screening tool that displays environmental and demographic indicators in maps and reports. We may also conduct local outreach to identify these communities. We then identify specific impacts to the communities and work to eliminate or mitigate potential impacts, where feasible. 16.2 Social Investment Programs (GRI 201-1/11.14.2/11.21.2, GRI 203-1/11.14.4, GRI 203-2/11.14.5) We are committed to giving back to the communities in which we operate.  We look for opportunities for our employees to get involved in community programs and strengthen their relationships with our stakeholders. Connect.Inspire.Give. Our Connect.Inspire.Give. program offers volunteer opportunities in our local communities, including collection drives for school supplies, toys, pet food, and other community needs. Our volunteer program schedule includes various events such as: • fun runs benefiting non-profits, • repairing homes for the elderly and disadvantaged, • working at a food pantry, • restoring parks and trails, • feeding the homeless community, and • working with Special Olympics athletes. The goal of our program is to enable employees to connect with each other across various departments, learn more about their communities, improve morale, and develop new skills while working toward the common goal of improving peoples’ lives. We hope that the organizations we support through these efforts inspire employees to give their time, talent, and donations. Community Investments We are committed to investing in the communities in which we operate.  We budget funds annually to distribute to community organizations and initiatives across our business segments and operating regions.  The community organizations receiving these contributions typically fit into one of the following categories: • public safety and emergency response, • children’s educational or athletic programs, or • environmental sustainability and education. In 2021, we donated land to the city of Perth Amboy, New Jersey for use as part of the Rudyk Park Community Accessibility and Expansion Project. The city intends to incorporate the donation into the expansion of the Rudyk Park, which is adjacent to the donated property. In addition to the community investments made on behalf of the business segments, we also make community investments in areas where major growth projects are proposed or under construction.  Recipient organizations are identified in coordination with local stakeholders in the project area including elected officials and local NGOs. Below are some of the organizations to which we contributed in 2021: • City of Norwalk, City of Ontario, City of Reno, Sacramento Tree Foundation, and Phoenix Parks and Conservation Foundation – donated funds as part of each organization’s tree planting program; • Chicago 10th Ward – donated backpacks as part of the back to school drive; and • Catholic Charities, Diocese of Houma-Thibodaux – donated funds to the Hurricane Ida Relief fund. Kinder Morgan Foundation The Kinder Morgan Foundation’s mission is to provide today’s youth with opportunities to learn and grow in order to become tomorrow’s leaders. The Foundation’s primary goal is to help today’s science, math and music students become the engineers, educators, and musicians who could support our diverse communities for many years to come. The Foundation provides donations through four types of programs, including: • Kinder Morgan Foundation grants, • Employee gift matching, • Disaster relief assistance, and • United Way employee gift matching. These programs are described in more detail below. Kinder Morgan Foundation Grant Program The Kinder Morgan Foundation grant program focuses exclusively on academic education and the arts. These grants support programs that benefit under-served youth, with a focus on minorities and girls, and a majority of the contributions are directed to STEM programs.  The Kinder Morgan Foundation’s target is to donate approximately $1 million to qualifying 501(c)(3) organizations in the U.S. each year. In 2019, the grant program was updated to target communities in select locations across the U.S. that are densely populated, include high concentrations of our employees and customers, and were in close proximity to our main offices. In 2021, the Kinder Morgan Foundation issued grants to 38 organizations that provide educational, arts, and cultural programs.  These organizations originally estimated that they could collectively serve nearly one million students, although the actual number of students served may have been slightly less due to the pandemic. The contributions provided by the Kinder Morgan Foundation are typically used to provide direct support to a specified number of students or as general funding for the organization to support activities throughout the donation year. In 2021, the grants ranged from $10,000 to $50,000 per qualifying organization. Employee Gift Matching Program The Kinder Morgan Foundation also funds our Employee Matching Gift Program.  This program matches gifts made to university foundations, kindergarten through 12th grade education foundations, non-profits that support arts and culture, and STEM education programs benefiting underserved youth, such as minorities and females, in primary and secondary schools.  Our full-time employees are eligible to designate up to three employee matching grants to be donated to qualifying organizations, totaling a maximum of $2,000 in matching gifts per individual per calendar year. Disaster Relief Program The Kinder Morgan Foundation provides disaster relief assistance to organizations when natural disasters significantly impact our operations or employees.  These funds are awarded based on the size and scale of the disaster and the needs assessed by local operations.  In 2021, the Foundation donated to the Greater Houston Community Foundation for recovery efforts related to winter storm Uri and Hurricane Ida. Additionally, in 2021, we contributed $150,000 to the Houston Harris County Winter Storm Relief Fund to assist with the response efforts following winter storm Uri. United Way Employee Gift Matching Program The Kinder Morgan Foundation matches 50% of each employee’s donation made during the company’s annual United Way campaigns. The Kinder Morgan Foundation donations, employee donations, and corporate and project-related community investments are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In thousands)  Kinder Morgan Foundation donations  Grants  $  1,084  $ 782  $  1,205  Employee Matching(a)  103  114  81  Disaster Relief  83  326  1,015  United Way(a)  111  224  82  Subtotal  1,381  1,446  2,383  Community investments  Donations made to Native American tribes(b)  $  262  $ 266  $  534  Other community investments  254  1,696  98  Subtotal  516  1,962  632  Employee donations(c)  326  562  355  Total donations and community investments  $  2,223  $ 3,970  $  3,370  (a) These are donations made by the Kinder Morgan Foundation and do not include employee contributions. (b) Scholarships made to Native American tribes are for the calendar year applicable, per the grant agreement. (c) Employee donations include donations made through the employee matching program and to the United Way.  2019 and 2020 do not include employee donations that were not matched by the employee matching program or United Way.  Employees may make other donations that we do not track. 17.0 Human Rights and Rights of Indigenous Peoples 17.1 Human Rights (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-210a.3, GRI 408-1, GRI 409-1/11.12.2) We conduct our business consistent with the human rights philosophy expressed in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles. We believe supporting fundamental human rights to be a basic responsibility in conducting our business. We support the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles, derived from the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which are: • Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and • Principle 2: businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We prohibit the use of child labor or forced labor in our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.  Our employees and contractors, with the exception of some interns, must be at least 18 years of age. We also recognize and respect our employees’ and suppliers’ rights to join associations for the purpose of collective bargaining in a manner that is consistent with laws, rules, regulations, and customs. Our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and business partners are expected to: • treat people with dignity, • respect human rights, • adhere to standards of conduct consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics when conducting company-related business activities, and • adhere to our Human Rights Statement. Within the areas of our activity and influence, we are committed to: • being attentive to concerns raised by stakeholders, • working with stakeholders to support human rights, and • providing remedies to correct negative human rights impacts. For more information, see our Human Rights Statement at https://www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/ media/Documents/Human_Rights_Statement.pdf. 17.2 Rights of Indigenous Peoples (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-210a.3) We respect the diversity of culture and unique history of Indigenous Peoples.  We strive to build long-term relationships and commercial partnerships with Indigenous Peoples through meaningful engagement based on mutual respect. In the course of our projects and operations, we conduct business with Indigenous Peoples consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Indigenous Peoples Policy.  We recognize the legal and constitutional protected rights of Indigenous Peoples.  We engage in good faith with community members while communicating and cooperating with affected Indigenous Peoples.  We are committed to: • participating in good faith engagement; • continuing to partner with community members in suitable employment opportunities, as well as education, commercial, and community development opportunities; • identifying opportunities to support youth, education, culture, and the environment; and • negotiating in good faith with indigenous and government entities. Listening & Responding We strive to operate and grow in a socially and environmentally responsible way.  We work to establish positive interactive relationships with Indigenous Peoples who have, or claim to have, an ancestral interest in lands affected by our operations or projects. We communicate early and often with affected groups and National tribal experts. We listen to and engage with Indigenous Peoples through one-on-one, group, and public meetings. Right-of-way Renewals We have a long history of working with Indigenous groups when renewing right-of-way grants.  These renewals occur approximately every 20 years. We understand that the needs of Indigenous members and organizations change over time, so we begin our renegotiations for right-of-way renewals approximately 18 to 24 months in advance of expiration. During negotiations, we engage with: • current Tribal Leaders, • Tribal heads of Operations, • Tribal Engineering, • Tribal Finance, • Tribal Legal, • Bureau of Indian Affairs liaison, and • other Tribal representatives the Tribe deems appropriate. Open Houses One of the primary ways we meet with and listen to communities, including Indigenous Peoples, that may be impacted by one of our projects, is by holding project open houses.  Open houses are publicized locally, and we encourage individuals or groups with an interest in our projects to attend these meetings. Walk the Route During planning for certain projects, we invite the members of Indigenous groups, with interests in a specific project, to walk the project site or route with us to identify anything of special interest to their Indigenous group.  For the interests identified, we have meaningful consultation with the affected Indigenous group to listen to the history and importance of the matters identified and agree on the best path forward. These matters may include: • sacred sites, including stone formations; • historical and cultural resources; • animals, birds, and insects; and • plants. Employment and Community Development For our projects, we work to meet or exceed compliance with the respective Tribal Employment Rights Ordinances and Native American Preference law in offering Indigenous community members employment opportunities as available. We also meet with Tribal Leaders to discuss other possible educational, commercial, and community development opportunities. Over the past three years, we have donated over $1,062,000 to Native American tribes with whom we do business. These contributions include scholarships and donations to local fire departments.  Our donation amounts to these tribes are included in Section 16.2 Social Investment Programs of the Sustainability Report.  Maintaining Relationships We maintain positive, long-term relationships even after a project is in service or right-of-way renewals have been finalized. We achieve this by: • holding public awareness and first responder meetings in Indigenous communities, • having Tribal representatives meet with our executives and visit our facilities, • making presentations to Tribal classrooms on our energy business, • participating in Tribal Feast Day events, and • awarding scholarships as provided in right-of-way agreements. Public Participation in Indigenous Matters Our employees participate in industry conferences, Bureau of Indian Affairs conferences, and Tribal Organization conferences. We not only attend these events, but also participate as speakers and panel members. We also consult regularly on matters affecting National Tribal law and practices. For more information on how we build long-term relationships and commercial partnerships with Indigenous Peoples, see our Indigenous Peoples Policy.  For an example of how we operationalize our Indigenous Peoples Policy, see our Respecting Indigenous Peoples and Communities case study video and fact sheet at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG. This policy and case study demonstrate our commitment to the social, economic, and cultural rights of Indigenous Peoples, reflecting the spirit of the ILO Convention 169 and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. 