4.0 Air Quality 4.1 Air Emissions We are committed to minimizing our emissions by operating our facilities in a manner consistent with good air quality control standards. To manage our air permitting and compliance program in each of our business segments, we conduct the following activities: • monitor, record, report, and pay emission and permit fees; • identify, record, and maintain a list of stationary air emission sources; • quantify facility annual emissions per federal, state, provincial, or local requirements and document the basis of the quantification and estimation; • quantify emissions when changes or modifications occur at a facility to determine if the facility permitting status is affected;  • deconstruct and manage permit requirements in our compliance tracking system along with required actions, deadlines, and designated responsible persons; and • provide regular training to increase our operations, engineering and maintenance employees’ understanding of permit requirements. We also have initiatives in place to reduce our NOX, SOX, VOCs, PM10, and other relevant air emissions by enhancing processes that improve efficiency, reduce leaks, and reduce fuel usage.  We reduce our air emissions by implementing the following practices on a case-by-case basis: • implementing procedures to shut down our equipment and reduce idle time; • optimizing temperature controls to reduce fuel consumption; • replacing existing engines with newer, more efficient equipment; and • reducing flaring by: . improving compressor reliability, . automating gas control, . improving flaring metering, and . optimizing downtime. 4.2 Air Emissions for the Following Pollutants: NOx (excluding N2O), SOx, VOCs, and PM10 (SASB Midstream EM-MD-120a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-120a.1, GRI 305-7) Our criteria air pollutant emissions that we reported to a regulatory agency are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In thousand metric tons) Air emissions(a)(b)(c)(d)  NOx (excluding N2O)  Natural Gas Pipelines  57.7  56.9  51.2  Products Pipelines  0.1  0.1  0.1  Terminals  0.1  0.1  0.1  CO2  0.8  0.8  0.8  Total  58.7  57.9  52.2  SOx  Natural Gas Pipelines  0.2  0.3  0.2  Products Pipelines  0.0  0.0  0.0  Terminals  0.0  0.0  0.0  CO2  0.1  0.1  0.1  Total  0.3  0.4  0.3  VOCs  Natural Gas Pipelines  7.5  8.4  7.0  Products Pipelines  3.9  3.6  3.4  Terminals(e)  2.2  2.3  2.2  CO2  0.1  0.1  0.1  Total  13.7  14.4  12.7  PM10  Natural Gas Pipelines  1.1  1.2  1.2  Products Pipelines  0.0  0.0  0.0  Terminals(e)  0.1  0.1  0.1  CO2  0.1  0.1  0.1  Total  1.3  1.4  1.4  (a) Emissions reported to a regulatory agency as of August 9, 2021. Includes emissions reported for facilities where we have operational control. (b) For locations that report emissions less frequently than annually, emissions are included from emission fee estimates or from the most recent agency submittal. (c) Emission values displayed as 0.0 are less than 50 metric tons. (d) There were no significant discontinued operations in 2020.  In 2018 and 2019, SOx, NOx, and PM10 emissions from discontinued operations were less than 50 metric tons.  In each of the years, 2018 and 2019, VOC emissions from discontinued operations were 0.1 thousand metric tons. (e) Previously reported numbers have been adjusted to deduct discontinued operations for KML and the U.S. portion of Cochin pipeline.  The decrease in our company-wide NOx and VOC emissions from 2019 to 2020 was primarily driven by declines in product throughput and facility divestment.  The NOx emissions in the Terminals and Products Pipelines business segments decreased due to increased use of vapor recovery units. 5.0 Water Management (GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, CDP W1.1, CDP W1.2, CDP W6.1) Water resources are important to the ecosystems and communities in which we operate.  Our commitment to efficient operations includes responsibly managing our water consumption, our wastewater effluent, and disposal of the water we use.  We have policies and procedures to meet or exceed water and wastewater effluent monitoring, measurement, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. While certain sectors of the energy industry can be relatively water intensive, our primary business is in the energy infrastructure sector where water usage is less intensive. Because of this, we can readily build and operate pipelines and terminals without creating an undue burden on the environment, even in water-stressed areas.  Although our operations’ water-related risks are low, we are nevertheless committed to responsibly managing the consumption and disposal of the water we do use. Our water uses are primarily for: • hydrostatic testing of the integrity of new and existing pipelines and related equipment prior to operation, • dust control, • cooling for our CO2 business segment power plant, • processing in natural gas processing facilities, and • cleaning our equipment. Produced water is a by-product of CO2 EOR projects and produced water management is important for our CO2 business segment. Produced water is either re-injected into an oil-producing formation or disposed of by injecting it into a non-oil-producing formation. One of the ways we reduce our water usage and wastewater effluent is when performing hydrostatic testing on large segments of pipe, we often test in smaller sections and reuse the same water from one section to the next. This approach minimizes the amount of wastewater effluent from hydrostatic testing and the amount requiring subsequent disposal. This approach also minimizes risk associated with storing and transporting larger volumes of water. As another example, we collect condensation from the air conditioning units at our corporate headquarters in Houston, Texas, and reuse it to irrigate the flowerbeds around our building. We monitor our stormwater and wastewater discharges, where warranted, to determine whether water treatment is necessary before the water is safely released into the environment or publicly owned treatment works. Some of our facilities require on-site treatment systems to process stormwater and wastewater discharges to meet water quality standards that protect human and aquatic life. In addition, our operations follow procedures to minimize the risk of accidental discharges.  If we do experience a non-permitted wastewater discharge, we have detailed response and incident management procedures and reporting processes. Significant discharge incidents are investigated, and corrective actions are implemented, if necessary, to address incident causes. 5.1 Water Usage (SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-140a.1, GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5, CDP W1.1, CDP W1.2, CDP W6) Hydrostatic Integrity Testing As part of our asset integrity management program, described in Section 12.1 Asset Integrity Management of the Sustainability Report, we conduct regular testing of new and existing pipelines and tanks.  For some of these tests, we use hydrostatic integrity testing, a process where water is injected into a pipeline or tank and is pressurized to a certain level to test the integrity of the pipeline or tank.  Often a portion of the hydrostatic integrity test water used is returned to the source and is available to be used again.  In some hydrostatic integrity tests, we use alternative sources of water from non-fresh water sources. The volume of water we used for hydrostatic integrity testing in 2018, 2019, and 2020 of our in-service PHMSA-regulated pipelines is provided below. For 2020, this volume also includes water used for hydrostatic integrity testing of our tanks. We are developing the processes to report the water we use for hydrostatic integrity testing of pipelines not regulated by PHMSA and newly constructed pipelines as they are placed in service. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In thousand cubic meters) Water use for hydrostatic integrity testing(a)(b)(c)(d)  Natural Gas Pipelines  72  22  38  Products Pipelines  1  1  0  Terminals  1  1  19  CO2  0  0  0  Total 74 24 57 (a) For pipelines, water volumes are calculated using the dimensions of the pipeline tested. Volumes may not account for water reuse or water loss.  Water volumes from pipeline segments tested off-site are excluded. (b) For tanks, water volumes are calculated using the tank diameter and test water height.  Tanks using non-fresh water for testing are excluded. (c) Volumes for tank hydrostatic testing are excluded for 2018 and 2019.  In 2020, we developed procedures and controls for tracking water usage volumes from tank hydrostatic integrity testing. (d) The 2020 water use for hydrostatic integrity testing for the Products Pipelines business segment was less than 500 cubic meters. Water usage can vary year-over-year depending on the pipeline and tank reassessment intervals in the integrity program.  Our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment has reduced its water usage since 2018 by utilizing ILI technology in lieu of hydrostatic integrity tests. Our water volumes from hydrostatic integrity testing are likely to increase with the implementation of PHMSA’s “Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure Reconfirmation Rule,” which began in 2020 and expands the use of hydrostatic integrity tests. Water Usage from our CO2 Business Segment Our CO2 business segment operates multiple gas processing plants and a power plant that powers equipment in the SACROC oil field. The power plant and gas processing plants consume fresh water for cooling and steam. Our fresh water supplies come from local water utilities and groundwater sources.  Less frequently, fresh water is trucked to our operations located in remote areas.  The amount of fresh water used during the EOR process is relatively insignificant compared to the amount used at the gas processing plants and power plant.  We assume fresh water withdrawn is equal to fresh water consumed since the majority of fresh water used in our CO2 business segment operations evaporates. The amount of fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed, and fresh water withdrawn intensity for our CO2 business segment are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In thousand cubic meters, except water withdrawn intensity) Fresh water withdrawn(a)  1,487  1,489  1,208  Fresh water consumed(a)  1,487  1,489  1,208  Fresh water withdrawn intensity (thousand cubic meters of fresh water consumed per BOE throughput)(b)  0.04  0.04  0.04  (a) Water usage volumes from certain facilities or processes may be excluded if the volumes are insignificant to the overall volumes presented above. (b) Calculated using the total fresh water withdrawn divided by our CO2 business segment’s BOE throughput. 6.0 Ecological Impacts 6.1 Environmental Management Policies and Practices for Active Operations (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-160a.1, GRI 102-12, GRI 102-43, GRI 304-2, GRI 304-3) We continually evaluate the regulatory landscape for our operations and new projects. To manage environmental matters across our assets, we maintain corporate policies and business segment-specific procedures.  Through our internal monthly regulatory update and verification program, we identify, assess, and manage compliance with changing regulatory requirements. Our Biodiversity Policy outlines the approaches we use to address impacts on biodiversity in areas where we operate.  We assess the environmental risk and impact from many of our new or existing project sites and where warranted, make adjustments to the location, scope, and/or timing of a new project in an effort to minimize or avoid impacts to critical habitats with high biodiversity value, including vulnerable species or sensitive ecosystems. Project Development Prior to beginning new construction or an expansion project, we develop plans and procedures that consider a number of important factors that help: • maintain operational efficiency, • minimize our impact on biodiversity, and • take into consideration our stakeholders’ concerns. Our project development plans look at the overall impact of the project and may include: • surveying, • environmental and cultural impact avoidance, • monitoring, • mitigation, • construction, • revegetation, and • operation. Pre-construction and Construction To evaluate a proposed route for a new pipeline project, we conduct the following surveys: • civil surveys that provide information on soil, topography, and land use; • cultural surveys that provide cultural significance and archaeological information; and • environmental surveys that provide information about water, vegetation, wildlife, and other important biodiversity considerations. In addition to the information collected in these surveys, our teams also consult with local stakeholders during development and pre-construction about project-specific considerations, including environmental issues.  We consider and use this information to help develop a pipeline route that avoids or minimizes impacts on people, critical habitats, and land. We may employ the following construction and mitigative procedures to take into account biodiversity issues: • measures to minimize erosion and enhance revegetation; • plans to maintain existing drainage and water flow near our projects, including installing drain tiles; • horizontal directional drilling technology to install pipelines beneath sensitive areas; • project-specific spill prevention and response procedures; and • traffic plans to keep affected roadway crossings safe and accessible. We work to minimize impacts on biodiversity in the areas where we work and operate. Land and habitat preservation is a key component of our construction efforts, both when designing a new route for a pipeline project and when performing maintenance on facilities that have been in service for many years. We coordinate with regulatory agencies and landowners, as appropriate, to minimize our impacts to the local environment by developing plans to: • prevent the introduction or spread of invasive species during construction or restoration, and • allow for the movement and protection of wildlife and livestock during construction. Mitigation in High Conservation Value Areas We employ a variety of strategies to minimize our operating assets’ impact on high value conservation or biodiversity areas, such as sensitive habitats and conservation areas with threatened or endangered species, water bodies, and wetlands.29  Business segment integrity management teams assess whether our pipelines and facilities could affect commercially navigable waterways, populated areas, or environmentally sensitive areas.30  We work to meet or exceed the regulatory standards that protect these important areas. When our internal analysis determines that our asset is located within an environmentally sensitive area, the asset is subjected to more stringent and frequent integrity management measures to improve the asset’s resilience and help protect the surrounding environment. Read more about our integrity management program described in Section 12.1 Asset Integrity Management of the Sustainability Report. Based on the nature of the project and project area, our project framework requirements may include some or all of the following: • designating an environmental inspector with wetlands or waterbody knowledge to verify that environmental conditions are met during construction, 29 Threatened or endangered species defined by federal, state, provincial, and local regulatory agencies. 30 Environmentally sensitive areas in the U.S. are defined by the 49 CFR 195.6 designation of unusually sensitive areas.  Canada’s CER rules define environmentally sensitive areas in the GeoGratis database published by Natural Resources Canada. • establishing baseline characteristics for high conservation areas to help develop mitigation measures during a project, • routing to avoid construction through or minimize disturbances to wetlands and water body crossings, • establishing spill prevention and response procedures that provide for prompt and effective cleanup in the event of a spill, • delineating wetlands and waterbodies, and • developing detailed mitigation and avoidance plans for project areas identified as habitat for threatened or endangered species and fisheries. Restoration When impacts to the environment cannot be completely avoided or minimized, we can employ measures to restore an ecosystem’s composition, structure, and function. Post-construction actions for new projects include restoring the right-of-way, including landowner agreed-upon specifications, and restoring the land within our facility fence lines where appropriate. In some instances, our restoration improves a habitat compared to the condition in which we found it.  For example, for some pipeline replacement projects we plant indigenous vegetation seed mixes to promote a healthy ecosystem that is expected to quickly adapt to local conditions and then monitor its progress.  In tandem with these efforts, we also use weed control to prevent encroachment of invasive species and mitigate erosion.  In other projects, we have constructed new habitats; preserved, restored, enhanced, or created wetlands; and improved existing conservation or reservation areas. Our restoration, revegetation, and reclamation efforts include: • grading construction right-of-way to restore pre-construction contours and leave the soil in the proper condition for planting; • stabilizing streambeds and banks, natural drainage ways, and steep grades to meet permit requirements; • establishing successful revegetation of soils disturbed by project-related activities; • working with affected landowners to restore structures, fences, hedges, buildings, and/or other property displaced or damaged during construction; and • implementing spray programs for noxious weeds and ongoing environmental monitoring to identify and repair post-construction areas of concern. After completing construction on a new or existing project, we strive to meet the biodiversity targets and deadlines established in our project plans. Biodiversity Enhancement Initiatives We are actively involved in a number of projects designed to enhance biodiversity within our operating areas. We have made long-term commitments to managing biodiversity and participate in conservation education and community outreach initiatives as described below.  • Permian Highway Pipeline Project Initiatives . Golden-Cheeked Warbler Habitat In April 2019, our PHP joint venture committed to purchase over 1,300 acres of land in Travis County, Texas, with the intention of donating it to the Balcones Canyonlands National Wildlife Refuge. In 2020, with assistance from The Conservation Fund, the donation was finalized and the land was transferred to the refuge.  This donation of land expands the current refuge for the Golden-Cheeked Warbler, an endangered species of bird that breeds in central Texas. PHP also purchased mitigation credits from two mitigation banks located in the project area to offset any future impacts that may be caused by oak wilt, a fungal disease that can impact the Golden-Cheeked Warbler habitat.  Monitors were deployed to oversee these habitats during construction. PHP expects to continue monitoring for oak wilt in this habitat through the third quarter of 2021. In total, PHP has contributed to protecting approximately 1,530 acres of Golden-Cheeked Warbler habitat in perpetuity and has spent over $10.3 million to help with the protection of this endangered species. . Houston Toad Research In 2020, PHP made a donation of approximately $1 million to a state university for Houston Toad research. A portion of that money is designated for the USFWS San Marcos Aquatic Research Center. During construction of our Crossover 2 Pipeline, in April 2020, we donated $250,000 to the Texas State University Development Foundation to fund research focused on the conservation and recovery of the endangered Houston Toad. In addition to the monetary support provided, field research and monitoring oversight was conducted in the Houston Toad habitat during construction and acoustical equipment was deployed in the vicinity of these projects to detect Houston Toad choruses.  People were stationed along the construction rights-of-way to assist with relocating Houston Toads, or other amphibians and reptiles, outside the limits of disturbance.  For Houston Toads that might venture into the rights-of-way, artificial habitats were created within each project’s right-of-way to serve as shelter. • Eastern Worm Snake and Eastern Box Turtle Conservation and Wetland Mitigation in Agawam, Massachusetts In 2020, we contributed nearly $1.5 million for tree planting, wetland mitigation, and purchasing protective habitats in Agawam, Massachusetts. To help preserve the habitat of the Massachusetts-protected Eastern Worm Snake and Eastern Box Turtle, we purchased and transferred a 7.6 acre parcel of land to the Town of Agawam, identified a private Land Trust, and funded an endowment for the Land Trust to administer the Conservation Restrictions governing the conservation areas... We also rehabilitated and then established Conservation Restrictions on over 11 acres of degraded wetland and riparian areas, which had been historically used as a turf farm.  Rehabilitation in these areas consisted of planting trees and shrubs at strategic locations to facilitate the return of woody scrub-shrub and forests. For more information, see our EHS Policy Statement, our Biodiversity Policy, and for examples of how we operationalize our Biodiversity Policy, see our case studies, on our ESG/Sustainability webpage at https://www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG. 6.2 Percentage of Land Owned, Leased, and/or Operated within Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitat (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.2, GRI 304-1) Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species Habitats The percentage of land we operate within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat is provided below. 2018  2019  2020  Percentage of land operated within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat(a)  Near designated areas(b)  Natural Gas Pipelines  28 %  26 %  26 %  Products Pipelines  33 %  33 %  32 %  Terminals(c)  84 %  80 %  49 %  CO2  8 %  7 %  6 %  Total  29 %  27 %  27 %  Inside designated areas(d)  Natural Gas Pipelines  4 %  4 %  3 %  Products Pipelines  8 %  2 %  1 %  Terminals(c)  0 %  1 %  1 %  CO2  0 %  0 %  0 %  Total  4 %  3 %  3 %  Inside or near designated areas  Natural Gas Pipelines  32 %  30 %  29 %  Products Pipelines  41 %  35 %  33 %  Terminals(c)  84 %  81 %  50 %  CO2  8 %  7 %  6 %  Total  33 %  30 %  30 %  (a) The acreage of land used in this analysis is based on acreage where we have active operations.  We may own or lease, but do not operate, additional land that is not included in this analysis.  This calculation assumes that the acreage operated for pipelines includes land within the 50-foot corridor of a pipeline’s centerline and excludes production facilities and non-PHMSA jurisdictional gathering lines in the CO2 business segment.  Acreage operated for a facility includes land within the facility’s security fence line for the Natural Gas Pipelines, Terminals, and CO2 business segments and acreage we own, within and outside the security fence line, for the Products Pipelines business segment.  We use WDPA determinations for the areas characterized as protected conservation areas.  For our Mexico operations, the areas characterized as endangered species habitats are determined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature endangered or critically endangered designations.  For our U.S. operations, we used the USFWS designated areas for endangered species instead of the International Union for Conservation of Nature designations, recommended by SASB, because we believe the USFWS dataset better reflects the biodiversity risk for our operations.  For the 2020 reporting year, we downloaded the USFWS dataset in the first quarter of 2021, the WDPA dataset in the second quarter of 2021, and completed the analysis using our GIS datasets as of the second quarter of 2021. (b) Defined as operated land within five kilometers of the boundary of a protected conservation area or endangered species habitat. (c) Our Terminals business segment assets are often located in coastal areas for marine transportation access; these coastal areas have a higher concentration of conservation areas.  Our Terminals business segment’s "near designated areas” decrease in 2020 was driven by changes to the WDPA database and increased accuracy of facility boundaries within our GIS system.  (d) Defined as operated land within the boundary of protected conservation area or endangered species habitat. Acreage Disturbed and Restored In 2020, a large portion of the acreage disturbed by our operations was due to the PHP project.  During the project, PHP used approximately 7,600 acres for permanent right-of-way, temporary construction right-of.way, facility sites, and road access. The temporary construction right-of-way acreage and permanent right-of-way totaled approximately 7,000 acres, which has been restored or is in the process of being restored.  A relatively small amount of land is not expected to be restored, specifically the long-term use surface sites, facility sites, and access roads. In order to minimize our impact during our projects, we use existing access roads whenever possible rather than building new ones.  Our restoration includes replacing topsoil that was conserved during construction and seeding the appropriate plant species for the area.  For the PHP project, approximately 93% of the total acreage disturbed has been restored or is in the process of being restored. Restoration is expected to continue through the middle of 2022. 6.3 Hydrocarbon Spills (SASB Midstream EM-MD-160a.4, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-160a.2) According to data from PHMSA and FERC, 99.999% of crude oil, petroleum products, and natural gas transported by pipelines reach their destinations safely and uneventfully.31 We strive to prevent hydrocarbon releases from our operations, but sometimes such releases do occur.  They usually are: • minimal, • below reportable quantities, • contained in secondary containment facilities, and • promptly remediated. Our emergency response procedures are designed to promptly limit the impact to the environment if a release occurs or migrates outside of containment. Although measures are in place to prevent environmental contact, there are infrequent cases where some volume of hydrocarbon migrates outside containment. The number, volume, volume in Unusually Sensitive Areas, and recovered volume of hydrocarbon spills are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In barrels, except percentages and number of spills) Number of hydrocarbon spills(a)(b)  Natural Gas Pipelines  9  17  21  Products Pipelines  7  7  8  Terminals  9  10  8  CO2  11  9  4  Kinder Morgan Canada(c)  1  —  —  Total  37  43  41  31 API-AOPL. “2020 Pipeline Safety Excellence Performance Report & 2020-2022 Strategic Plan.” API-AOPL, 17 June 2021: 45. 2021. <https://www.api.org/-/media/APIWebsite/oil-and-natural-gas/primers/2020-API-AOPL-Pipeline-Safety-Excellence.Performance-Report-and-20202022-Strategic-Plan.pdf? la=en&hash=3F9DB3F7D2FFA2FAD78E14E6146FC89BA3C1CDDD>. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In barrels, except percentages and number of spills) Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills(a) Natural Gas Pipelines  23  407  818  Products Pipelines  11,180  423  1,093  Terminals  70  46  132  CO2  229  99  337  Kinder Morgan Canada(c)  28  —  —  Total  11,530  975  2,380  Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in Unusually SensitiveAreas(a)(d)  Natural Gas Pipelines  1  —  273  Products Pipelines  162  32  1,012  Terminals  17  20  113  CO2  0  0  0  Kinder Morgan Canada(c)  0  —  —  Total  180  52  1,398  Volume recovered(e)  Natural Gas Pipelines  23  329  806  Products Pipelines  7,047  402  502  Terminals  32  33  129  CO2(f)  211  97  332  Kinder Morgan Canada(c)  19  —  —  Total  7,332  861  1,769  Percentage recovered  Total 64 % 88 % 74 % (a) A spill is defined as greater than one barrel released to surface water, soil, or groundwater, excluding spills contained within impermeable secondary containment. (b) We do not operate in the Arctic and therefore have nothing to report for SASB EM-MD160a.4. (c) On August 31, 2018, the assets comprising the Kinder Morgan Canada business segment were sold, so this segment does not have results of operations on a prospective basis. (d) Includes spills, as defined in note (a), in Unusually Sensitive Areas in the U.S. as identified in the National Pipeline Mapping System by PHMSA.  Unusually Sensitive Areas in Canada are identified by the Canadian Council on Ecological Areas Conservation Areas Reporting and Tracking System; the National Hydro Network - 2016, Government of Canada; Natural Resources Canada; Earth Sciences Sector; and Canada Centre for Mapping and Earth Observation.  If the National Pipeline Mapping System data was unavailable for a spill location, we used the protected conservation areas by the WDPA and the areas characterized as endangered species habitats by the USFWS, as the basis for whether the spill occurred in an Unusually Sensitive Area. (e) The volume of spills recovered is the amount of spilled hydrocarbons (in bbl) removed from the environment through short-term spill response activities, excluding amounts that were recovered during longer-term remediation at spill sites and amounts that evaporated, burned, or were dispersed.  The volume recovered is reported for the year the associated spill occurred. (f) After applying a more consistent definition of short-term spill response activities, we found that additional volumes were recovered in 2019.  We have updated our 2019 CO2 business segment’s volume recovered from our 2019 Report.  The data for 2018 includes a 10,910 barrel release from our Products Pipelines business segment, 6,779 barrels of which have been recovered.  As of June 2021, our installation of a system to remediate the remainder is pending, awaiting regulatory agency approval. The increase in the volume of hydrocarbon spills in 2020 was driven by an estimated 1,000 barrel release of gasoline from our Products Pipelines business segment.  Spill cleanup efforts are ongoing, and as of July 2021, approximately half of the volume spilled has been recovered.  We are continuing our assessment of the incident and its impact, after which any potential longer-term remedial actions will be evaluated. 6.4 Marine Spills and Releases to the Environment (SASB Marine Transportation TR-MT-160a.3) We own a fleet of 16 medium-range Jones Act-qualified product tankers, each with 330,000 barrels of cargo capacity. The fleet is the largest and most modern in the industry and transports crude oil, condensate, and refined products under long-term contracts.32 Our vessels are operated by Intrepid Ship Management, a subsidiary of Crowley Maritime Corporation, a leading operator and technical manager in the U.S. maritime industry. Intrepid’s management system is designed to fulfill the requirements of: • International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, • ISO 9001:2008 Quality management system, and • ISO 14001:2004 Environmental management systems. Consistent with our own philosophy, one of Intrepid’s goals is to continually operate with no harm to people, property, or the environment. The number and aggregate volume of marine spills and releases are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 Number of marine spills and releases to the environment 10 Aggregate volume of marine spills and releases to the 00environment (cubic meters)(a) (a) The 2018 and 2020 aggregate volume of marine spills and releases to the environment are less than half of a cubic meter. 6.5 Environmental Fines and Penalties In line with our OMS, we strive to comply with applicable environmental regulations.  Notwithstanding our efforts, we occasionally receive environmental fines and penalties for alleged releases, permit violations and similar events.  Payments for environmental fines and penalties may be remitted one or several years after an incident occurs. 32 Based on average ship age and number of latest generation vessels operated.  Fleet age assessment based on Appendix A of the Wilson Gillette December 2020 report of operational Jones Act product tankers and large oceangoing barges. Our environmental fines and penalties paid are provided below. Year Ended December 31 2018 2019 2020 (In thousands) Environmental fines and penalties paid(a) $ 648 $ 215 $ (a) Environmental fines and penalties paid include monetary fines, penalties, and settlements greater than $5,000 paid to environmental regulatory agencies and excludes the costs of supplementary environmental projects, any work we were mandated to complete as part of the enforcement action, and the amounts paid to non-environmental regulatory agencies.  Environmental fines and penalties are reported based on the year the payment was made.  The year when the payment was made may differ from the year the incident took place. 