3.0 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 3.1 Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions, Percentage Methane, Percentage Covered under Emissions-Limiting Regulations (SASB Midstream EM-MD-110a.1, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-110a.1, GRI 305-1/GRI 11.1.5, CDP C6.1, CDP C6.3, CDP C7.3, CDP C7.6, CDP C7.9, CDP C8.1-8.2f) Our GHG emissions, including methane, are calculated using the methodologies outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.6 6 World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.” World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Mar 2004. 2021. <https://ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf>. The Scope 1 emissions reported below include: • GHG emission sources applicable to the EPA’s GHGRP; • facilities that are exempt from the EPA’s GHGRP because they emit less than 25,000 metric tons CO2e/yr; and • sources that are exempt from the EPA’s GHGRP, such as mobile equipment and refrigerants. Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the reporting company.  Examples of our Scope 1 emission sources by emission type include: • flared hydrocarbons – flaring from processing, gathering, and other operations; • other combustion – engines and turbines that drive compressors, boilers and heaters, vapor combustion devices, and stationary and fleet vehicle engines; • process emissions – dehydration and gas sweetening processes; • other vented emissions – blowdowns and compressor starts; and • fugitive emissions – equipment component leaks, refrigerants, and vapor handling systems. “Other combustion” is our largest emission type and the largest source of emissions within this type are our natural gas fired compressor drivers comprising approximately 74% of our total Scope 1 emissions.  “Other vented emissions” is our second largest emission type and includes emissions from blowdowns for maintenance, integrity testing, and emergency activities at our pipelines, compressors, and compressor stations. Our strategies to manage our methane and GHG emissions are described in Section 3.2 Strategy to Manage Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions of the Sustainability Report. Our Scope 2 emissions consist of indirect emissions from purchased electricity. Our gross global operational control Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and GHG emission intensity from our continuing operations are provided below and include the emissions from assets we operate, including those assets where we own less than 100% interest.  This table also includes GHG emission credits purchased. Our gross global equity share Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, which include our share of emissions from assets in which we own an interest, from our continuing operations were 16.5 million metric tons CO2e in 2021 and are included in Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In million metric tons of CO2e, except percentages andemission intensity) Scope 1 emissions Gross global Scope 1 emissions(a)(b)(c)(d) 16.0 15.3 15.3 Percentage of gross global Scope 1 emissions by emissiontype(a)(b) Flared hydrocarbons 2 % 2 % 1 % Other combustion(d) 70 % 67 % 74 % Process emissions (d) 4 % 4 % 3 % Other vented emissions 15 % 18 % 13 % Fugitive emissions from operations 8 % 9 % 9 % Percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations 0 % 0 % 0 % Percentage methane(d) 24 % 27 % 22 % Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In million metric tons of CO2e, except percentages andemission intensity) Scope 2 emissions Gross global market-based Scope 2 emissions(a)(c)(e) 3.4 3.1 3.1 Total gross global Scope 1 & 2 emissions(d) 19.4 18.4 GHG emission credits purchased(f) Purchased credits (thousand metric tons CO2e)(g) 96 113 86 GHG emission intensity Company-wide BOE throughput (BBbl/yr)(h) 5.6 5.1 5.4 Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity (metric tons CO2e per BOE 0.003 0.004throughput)(a)(d)(h) (a) GHG emissions were quantified per the SASB Midstream Standard and the ISO 14064-1:2006, Greenhouse gases – Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for the quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals. Emissions are reported for CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs from direct and indirect sources. The IPCC AR5 GWPs were used to convert CH4 (28) and N2O (265) emissions to CO2e. The following GWPs were used for HFCs: R-410A: 1725, HFC-134A: 1300, HCFC-22: 1760, R-404A: 3260, R-407C: 1526, R-1234YF: 4, R-600A: 5, R-407C: 1526, HFC-32: 677, HFC-23: 12,400, CFC-12: 10,200, R-422D: 2,625, R-600: 5, R-600A: 5.  Gross emissions are GHGs emitted to the atmosphere before accounting for offsets, credits, or other similar mechanisms that have reduced or compensated for emissions. Scope 1 and 2 emissions for our continuing operations in Canada and Mexico are less than 500 thousand metric tons. Emission values displayed as 0.0 are less than 50,000 metric tons. (b) Excludes emissions from construction activities, wastewater treatment, fire suppression activities, enclosed circuit breakers operated by the Natural Gas Pipelines business segment, refrigerants from mobile equipment not tracked in our fleet database, fugitive emissions from natural gas supply lines for the Terminals and Products Pipelines business segments, and insignificant emissions from small combustion activities. (c) Discontinued operations include emissions from divestitures that are greater than 5% of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 total emissions for the applicable business segments.  Emissions from divestitures that are less than or equal to 5% are included in continuing operations.  In 2019, discontinued operations include emissions from KML and the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline up to the sale date of December 16, 2019. In 2019, Scope 1 emissions from discontinued operations were less than 50,000 metric tons CO2e and Scope 2 emissions from discontinued operations were 0.1 million metric tons CO2e. There were no discontinued operations that met the greater than 5% threshold in 2020 or 2021. (d) We identified immaterial calculation errors for certain combustion, flaring, and process emission sources that affect data reported for 2019 and 2020. We have revised the 2019 and 2020 gross global Scope 1 emissions, total gross global Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions,  and percentages of gross global Scope 1 emissions for other combustion and process emissions so that this information is comparable to 2021. We have also revised the 2019 Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity and percentage methane to correct these calculation errors. (e) Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions from purchased electricity that were calculated using the market-based method.  Location-based emissions are included in Appendix A.2 – GHG Accounting Metrics. (f) Represents the credits purchased during the calendar year. Actual emissions that were offset, or will be offset by future credit purchases, for 2019, 2020, and 2021 are 89 thousand, 146 thousand, and 46 thousand metric tons of CO2e, respectively. (g) The price paid per metric ton of CO2e was $1.75, $3.75, and $6.75 in the years 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively. (h) ONE Future’s definitions are used for annual throughput. If no ONE Future definition applies, throughput is generally defined as product receipt. Throughput was converted to MMBtu using product-specific heat content, obtained from the EIA, EPA, or business segment data. This is then converted to BOE by dividing by 5.8 MMBtu per bbl of crude oil. The CO2 that we transport does not have a heating value, and therefore, has a BOE equal to zero. On April 29, 2022, EPA signed proposed amendments to the GHGRP.  The proposed amendments include multiple changes to existing emission estimation methodologies, including increasing the emission factor for uncombusted fuel, i.e., methane slip, from reciprocating compressor engines.  The proposed emission factors would increase between 45% and 600% depending on the type of engine.  EPA aims to issue a final rule by the end of 2022 and to require GHG emissions reports filed in 2024 for 2023 emissions to follow the new rule. If the rule is finalized as proposed, we would expect our Scope 1 GHG emissions reported in our 2023 Report to increase when we incorporate these updated emission factors. PwC provided limited assurance of our 2021 GHG emissions inventory, including the emissions reported to the EPA’s GHGRP. The assurance statement for 2021 is included in Appendix D – Third-Party Assurance Statement. In addition, Scope 1 emissions submitted to EPA’s GHGRP undergo additional electronic validation and verification checks.  The EPA notifies us if any potential errors are identified and we resolve the issue either by providing an acceptable response describing why the flagged issue is not an error or by correcting the flagged issue and resubmitting the annual GHG report. 3.2 Strategy to Manage Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions (SASB Midstream EM-MD-110a.2, SASB Exploration & Production EM-EP-110a.3, GRI 2-12, GRI 305-2/GRI 11.1.6, GRI 305-5/11.2.3, CDP C1.1b, CDP C3.1) 3.2.1 GHG Emission Reduction Efforts We support domestic and international efforts to mitigate climate change.  Some of our efforts to reduce methane and other GHG emissions are described in the sections below. 3.2.1.1 Methane Emission Reduction Commitment (GRI 2-28) We recognize that methane emissions associated with the production, transportation, storage, and distribution of natural gas should be minimized so that those emissions do not diminish the climate advantage of natural gas over other fuels. We have an economic incentive to minimize methane emissions because pipeline quality natural gas has a methane content of approximately 95%.  Minimizing our methane emissions maximizes the amount of natural gas kept in our pipelines and delivered to our customers.  We support performance-based federal regulations and have worked to minimize methane emissions in our operations for more than 25 years. We continue to apply methane emission reduction strategies and report voluntary methane emission reductions as part of EPA’s Natural Gas STAR and Methane Challenge programs and through the ONE Future Coalition. In this Report, GHG or methane emission reductions are defined as emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted. These initiatives have resulted in approximately 133 Bcf of methane emission reductions since 1993, which is equivalent to approximately 71 million metric tons of CO2e. These results reflect both the environmental benefit of minimizing and preventing methane emissions, and the economic incentive to keep natural gas in our pipelines and storage facilities. EPA’s Natural Gas STAR and Methane Challenge Programs For over 25 years, we have voluntarily participated in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR Program, implementing initiatives to reduce our methane emissions. In 2016, we became a partner in the EPA Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program that provides us a flexible way to make specific and transparent commitments to implement methane emission reductions from our operations.  We also participate in the Methane Challenge Program under the ONE Future Emission Intensity Commitment Option for our natural gas transmission and storage assets. ONE Future – Founding Member ONE Future is a coalition of members across the natural gas value chain focused on identifying policy and technical solutions for reducing methane emissions associated with the delivery of natural gas.  ONE Future’s members include some of the largest natural gas production, gathering and boosting, processing, transmission and storage, and distribution companies in the U.S.  In 2021, these ONE Future companies accounted for approximately 23% of total natural gas production, 56% of natural gas transmission pipeline miles, and 40% of the total U.S. natural gas delivered by local distribution companies.7 ONE Future members aspire to enhance the energy delivery efficiency of natural gas by: • limiting energy waste, and • achieving a cumulative methane emission intensity target, the “leakage” rate, for member companies of 1% or less of total natural gas production across the natural gas value chain by 2025.  To put the current ONE Future target of 1% methane emission intensity into context, the natural gas value chain’s methane emission intensity, based on the EPA’s 2012 National Greenhouse Gas Inventory, was 1.44% of total natural gas production. In order to meet the ONE Future 1% target, the natural gas industry required an additional 30% improvement in methane emission intensity across the natural gas value chain.  The ONE Future 2021 Methane Emission Intensities Report shows a methane emission intensity rate of approximately 0.42% for member companies, outperforming the 2025 target by 58%. ONE Future members collaborated with DOE’s NETL on a methane emission life cycle analysis.  The NETL study, which was last updated in 2020, indicated that in 2017 the average life cycle methane emission rate for ONE Future members was 0.76%; below the 1.06%  rate for the U.S.8 Our targets and performance are described in greater detail in Section 3.4.3 GHG Targets of the Sustainability Report. INGAA Climate Change Statement We helped develop and support INGAA’s 2021 Vision Forward, a climate statement that addresses climate change and building a cleaner energy future for natural gas transmission and storage operations.9 Our own Statement on Climate Change can be found at https://www.kindermorgan.com/WWWKM/ media/Documents/Climate_Change_KM_Statement.pdf. Methane Emission Reduction Strategies We have implemented the following methane emission reduction strategies at one or more of our facilities: • perform maintenance and repairs on component leaks, including those identified through annual methane leak surveys; • communicate policies and procedures detailing program requirements to improve methane management; • minimize methane emissions from transmission pipeline blowdowns by: . using sleeves and composite wraps when repairing pipelines and performing hot taps to make new connections, eliminating the need for pipeline blowdowns; and . reducing the amount of gas within the pipeline, i.e., pumping down, so that less gas needs to be evacuated during certain repairs or testing; • conduct performance-based monitoring and replacement for reciprocating compressor rod packing; • use dry seals for new centrifugal compressor installations; 7 ONE Future Coalition. “ONE Future 2021 Methane Emission Intensities Report.” ONE Future Coalition, 10 Nov 2021. 2022. <https://onefuture.us/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/ONE-Future-2021-Annual-Report-110521.pdf8 NETL. “Industry Partnerships and Their Role in Reducing Natural Gas Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions – Phase 2.” DOE NETL, 12 Feb 2021: 1-2. 2021. <https://netl.doe.gov/projects/files/NETL-Industry-Partnerships-and-their-Role-in.Reducing-Natural-Gas-Supply-Chain-Greenhouse-Gas-Emissions-Phase-2-12FEB2021.pdf>9 INGAA. “INGAA Climate Report.” INGAA, Nov 2021. 2021. <https://www.ingaa.org/File.aspx?id=39061>. • convert our reciprocating engine and turbine gas starters to electric or air operated starters; • cathodically protect our pipelines which helps prevent pipeline degradation and leaks; • install electrically operated glycol pumps to replace natural gas-operated pumps; • test advanced methane emission reduction technologies and work practices such as aerial methane detection as well as laser absorption monitoring; • install low- or zero-bleed natural gas pneumatic devices on new facilities; and • collaborate with customers, peers, and regulators on best practices and new technologies. For more examples of how we implement our methane emission reduction strategies, see Our Commitment to Reducing Methane Emissions case study video and fact sheet at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/Safety-Environment/ESG#tabs-case_studies. Methane Emission Detection Technologies We engage with peer companies and customers to share experiences and strategies concerning methane detection technologies and best practices, both of which are evolving rapidly.  We are using innovative technologies and are evaluating emerging technologies or approaches in many ways, including: • testing different configurations of infrared and laser absorption sensors; • contracting multiple service providers who use sensors mounted on helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft to conduct aerial methane detection surveys. In 2021, we conducted such surveys on approximately 2,000 miles of our natural gas pipelines; • evaluating continuous methane detection; and • using OGI cameras or other EPA-approved technologies to verify suspected leaks. Certain facilities in each of our business segments are subject to GHG reporting programs with the EPA or ASEA, as applicable, and to federal and state LDAR regulations. We monitor and quantify GHG emissions to satisfy the requirements of these rules using our emissions monitoring equipment.  We use monitoring tools to conduct leak surveys for both regulatory and voluntary programs. Since the inception of the EPA’s GHGRP, our annual methane leak surveys have included natural gas processing plants and transmission and storage compressor stations subject to the EPA’s GHGRP.  At these facilities, we conduct methane leak surveys using OGI cameras or other EPA-approved technologies. We use EPA-approved methods, such as direct flow measurement, to estimate methane leak rates from compressors and other components. For compressor leaks, we use direct flow measurements to develop entity-specific emission factors. For these facilities we conduct direct measurements at least annually for the following sources, when applicable: • compressor unit rod packing vents, • compressor unit blowdown and isolation valve vents, • compressor wet seal oil degassing vents, • atmospheric storage tanks, and • equipment/pipeline components. Monitoring frequency and methods vary depending on facility type, and surveys may be conducted monthly, quarterly, or annually. We conduct LDAR inspections and identify leaks using OGI, flame ionization detectors, and other technologies.  When a leak is detected, our operations personnel are informed and the leak is added to a tracking schedule.  Identified leaks are tracked and repaired as required under applicable regulations, or, for leaks identified under our voluntary detection program, reminders are sent quarterly until the leak is repaired. We anticipate evaluating and potentially implementing other methane emission reduction technologies or methane emission reduction work practices at our natural gas operations on a case-by-case basis.  We report our use of specific technologies and work practices annually to the EPA. 3.2.1.2 Other GHG Emissions Reduction Efforts In addition to methane emission reductions, we have implemented one or more of the following Scope 1 emission reduction strategies: • developed procedures to shut down our equipment to reduce idle time; • optimized temperature controls and preventative maintenance to reduce fuel consumption; • shut in oil production wells during routine maintenance; • used vapor recovery units in lieu of vapor combustion units; and • reduced flaring emissions by: . improving compressor reliability, . re-injecting unprocessed gas when processing equipment is down for maintenance activities, . automating gas control, . improving flaring metering, . reducing flare assist gas, and . optimizing downtime. Efficient equipment uses less energy to maintain equivalent output.  We continue to evaluate new ways to reduce our emissions by increasing the efficiency of our equipment.  For example, we have projects in place to evaluate the operational possibilities of: • dispatching the most efficient compressors first, • replacing lower efficiency valves, and • performing life-cycle cost analysis on equipment. At our Snyder Gas Plant, we capture the CO2 removed by amine units at the facility and use the captured CO2 in our enhanced oil recovery operations. To reduce the GHG emissions related to individual personal vehicles, we offer employees in our corporate Houston office a 100% transportation subsidy to encourage the use of local public transportation. Our current flexible work schedules and the hybrid work schedule we are evaluating are also expected to reduce GHG emissions from employees’ commutes. 3.2.2 Research and Development Emission Reduction Industry Initiatives and Studies We participate in several industry initiatives to implement emission reduction strategies.  Below are a few examples of how we actively engage with various trade associations and regulatory entities to share data, our experience with methane monitoring and management, and best practices for achieving emission reductions. • IAB for DOE’s ARPA-E Project As a participant in the IAB for DOE’s ARPA-E Project, we advised ARPA-E and Colorado State University on the development of a methane emission test site. This test site simulated actual natural gas leaks that might occur at production and gathering facilities and underground pipelines.  This test site project is part of the ARPA-E Methane Observation Networks with Innovative Technology to Obtain Reduction program. The goal is to develop cost-effective methane leak detection technologies to more precisely and efficiently locate and measure methane emissions associated with natural gas operations in order to further reduce methane emissions.  We participated in multiple aspects of the project, including: • development of the test site; • evaluation of the various leak detection technologies being developed; and • providing guidance to the test site developers on industry expectations and steps for regulatory approval of these technologies. The project identified several technologies capable of detecting leaks within two meters of the leak’s location.  Further development and testing of the technologies in the field are needed to enhance their successful deployment. The testing site is still used for research involving methane emission detection, safety, and other field measurement projects as well as for hands-on OGI methane detection training. • New York State’s Emission Measurement Project We are participating in a research study, conducted by Harrisburg University and funded by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority.  The aim of the study is to better understand methane emissions from midstream assets and to refine methane emission factors.  Phase one of the project, which included aerial methane measurement of several of our assets, was completed in 2021. Phase two of the project, which includes evaluating new methane detection technologies, is expected to be conducted in 2022. • Stanford Natural Gas Initiative We are an affiliate member of this collaboration of more than 40 research groups at Stanford University drawn from engineering, science, policy, geopolitical, and business disciplines.  This initiative works with a consortium of industry partners and other external stakeholders to generate the knowledge needed to use natural gas to its greatest social, economic, and environmental benefit. As an affiliate member, we have access to informed research and the ability to interact with Stanford faculty and industrial colleagues on issues related to natural gas. • Cheniere Midstream QMRV GHG Project In 2022, we joined a collaboration with Cheniere Energy, Inc., several other midstream operators, methane detection technology providers, and leading academic institutions on a project to quantify, monitor, report, and verify GHG emissions associated with the operation of natural gas gathering, processing, transmission, and storage systems. Cheniere and global emissions researchers from Colorado State University and the University of Texas will design a measurement protocol to be field-tested at participating midstream operator’s facilities. We have designated select pipeline segments and compressor stations on our TGP, Kinder Morgan Louisiana Pipeline, and Natural Gas Pipeline of America systems to participate in this project. The project is intended to improve the overall understanding of GHG emissions and further the deployment of advanced monitoring technologies and protocols. The dollar amount we have invested in research and development projects related to GHG emissions and climate change are provided below. For 2021, the amount includes contributions for GHG-related projects through PRCI, ONE Future, and the Stanford Natural Gas Initiative.  2021 also includes contributions made for a pipeline hydrogen feasibility study. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In thousands) Research and development investments in GHG emissions and other $ 226 $ 251 $ 375climate change-related projects(a) (a) The amount invested includes the work hours our employees spent on DOE GHG-related projects. CCUS We participate with other organizations to advance CCUS policy and technology. In 2021, we participated in the Colorado Energy Office CCUS Task Force along with representatives from industry, government, academia, and nonprofits. The task force evaluated Colorado’s opportunities for carbon capture, transport, utilization, and storage resources to: • reduce Colorado’s GHG emissions to help achieve emission reduction targets; • complement other emission reduction technologies like zero-carbon electricity production; • improve environmental and air quality in disproportionately impacted communities; and • create economic opportunities, such as retrofit job creation, and other regional economic impacts. The task force released a report in 2022 that included recommendations for CO2 pipelines and sequestration projects that included considerations for environmental justice, coordination and permitting with federal agencies and regional partners, the state agency permitting process, state incentives, and the siting of the pipelines and sequestration projects. We also collaborate with the Energy Advance Center, an energy group focused on CCUS advancement. 3.2.3 Industry and Agency Participation Our employees have undertaken leadership roles in the INGAA GHG Task Force, serving as co-chairs from late 2008 to 2011, and from 2013 through 2020.  In 2021, one of our employees served as Chair of the Environmental Committee, under which the GHG Task Force resides. We have collaborated with the EPA and DOE on methane emission reductions and management strategies to identify the most effective means of implementing methane emission reductions at natural gas transmission and storage operations. We also collaborate with various NGOs to improve their understanding of natural gas storage facilities, operations, emissions, and safety technologies. Our work is ongoing in numerous federal, state, and industry venues. We participate in the New York City Mayor’s Office of Resiliency CCATF which was established to: • identify critical infrastructure in New York City that could be at risk from the effects of climate change; • facilitate knowledge sharing and develop coordinated adaption strategies to secure these assets; and • develop findings and recommendations. We also support Arizona’s Climate Change Action Plan through our participation in an afforestation program called Trees for Tucson in Tucson, Arizona. Since 2017, we have contributed to planting approximately 2,258 trees in the Tucson metropolitan area. These trees sequester CO2, helping to offset CO2 in the atmosphere. 3.2.4 Energy Management (GRI 2-1, GRI 302-1/GRI 11.1.2, GRI 302-4, CDP C8.2, CDP C8.2a) One of the most impactful ways we reduce our overall emissions is by managing our energy consumption. Per our OMS, which is described in greater detail in Section 2.2 Management System of the Sustainability Report, we strive for continuous improvement in our energy efficiency and have implemented several energy management initiatives. We employ energy management personnel who oversee multiple programs and strategies to both minimize energy costs and monetize our reductions in energy usage. Demand Response We participate in curtailment and demand response programs. By analyzing our operations and energy consumption at a detailed level, we are able to reduce the amount of energy we pull from local electric grids when requested by local electric grid operators. We also participate in demand response, load management, and utility reliability programs including the Base Interruptible Program in California and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas Emergency Response Service program.  We also participate in the 4 Coincident Peak program in Texas, which relies on incentives to reduce load when available capacity is low. Engineering Design We have reduced energy consumption by optimizing our pipeline and facility design to utilize devices that use less energy while maximizing output. For example, we use variable frequency drives on many of our pumps to improve pipeline flow control and increase energy efficiency.  Variable frequency drives also allow us to monitor the efficiency of our pumps, control pump speed, and reduce surges to nearby power suppliers. DRA We use DRA to reduce energy consumption in our liquids pipelines.  DRA reduces friction inside pipelines, which allows us to move more product through our pipelines using less energy. Our use of DRA reduced our electricity needs and allowed us to reduce the use of pumps, completely shut down unneeded pump stations, or avoid construction of new pump station infrastructure. In 2021, our deployment of DRA, in our Products Pipelines business segment avoided approximately 390 GWh of electricity consumption, which equates to the use of 35 main line pumps.10 This energy savings is roughly equivalent to 276,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions avoided, which is comparable to the energy used by approximately 54,000 homes for one year or the carbon sequestered by 327,000 acres of U.S. forests in one year.11 10 To calculate the avoided energy consumption in each pipeline, actual hourly operational performance data is compared to estimated energy usage with untreated friction loss.  Typical main line pumping unit refers to a 2,000 horsepower pump with 85% utilization for the year.11 The equivalent number of homes and tree acreage is calculated using EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. EPA. “Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.” EPA, Mar 2022. 2022. <https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas.equivalencies-calculator>. Offices and Buildings We continue to seek ways to improve our energy efficiency in the office buildings we own.  Our Houston headquarters building is LEED Gold certified. The lighting in our Houston headquarters building, and in several of our leased office spaces, is on automated timers that turn off lights when not in use.  Two of our office facilities use LED lighting and we have ongoing initiatives to replace compact fluorescent bulbs with LED lighting at many of our other facilities to further reduce energy consumption. Electricity Consumption We continue to evaluate opportunities to purchase green power. In 2021, we entered into a two-year retail power agreement in Texas to purchase 4.3 GWh/yr of wind power beginning in 2022. Our electricity consumption for our continuing operations is provided below. Year End December 31, 2019 2020 2021 (In GWh) Total electricity consumption from continuing operations(a)(b) 7,470 6,984 7,335 (a) Total electricity consumption is from purchased power for the assets we operate. (b) Discontinued operations include emissions from KML and the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline up to the sale date of December 16, 2019. In 2019, total electricity consumed from discontinued operations was 222 GWh.  There were no significant discontinued operations in 2020 or 2021. Renewable Energy We have programs to make energy efficiency improvements in our operations and explore new low carbon technologies where and when economically feasible. For example, some of the equipment at our facilities is powered through solar panels installed on-site. As these locations are often very remote and far from an existing electric grid, these installations have been successful from both an energy-efficiency perspective and cost-saving perspective. In 2021, we consumed approximately 1,058 MWh of renewable energy from the solar panels we operate, equivalent to approximately 749 metric tons of CO2 avoided.12 The amount of renewable energy consumed from the solar panels we operate is provided below. 2019 2020 2021 (In MWh) Renewable energy consumed from the solar panels we operate(a) 1,018 1,053 1,058 (a) The renewable energy we consumed from the solar panels we operate is estimated using the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s PVWatts® Calculator. Vehicle Fleet We aim to operate our company vehicles in an environmentally sound manner and have policies in place that establish guidelines for safely and efficiently operating our vehicles.  When practical, we replace the vehicles in our fleet with those that are more fuel efficient. 12 Estimated renewable energy consumed is equal to the amount generated. Solar panel energy generation is calculated using the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s PVWatts® Calculator. Dobos, Aron P. “PVWatts® Calculator.” PVWatts® Calculator. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, 21 Sep 2021.  2022. <https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/index.php>. 3.3 Scope 3 Emissions (GRI 305-3/GRI 11.1.7, CDP C6.5) Scope 3 emissions are other indirect GHG emissions from sources upstream and downstream of our value chain that are not owned or controlled by us and are not included in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.  Calculating and reporting Scope 3 emissions is complex as these emissions come from a wide range of sources, some of which are difficult to measure or estimate. Emissions reported as our Scope 3 emissions may be reported by other companies as Scope 1 or 2 emissions. For example, our Scope 3 emissions from employee business air travel may be reported by an airline as their Scope 1 emissions.  We are currently evaluating the feasibility of reporting our Scope 3 emissions in the future. 3.4 GHG Offsetting, Reductions, and Targets 3.4.1 GHG Offsetting (CDP C4.3, CDP C11.2, CDP C11.3) Our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment owns a 50% interest in and operates Ruby Pipeline, L.L.C., Ruby, a pipeline that delivers natural gas to the U.S. West Coast.  Ruby has been net zero since 2011, by using emission reduction credits or renewable energy credits to offset Scope 1 and 2 emissions from construction and ongoing operations.  In 2021, Ruby purchased approximately 86 thousand credits.  See Section 3.1 Gross Global Scope 1 and 2 Emissions, Percentage Methane, Percentage Covered under Emissions-Limiting Regulations for historical information. The credits we purchase are Climate Action Reserve CRT, which are verified through a third party. In most cases, the purchase takes place within one year from the date emissions are considered final.  Credit purchases can span multiple years and are not necessarily created during the same year the emission offset is applied.  Emissions are typically offset using credits that were purchased during a different calendar year. Over-purchases of credits, if any, are held and applied to offset future emissions. 3.4.2 GHG Reductions (GRI 305-5/11.2.3, CDP C4.3) Our voluntary GHG emission reductions, volume of voluntary methane emission reductions, and estimated value of natural gas saved are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Voluntary GHG emission reductions (million metric tons CO2e)(a)  2.3  3.2  3.6  Volume of voluntary methane emission reductions (Bcf)(b)(c)  4.3  5.9  6.6  Estimated value of natural gas saved (millions)(d)  $  13  $  21  $  38  (a) GHG emission reductions are methane emission reductions converted to CO2e. The reported CO2e is based on a GWP of 28 if the methane were directly emitted to the atmosphere (GHGRP Subpart W, IPCC 2007).  Calculation is from 40 CFR Part 98.233, Equation W-36: methane (scf) multiplied by 0.0192 kg/ft3 (methane density) multiplied by 0.001 metric tons/kg (kg to metric tons conversion) multiplied by 28 metric tons CO2e per metric ton methane (GWP).  Emission reduction values using a GWP of 25 for 2019, 2020, and 2021 are 2.0, 2.8, and 3.2 million metric tons CO2e, respectively. (b) Methane content of pipeline quality natural gas is estimated at 95% per Methane Challenge Program guidance. GHG reduction calculations use methodologies specified by the U.S. EPA Natural Gas STAR and U.S. EPA Natural Gas Methane Challenge programs. (c) Methane emission reductions include reductions from compressor station leak repairs, pipeline pumpdowns, gas turbine installations, electric motor installations, and alternative pipeline maintenance technologies that reduce the need for pipeline blowdowns. (d) The estimated value of natural gas saved from methane emission reductions is based on EIA’s U.S. natural gas annual average Citygate price.  For 2021, this price was $5.73 per thousand ft3.13 13 U.S. Energy Information Administration. “U.S. Natural Gas Citygate Price (Dollars per Thousand Cubic Feet)” Mar 2022. U.S. Energy Information Administration. 2022. <https://www.eia.gov/dnav/ng/hist/n3050us3m.htm>. 3.4.3 GHG Targets (CDP C4.1) Methane Emission Intensity Target Through ONE Future, we have committed to achieving a methane emission intensity target of 0.31% for our natural gas transmission and storage operations by 2025 compared to a baseline year of 2012. Methane emission intensity is a measure of methane emissions as a percentage of total volumes of throughput. The transmission and storage industry allocation of the ONE Future target of 0.31% represents an approximate 31% reduction from the 2012 transmission and storage industry segment intensity of 0.45%.14  To meet this target, we have committed to reducing methane emissions, while maintaining pipeline integrity and safety and minimizing customer impacts. Our methane emission intensity target and progress toward achieving this target are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Methane emission intensity rate target(a) 0.31 % 0.31 % 0.31 % Methane emission intensity rate(a) 0.03 % 0.04 % 0.03 % (a) The emission intensity rate is calculated by dividing our natural gas transmission and storage total methane emissions by our natural gas transmission and storage throughput. Methane emissions are calculated using the procedures in 40 CFR 98 Subpart W. In 2019, 2020, and 2021 we performed better than our transmission and storage methane emission intensity target of 0.31%. In 2021, our methane emission intensity rate represented an approximate 90% reduction from our target and a 93% reduction from the 2012 transmission and storage industry segment rate. Compressor Station Leak Survey Target In 2017, we set a target that by the end of 2021, we would conduct annual leak surveys at 100% of our then-owned natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations.  We successfully met this target.  In 2021, we acquired Stagecoach and the transmission and storage compressor stations included with this acquisition will be part of our annual leak survey program starting in 2022.  In 2021, we also completed leak surveys at over 67% of our natural gas gathering and boosting stations.  Our target is to conduct annual leak surveys at 100% of our approximately 150 active natural gas gathering and boosting compressor stations by the end of 2025. 14 ONE Future Coalition. “Methane Emission Estimation Protocol v.4.” ONE Future Coalition, Dec 2021. 2022. <https:// onefuture.us/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/ONE-Future-Protocol-2021.pdf>. We exceeded our leak survey target in each of the past three years.  The numbers of targeted and actual leak surveys conducted at our natural gas transmission and storage compressor stations are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2020 2021 Targeted number of natural gas transmission and storage compressor 252 287stations to survey(a) Actual number of natural gas transmission and storage compressor 306 319stations surveyed (a) Annual targets were established by adding an incremental 20% of the transmission and storage facilities that were not required to perform a leak survey under the EPA’s GHGRP to the baseline 147 facilities required to conduct a leak survey in 2016. Short-Term GHG Reduction Targets Since 2019, we have exceeded our annual GHG reduction targets every year.  In 2021, we again exceeded our GHG reduction target of 2.35 Bcf of methane emission reductions, equivalent to 1.3 million metric tons of CO2e, and have set a short-term GHG reduction target of 2.5 Bcf of methane emission reductions, equivalent to 1.3 million metric tons of CO2e, for 2022. Our target and actual GHG reductions are provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2019  2020  2021  (In million metric tons of CO2e)  Target GHG reductions(a)  1.1  1.2  1.3  Actual GHG reductions(a)(b)  2.3  3.2  3.6  (a) Reductions are emissions mitigated or avoided that would otherwise have been emitted. (b) The CO2e is based on a GWP of 28 if the methane were directly emitted to the atmosphere (IPCC AR5).  Calculation is from 40 CFR Part 98.233, Equation W-36: methane (scf) multiplied by 0.0192 kg/ft3 (methane density) multiplied by 0.001 metric tons/kg (kg to metric tons conversion) multiplied by 28 metric tons CO2e per metric ton methane (GWP). Additional Medium- and Long-Term GHG Targets Before exploring additional targets, including medium-term or long-term GHG reduction targets, we believe it is necessary to have a deeper understanding of our emissions, emission sources, and the means by and extent to which we may be able to reduce those emissions.  Our efforts to create an assurance-ready GHG emissions inventory, included in this Report, have provided us with a baseline from which to evaluate future GHG reduction targets. We have begun assessing our future GHG emissions and potential reduction opportunities.  As a part of that process, we have started to include estimated Scope 1 and 2 emissions in our capital project estimates.  We expect this will help us understand reduction opportunities that could provide value to our shareholders, while reducing our emission footprint. 