Part 1 - Sustainability Report 1.0 Introduction We recognize that operating energy infrastructure, including thousands of miles of pipelines, several natural gas storage facilities and hundreds of terminals across North America is a great responsibility. Throughout our organization, from the top down, we are committed to maintaining and operating our assets safely, efficiently, and in an environmentally responsible manner.  To protect our employees, the public, and the environment, we invest hundreds of millions of dollars each year on integrity management, maintenance, and environmental programs to achieve these goals. Our Report builds on our history of frequent disclosure and analysis of our ESG performance. Since 2007, we have posted our performance against our primary ESG metrics on our website each month. To measure our performance, we compare these ESG metrics to industry averages and our own three-year averages. We also present these metrics at our annual investor meetings.  Since 2009, we have posted annually on our website an Operational Excellence Report listing ESG operational achievements. This Report represents the next step in expanding our ESG reporting. In addition to our corporate and business segment EHS leadership teams and departments, our Board of Directors has a standing EHS Committee, the charter of which is available on our website at https:// www.kindermorgan.com/content/docs/kmi_ehs_committee%20charter.pdf. This committee assists our Board in overseeing management’s establishment and administration of our EHS policies, programs, procedures, and initiatives that promote the safety and health of our employees, contractors, customers, the public, and the environment. Our Board’s EHS Committee also periodically reviews with management our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen and our efforts to employ sustainable business practices consistent with our business purpose and values. Our Board of Directors has delegated the review and approval of our Report to the Board’s EHS Committee. Our Report has been reviewed and input has been provided by each business segment, the Vice President of Corporate EHS, and our ESG Disclosure Committee, which consists of our: • CEO, • President, • CFO, • Business Segment Presidents, • General Counsel, and • Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations. This Report can also be used by our our Board of Directors for making strategic Company decisions, including those related to capital allocation. After extensive stakeholder dialogue and evaluation of a number of reporting standards and guidelines, we selected SASB as our primary Sustainability Report framework. We chose the SASB framework based on investor and lender feedback and because SASB focuses on disclosures of industry-specific ESG issues. Our disclosure is also informed by the GRI and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) frameworks. The metrics we report include the SASB SICSTM codes and, where there is alignment in metrics, GRI’s disclosure codes, and CDP’s question numbers.  We also used The Ceres Roadmap for Sustainability for guidance in developing our Sustainability Report. Our Sustainability Report primarily includes metrics from the SASB Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas - Midstream Standard (#EM0102) (SASB Midstream Standard).1 Our Sustainability Report also includes metrics from other SASB standards, including: • Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas – Exploration & Production (#EM0101), • Extractives & Minerals Processing Sector Oil & Gas – Refining & Marketing (#EM0103), • Transportation Sector – Marine Transportation (#TR0301), and • Transportation Sector – Rail Transportation (#TR0401). The chart below highlights the information contained in this Report and our expected timeline for adding other information in future years’ Reports. Year Expected to Reporting in 2018 Begin Reporting forTopic for 2015 to 2017 Prior Year(s) KMI gross global Scope 1 & 2 emissions  KML gross global Scope 1 & 2 emissions  GHG reductions  GHG targets  KMI air emissions for the following pollutants: NOx (excludingN2O), SOx, VOCs, and PM  KML air emissions for the following pollutants: NOx (excluding XN2O), SOx, VOCs, and PM Number of refineries in or near areas of dense population X Hydrocarbon spills number and volume  2019  Employee and contractor injury rates and number of fatalities  X  Average hours of employee health, safety, and emergency responsetraining  X  Marine lost time injury rate  X  Amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements from federalpipeline and storage, rate, access, and pricing regulations  X  Number of reportable pipeline incidents, percentage significant  X  Percentage of natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines inspected  X  Number of FRA recommended violation defects  X  Board’s oversight of risks and opportunities  X  Management’s role in assessing and managing risks andopportunities  X  Potential climate-related risks, opportunities, and impacts  X  Financial planning considerations  X  Resilience of our strategy X Climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C scenario 2019 Risk and opportunity management processes X Climate-related metrics X Climate-related targets X 1 At the time our Sustainability Report was prepared, the SASB standards were provisional. Our Sustainability Report is based on the SASB’s October 2017 exposure draft redlines to the provisional standards of June 2014 as updated with the standard changes presented at the July 11, 2018 SASB Board Meeting and included in the Draft Proposed Revisions to the Provisional Standards: Summary of Changes. 2.0 Overview of Business We are one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in North America.  We own an interest in or operate approximately 84,000 miles of pipelines, 20 natural gas storage facilities, and 152 terminals. Our pipelines transport: • natural gas, • refined petroleum products, • crude oil, • condensate, • CO2, and • other products. Our liquid terminals transload and store commodities including: • petroleum products, • ethanol, and • chemicals. Our bulk terminals transload and store commodities including: • petroleum coke, • steel, and • mineral concentrates. We are also a leading provider of CO2 for our own and others’ use, which we and others use for enhanced oil recovery projects, primarily in the Permian Basin. We have four business segments: • Natural Gas Pipelines, • CO2, • Products Pipelines, and • Terminals. After the sale of the TMPL, the TMEP, Puget Sound pipeline system, and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc., we no longer have a Kinder Morgan Canada Business Segment.  Our Jet Fuel pipeline system, formerly reported through our Kinder Morgan Canada Business Segment, is now being reported through our Products Pipelines Business Segment. Our remaining Canadian operations are part of our Products Pipelines and Terminals Business Segments. We are committed to doing business the right way, every day.  To meet this commitment, our employees and representatives must act in accordance with our core values of: • integrity, • accountability, • safety, and • excellence. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics establishes the high standard of ethical conduct that employees are expected to follow and outlines how everyday behavior is expected to align with our core values. We train each of our employees annually on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and maintain compliance programs to prevent and detect potential violations. We encourage employees to speak up, seek guidance, and report issues or concerns through appropriate channels. We also maintain an anonymous third-party ethics hotline. Reported concerns are evaluated and investigated, as appropriate, by our Internal Audit, HR, EHS, and/or Legal Departments.  For more information see our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at https://www.kindermorgan.com/ content/docs/km_code_of_business_conduct_and_ethics.pdf. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “KMI.”  For more information about us, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which can be found at the following link: https://ir.kindermorgan.com/sites/ kindermorgan.investorhq.businesswire.com/files/report/additional/KMI-2017-10K_Final_as_Filed.pdf. 