Health and SafetyProtecting the safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, communities and customers is one of Cheniere’s core values and top priorities. Our leadership team champions the ongoing development of a strong safety culture through regular engagement and communication with our workforce. Our commitment is embedded in our everyday processes, behaviors and culture through our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy and the Cheniere Integrated Management System, which defines our management standards and processes for occupational health and safety, process safety and incident management, including emergency response (read more about 
our management systems in the Detailed Disclosures Appendix). In 2021, keeping 
our people safe during the COVID-19 pandemic remained a central focus
(see case study online for more on these efforts). PROTECTPERFORMPROGRESS AND HIGHLIGHTS •	Achieved a combined (employees and contractors) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 0.10 and Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) of 0.01, achieving our fifth consecutive year of improvement. •	Exceeded our safety target every year since first publishing one in 2017.•	Updated health and safety risk matrices to incorporate facility operability and reliability risks and improve cross-functional integration; implemented related site-level risk identification and management training. •	Enhanced our incident tracking system to provide improved oversight and analysis of safety incidents (including near misses) and to support implementation of corrective actions and the sharing of lessons learned.Read more 	Board oversight and executive management of health and safetyOccupational health and safetyOur commitment to protect our people’s health 
and safety starts at the very top of the organization and is enshrined as a core value that guides our work every day. We support the development 
of a safety-first culture by empowering every employee to identify and communicate potential health and safety risks, and by providing site- and role-specific training. Our approach is underpinned by our Cheniere Incident Management System, which includes a comprehensive set of standards and procedures that set out how occupational health and safety is managed across our business. These standards and procedures are aligned with relevant Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) requirements. To drive continuous improvement, we set annual health and safety performance targets, which are tied to our annual performance compensation scorecard for all employees and executives. We have exceeded our safety target every year since first publishing one in 2017.Our approach to building a safety-first culture across our workforce is based on the following core processes and initiatives of our health and safety management system. LIFESAVING RULES We have implemented a set of lifesaving rules to operationalize our guiding safety principles of controlling work, controlling energy and controlling equipment. Employees receive a badge card with these eight safety rules to help keep them top 
of mind.HAZARD IDENTIFICATION AND MITIGATIONEvery member of our workforce is responsible for identifying and reporting potential hazards and working with management to develop solutions, including through daily hazard reviews and pre-job assessments. All employees and contractors have the authority and obligation to stop work at any time if they see a potential hazard or unsafe workplace behavior.SAFETY TRACKING AND REPORTING We document and investigate workplace safety incidents including near misses and high-potential incidents. Based on these, we implement corrective actions and share lessons learned to avoid future incidents. In 2021, we streamlined our incident tracking and reporting system and expanded the implementation and tracking of corrective actions and dissemination of lessons learned. CONTRACTOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT All individual contractors working on Cheniere sites are expected to follow our health and safety management system and actively participate in meeting or exceeding our safety performance objectives. If a contractor company does not meet our safety criteria, we work with them to put a mitigation plan in place, but we reserve the option to terminate a contract if issues are not corrected. See p. 35 for more on our contractor screening process. OPERATIONAL SAFETY TRAINING We conduct enterprise-wide safety training based on a role-specific qualification and competency matrix to facilitate compliance with internal standards and applicable regulations. MAINTAINING SAFETY IN OUR 
MARINE OPERATIONSWe follow a robust vetting process for all vessels that interact with Cheniere personnel and assets. Our primary focus for marine safety is identifying, managing and mitigating potential risks that may occur during the arrival, loading and departure of vessels from our terminals, including potential incidents such as collision, fire or injuries. Read more 		Occupational health and safety programs 	Marine safetyProcess safetyIncident management and emergency responseAs outlined in our enterprise-wide integrated management system, we follow robust process safety management standards to reduce the likelihood and severity of potential incidents. Process safety incidents represent one of the most significant sources of risk to our employees and communities, making this an area of management focus and a key element of the Cheniere Integrated Management System. We focus on maintaining the integrity and effectiveness of the equipment and processes that support our operations, including the prevention of unplanned or uncontrolled releases of hazardous materials.  LIFE CYCLE APPROACH 
TO PROCESS SAFETYWe manage process safety across the life cycle of our facilities — from the earliest planning stages through construction, operations and ongoing maintenance — to understand what, where and when something could go wrong and to help us avoid events before they occur. We undertake regular hazard analyses to identify and evaluate potential process safety hazards, implement appropriate controls to mitigate the risks, and revalidate and update the analyses as needed to ensure they are consistent with current design. PROCESS SAFETY TRACKING 
AND REPORTING We track process safety events in three tiers of severity, in accordance with industry standards, to support the implementation of appropriate corrective actions and drive continuous improvement, and ultimately to help prevent occurrences. Beginning in 2021, we began tracking high-potential events to help ensure we maintain a proactive, forward-looking approach to process safety management.ASSET INTEGRITY MANAGEMENTMaintaining the operational integrity of our equipment is a key part of our overall safety efforts. Our approach is defined by our formal Asset Integrity Standard, which is incorporated into the Cheniere Integrated Management System. Based on this standard, we develop, define and incorporate reliability and maintainability objectives in the design of facilities. We monitor and analyze integrity on an ongoing basis to optimize operations and maintenance strategies. Once equipment is in operation, we apply a reliability-focused approach to identify and eliminate defects at an early stage, predict and prevent failures, and undertake maintenance efforts as needed. If near misses or incidents occur, we investigate failures and performance degradation to identify the underlying causes and implement corrective actions.We actively plan for a wide range of potential incidents that could disrupt business continuity or pose a threat to our employees, contractors, host communities and the environment. This includes unplanned or uncontrolled product releases, fires, severe weather and cybersecurity attacks. We have a tiered emergency response framework integrating activities from the executive to local level (see the Detailed Disclosures Appendix). EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS Cheniere’s emergency response program, which is part of our enterprise-wide integrated management system, helps to ensure we can respond effectively in the event of any potential emergency. We maintain site-specific emergency response plans (ERPs) that outline relevant roles and responsibilities and provide step-by-step guidance for everyone participating in the incident response. Emergency response is overseen and supported by a corporate-level Crisis Management Support Team. In 2021, we undertook multiple drills to test and hone our emergency response plans and processes. EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
INCIDENT COMMAND Cheniere follows the National Incident Management System (NIMS) Incident Command System (ICS), which is used by federal, state, tribal and local levels of government, as well as many private sector and nongovernmental organizations, for a broad spectrum of emergencies. Adopting the NIMS ICS makes it easier for Cheniere to partner with other relevant organizations and participate in unified training, exercises and emergency responses.Read more 	Emergency response approach 	Identification of safety risks 	Community safetyRead more 	Asset integrity managementTeamWe are committed to providing a workplace that offers equal opportunities, competitive terms of employment and high-quality training and development opportunities. We invest in the core human capital priorities — attracting, engaging and developing diverse talent and building an inclusive and equitable workplace — that underpin our current and future success and our ability to generate long-term value. In 2021, we continued to support our workforce through the COVID-19 pandemic. This included a range of measures to support the health, safety and mental well-being of our employees (see case study online for more on these efforts). INVESTADVANCE PROGRESS AND HIGHLIGHTS•	Announced our first-ever stock dividend in November 2021, as part of our capital allocation strategy, adding to the long-term equity incentives in the business that we offer to all employees.•	Maintained and expanded our core employee training and development activities (as well as our recruitment, internship and apprenticeship programs), while also transitioning to an online format to protect the health and safety of our workforce during 
the pandemic.•	Carried out a safe transition back to office-based working and 
pre-pandemic schedules. We remain responsive to changing circumstances and adjust in-person work as needed.•	Substantially progressed our diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) framework, including our vision statement, values in action and aligned workstreams.•	Completed DEI-inclusive leadership training for all senior executives and vice presidents, and launched enterprise-wide DEI awareness and training.•	Strengthened our Board with the appointment of two new female directors, increasing our total female Board representation to three out of 11 directors as of Dec. 31, 2021.Attracting, engaging and developing talentThe success of our company is built on our people. We work hard to attract, retain, develop and reward our talented global employees. We are focused on listening to and engaging with our workforce. We support our efforts with the use of workforce analytics to gain greater insights from historical employee trends and create models for behaviors, risks and improvements in the future. This includes areas such as talent management, retention and competitive intelligence.TALENT ATTRACTIONOur recruitment efforts seek to attract diverse and highly skilled individuals. We offer competitive compensation and benefits, in addition to a range of internship, apprenticeship and vocational programs to attract and develop our talent.To support local workforce development, our recruitment efforts focus on colleges and universities in our areas of operations, including the University of Houston, Texas Southern University, the University of Texas and Louisiana State University. In 2021, we expanded engagement with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), and required all hiring managers to complete DEI training before the interview process (see p. 27). We also attract and develop talent through local community-focused internship and apprenticeship programs (see p. 27, 29).ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMS AND TOOLSOur efforts to drive employee engagement and create a more inclusive culture include:•	Implementing regular engagement surveys and other platforms to enable employees to share 
ideas and voice concerns, including a hotline that can be reached anonymously (see p. 33).•	Promoting Cheniere’s “Cultural Champions,” employee-led action groups that support our culture of inclusion, collaboration and continuous improvement.•	Facilitating two-way communication, including through town halls, our internal communications platform and our hotline.DEVELOPMENT AND TRAININGWe offer a range of employee development programs, including a core training curriculum, leadership training and executive coaching, as well as funding for professional certifications and continuing education. We hold annual performance reviews for all employees, and more frequent informal discussions to help employees meet their career goals.158,900 hours 
of technical, employee development and compliance training 
in 2021Read more 	Board oversight and executive management 
of human capital  	Talent attraction, engagement programs and tools, development and training, and employee benefits 	Ongoing efforts to keep our employees safe and 
well in the face of COVID-1994.5 hours 
of training per employee11 This represents the total number of training hours divided by the total number of employee-users registered to Cheniere’s internal training platform (“Cheniere LEARN”).Diversity, equity and inclusionWe treat our employees fairly, equally and without prejudice, irrespective of gender, race, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other attributes. This is reflected in our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and Discrimination and Harassment Policy, which apply to all with whom Cheniere works.Beyond this, we are fully committed to actively supporting DEI across our business. We believe that a diverse range of backgrounds, experiences and ideas helps support an empowered and innovation-driven culture, making us stronger and more effective as a company. Our DEI vision is to foster 
an equitable environment where all stakeholders and their differences are respected, welcomed 
and valued.Our chief compliance and ethics officer sponsors our DEI efforts and reports quarterly to our Board of Directors. We have an executive-level DEI Sponsorship Council that meets regularly to review plans, data and analytics, provide guidance and drive top-down accountability. We are also working to drive bottom-up engagement through our employee resource groups, employee networks and Cultural Champions, who provide the DEI Sponsorship Council with valuable insights from across the organization. DEVELOPING OUR DEI STRATEGY 
AND ROADMAPIn early 2021, we analyzed results from an extensive analysis to better understand the current state of our DEI policies, practices and culture. In partnership with third-party DEI consultants, we used insights from these assessments — which included feedback from employee focus groups — to develop the foundational components of our DEI approach. A critical part of developing our roadmap is incorporating cross-functional workstreams including analytics, communication, corporate giving, culture, infrastructure, leadership development/training, supply chain management and talent acquisition and management. These workstreams reflect and support our holistic approach to embedding DEI into all that we do.We are embedding these workstreams into existing processes while expanding engagement and new initiatives across the organization. We are also building ways to measure our successes and 
learn from the opportunities to support 
continuous improvement.We are sharply focused on turning our commitment 
into action and further embedding DEI principles in 
our culture. DEI AWARENESS AND TRAINING Each year, all Cheniere employees complete training on recognizing and preventing discrimination and harassment. In addition, our recurring employee engagement survey includes DEI questions to help improve our performance by understanding challenges and opportunities, such as how to integrate DEI with our Cheniere TRAINS values. In 2021, we rolled out unconscious bias training for all employees. In addition, all senior executives completed an intensive inclusive leadership training program. In 2022, we will expand this training to leaders at all levels and develop additional DEI training and inclusive team tools for 
all employees. 
InclusionAn environment that enables everyone 
to belong.DEI visionTo foster an equitable environment where everyone and their differences are respected, welcomed and valued.DiversityAll the ways in which people differ.EquityFair treatment, access and opportunity for all people in Cheniere’s community.DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSIONIncorporating DEI in our company valuesEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ON DEIEmployee resource groups, employee networks and our Cultural Champions are key components to help ensure that our DEI efforts incorporate employee viewpoints while giving employees a safe space to discuss issues and provide feedback to senior leadership. Employee networks are designed to build professional competency and create social networks for employees. Employee resource groups provide forums for connection among employees with similar backgrounds/identities.  We currently have two employee resource groups: Women Inspiring and Leading Success (WILS), which is affiliated with Lean In Energy, the Women’s Energy Network and ALLY (formerly Pink Petro); and Emerging Professionals Network (EPN). WILS organizes internal workshops and forums focused on leadership and skills development to support professional growth. Emerging Professionals Network (EPN) is an employee resource group that connects people across teams and Cheniere locations, enhancing business efficiency by promoting teamwork and providing professional growth and development opportunities. EPN hosts monthly events open to all employees interested in expanding their networks, learning more about departments across Cheniere and participating in mentorship and other volunteer opportunities. As we continue to address the needs of our employees, we have a solid framework to support additional employee resource groups as necessary.RECRUITMENT AND PIPELINE PROGRAMSIn 2021, we continued to review and improve our hiring practices, with a focus on making our processes inclusive and equitable. As part of these efforts, all hiring managers completed unconscious bias training. We also expanded our diversity recruitment efforts through partnerships with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), including internships and career skill-building programs. As part of our ongoing efforts to develop a diverse talent pipeline, we have provided internships for approximately 38 high school students from different schools in underserved communities in the Houston area every year since 2016. These internships are conducted in partnerships with Genesys Works and Cristo Rey Jesuit High School, two organizations focused on creating educational and career opportunities for youth from low-income families. Interns are paired with supervisors during the school year and gain access to mentors, leaders and various skill-building opportunities.We have established a mentorship program that helps high school and early college students from underrepresented groups in Port Arthur, Texas, to develop workplace-relevant skills. In addition, we contributed $21,000 to merit- and needs-based scholarships for engineering students at Lamar University in Beaumont, Texas, to support increased skill development specific to our industry among local minority students. SUPPORTING EQUITY IN PAY 
AND BENEFITSWe are committed to supporting gender equity and to closing the gender pay gap. We offer competitive compensation in line with industry benchmarks, and we do not permit gender discrimination or inequity based on any protected basis, as outlined in our Equal Employment Opportunity and Discrimination and Harassment Policies. We also focus on maintaining equity in our benefits packages. For example, we offer equal health benefits for same- and different-sex spouses and provide transgender-inclusive insurance coverage.In 2021, we applied a DEI lens to our values.—.Teamwork, Respect, Accountability, Integrity, Nimble and Safety (TRAINS).—.
to provide clear guidance on how employees can translate these core values into action in support of our DEI vision. Teamwork Trust each other, share ideas and collaborate to meet our shared goals. Build relationships, 
even if your views may 
be different. Listen – seek to understand versus to be understood. Ask questions for clarity and understanding. Ensure every voice is at the table and can be heard. Respect Respect each other, the 
company, our stakeholders and 
the environment. Be considerate 
of individuals and 
their abilities. Honor people’s feelings and opinions, even though they may not align with your own. Be mindful of what you say, how you say it, and how it makes a person feel. Tell the truth with 
compassion and listen 
with empathy. AccountabilitySet high, measurable performance goals, keep commitments and hold yourself and others responsible. Do what you say you’re going to do. Challenge yourself to check your biases (and adjust 
when necessary). Acknowledge that there is always room to do better 
(and do it). Establish clear goals 
and targets. IntegrityHold yourself and each other to the highest standards of honesty and transparency. Be honest — admit when you’ve done something. Be fair — in your actions and your words. Do the right thing, even when no one is looking. Own your actions. NimbleInnovate and be flexible and adaptable when facing change. Challenge yourself to check your biases (and adjust 
when necessary). Practice agility. Be as flexible with me 
as you want me to be 
with you. Be curious — innovative. Safety .Protect the safety and well-being of people, our customers and the communities in which we operate. Have the courage to be 
authentic and encourage 
others to be authentic. Speak up when something is wrong — for yourself and for others. Challenge the status 
quo as it adversely 
impacts others. Protect the physical, mental and psychological well-being of the Cheniere community. DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSIONWorkforce diversityOver the past six years, we have consistently increased the percentage of women and racially/ethnically diverse individuals in management, as well as the percentage of racially/ethnically diverse individuals in our workforce overall.2, 3 Continuing to increase the diversity of our workforce is an important focus of our DEI strategy.BUILDING A DIVERSE TALENT PIPELINE THROUGH HBCU PARTNERSHIPSIn 2021, Cheniere partnered with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund to support a scholarship program for students at U.S. HBCUs. This included a commitment of $500,000 over a three-year period, with the initial group of nine students receiving up to $6,000 in financial aid per semester, starting in spring 2022. In addition, our employees will engage directly with scholarship recipients to expand awareness and interest in our industry, with the potential for paid summer internships at Cheniere.2	International Privacy concerns prevent Cheniere from requiring ethnicity disclosure for international employees. Gender and Age 
	diversity data is global. Ethnic diversity data is identified as undisclosed or excludes International employees. Also, data for 2021 
	excludes interns (interns were included in 2016-2020 reporting).3	We define management to include both executive and non-executive management. Executive and non-executive managers are defined as: managers, directors, senior managers, senior directors, vice presidents, senior vice presidents and chief executives. 