About this reportThis corporate responsibility report provides a detailed overview of Cheniere’s approach and progress 
in relation to important environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. Our approach to ESG reporting and disclosure is guided by the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, Ipieca’s sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industry, and relevant standards of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We have received limited assurance for selected metrics (see p. 37).More detailed information on our ESG approach and progress is provided across the relevant areas of 
our ESG reporting suite (see below).Cheniere’s ESG reporting suite•	2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (this report)•	Detailed Disclosures Appendix: Detailed information on how we manage ESG topics•	Alignment with third-party reporting standards and ratings (Ipieca, GRI, SASB, TCFD)•	Performance Data Table (Excel): Complete ESG performance metrics•	ESG policies: Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Discrimination and Harassment Policy and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy•	2021 U.K. Modern Slavery Act StatementLetter from the Chairman of our BoardCheniere continues to deliver impressive results to our stakeholders on safety, construction and operational excellence, financial returns and meeting the energy challenges of today. We 
also remain focused on improving our ESG performance to deliver long-term value through 
the energy transition.In 2021, Cheniere’s continued superlative performance coincided with a period where the critical role of Cheniere’s LNG was made clear. Cheniere recorded another year of excellent safety performance, which is a foundation for the company’s success. Cheniere brought online two new trains, for a total of nine trains in nine years, and produced a company record of 566 total cargoes in 2021. This safety, construction and operational excellence helped Cheniere to become one of the largest exporters of LNG in the world. And it couldn’t have come at a more important time, with about 75% of cargoes produced by Cheniere landing in Europe in the first few months of 2022, helping support European and global energy security during a uniquely challenging time. This is an incredible moment in history, and I am proud that Cheniere is playing an important role in helping to meet this moment.But we are still pushing ourselves to constantly improve our performance — especially in terms of environmental, social and corporate governance — to ensure the long-term value of Cheniere to 
all our stakeholders. As a long-time businessperson and Chairman of Cheniere’s Board, I know that good governance is a foundation of excellence — just as safety is to constructing and operating LNG facilities. Investing in our employees and building strong relationships in the communities where 
we live and work are critical to our current and future success. We are a company that is delivering reliable, affordable and secure energy that is needed 
today, but we are not waiting to put climate solutions into action that will have benefits tomorrow. 2021 was an exciting year where Cheniere unveiled many of the climate initiatives that had been years in development. We quantified our GHG emissions across our supply chain and published a Cheniere-specific life cycle assessment in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, the first of its kind for the industry. Also, we are collaborating with our partners and academics across the supply chain to assess their facility-specific GHG emission profiles, which is critical to supporting Cheniere and our industry to then mitigate those emissions. These are real actions that are leading the industry toward improved environmental and climate performance.To put our money where our mouth is, Cheniere is holding its own employees to higher standards. In 2021, 17% of our total annual performance compensation scorecard for all Cheniere employees, including executive-level management, was based on ESG metrics. In 2022, Cheniere is increasing this percentage, so that 30% of the compensation calculation will be based on ESG metrics.From energy security to environmental improvements, this is a critical moment in history that demands actionable solutions. Cheniere is a company that is delivering what is needed today — increased energy security and supply diversity in Europe and across the world — and taking action on the solutions to ensure the energy needs 
of tomorrow. G. Andrea BottaChairman of the Board“Good governance is a foundation of excellence — 
just as safety is to constructing and operating LNG facilities.”	—.G. ANDREA BOTTALetter from our President and CEOA little over 10 years ago, Cheniere was granted 
its initial authorization to export liquefied natural gas, or LNG, around the world — a decision that has now become one of the most consequential and positive energy developments in this century. Ten years later, as the world confronts energy security and economic and environmental challenges, the value of Cheniere’s LNG has never been more evident.The horrific invasion of Ukraine is not just a heartbreaking tragedy for the Ukrainian people — it has also ended the peace in Europe that has existed for decades. The shattering of that peace has urgently renewed focus on global energy security as Europe seeks secure, reliable and cleaner energy supplies. Though LNG cannot provide for all of Europe’s energy supply today, U.S. LNG remains critical to supporting global energy security. In the past few months, 
as geopolitics drove prices higher, Cheniere’s 
many long-term customers were able to 
re-route destination-flexible, U.S. LNG cargoes to where they were needed most. This global crisis has validated our fundamental business model: that Cheniere LNG can nimbly respond to ever-changing global priorities, whether it be geopolitical tensions in Europe or energy 
transition goals.In these uncertain times, Cheniere remains focused on delivering significant economic value to our shareholders, communities and customers. We have completed our initial nine-train LNG platform — the second largest in the world — safely, ahead of schedule and on budget. This nearly $35 billion investment in American energy infrastructure has produced more than 2,000 LNG cargoes delivered to 37 markets to date, and has led Cheniere to reach a meaningful cash flow inflection point that will continue to deliver value to our shareholders. Adding further value, in 2021 we added our first quarterly dividend to 
our capital allocation strategy. We have also signed a number of new long-term LNG contracts that will support our Stage 3 expansion in 
Corpus Christi and bring additional job creation and investment to the communities where we live and work. Cheniere’s track record of construction and operational excellence is delivering results.Cheniere is not only focused on meeting the challenges of today, but also those of tomorrow. In 2021, we made major strides on our ESG initiatives, demonstrating leadership through efforts that are differentiated by our focus on being actionable, rather than aspirational. We developed and published the first customized, supply chain-specific life cycle greenhouse gas assessment of LNG in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, utilizing emissions data specific to Cheniere’s supply chain. We also launched our first quantification, measurement, reporting and verification (QMRV) collaboration with five of our major upstream natural gas suppliers and several independent academic institutions to directly measure emissions and identify strategic and cost-effective emissions mitigation opportunities. We believe our future is bright, and we have just begun on our journey to provide the world with a cleaner, affordable and reliable energy solution.Stay safe,Jack A. FuscoPresident and CEO“In 2021, we made major strides on our ESG initiatives, demonstrating leadership through efforts that are differentiated by our focus on being actionable, rather 
than aspirational.”	— JACK A. FUSCOOur approach to sustainabilityProviding clean, secure and affordable energy — 
and delivering value for our stakeholders.Our vision is to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world. In living up to this vision, we are responding to the world’s shared energy challenges: expanding the global supply of energy; improving air quality and supporting the transition to a 
lower-carbon future.RECOGNIZED FOR OUR PROGRESSIn 2021, Cheniere received a rating of A 
(on a scale of AAA-CCC) in the MSCI ESG 
Ratings assessment.1Cheniere Energy, Inc.’s ESG Risk Rating places 
it in the 13th percentile in the Refiners and 
Pipelines industry assessed by Sustainalytics.2Designated a 2022 “JUST 100” leader by 
Just Capital, placing first in our industry and 
35th overall of nearly 1,000 rated companies.Received the World LNG Energy Transition Award 
for our Cargo Emissions Tags (CE Tags) initiative, 
presented at the World LNG Summit & Awards. 1 The use by Cheniere Energy, Inc., of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates 
  (“MSCI”), and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names 
  herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion 
  of Cheniere Energy, Inc., by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or 
  its information providers and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names 
  and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.2 Copyright ©2022 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This publication contains 
  information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information 
  and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers 
  (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not 
  constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and 
  are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. 
  Their use is subject to conditions available at 
  https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.2021 HighlightsExpanding global access to clean, secure and affordable LNGDelivering stakeholder value Supporting the energy transitionABOUT OUR BUSINESSCheniere is the largest LNG producer and exporter in North America and the second-largest LNG exporter globally. Since we began exporting 
LNG in 2016, we have produced and exported over 2,000 LNG cargoes, totaling more than 
140 million metric tons.7 As a full-service global LNG provider, we purchase natural gas from the North American market, process and liquefy it into LNG, and offer our customers the ability to load the LNG onto their vessels or have us deliver it to regasification facilities around the world. We operate two LNG facilities on the U.S. Gulf Coast — our Sabine Pass LNG facility in Louisiana and our Corpus Christi LNG facility in Texas — as well as pipelines that deliver natural gas to our LNG facilities. With the addition of a sixth train at our Sabine Pass facility, which reached substantial completion in February 2022, Cheniere now operates over 10% of global liquefaction capacity from approximately 114 counterparties8 and manages natural gas deliveries through approximately 30 different pipelines. Further, our daily average gas purchases account for more than 9% of total daily U.S. gas production, connecting North American producers to the global market.ESG MANAGEMENTWe are committed to the responsible and proactive management of our ESG impacts, risks and opportunities. This includes a strategic focus on supporting the global energy transition and delivering value to all our stakeholders. These efforts are underpinned by regular stakeholder engagement to maintain the responsiveness of our approach (see p. 7), as well as close collaboration with our suppliers and customers.Top-quartile safety performance of 
0.10 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and 0.01 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR).$536M paid in wages and benefits.99.6% local employees at our LNG facilities.Approximately 17% of annual performance compensation scorecard for all employees is tied to ESG metrics (increasing to 30% 
in 2022).6145.6% five-year total return on common stock from 2016-2021.Announced inaugural dividend 
for LNG shareholders.Completed a peer-reviewed, 
first-of-its-kind life cycle assessment 
(LCA) of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across the LNG supply chain to help 
guide our emissions reduction efforts.Announced the first Cargo Emissions Tags (CE Tags) program for all customers in 2022, providing gross and intensity-based carbon emissions data for our LNG cargoes.Implementing quantification, monitoring, reporting and verification (QMRV) projects to more accurately measure CO2 and 
methane emissions across our supply chain.566 cargoes of LNG exported from Cheniere facilities,3 with nearly 2,015 TBtu of gas delivered to 31 countries, enough 
to meet the electricity needs of over 
21.5 million U.S. homes for one year.4Nearly 10% of global LNG supplied 
by Cheniere.0.007% methane emissions intensity.5Brought two new trains online, with a combined capacity of an additional 
10 million tonnes per year.3	As of Dec. 31, 2021.4	Based on U.S. average electricity consumption and the average heat rate of U.S. natural gas power plants.5	Reported per the ONE Future Reporting Protocol, as metric tons of Scope 1 methane emissions per metric tons of LNG exported (as methane) as reported to the U.S. Department of Energy.6	ESG metrics for annual performance scorecard compensation are inclusive of safety metrics.7	As of June 1, 2022.8	“Counterparties” includes producers, marketers, processors 
and pipelines.OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITYBOARD AND EXECUTIVE OVERSIGHTThe Board of Directors provides oversight to Cheniere’s sustainability considerations, including the management of relevant ESG issues. The governance and nominating committee of our Board is responsible for reviewing the company’s climate and sustainability strategies and policies. Executive-level managers oversee our major 
ESG focus areas and brief the Board on these 
topics regularly. In 2021, the Board received updates from executive-level management on climate, including risks and opportunities, environmental management, human capital, safety, community, governance and Cheniere’s broader sustainability performance. To help embed a culture of sustainability throughout our organization, we have a cross-functional corporate responsibility program of leaders and subject matter experts covering a range of business units to help integrate our approach across 
the company (read more in the Detailed 
Disclosures Appendix).Our commitment to the responsible management of our ESG impacts, risks and opportunities is enshrined in our policies, including: our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Discrimination and Harassment Policy and our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy.In 2021, 17% of annual performance compensation scorecard for all employees was tied to ESG metrics (increasing to 30% in 2022).9OUR CLIMATE AND SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLESIn 2018, we first published our Climate and Sustainability Principles to provide the foundation for how we identify, understand and address our risks and opportunities related to ESG topics. 
These principles underpin our strategic, collaborative approach across both our own operations and our supply chain. They provide a north star that guides our actions and helps us maintain our principles in the face of internal and external challenges. The principles require us to ground our actions and decisions on science and data, and work to continuously improve our performance. Lastly, they set out our commitment to open, honest and proactive communication with all of our stakeholders.UNDERSTANDING ESG IMPACTS, 
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESWe focus our ESG efforts and reporting on the topics that are of the greatest interest to our business and stakeholders. We undertake a structured assessment process to identify these considerations, which includes extensive engagement with external stakeholders. This informs our overall strategy development and 
the content of this report.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTWe proactively engage with our stakeholders to build constructive relationships focused on mutually beneficial outcomes. Stakeholder feedback helps shape our approach to sustainability and informs our ongoing efforts to responsibly manage our impacts and to deliver value for all our stakeholders. For further information, see the Communities and Governance sections of this report and the Detailed Disclosures Appendix.Read more 	Board and management oversight of ESG topics 	Focusing on ESG issues across our organization 	ESG management training 	Relevant ESG topics assessment process9	ESG metrics for annual performance compensation scorecard are inclusive of safety metrics.ClimateCheniere is helping to meet the world’s most pressing shared energy challenges, today and tomorrow. LNG produced by Cheniere is meeting the demand for clean, secure and affordable energy, improving air quality and supporting the transition to a lower-carbon future. Natural gas generates lower emissions than other fossil energy sources such as coal and oil. LNG has the ability to directly support the 
cost-effective decarbonization of global economies by displacing such higher-emitting energy sources, complementing renewables and adding reliability and flexibility to the international energy system.We recognize the importance of identifying, understanding and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities, and we are focused on integrating climate action into our core functions. 
We continue to strengthen the alignment of our climate reporting with the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations.MEASUREMITIGATEPROGRESS AND HIGHLIGHTSIdentifying climate risks and opportunities•	Completed a climate scenario analysis focused 
on transition risk to better understand business risks and opportunities under future energy 
use scenarios.•	Invested in research and development projects related to emissions measurement and mitigation across the natural gas supply chain.Executing a strategy based on science 
and transparency•	Developed and published a first-of-its-kind, peer-reviewed life cycle assessment (LCA) of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across our 
LNG supply chain.•	Launched a multi-stakeholder research partnership to support the development of our quantification, monitoring, reporting and verification (QMRV) program.•	Installed emissions tracking systems on five 
LNG vessels to enhance our ongoing efforts to measure GHG emissions across the supply chain. Integrating climate considerations into 
our business•	Linked executive and employee compensation 
to the successful execution of key elements of 
our climate strategy.•	Refinanced a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility that includes features based on our commitment to address GHG emissions throughout our 
supply chain. •	Continued to increase the number of more efficient vessels in the CMI fleet to feature 
XDF and MEGI propulsion technologies. 
By mid-2022, we expect that 82% of long-term chartered vessels will use these technologies.The role of LNG in meeting the world’s energy needsGovernanceCountries around the world are facing three main challenges when it comes to energy: increasing energy security and affordability, and reducing carbon emissions. Natural gas and Cheniere’s LNG are helping to achieve these goals: today, by displacing coal and other more carbon dioxide emission-intensive fuels, and tomorrow, by supporting the deployment of renewables.The International Energy Agency (IEA) has identified fuel displacement from coal to gas as the “quickest route to emissions reductions,” with the potential to reduce global power sector emissions by 10%.1 The IEA also estimates that switching from coal to natural gas has helped limit the rise in global CO2 emissions since 2010 and avoided more than 699 million metric tons of CO2 emissions between 2010 and 2020.2  Events in 2021 made clear the importance of natural gas and LNG in meeting the world’s energy needs, now and throughout the energy transition. These events included extreme weather, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, geopolitical tensions and an energy crisis in Europe. Elevated energy demand and prices sometimes even led to fuel switching from natural gas back to coal, resulting in increasing emissions in the power sector by well over 
100 million metric tons.3 During the year, approximately a third of the LNG produced by Cheniere was delivered to Europe to help meet this heightened demand. These dynamics, in particular the worsening geopolitical tensions in 2022, further highlight the world’s continued need for investments in natural gas and LNG infrastructure 
to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to 
the world.TRANSITION RISK SCENARIO ANALYSISIn 2021, Cheniere published our first climate scenario analysis. In line with the recommendations of the TCFD, we utilized multiple future climate scenarios to test the long-term resilience of our business and strategy, including the IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS);4  the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS);5 and the McKinsey Reference Case Scenario from Global Gas Outlook to 2050 (MRC).6Under all three scenarios, the analysis found that demand for LNG increases from 2020 levels through to 2040, resulting in supply gaps of varying degrees. In addition, the analysis identified potential climate-related risks, including those relating to cost competitiveness, carbon pricing and project GHG emissions intensity. Based in part on this analysis, we have identified a range of actions we can take to help address these risks and enhance the resiliency of our business.LNG will remain in demand even under the 
Paris-aligned future energy scenarios; it supports significant GHG reductions and the deployment of renewable energy (e.g., because fast-cycling natural gas power plants remain vital to managing intermittency in solar and wind power). Our scenario analysis helps inform our climate strategy, which focuses on maximizing the climate benefits of Cheniere-delivered LNG and supporting a lower-carbon future for our customers and end users. We view the increasing global focus on carbon management as a tailwind for our business, due to the less GHG-intensive nature of our LNG compared to oil and coal, and our strategic focus on further reducing life cycle emissions across our LNG facilities and supply chain.BOARD OVERSIGHTCheniere’s Board of Directors oversees the development and execution of our climate strategy and regularly reviews progress. Although the full Board is actively engaged on climate issues, the governance and nominating committee has the formal responsibility for reviewing climate strategy, performance and progress.EXECUTIVE OVERSIGHTSubject to the formal oversight of our Board of Directors, our executive leaders are directly responsible for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities, and implementing our climate strategy. The 
senior vice president (SVP) of corporate development and strategy and SVP of policy, government and public affairs (PGPA) lead the development and execution of our climate strategy. Executives across our business functions, including Finance, Commercial, Trading, Gas Supply, Operations and Shared Services help guide this effort. Our executive leadership reports directly to our CEO on climate strategy and planning on a regular basis.1	IEA (2019, July), The Role of Gas in Today’s Energy Transitions, https://www.iea.org/reports/the-role-of-gas-in-todays-energy-transitions.2	IEA (2019, July), The Role of Gas in Today’s Energy Transitions, https://www.iea.org/reports/the-role-of-gas-in-todays-energy-transitions. Additional provisional data for 2021 was provided by the IEA (February 2021).3	Global Energy Review: CO2 Emissions in 2021, p. 7. https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/c3086240-732b-4f6a-89d7-db01be018f5e/GlobalEnergyReviewCO2Emissionsin2021.pdf.4	https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-model/stated-policies-scenario-steps#abstract.5	https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-model/sustainable-development-scenario-sds#abstract.6	https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/oil-and-gas/our-insights/global-gas-outlook-to-2050.Climate strategy milestones achieved in 2021Building a company that can help meet the world’s energy needs while integrating sustainability throughout our business.Climate strategyConsistent with our Climate and Sustainability Principles, our climate strategy focuses on science and transparent collaboration along our supply chain to measure our GHG emissions and to identify strategic and cost-effective opportunities to mitigate GHG emissions. Measuring and mitigating our emissions can maximize the climate benefits of Cheniere’s LNG and continue to demonstrate its role as a reliable and flexible form of energy that supports a lower-carbon future. We believe it is important to develop future climate goals and strategies based on an accurate and holistic assessment of the emissions profile of our LNG, accounting for all steps in the supply chain. Working with experts from world-renowned institutions, Cheniere’s approach is to be actionable, 
not aspirational.MEASUREMENTMeasurement is a critical component and the first step of our strategy. We are expanding our scientific understanding of GHG emissions across our supply chain, and generating actionable, accurate data that directly informs strategic and cost-effective mitigation actions.  In 2021, we launched several of these initiatives, all of which had been years in development, including:•	LCA:8 Publishing a first-of-its-kind, supplier-specific life cycle assessment (LCA) in a peer-reviewed scientific journal (co-authored by experts from the University of Texas at Austin, Queen Mary University of London and Duke University).•	QMRV:9 A collaboration with natural gas suppliers to develop a robust quantification, monitoring, reporting and verification (QMRV) program at scale (supported by researchers from the Payne Institute for Public Policy at the 
Colorado School of Mines and Harrisburg University of Science and Technology).•	LNG shipping study:10 Supporting a first-of-its-kind study to directly measure methane emissions on an operating LNG vessel.•	CE Tags:11 Beginning in 2022, Cheniere will provide our customers with Cargo Emissions Tags (CE Tags) showing the estimated GHG emissions associated with each cargo we deliver.10 Our 
CE Tags are calculated from our LCA model, which uses supplier-specific GHG information. To further enhance the transparency of our approach, we chose to have our LCA modeling methods reviewed and published through the scientific community’s peer-review process.These efforts are helping us build a data-driven approach that leverages our unique position 
within the LNG supply chain to collaborate with 
our suppliers and customers on both upstream 
and downstream climate initiatives. They will 
also provide actionable data for our supply 
chain partners, supporting opportunities for improved emissions performance beyond 
our immediate operations.We continue to work with leading academic institutions on the design and implementation of our QMRV program, helping ensure that the results undergo rigorous scientific review. We publicly reported the findings of our LCA to enable our customers and end users to make well-informed decisions based on a holistic view of the supply chain emissions associated with our LNG. MITIGATIONBetween 2016 and 2021, our Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity decreased by 34%, primarily due to the addition of LNG capacity as well as improved efficiency and operational practices. We continue working to reduce GHG emissions from our own operations, primarily through facility design and the use of advanced technologies to actively monitor emissions at our facilities and along pipelines.However, our LCA shows that approximately 75% of the total emissions profile of Cheniere’s LNG supply chain (from production to the regasification terminal) originates outside our primary operations. Therefore, we are working closely with suppliers and other partners on the projects described above, so that understanding our supply chain emissions will help us develop collaborative reduction strategies.12Reducing methane emissions in our 
supply chain Since 2018, Cheniere has focused on reducing methane emissions across our supply chain, including by co-founding the Collaboratory to Advance Methane Science (CAMS). Today, we are using our LCA and QMRV work to support our own and our partners’ understanding of methane emissions sources. For example, our LCA illustrates that methane is a primary contributor to LNG’s GHG footprint in the upstream and midstream sectors. Reducing methane emissions, for example through leak detection and maintenance, offers a strategic and cost-effective opportunity for reducing overall supply chain emissions.In our own operations, we have maintained a methane emissions intensity rate of less than 0.02% annually over the past five years. We have continued to engage with our natural gas suppliers to improve our data and reduction strategies with respect to methane emissions. Cheniere has publicly voiced our support for new federal regulations on methane emissions for a number of years, including the EPA’s recent proposal to regulate methane emissions.13Reducing GHG emissions in our operationsWe have implemented a range of technologies and processes to improve the efficiency of our operations and reduce our GHG emissions. Our LNG facilities are our primary point of energy consumption and the largest source of our 
Scope 1 emissions. We are also working to reduce emissions from our pipelines and offices. We are assessing the feasibility of using carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) at our facilities to reduce our Scope 1 GHG emissions.Reducing emissions from LNG shippingThe shipping segment is an important contributor to the LNG supply chain’s GHG life cycle emissions, with shipping emissions dependent primarily on the length of the voyage.14 Where feasible, Cheniere Marketing (CMI) charters vessels with the most efficient propulsion and containment systems to help reduce these emissions. By the end of 2022, we expect 82% of CMI’s fleet to be made up of XDF/MEGI vessels, the most efficient vessels available on the market.15  The new build ships can run on fuel or “boil-off LNG” — LNG that warms back into a gas as a routine part of the transportation process — which has a significantly lower CO2 emissions profile than typical marine fuels. In addition, many of these new vessels are fitted with new technologies such as reliquefaction units, which can reliquefy excess boil-off gas and inject it back into the containment system and an air lubrication system — which injects air under the ship to create a continuous layer of bubbles between the hull and the seawater, reducing drag and further improving fuel efficiency.Building on the foundation of our Climate and Sustainability Principles — science, transparency, operational excellence and supply chain — we are focused on measuring and mitigating emissions to strengthen the long-term resilience of our business.CLIMATE STRATEGYRead more 	Reducing GHG emissions from our own operations8	Press Release, Cheniere Energy, Inc., Cheniere Announces Publication of Greenhouse Gas Life Cycle Assessment, August 5, 2021, https://lngir.cheniere.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/226/cheniere-announces-publication-of-greenhouse-gas-life-cycle.9	Press Release, Cheniere Energy, Inc., Cheniere Announces Collaboration with Natural Gas Suppliers and Academic Institutions to Quantify, Monitor, Report and Verify GHG Emissions, June 10, 2021, https://lngir.cheniere.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/220/cheniere-announces-collaboration-with-natural-gas-suppliers.10	Press Release, Collaboratory to Advance Methane Science, First Study to Directly Measure Methane Emissions from LNG Carrier Completed, May 27, 2021, https://methanecollaboratory.com/news/first-study-to-directly-measure-methane-emissions-from-lng-carrier-completed/. 11	Press Release, Cheniere Energy, Inc., Cheniere to Provide Cargo Emissions Data to LNG Customers, https://lngir.cheniere.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/214/cheniere-to-provide-cargo-emissions-data-to-lng-customers.12	Roman-White, Littlefield, Fleury, Allen, Balcombe, Konschnik, Ewing, Ross, and George (2021), “LNG Supply Chains: A Supplier-Specific Life-Cycle Assessment for Improved Emission Accounting.” ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2021, 9, 10857.10867.13	https://www.regulations.gov/comment/EPA-HQ-OAR-2021-0317-0766.14	Roman-White, Littlefield, Fleury, Allen, Balcombe, Konschnik, Ewing, Ross, and George (2021), “LNG Supply Chains: A Supplier-Specific Life-Cycle Assessment for Improved Emission Accounting.” ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2021, 9, 10857.10867. In this case, 6% represents delivery from the U.S. to Jamaica and 27% delivery from the U.S. to Taiwan.15	Based on known existing charter agreements in place as of April 11, 2022. Cheniere considers the most efficient vessels available to include vessels of not less than 173,400 cubic meters (cbm) with two-stroke propulsion systems, which include XDF or MEGI vessels.16 	Press Release, Cheniere Energy, Inc., Cheniere to Provide Cargo Emissions Data to LNG Customers, https://lngir.cheniere.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/214/cheniere-to-provide-cargo-emissions-data-to-lng-customers.17	Free on Board (FOB): CE Tags include Production, Gathering & Boosting, Processing, Transmission & Storage and Liquefaction 
(not Shipping).18 	Percent emissions from production through delivery to China, 100-year GWP. Roman-White, Littlefield, Fleury, Allen, Balcombe, 			Konschnik, Ewing, Ross, and George (2021), “LNG Supply Chains: A Supplier-Specific Life-Cycle Assessment for Improved Emission 		Accounting.” ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2021, 9, 10857.10867.19 	Ex-ship (DES): CE Tags include Production, Gathering & Boosting, Processing, Transmission & Storage, Liquefaction and LNG Shipping.20 	Based on known existing charter agreements in place as of April 11, 2022. Cheniere considers the most efficient vessels available to include vessels of not less than 173,400 cubic meters (cbm) with two-stroke propulsion systems, which include XDF or 
MEGI vessels.CLIMATE STRATEGYA closer look at QMRVCheniere’s QMRV program aims to verify and more accurately measure our supply chain GHG emissions. This will help to inform our climate strategies and mitigation programs, as well as those of our supply chain partners and other stakeholders. Our QMRV program develops and employs multi-scale, 
multi-technology measurement methodologies including ground, drone, aerial and satellite, along with robust assessments of operational and maintenance practices, to develop dynamic, measurement-informed inventories of facilities.Key benefits and uses of QMRV•	Enhances accuracy from measurement of actual emissions.•	Enables a field-tested assessment of the efficacy of the different measurement technologies.•	Helps identify leaks and abnormal emissions.•	Improves our LCA model and CE Tags.•	Provides data that supports the development of strategic mitigation efforts.How we are improving QMRV across our supply chain•	Use of measurement protocols tailored to each phase of the supply chain.  •	Application of a range of measurement technologies to support direct, facility-level measurement and monitoring of methane emissions, including drones, aerial overflights, satellites and on-the-ground optical gas imaging and 
high-flow sampling.•	Gaining input from world-class academics from the University of Texas, the Colorado School of Mines and other institutions, including guidance on measurement technologies and independent verification of measurement results.•	Sharing feedback and results with program participants and publication of results. 21 Press Release, Cheniere Energy, Inc., Cheniere Announces Collaboration with Natural Gas Suppliers and Academic Institutions to Quantify, Monitor, Report and Verify GHG Emissions, June 10, 2021, https://lngir.cheniere.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/220/cheniere-announces-collaboration-with-natural-gas-suppliers.Risk managementENTERPRISE RISK ASSESSMENTWe incorporate climate-related risks and opportunities into our annual enterprise risk assessment (ERA) process, which is overseen by our chief risk officer and reviewed by the Board of Directors. Our ERA process focuses on identifying short- and medium-term risks within a five-year time horizon. We analyze these risks based on their potential financial or reputational impact on the organization. We undertake our ERA process annually, with a midyear check-in to determine if any significant changes identified during the annual ERA process need to be addressed.Individuals responsible for the oversight of climate risk can bring any significant changes to the attention of the chief risk officer. The SVP of corporate development and strategy and SVP of PGPA are responsible for assessing climate-related risks as part of the overall ERA process.IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESThe TCFD defines potential climate-related risks and opportunities according to two categories: transition risks and physical risks. Transition risks are those that stem from regulatory, economic, market, technological and other societal changes associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy. Physical risks are those associated with physical impacts from climate change, such as increases in severe weather events or changes in weather patterns. We consider these risks over the short, medium and long term, including their related potential financial impacts.Our climate scenario analysis allows us to better understand these potential impacts and assess the resilience of our business model under a range of scenarios. In turn, this helps inform our strategy and business planning. We have also conducted a series of engagements with key external stakeholders, including our largest investors and lenders, to better understand their perspectives on the most important risks and opportunities for our business. TRANSITION RISKSTo identify policy-related risks and opportunities, we review international and domestic climate policies and regulations and assess how they may affect our business. To manage these risks, we conduct ongoing engagements with policymakers and think tanks in the United States and key international markets.To assess market risks, we actively engage our customers to understand changing market sentiment. Our efforts to enhance transparency around GHG emissions across the LNG supply chain can inform and support our suppliers’ and customers’ own decarbonization efforts, and thereby help to enhance the GHG footprint of our product and the broader industry.We are addressing technology risks and opportunities by controlling the carbon footprint of our product.PHYSICAL RISKSWe periodically analyze our climate-related physical risks. We have identified hurricanes, flooding and other extreme weather events as key physical risks for our business. Based on our analysis, we design our facilities to withstand a variety of extreme weather conditions and implement appropriate risk mitigation and management measures. We install redundant capacity for key equipment to help us maintain or quickly reinitiate operations if equipment is damaged, and we purchase property and casualty and business interruption insurance to protect ourselves from loss. In addition, we employ two full-time meteorologists to help us predict and plan for potential weather-related risks.We develop hurricane preparedness plans based on Gulf Coast petrochemical industry best practices. We have a dedicated incident response program through which we plan and prepare for potential events, including extreme weather, that could impact operational continuity, our workforce or our communities (see p. 22). Our incident response capabilities and the design of our facilities have been tested in recent years by significant hurricane seasons. They have performed as planned, and we have been able to reinitiate LNG production safely and quickly.Also, we have undertaken a detailed water risk analysis using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and have determined that we do not operate in any areas of high 
water stress.Our strategic response to key climate risks and opportunities How we are managing 
our climate-related risks 
and opportunitiesPotential climate-related 
opportunities identified
Potential climate-related 
risks identified 
Changing customer and financial market sentiment, including customer and investor desire to reduce GHG emissions, resulting in reduced demand, reduced access to capital and reduced prices associated with competing lower- or zero-carbon energy sources and technologies. Increased carbon and methane regulations across the supply chain, resulting in increased costs of production, increased U.S. LNG prices and reduced access or increased cost to LNG export destinations.Physical risks as a result of an increase in extreme weather events, including hurricanes.Growing demand among oil and coal users for lower-carbon alternative energy products.Increasing regulatory pressure to reduce the use of more carbon-intensive fossil fuels.Growing and sustained role of LNG in the energy transition, and in addressing renewable 
generation intermittency.Opportunity for Cheniere to differentiate itself based on our approach to evidence-based measurement, collaboration and mitigation.Drawing on dedicated departments to assess, engage and integrate climate strategies with 
regular oversight from our leadership team and Board of Directors.Using our LCA and QMRV programs to inform the most effective emissions reduction strategies across our supply chain, and more accurately track mitigation impacts.Engaging with our customers, supply chain partners, academics and think tanks to understand and reduce GHG emissions.Transparently disclosing cargo emissions via 
CE Tags to drive improvement.Mitigating physical risks through the location, design and construction of our facilities, to avoid or withstand extreme weather.Chartering the most efficient vessels on a long-term basis to reduce emissions.Facility design and technologies to improve efficiency and reduce emissions.Purchasing property and casualty and business interruption insurance to protect ourselves from loss.Read more 	A detailed list of risks and opportunities, potential financial implications and mitigation opportunities  RISK MANAGEMENTMetrics and targetsWe measure and mitigate emissions across our operations and implement measures to improve efficiency throughout the operational life cycle, including design, construction and production. These efforts are overseen by our SVP of Operations, who provides regular updates to the Board of Directors on our performance. We track multiple metrics to assess and manage our carbon management and environmental performance.We believe that in order to set realistic targets, we need to more accurately quantify and 
measure emissions across the supply chain. Therefore, we view our measurement initiatives 
as necessary precursors to evaluating informed and actionable targets.We report our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and our Scope 1 methane emissions.22 We also use GHG emissions intensity metrics to assess our year-on-year performance, since an intensity metric offers more meaningful insight into our performance as we expand our LNG production capacity. CO2 represents the majority of our Scope 1 GHG emissions. Our absolute Scope 1 CO2 emissions increased in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily because we brought two new LNG trains online. However, our Scope 1 intensity decreased by approximately 1%.Including LNG terminals and pipelines, methane emissions represented less than 1% of our total Scope 1 emissions in 2021. This reflects the fact that we have maintained a methane emissions intensity rate of less than 0.02% over the past four years, significantly lower than the targets of 0.2% set by the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) and 0.301% set by the ONE Future initiative.23 Nonetheless, we continue to monitor and work to further reduce fugitive and vented methane emissions in our operations.Scope 3 emissions are the result of activities from assets not owned or controlled by the reporting organization, but that the organization indirectly impacts in its supply chain. Scope 3 emissions associated with LNG supply chains include, for example, emissions resulting from natural gas production, transportation, regasification and the end use (combustion) of sold products. Our LCA and QMRV projects are helping us to gain a better understanding of our Scope 3 emissions so that any future reporting of our full life cycle emissions will be scientifically rigorous.22	Scope 1 GHG emissions include emissions reported to the EPA under the GHGRP. All CO2e is reported using 100-year GWP. CH4 GWP = 25 and N2O GWP = 298. 23	Cheniere is not a member of, or participant in, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) or the ONE Futute initiative.METRICS AND TARGETS24	Our Nation’s Energy (ONE) Future Transmission and Storage sector target. ONE Future, (2021), One Future 2021 Methane Emissions Intensities Report, p. 4, https://onefuture.us/2021-methane-emissions-intensity-report/.25	Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, (2021, December), Accelerating Ambition & Action, A Progress Report from the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, p. 15, https://www.ogci.com/download/ogci-progress-report-2021/.EnvironmentWe are committed to responsibly managing our environmental impacts, including those relevant to air quality, biodiversity and effluents and waste. This commitment is supported by our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy and by our comprehensive environmental management system, which is aligned with the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard (read more in our Detailed Disclosures Appendix). EVALUATEPRESERVEPROGRESS AND HIGHLIGHTS•	Launched an environmental management information system, a technology initiative 
to enhance environmental data collection, tracking and reporting.•	Fully incorporated our environmental management system (EMS) with the 
Cheniere Integrated Management System.•	Recycled over 615,000 gallons of oil, oily water and filters at our sites and over 
462,000 pounds of scrap metal between our sites and pipelines.Read more 	Board oversight and executive management of environmental topics 	Health, Safety and Environmental Policy 	Environmental management systemBiodiversityEffluents and waste While our impacts on biodiversity are generally limited, what impacts do occur primarily take place during the construction of our LNG terminals and natural gas pipelines. To help further avoid impacts, we chose previously disturbed, brownfield sites for the locations of our liquefaction facilities, and we endeavor to co-locate our pipeline facilities adjacent to existing pipelines to the maximum extent practicable. We apply intensive assessment, avoidance and mitigation measures to reduce any potential negative impacts on local ecosystems and voluntarily support biodiversity protection projects near our areas of operation. We communicate regularly with landowners and community members on our efforts to avoid and minimize land impacts. Our approach, which applies a well-defined biodiversity mitigation hierarchy, is applied across the life cycle of our operations and includes the following steps.PRE-PROJECT ASSESSMENTS Our projects undergo biodiversity-related assessments through which we identify and seek to avoid high-priority, critical habitats, and identify potential impacts on sensitive species and ecosystems. This includes cumulative risk assessments to understand potential risks to biodiversity that could occur near to, but outside, our own operations. We incorporate these risks into our impact avoidance and mitigation plans.IMPACT MANAGEMENTWe prioritize the avoidance of impacts. Where that is not possible, we minimize impacts to the maximum extent practicable and mitigate unavoidable impacts. Our LNG facilities and pipelines were sited in order to avoid protected conservation and/or critical habitat areas.LAND AND ECOSYSTEM RESTORATION Most of our ongoing operations do not result in further land disturbance, but certain activities such as routine dredge maintenance of operating berths and new facility construction can cause impacts to ecosystems. Where this is the case, we develop biodiversity management plans and restore disturbed land to pre-construction conditions, where possible. We also actively monitor the outcomes of our efforts and report back to relevant regulatory agencies. We seek opportunities to restore and rebuild ecosystems in our broader areas of operation, both as a beneficial outcome of our construction projects and through voluntary investments unrelated to our facility construction. Compared to most energy companies, our operations pose only limited risks of hydrocarbon spills because our primary product is natural gas and LNG, not oil. Effluents from our operations primarily relate to our sanitary wastewater treatment systems, stormwater runoff and the use of a reverse-osmosis process to treat water provided to us by local utilities. These pose only a limited risk to the environment, due to the nature of the potential contaminants in the effluents. We carefully manage any wastewater generated by our operations that contains small amounts of potentially hazardous pollutants. We develop facility-specific effluent management and monitoring plans and review the effectiveness and implementation of these plans regularly and update as relevant. We also maintain robust incident tracking, investigation and corrective action plans to address events when they occur.Cheniere does not operate in areas affected by water stress. Further, our strong spill and release management programs minimize our potential impacts on local water resources through releases.1  For more information, see the water risk analysis.RESPONSIBLE WASTE MANAGEMENT Each facility develops, follows and regularly updates waste management plans that include carefully labeling, managing and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste at permitted treatment, storage and disposal facilities. We develop waste minimization plans, which are required by regulatory agencies and reviewed every year with the goal of identifying and reducing the quantity and toxicity of the waste and increasing recycling when economically feasible. We contract qualified and licensed third parties to transport and dispose of hazardous wastes and follow strict regulatory tracking and reporting requirements. We have also implemented a range of recycling and waste diversion programs, through which we recycled more than 615,000 gallons of used oil, oily water and filters from our LNG facilities and over 
462,000 pounds of scrap metal from our facilities and pipelines.SPILL PREVENTION AND RESPONSE Our spill risks are limited, based on the products and materials we handle, and primarily stem from liquid fuels used to run equipment and lubrication oils used in our liquefaction facilities. Our primary product, LNG, dissipates if released and does not pose a significant risk of surface contamination. Still, we maintain site-specific spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans. In 2021, we experienced one reportable hydrocarbon spill involving one gallon of hydrocarbons (see p. 39).2 We manage spills through an enterprise-wide environmental and safety incident management system, which includes developing and tracking the implementation of corrective actions. We also maintain and implement stormwater pollution prevention plans. Read more 	Protecting biodiversity, minimizing impacts and 
restoring ecosystems 	Biodiversity managementRead more 	Effluent management 1	Cheniere utilized the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and other resources to conduct this assessment.2	We define reportable spills as a spill of liquid materials containing hydrocarbons to the ground or water, such as liquid fuels, lubrication oils and hydraulic fluids, that exceeds a regulatory-based reportable quantity and requires an immediate (<24 hours) notification to a regulatory agency. Our business focuses solely on natural gas 
and LNG.Air qualityNatural gas significantly reduces sources of localized air pollution compared to burning coal for electricity generation. Specifically, natural gas reduces nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions by 82%, sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions by 99% and mercury emissions by nearly 100% on a life cycle basis compared to coal when used in combined
cycle power plants.3 This helps our customers meet their environmental goals to reduce air pollution and improve health.MANAGING CRITERIA AIR EMISSIONS FROM OUR OPERATIONSOur operations generate criteria air pollutant emissions, including nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and particulate matter (PM). The natural gas-powered turbines that run our Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi LNG liquefaction processes are the primary source of these emissions; smaller amounts are emitted through our pipeline operations and at turbine compressor stations.4 We actively work to limit our criteria emissions and impacts on local air quality. See the Key Performance Data table (see p. 39) for emissions data.Our LNG production facilities are relatively new and were designed to comply with strict emissions limits. We have implemented a range of NOx and VOC emission-control technologies and work practices across our operations. For example, at our pipeline compressor stations, we utilize turbine compressor drivers with integrated combustion technology to reduce NOx emissions to below permit requirements.Read more 	 Air quality managementLNG significantly reduces sources of localized air pollution compared to burning coal for electricity generation.3	National Energy Technology Laboratory (2016), Grid Mix Explorer Version 3; National Petroleum Council (2011), Prudent Development: Realizing the Potential of North America’s Abundant Natural Gas and Oil Resources.4	Small volumes of natural gas condensate extracted from the natural gas feed are exported from the liquefaction trains into third-party pipelines.