CommunitiesWe believe supporting and building strong relationships with the communities in which we live and work is fundamental to our success. We focus on driving community development through local skills training, job creation and targeted community investments. This helps support the long-term growth of our local communities and builds critical relationships and talent pipelines that underpin our business success. We implement a comprehensive approach to community engagement to build respectful, collaborative relationships and respond proactively to our communities’ needs and concerns. We also strive to avoid and minimize any negative impacts on local communities and address them quickly if they do occur.ENGAGEBUILDPROGRESS AND HIGHLIGHTS•	Launched a regional community advisory panel (CAP) with representatives from peer companies in the Corpus Christi area to share and receive feedback from our neighbors.•	Contributed $150,000 to combat the effects of severe weather in our communities, supporting Hurricane Ida relief in Louisiana and Winter Storm Uri response efforts through contributions to Kids’ Meals in Houston, the Diocese of Lake Charles Catholic Charities in Louisiana and the Triangle Community Outreach Center in Port Arthur, Texas and the Coastal Bend Food Bank in Corpus Christi.•	Completed social impact assessments for both our Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi locations and developed follow-up action plans to avoid and mitigate identified impacts.•	Continued our high school apprenticeship program with Cristo Rey Jesuit High School in Houston and strengthened our SOWELA and Del Mar community college apprenticeship programs in Texas 
and Louisiana.•	Developed a corporate giving strategy that aligns our community investments with our DEI commitments and invested more than $400,000 in DEI-focused projects in 2021.Community developmentCommunity engagement and impact mitigationOur community work is rooted in relationship building. We align our community investments with local needs to deliver lasting benefits and strengthen connections with our neighbors. We have long focused our community development efforts on building local workforces and supplier bases, which benefits our business as well as our communities. In addition, in 2021, we began implementing a DEI-focused corporate giving strategy to help align our community investments with our overall strategy to advance DEI where we live and work (see p. 31). We also continued to invest in projects and organizations that protect and restore the Gulf Coast ecosystem near our U.S. liquefaction operations and responded to other local needs — including COVID-19 — throughout the year. Many of our community investments are multi-year partnerships, meant to increase benefits and cumulative impact and solidify our relationships in the community. DEVELOPING FUTURE LNG PROFESSIONALS AND LOCAL JOB OPPORTUNITIES We invest in opportunities to help local students gain specialized skills and create local jobs. For example, we sponsor apprenticeship programs at SOWELA Technical Community College in Lake Charles, Louisiana and Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, Texas. These programs are structured to provide a direct pathway to employment. We also sponsor internships for high school students from underserved Houston communities in partnership with Genesys Works and Cristo Rey Jesuit High School. Since beginning our apprenticeship program in 2018, 37 people, or 75% of eligible apprentices, have been hired by Cheniere.1SUPPORTING LOCAL SUPPLIERS
In 2021, we directed 89% of our significant supplier spend to vendors in states where we operate, compared to 85% in 2020.3 To further advance our local supply base, we are partnering with Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi to assist local companies in developing business models that align with and fulfill industry supply chain needs. Participants who complete the program will be eligible for direct grants to improve their businesses or fulfill gaps that may enhance their participation as a supplier to large industrial businesses.We engage regularly with local community members across the life cycle of our operations, from the earliest planning stages through permitting and construction, and on an ongoing basis once we begin operations. We focus on building relationships with our stakeholders to understand, and then actively address, potential concerns associated with our operations, such as localized light, noise and air pollution and increased commuter traffic. We maintain regular, two-way dialogue with residents to understand and address any potential concerns, and we have formal feedback mechanisms in place. We have developed and follow location-specific stakeholder engagement plans at each of our LNG facilities.SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTSWe consider social risks in order to understand our potential impacts and local community needs from the operations of our liquefaction facilities and pipelines, and we update these assessments to stay current with changes and needs in our communities. In 2021, we developed social impact assessments for our Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi facilities with input from independent third-party experts. This included a reassessment of community impacts and risks; evaluation of the effectiveness of existing mitigations; community engagement and feedback processes; and the development of recommendations to address identified impacts and enhance management proficiency. Potential impacts identified, which we continue to proactively address, include job creation, flaring, lighting, shipping and traffic. (See the Detailed Disclosures Appendix for more on specific potential impacts and our mitigation efforts.) Our social risk and impact assessment process includes human rights considerations and is guided by international standards including the Equator Principles and the International Finance Corporation’s Environmental and Social Performance Standards. ONGOING TWO-WAY COMMUNICATIONWe use a variety of formal and informal forums to promote ongoing two-way communication with local communities, including public safety workshops, public presentations and site tours for community organizations and stakeholders. These forums help to inform community members about our company and operations, and help Cheniere to better understand their needs and concerns. In 2021, we proactively initiated more than 1,300 stakeholder engagements.STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK MECHANISMSWe have a formal stakeholder feedback mechanism for each of our LNG facilities. These enable community members to provide feedback on our operations by email, toll-free phone numbers and other avenues. Once received, we follow a formal process to collect, record, investigate and respond to issues. Feedback received in 2021 included comments regarding LNG vessel movements, inquiries involving flaring and emissions, and interest in partnering with Cheniere on 
social programs.COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANELS (CAPs)In 2018, we established a formal CAP representing residents from communities near our Corpus Christi facility. This was created to provide a forum for stakeholders to ask questions and share feedback and suggestions with site leaders from the facility. It also provides a forum for Cheniere to present information on current and upcoming activities that have the potential to impact the community. In 2021, we helped form a regional CAP in response to the positive community and industry feedback we received about the Cheniere-specific group. This new CAP includes community members and representatives from other regional facilities and aims to help members understand and address the cumulative impacts and opportunities of our combined operations on the nearby communities. We participate in a similar forum that meets quarterly to engage with community leaders at 
our Sabine Pass facility.TRIBAL ENGAGEMENTWe respect the rights of Indigenous peoples and recognize the importance of preserving the cultural heritage of Indigenous communities and lands of historic tribal importance in proximity to our operations. Our operations in Texas and Louisiana are not located on or near designated Native American lands, and none of our operations have caused resettlement of Indigenous peoples. We also have an interest in Midship Holdings, LLC, which manages the business and affairs of the Midship Pipeline in Oklahoma, located near lands of historical tribal importance. For that project, a rigorous and proactive process was followed for understanding and incorporating tribal community concerns and preferences (see our Detailed Disclosures Appendix). 99.6% of employees at our LNG facilities are local23	Significant local suppliers represent in-state vendors with headquarters in Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma from which Cheniere procured a significant value of goods and services through the supply chain management unit. Other suppliers represent the remainder. One local supplier representing a large portion of our significant supplier spend was excluded to avoid positive skew in 
the calculation. 1	Apprentices become eligible for hire once they have graduated and completed on-the-job training.2	 Calculated as the total number of employees working on site that live in Texas or Louisiana divided by the total number of employees working at the site.COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT MITIGATIONOver 1,300 proactive engagements with community members in 2021Read more 	Board oversight and executive management of community investment and engagement 	Stakeholder engagement and feedback mechanisms 	Tribal engagement 	2021 community investment highlightsCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT MITIGATIONDEI-FOCUSED COMMUNITY INVESTMENTSWe view DEI as much more than an internally focused effort, and we are taking steps to support DEI in the communities where we live and work. In 2021, we developed a new charitable giving framework to help ensure that we strategically allocate contributions to projects and organizations that will advance DEI in our communities. In 2021, we made several significant investments aligned with this new approach: $500,000 for the establishment of a merit- and needs-based scholarship program at four local HBCUs, 
in partnership with the Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund.$180,000 to the Houston Parks and Recreation Department to help refurbish parks in underserved and diverse neighborhoods, in part through the commissioning of local artists to develop public art reflecting the cultural heritage of the community.$25,000 donated to fund merit- and needs-based scholarships at Lamar State College-Port Arthur. $21,000 to fund merit- and needs-based scholarships for racially/ethnically diverse engineering students at Lamar University.$50,000 to Houston’s Adult Literacy Blueprint, a strategic plan to address low adult literacy rates through coordinated, city-wide action.$50,000 to the Downtown Port Arthur Revitalization Project to help fund safety enhancements at People’s Park. $25,000 to DC Greens to fund The Well at Oxford Run, an urban farm and community wellness space for a Washington, D.C. neighborhood that lacks access 
to fresh, healthy food and safe outdoor spaces.GovernanceStrong corporate governance and commitment to the highest ethical standards are essential to our success as an organization. Through our defined values of Teamwork, Respect, Accountability, Integrity, Nimble and Safety (TRAINS), we continue to build upon our robust governance and ethical frameworks. This section focuses on our approach to corporate governance, business ethics and compliance, human rights, political engagement and responsible supply chain management. We discuss our overall approach to managing corporate responsibility topics on p. 6–7 and our governance approach in the context of climate-related risks and opportunities on p. 9. COLLABORATESUCCEEDPROGRESS AND HIGHLIGHTS •	Continued to refresh our Board with the addition of two female Board members.•	Added DEI oversight to the charter of the Governance and Nominating Committee.•	Strengthened our Supplier Code of Business Conduct by adding further anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) requirements and extending labor, safety and environmental requirements for our suppliers’ subcontractors.•	Engaged with federal policy makers to support strengthening methane emission regulations and with trade associations to support enhanced methane measurement processes.•	Continued to expand implementation of the Cheniere Integrated Management System, which sets a common foundation of standards, procedures and guidelines across functional areas to help us achieve world-class performance in line with our vision to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world. Read more 	Cheniere Integrated Management SystemBusiness ethics and complianceCorporate governanceCompliance with applicable laws and regulations and applying the highest ethical standards underpin all that we do. We regularly evaluate and update our compliance and ethics policies so that we are adequately addressing risks and providing appropriate guidance for our employees and business partners. CODE OF CONDUCT AND 
ANTI-CORRUPTIONThe Cheniere Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct) and Anti-Corruption and Economic Sanctions Policy outline our standards with respect to ethical behavior, accurate reporting, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, reporting of violations and accountability. We follow a robust anti-corruption due diligence process and closely monitor compliance with the process, which is independently audited on an annual basis. In 2021, we incorporated our company values — Teamwork, Respect, Accountability, Integrity, Nimble and Safety (TRAINS) — into our Code of Conduct and performance review process to encourage every employee to integrate these values into their daily work. In addition, we enhanced our Supplier Code of Business Conduct, including requirements on ethics and anti-corruption, to help drive our commitment to ethical conduct throughout our supply chain. Our chief compliance and ethics officer and other senior management representatives review our Code of Conduct annually, and any changes are reviewed and approved by the Board. We require all employees to participate in Code of Conduct and anti-corruption training annually, and link a portion of their compensation, through performance goals, to completing this training. In 2021, 100% of eligible employees completed ethics and compliance training and acknowledged our Code of Conduct. We regularly audit compliance with our Code of Conduct and other ethics requirements. We use a risk-based approach for identifying 
audit topics.Employees, suppliers, customers and other third parties can confidentially report concerns or ask questions through our dedicated hotline in their native or preferred language, with the option to remain anonymous. We explicitly prohibit any form of retaliation against employees who make good-faith complaints, report a violation of the Code of Conduct or report other illegal activities and/or ethical breaches. Any such retaliation will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.We seek to identify and prevent potential adverse human rights impacts in our operations, and we are committed to remediating impacts should they occur. Our due diligence process includes implementing social impact assessments at all site locations to understand community-focused environmental and social risks, including those related to human rights, and developing mitigation and management plans based on the results of these assessments (see p. 29). We undertake meaningful consultation with potentially affected groups, and other relevant stakeholders, to understand risks and concerns. We follow stakeholder engagement plans at each site, and conduct regular, proactive engagement and consultation with various stakeholder groups to understand their concerns and provide relevant project information. We have a grievance mechanism in place at all site locations, including procedures to respond to and address stakeholder concerns, from the beginning of project planning and throughout the project life cycle. We log and track community feedback and strive to address concerns in a timely and transparent manner.We respect the sovereignty, rights and culture of Indigenous peoples. Proactive engagement with these communities, when relevant based on the locations of our operations, is an important element of our overall stakeholder engagement, consultation and grievance processes (see p. 30). Fair labor: We prohibit the use of forced labor in our operations, in compliance with applicable laws. We do not employ child labor and comply with the employment age requirements set forth in the laws applicable to our operations. We review documentation for all new employees to ensure they are of legal working age. In 2021, no incidents of child labor were identified in our workforce. Risks of child labor are relatively low in our own operations, because they are located primarily in the U.S., where strong oversight and protections are in place. We apply due diligence and monitoring processes to attempt to avoid these risks in our supply chain (see p. 35). Environmental justice: Environmental justice is also an important element of our approach to respecting human rights. In alignment with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Environmental Justice, we believe in the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin or income, with respect to the development, implementation and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies.Cheniere is committed to respectfully listening 
and responding to the concerns of our stakeholders to understand their unique values and interests, including those on environmental issues. We strive to understand and mitigate the impacts of our operations, engage with affected stakeholders 
and contribute to meaningful economic 
community development.We consider environmental justice issues throughout the project life cycle. Our site-specific social impact assessments consider community-focused environmental and social impacts of our operations, including the impact on minority and economically disadvantaged populations and other relevant environmental justice issues. These assessments are guided by international best practices, including the International Finance Corporation's Environmental and Social Performance Standards and the Equator Principles. Considering and attempting to address potential environmental impacts is included in our targeted stakeholder engagement efforts and 
grievance processes. Suppliers and contractors: We strive to work with suppliers, contractors and vendors who promote and comply with our values on human rights, fair labor and environmental protection. Our Supplier Code of Business Conduct outlines our commitments and expectations for suppliers on human rights, fair labor, anti-discrimination, ethics and anti-corruption, and environmental protection, among other topics (see p. 35). In 2021, 100% of Cheniere’s active suppliers and contractors who provide equipment, materials and services utilized to construct, maintain and run our LNG facilities, pipelines and corporate functions acknowledged our Supplier Code of Business Conduct, or submitted an equivalent standard that we accepted on behalf of our own.3Our application of a strong corporate governance framework, including oversight from an experienced Board of Directors, is critical to our overall success and to maintaining the trust of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our Board is actively engaged in overseeing our ESG focus areas and performance (see p. 7). It receives regular updates on climate-related risks and opportunities, including the ongoing regulatory focus on climate change. All executives and employees have the responsibility for implementing our ESG efforts. To further embed this responsibility, in February 2021, we updated our annual performance scorecard to include an ESG metric that is employed as part of annual performance compensation, accounting for 17% of the total scorecard value for all employees.1 This ESG metric is based on advancing our climate and DEI initiatives as well as safety performance (see 
p. 7). We are increasing this percentage for 2022, so that 30% of the compensation calculation is based on ESG metrics.BOARD OVERSIGHT Our Board of Directors provides oversight and advice to Cheniere’s management team. We maintain an independent non-executive chairman of the Board and three Board committees comprising independent directors: the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee. See our website for more information on our Board committees.BOARD DIVERSITYOur Board member selection criteria help ensure that the Board and the company benefit from a diverse group of directors. Diversity of experiences, expertise, backgrounds and demographics are criteria for director selection. 
As of Dec. 31, 2021, three of our 11 directors, or 27%, were female and one, or 9%, represented a racially/ethnically diverse group.1	ESG metrics for annual performance compensation scorecard are inclusive of safety metrics.2	Average age and tenure includes directors who only held their   			position for part of 2021.
Read more 	Board oversight and executive management of business ethics59 years
Average age27.6 years
Average tenureBUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCERespecting human rights, labor standards and environmental justice 3	Calculated as of 2016, when the Supplier Code of Business Conduct 
	was adopted. Cheniere’s gas suppliers are not included in 
	this calculation.Political engagementResponsible supply chainOur political engagement efforts are aligned with our mission: to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world. These efforts include participating in industry associations, lobbying and contributions through the Cheniere Energy, Inc. Political Action Committee (Cheniere PAC) or direct contributions as permitted by law. We expect employees to conduct all political engagement activities in compliance with applicable state and federal laws, as well as company policies. As part of our annual compliance training, employees are required to review our Code of Conduct, which outlines our expectations on political contributions and activities. In 2021, 100% of eligible employees completed this training.ENGAGEMENT AND LOBBYING ON 
ESG TOPICS We believe that sound environmental policies support the role of natural gas in a lower-carbon world. We take a proactive role in encouraging regulations that make our industry safer and cleaner, and create a level playing field with all operators domestically and internationally. In 2021, for example, we proactively engaged with the U.S. Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency to support strengthening methane regulations. In addition, we actively engaged with other U.S. regulators on topics relevant to the LNG industry, including updating regulations to make them more appropriate for large-scale liquefaction operations and ensuring appropriate marine inspection resources to help support consistently high safety standards. We disclose lobbying expenses as required by state and federal laws.TRADE ASSOCIATIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS We engage with industry, trade and business associations to help advance our views on key industry issues. As a first mover in large-scale LNG operations in the U.S., we actively bring our perspectives on improving the safety and environmental performance of our industry and product to our trade association engagements. In 2021, for example, we worked with the American Petroleum Institute to develop guidance on emissions intensity based on our unique approach to life cycle assessment and emissions quantification, measurement, reporting and verification (see p. 11). At times, our official position on certain issues may differ from positions or views advocated by such organizations. For a list see Cheniere Energy memberships and industry associations. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS We disclose all political contributions as required by state and federal laws.4  Cheniere employees can make voluntary contributions to the Cheniere PAC. Our bipartisan PAC regularly assesses criteria for contributions to ensure they support our business priorities. A five-member committee made up of Cheniere employees from various departments oversees the PAC and either approves or denies each PAC contribution. Any direct state political corporate contribution that Cheniere makes must be approved by an internal compliance officer and comply with local laws. For detailed data on political contributions, see the Key Performance Data table.Contractors play an essential role in our workforce and operations, providing a range of on- and off-site services, including equipment repairs and maintenance, engineering support, construction, fabrication and logistics. We believe that working with suppliers and contractors who comply with and support our safety, environmental, human rights and other operational standards is critical to the overall success of our business. We undertake comprehensive contractor pre-hire screening and monitor performance on an ongoing basis. This includes screening and monitoring safety, anti-corruption and fair labor practices. Similarly, we work to ensure our suppliers of goods and services and our partners across the supply chain, including shipping counterparties, uphold our performance expectations. We also engage with our supply chain partners to improve environmental performance and transparency on GHG emissions and other topics (see p. 11).APPLYING OUR STANDARDS TO CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERSWe apply robust quality assurance procedures to assess, monitor and enforce stringent compliance standards that our commercial counterparts must comply with in order to do business with us. Depending on the type of work conducted, this may include the assessment of safety management and performance, drug and alcohol screening, anti-bribery and corruption compliance, mitigation of data protection and privacy risks, and security and background checks. In 2021, we completed the implementation of a new supplier management system. This supports the application of enhanced supplier sourcing, screening and pre-qualification processes; ongoing supplier monitoring; compliance tracking and reporting; and annual supplier evaluation.In addition, we require suppliers to undergo a pre-qualification process to establish our expectations for compliance with applicable labor, health, safety and environmental laws and standards, including human rights-related standards. Suppliers are required to review and confirm that they understand and agree to comply with our Supplier Code of Business Conduct, which addresses a range of ethics, compliance, health and safety and regulatory issues. Under the Supplier Code of Business Conduct, suppliers are required to review and acknowledge our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy. In 2021, we updated our Supplier Code of Business Conduct to include enhanced requirements for anti-bribery and anti-corruption, human rights standards, labor rights and environmental performance. We also extended these requirements to suppliers’ subcontractors. Once suppliers and contractors have been onboarded, we continue to perform comprehensive due diligence processes to identify and monitor potential supply disruption, applicable regulatory, trade and sanctions requirements, and ethics and compliance risks, including individual worker compliance with safety training and other requirements. In 2021, we expanded and automated our daily monitoring of key performance metrics, including those relating to safety performance and regulatory compliance.RESPECTING HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our Supplier Code of Business Conduct sets out our commitment to respecting internationally recognized human rights. 
We strive to work with suppliers who respect human rights standards, including those related to fair wages and anti-discrimination. Cheniere strives not to purchase from, or work with, suppliers that use forced labor and child labor or who permit their suppliers to do so. ADDRESSING MODERN SLAVERY RISKS We maintain robust processes and procedures 
to identify and mitigate modern slavery and 
human trafficking-related risks. In particular, 
we conduct an annual review of our business 
operations and supply chain that may be susceptible to increased risks of modern slavery and human trafficking. This includes the shipping industry, which has been identified as susceptible 
to challenges relating to health, safety, ethics, human rights and labor rights. As outlined in our annual U.K. Modern Slavery Act Statement, we have implemented a range of programs to identify 
and mitigate these risks. This includes our 
in-house marine assurance program, through which we undertake assessments of LNG carriers that we charter or that call at our facilities against compliance with the International Labour Organization’s Maritime Labour Convention. 
The convention establishes minimum international standards for seafarers’ rights and working conditions, including, but not limited to, 
wages, repatriation, employment contracts 
and accommodation.4	Data on our political contributions can be accessed at the Federal Lobbying Database and at the Texas and Louisiana state databases.Managing cybersecurityRESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAINWe recognize that cyberattacks represent 
a potentially significant risk to our company and industry.Cybersecurity is overseen by Cheniere’s vice president and chief security risk officer (VP-CSRO), and our chief information security officer (CISO) manages the technology security team. This team is responsible for maintaining our technology defense posture and program, educating and informing Cheniere’s users about information security risks and how best to avoid them, and for developing end-to-end incident response and recovery plans throughout the company. Our VP-CSRO and CISO report risk mitigation activities and cybersecurity issues and performance to the Board on a 
quarterly basis. Cheniere’s Information Technology Security Policy follows an “identify, assess and mitigate” approach to cybersecurity, in alignment with the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework. We conduct regular internal audits, cross-functional risk mitigation exercises and risk strategy sessions to assess cybersecurity threats, applicable regulatory requirements and industry standards. To support these efforts, we contract with third parties to perform facility and system penetration tests, compromise assessments and security maturity assessments of both our corporate and operational networks. Cheniere also maintains a comprehensive cybersecurity training program to proactively help our personnel identify and assist in mitigating 
cyber and data security threats.100% of Cheniere’s active suppliers and contractors who provide equipment, materials and services utilized to construct, maintain and run our LNG facilities, pipelines and corporate functions acknowledged our Supplier Code of Business Conduct, or submitted an equivalent standard that we accepted on behalf of our own.5Read more 	Supplier prescreening and due diligence 	Efforts to support our prohibition of child labor 	U.K. Modern Slavery Act Statement5	Calculated as of 2016 when the Supplier Code of Business Conduct was adopted. Cheniere’s gas suppliers are not included in this calculation.