COMMUNITY BECAUSE ULTIMATELY, LOCAL IS WHERE WE LIVE Our business is global. But we live and work in local communities — and we never lose sight of the powerful positive impact we can create there. Whether it’s with our neighbors, school teachers, or the chamber of commerce, we value our local relationships. Supporting them is critical to our success. As a responsible corporate citizen, we work with our communities throughout all stages of a project lifecycle — from early development through permitting, construction and operation. Combined with our robust stakeholder engagement efforts, our strategic community investments support the well-being and long-term development of these communities. OVERSIGHT We view strong community relations as essential to our business. In 2019, we expanded the dedicated teams within the PGPA team that are responsible for overseeing our community relations efforts. The VP of state and local government and community affairs manages stakeholder engagement, community investments, philanthropy and volunteer efforts across all locations. This team provides periodic updates to the CEO and other senior We view strong community relations members of management. as essential to our business. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 59 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report   COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Listening to our neighbors, addressing their needs Getting all the stakeholders around the same table gives us a golden opportunity to listen, learn, engage and educate. It’s the most direct path to mutually productive understanding and, as such, has become one of our top priorities. Identifying, evaluating and addressing these issues takes collaboration among our corporate environmental, legal, operations and business development functions, among others. We have strengthened our community engagement efforts through increased local stakeholder communication and alignment of our community investments with community impacts. We also expanded our community relations team at our Corpus Christi facility in Texas and at our Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana. LOCAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We engage with our local communities from early project development through all phases of permitting, construction and operations. We work with numerous stakeholder groups including residents, landowners, elected officials, government agencies, nongovernmental organizations, civic groups, first responders, local media, indigenous peoples and other community leaders. In 2019, we built upon the existing stakeholder engagement strategy for our Corpus Christi facility. The enhanced strategy transforms our approach from the traditional public affairs methodology, whereby the public affairs team is the primary engagement lead and instead pairs site managers “Getting all the stakeholders around the same table gives us a golden opportunity to listen, learn, engage and educate. It’s the shortest, straightest path to mutually productive understanding and, as such, has become one of our top priorities.” at each facility with essential stakeholders. Our process breaks down the barriers of single-point communication, guiding and empowering experts and senior leaders within our facility to engage with their counterparts outside of our fence line. We estimate that we have participated in over 400 unique engagements using this approach and have begun utilizing the same stakeholder engagement strategies for Sabine Pass. Key local stakeholder engagement efforts over the past two years include: Public safety workshops: We prioritize public safety and the well-being of our communities. • Hosted workshops at our Corpus Christi facility for local first responders and law enforcement agencies to discuss emergency management plans. • Conducted outreach in the Sabine Pass community to address health and safety concerns. • Held two safety and security workshops with the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety and sheriffs from the counties where construction would occur for the Midship Pipeline. Public presentations: We maintain relationships with local elected officials at nearly all levels of government to try to address their communities’ concerns and needs. • Conducted one-on-one briefings throughout the year with local and state elected officials in Louisiana and Texas. • Delivered public presentations to local city councils, commissioners’ courts, economic development organizations, chambers of commerce and other civic organizations. Community open houses and meet-and-greets: We work to broaden our outreach and engage community members in their own neighborhoods. • Hosted two large-scale informational open houses, attended by approximately 400 people, in and around Corpus Christi. • Hosted a series of in-home meet-and-greets near our Corpus Christi facility, where community members invited neighbors into their homes to hear about our operations from site managers and safety professionals. • Held eight public project briefings with community members near Midship’s project area, made local investments in STEM education and supported emergency and first responder programs. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CASE STUDYCreating forums for local concerns The Cheniere Coastal Bend Community Advisory Panel (CAP), created in 2018, acts as an advisory group to Cheniere to address community feedback and concerns. This diverse 27-member panel was designed to support engagement with residents from nine different communities near our Corpus Christi facility. We sought to include a range of members on the panel to ensure feedback was reflective of the broader community sentiment. An independent facilitator helped ensure that participants were not just those who were supporters of the Corpus Christi facility. At each CAP meeting, we discuss our current operations at the facility and listen to feedback and suggestions on behalf of the community. Over the past two years, we discussed safety, construction, permitting and environmental impacts. Tours of the facility have also been made available to the panel. We create an open atmosphere for all CAP members to feel welcome to share thoughts and concerns and aim to develop solutions where possible. For example, when the CAP notified us that lighting at our facility was a growing concern among many of our neighbors, we retrofitted a series of lights, alleviating community concerns about the light intensity at night. The CAP continues to serve as an effective avenue for open communication and active engagement with the community near Corpus Christi. “Over the last year, comments or questions about LNG operations have been addressed at CAP meetings. Cheniere always responds, whether good news or bad, in an honest manner, which helps develop trust. When their response involves further action, they follow through in a timely manner with a response or a solution.” MIKE CARRELL COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANEL MEMBER STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK MECHANISMS The formal process allows us to collect, record and address community input. We value and consider all feedback from our stakeholders and As part of our effort to respond to community needs, we recently offer a range of communication channels for them, such as email, toll-free established a formal stakeholder feedback mechanism for each LNG phone numbers, social media and websites.facility and the Midship Pipeline in Oklahoma. WE EMPLOY THE FOLLOWING PROCESS FOR OUR STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK MECHANISMS: 3. INTERNAL INVESTIGATION The responsible person conducts an investigation and, if needed, escalates the issue to senior management. The public affairs manager monitors progress and ensures compliance during the investigation process. 1. REGISTRATION When we receive feedback, we record and assess the issue. We assign and notify senior management immediately if necessary. 4. RESPONSE We communicate a proposed resolution to the stakeholder and seek feedback as needed. We incorporate feedback and ensure implementation of the resolution. 2. ACKNOWLEDGMENT Within 72 hours of registration, we notify the stakeholder that we received their feedback. 5. RESOLUTION We aim to resolve all issues successfully. If an issue remains unresolved, the stakeholder may request an appeal, or we may automatically consider an appeal for repeat issues or untimely resolutions. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report We log and track feedback from our local communities near both LNG facilities to ensure timely and transparent actions to address concerns. We recorded 59 concerns in 2019 covering issues including noise, light, emissions and traffic. We engaged with 100% of community members who submitted feedback and mitigated or resolved all concerns. UNDERSTANDING SOCIAL IMPACTS AND NEEDS In 2019, we made improvements to our social risk assessment process to better understand our impacts and community needs in our areas of operation. Our process includes a review of guidance from international standards including the Equator Principles, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the IFC Performance Standards. Understanding our impacts helps inform and better align our community investment strategies with community needs. Our engagement with community stakeholders is a critical step in this process as it gives us insight on community needs and expectations. At each of our facilities, site managers have an opportunity to provide input regarding our social investment priorities, further tailoring our approach. IDENTIFY COMMUNITY IMPACTS REVIEW RESULTS AND LESSONS LEARNED PROPOSE MITIGATION OPPORTUNITIES IMPLEMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS AND CONDUCT ENGAGEMENTS SELECT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS REVIEW AND APPROVE WITH SITE MANAGEMENT RESPECTING INDIGENOUS PEOPLES We respect indigenous peoples and aim to preserve the culture of indigenous communities near our operations. As required by FERC, we notified federally recognized Native American tribes of our planned activities for our LNG terminals and pipelines during the initial permitting process. Our operations in Texas and Louisiana are not located in or on designated Native American lands, nor have our operations ever caused resettlement of indigenous peoples. Midship Pipeline Since the permitting process for the Midship Pipeline began in 2016, we have engaged more than 2,000 stakeholders to identify, discuss and resolve concerns. Our engagement included 18 Native American tribes identified as having potential historic or cultural interest in portions of the pipeline route. Although the pipeline does not cross tribal-owned lands, we worked with tribal representatives on extensive cultural and historical surveys and conducted outreach with local regulators, including the Oklahoma Historical Society and Oklahoma Archeological Survey. We took measures to mitigate the potential negative impacts of our construction or operations activities on indigenous peoples throughout the planning and design of the project. We developed an action plan, referencing industry best practices, for preserving cultural artifacts in the event of an unanticipated discovery during construction or operations. We also consulted with an external tribal engagement facilitator to help us communicate with tribal leaders about the project and solicited the facilitator’s feedback on our unanticipated discoveries plan, as well as the project’s tribal monitoring plan, going above and beyond regulatory requirements. We will continue to communicate with tribes and other community members during operations. For additional information on the Midship project, please visit midshippipeline.com. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 65 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report   COMMUNITY INVESTMENT We’re not just opening our wallets, we’re rolling up our sleeves We are passionate about community support — and in a very tangible way. In 2017, we established the Cheniere Foundation, a 501(c)(3) organization, to implement our community investment strategy. The following year, we strategically re-aligned our investments with our business objectives. We also introduced matching gift and volunteer time-off programs, enabling our employees to make more meaningful and personally rewarding positive impacts. CHENIERE FOUNDATION OVERSIGHT The Cheniere Foundation board meets quarterly and provides oversight on the foundation’s plans and priorities. The foundation is guided by the following principles: • We promote active participation in local community philanthropy through employee volunteerism and financial investments. • We prioritize well-planned, employee-supported initiatives that have a direct impact on those in need in our communities. • We partner with local communities to select initiatives that will improve the community while also strengthening our community involvement. • We target opportunities that matter most to our employees and stakeholders. • We expect the highest level of safety, integrity and ethical behavior of ourselves and our program beneficiaries. Recognizing the opportunity for our employees to participate, the foundation formed employee committees at our corporate offices and at facility sites in the United States. The committees act as ambassadors of the Cheniere Foundation and engage employees in each location. They implement projects to help achieve our annual philanthropic goals, which include increasing volunteer hours and the number of matching gift participants. We align our investment and volunteer priorities with the needs of our communities. Through our stakeholder engagements, we seek to better understand our communities’ current and future needs. This helps directly inform our community investment strategy and tailor our approach to the unique needs of each community. We invested more than $3.7 million in 2019, including over $230,000 of in-kind donations to benefit various organizations. Our community investment priorities in 2019 focused on four key areas: empowering individuals and families, supporting our military and veterans, protecting our environment and disaster response. OVER $3.7M IN COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS GRANTED OVER $90K IN MATCHING GIFTS GAVE OVER $230K IN-KIND DONATIONS LOGGED OVER 8,000 HOURS OF VOLUNTEER TIME Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 67 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Working with local youth through the Barbara Bush Literacy Foundation — Camp Adventure, Houston, TX Empowering individuals and families We believe a good education is a pathway to developing capable and confident leaders. We provide youth and adults support and tools to help them develop critical technical and literacy skills to enter the workforce. In 2019, we provided young leaders the opportunity to join our ranks through our local apprenticeship program and energized adult education by supporting GED programming, empowering individuals and enhancing our local economies. We also invested in early childhood literacy to help make reading a habit. We partnered with the Barbara Bush Literacy Foundation to adopt two Houston Independent School District elementary schools. Each student received books through the My Home Library Program and employees volunteered their time reading in the classrooms. Supporting our military and veterans We have a heart for military service and support organizations across all military branches to provide assistance where it’s most needed. We’re honored to volunteer time for service projects and contribute to programs that support those who serve or who have served in the United States Military. Our investments help empower service members while active and through transitions into new duty stations, civilian education or the local workforce. We also work with organizations to meet the needs of homeless veterans. Our goal is to help retain veteran leaders within our communities. The Cheniere Foundation recently became the largest corporate investor in the Veteran Resource Center and associated programming at Texas A&M University – Corpus Christi. This investment enabled the University to offer private tutors at the Veteran Center on campus, grow the Career Transition Program by 25% and create the first veteran-focused graduation recognition program. In Sabine Pass, it has been a tradition for eight years to host wounded veterans for a weekend of recreation and camaraderie. Over the course of hosting the Cheniere Fishing Classics, over $235,000 has been donated to multiple military groups. Protecting our environment Our two LNG facilities are located in areas rich in biodiversity. Our focus on operating an environmentally sound business extends beyond our fence line. As good stewards of our environment, we work to strengthen the diversity of our natural habitats through targeted investments and volunteerism. Since 2008, we have worked with the Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana (CRCL) and Restore America’s Estuaries to support the restoration of the Chenier plain shoreline in southwest Louisiana. With our support, CRCL restored over 50 acres of coastal habitat by planting more than 143,000 marsh plants, installing at least 10,000 feet of sand fence and enhancing over 24 miles of shoreline. These efforts protect the region’s marshes and help strengthen coastal resiliency.25 25 For information on our efforts to support biodiversity near our operations along the Gulf Coast, see biodiversity within Environment.  68  Cheniere Energy » First and Forward  2019 Corporate Responsibility Report  Disaster Response Increasing capacity to prepare for and respond to disasters builds community resilience. To support our local communities, we invested $120,000 to enhance emergency notification infrastructure in Bryan County, Oklahoma in 2019. The contribution provided weather alert radios to residents, improved radio tower reception and enabled the installation of an automatic tornado siren, all strengthening emergency awareness and response in the community. POLICIES AND PROGRAMS In 2018, we established a volunteer time off program, providing employees the equivalent of one full day paid time off per year to volunteer in their communities. Soon after, we adopted a matching gifts program, to match employee charitable contributions. All of our U.S., U.K. and Singapore employees (with at least six months of service) are eligible to participate in the program. Each receives up to $1,000 USD equivalent matched, dollar-for-dollar. In 2019, we launched a new program for employees to direct funds to communities where employees live and work. In a few short months, over 250 employees contributed to the employee giving fund, resulting in nearly $40,000 presented to 14 charities. “Cheniere has been an outstanding partner in our community. They have gone above and beyond in helping southwest Louisiana prosper, including helping our parish rebuild after two storms that devastated our communities and establishing innovative training programs that help prepare and retain our local workforce.” STATE REPRESENTATIVE RYAN BOURRIAQUE, LA Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 69 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report SUPPORTING LOCAL ECONOMIES In addition to supporting local communities through philanthropic and volunteer efforts, we hire and spend locally whenever possible. We recruit candidates who reside in our operating regions and offer competitive wages. We host several career fairs in the communities near our Corpus Christi and Sabine Pass locations to attract local talent. In 2018, we launched an apprenticeship program in partnership with SOWELA Technical Community College in Louisiana and Del Mar College in Texas. We select apprentices with a desire to work in field operations and offer real-life work experience. Upon completion of the program, students can apply for available positions within Cheniere. We also contributed $400,000 to each school to build refrigeration units supporting the apprenticeship training. We work with local suppliers to support the economies of the areas in which we operate. We develop strong relationships with a wide range of local businesses in our communities and procure goods and services from local businesses where possible. In 2019, more than half of our supplier budget was directed to vendors located in the states where we operate, which included Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma. 2019 SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIER SPEND* 45% 55% Local Supplier Other Supplier * Significant local suppliers represent vendors located in Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma from which Cheniere procured a significant value of goods and services through the supply chain management unit. Other suppliers represent the remainder of Cheniere vendor spend. Cheniere procured goods and services in Oklahoma throughout 2019 during the construction of the Midship Pipeline. GOVERNANCE LAYING THE TRACKS FOR THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF BEHAVIOR — IN EVERYTHING WE DO In the LNG business, our production units are called trains. Our corporate governance, political engagement and business ethics are informed by our core values: teamwork, respect, accountability, integrity, nimble and safety — or TRAINS. These values inform and inspire our work to provide LNG in a responsible manner. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 71 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report TEAMWORK  RESPECT  ACCOUNTABILITY  INTEGRITY  NIMBLE  SAFETY  Trust each other, share  Respect each other, the  Set high, measurable  Hold yourself and  Innovate, be ˜exible  Protect the safety  ideas and collaborate  company, our  performance goals, keep  each other to the  and adaptable when  and well-being of  to meet our shared  stakeholders and  commitments and hold  highest standards  facing change  people, our  goals  the environment  yourself and others  of honesty and  customers and the  responsible  transparency  communities in  which we operate  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Creating long-term shareholder value, building a lasting reputation Our board of directors is responsible for risk oversight including liquidity, credit, construction and operational risks. The board works to ensure that Cheniere conducts its business responsibly and ethically, with a focus on sustainability and strict adherence to all regulations. Our board consists of a majority of independent directors and we maintain an independent non-executive chairman of the board. We share our board member qualifications in our proxy statement26 and annually review each director’s relationship with the company. BOARD COMMITTEES We maintain three board committees whose charters are reviewed annually. An independent director chairs each committee, which consists of independent members appointed by the board. Audit Committee The audit committee oversees our accounting and financial reporting processes and the audits of our financial statements. It supports adherence to internal controls over financial reporting and encourages continuous improvement and maintenance of open channels of communication among the independent auditor, financial and accounting management, our internal audit and compliance functions and the board.27 Compensation Committee The compensation committee reviews and approves our compensation policies, practices and plans pursuant to its charter, which directs the committee to review, recommend and determine executive compensation and risks associated with our compensation policies.28 Governance and Nominating Committee The governance and nominating committee oversees the annual board evaluation process, along with our director-nominations process and procedures. It develops and maintains our corporate governance policies while carrying out any related matters required by federal securities, laws, rules, or regulations, or by rules or regulations of the exchange or market on which our common stock may be listed. 26 As reported in Cheniere’s 2020 proxy statement: https://cheniere.wiki/2XFV8W3 27 For more information, see the audit committee’s charter: https://cheniere.wiki/2AJrxSq 28 For more information, see the compensation committee’s charter: https://cheniere.wiki/3cHKdPV 29 For more information, see the governance and nominating committee’s charter: https://cheniere.wiki/3dIn5lw 30 For more information on climate-risk oversight, see Climate. 31 For more information on our CR program, see About this Report. This committee evaluates with management the current and emerging ESG risks and opportunities facing the company at least once per year. It also reviews our climate change and sustainability policies and strategies at least annually.29 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Sustainability is crucial to our success and our long.term value. In 2018, we began formally integrating oversight of sustainability into our governance structure, establishing board-level oversight of sustainability and social-responsibility issues. The SVP of PGPA oversees and informs the board of ESG risks and opportunities and our efforts to manage and address them.30 In 2018, we also created a dedicated climate and sustainability team and adopted our Climate and Sustainability Principles, which were reviewed and endorsed by the board. In 2019, we launched our CR program and created a cross-functional CR team to administer the program.31 We recognize the importance of managing climate-related risks and opportunities and the role we play in the global transition to cleaner, less carbon-intensive energy sources such as natural gas. This compels the board and management committees to execute and clearly articulate appropriate strategies for managing such risks and opportunities to our shareholders. COMPENSATION Cheniere’s executive compensation program focuses management on long-term value creation and is strongly aligned with the interests of our shareholders. As a result of our significant growth and in response to shareholder and compensation consultant feedback through 2018, we realigned our peer group and further refined our executive compensation program for 2019 to be market competitive within our new peer group, to focus compensation awards within the designed framework of the program and to further ensure alignment of our compensation program with long-term shareholder value creation. Our executive compensation program includes: • Market-competitive base compensation opportunities tied to company and individual performance. • Annual cash-bonus incentive compensation opportunities tied to specific financial, operating, safety and strategic performance objectives. • Annual long-term incentive opportunities with portions tied to specific financial performance and growth objectives. We have implemented several compensation best practices that further align our compensation program with our shareholders’ interests. These best practices are described in our proxy statement. Our scorecard, which is linked to our annual cash-bonus incentive program for all executives and employees, includes non-financial performance targets, including compliance and safety performance objectives. BOARD DIVERSITY We designed our board member selection criteria to ensure that the board and the company benefit from a diverse pool of directors. We view and define diversity in a broad sense, to include gender, ethnicity, age, education, experience and leadership qualities. The governance and nominating committee considers suggestions for potential director nominees to the board and assesses their qualifications to ensure that directors meet specified criteria, as described in our proxy statement. Our board and each committee conduct annual self-assessments to evaluate their effectiveness, including assessing diversity of talents, expertise and occupational and personal backgrounds. SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We value shareholder input and maintain multiple communication channels for engagement. Our investor relations team actively engages with shareholders via meetings and calls to address shareholders’ inquiries and suggestions on corporate governance, compensation and ESG topics. As ESG has become an increasingly important topic for our shareholders, members of our board and executive leadership have become increasingly active in participating in shareholder meetings on these topics. Shareholders may attend our annual meetings and correspond with directors. Following our 2019 annual meeting, we engaged with shareholders cumulatively holding more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, as well as proxy advisory firms. We intend to remain proactive in our efforts to gather shareholder feedback and consider any shareholder concerns regarding our governance framework, compensation practices and environmental and social practices. A number of common themes have emerged during our recent engagements with shareholders on ESG matters, such as requests for additional disclosures regarding our prioritization of and efforts regarding ESG issues and continued monitoring and implementation of best governance practices. This inaugural report is one of the outputs resulting from active engagement with our shareholders. COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS Upholding the highest business standards, applying them rigorously In every transaction at every level, it’s imperative that we do the right thing. All stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders and employees deserve nothing less than unconditional excellence. OVERSIGHT Our chief compliance and ethics officer (CCEO) leads our ethics and integrity efforts. With executive and board-level oversight, our CCEO manages and implements our ethics policies and provides quarterly updates to the CEO and audit committee of the board. The CCEO also works with executive leadership to address any concerns that may arise. Ultimately, each of our employees is held responsible for their own actions. We tie a portion of employee performance evaluations and compensation to the timely completion of ethics trainings and compliance with our policies and procedures. POLICIES Our code of business conduct and ethics (code) provides the framework for honest and ethical conduct within our company. It outlines our commitment to ethical behavior, accurate reporting, compliance with applicable regulations, reporting of violations and accountability for adherence to the code. Our CCEO and CEO review our code annually, prior to final review and approval by our board. As part of our annual compliance and ethics training, all eligible employees certify that they have received, understand and agree to adhere to the code. The code references other key policies, including: • Anti-corruption and economic sanctions policy • Enterprise gifts and entertainment policy • Insider trading and compliance policy • Prohibition of workplace violence policy • Discrimination and harassment policy 502 HOURS OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS 100% ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES COMPLETING TRAINING ON ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Our anti-corruption and economic sanctions policy establishes the necessary requirements to comply with applicable laws on anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions. It prohibits facilitation payments and establishes guidelines for ethical behavior. We work with suppliers who meet our standards of ethical business conduct and require suppliers to comply with all applicable laws, including labor and health, safety and environmental laws. We conduct risk assessments of suppliers during the prequalification process and provide our expectations in the areas of environmental stewardship, health and safety and regulatory compliance in our supplier code of conduct. Under this code, suppliers are also required to review and acknowledge our health and safety policy. We monitor our suppliers on a range of issues including regulatory compliance and financial stability. Collectively, these policies support our employees, contract ors and business partners in maintaining the highest levels of conduct and ethics. As our business evolves, we continue to evaluate and update our compliance and ethics policies to address our risks and to provide appropriate guidance for our employees and business partners. REPORTING CONCERNS If an employee observes a violation of our code or policies, they have been trained to contact their supervisor or human resources representative. Employees may also report concerns confidentially with the option to remain anonymous, via email or through our hotline.32 Once we receive a report, our compliance and ethics team assigns it to the appropriate person for investigation. Suppliers, customers and other third parties can also use our hotline to report concerns. As part of our annual compliance and ethics training, we inform employees on methods to report ethics concerns. We explicitly prohibit any form of retaliation against employees who make good-faith complaints, report a violation of our code, or report other illegal activities. Any personnel involved in retaliation are subject to appropriate disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment.   POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT Aligning vision, sustainability and public action It’s amazing what we can accomplish with discourse. We align all political engagement efforts with our vision statement — to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world — and, where appropriate, our Climate and Sustainability Principles. We lend our LNG operational and business expertise to regulators, policymakers and the global energy industry. OVERSIGHT The PGPA organization manages government advocacy efforts pertinent to our business and public policy interests. Led by the SVP of PGPA, the organization develops and advocates policy positions through our participation in trade associations and partnerships. The federal government affairs and state and local government affairs teams implement our advocacy programs. The SVP of PGPA updates the board at least annually on political involvement programs and practices. 32 Employee concerns email: complianceandethics@cheniere.com, or hotline: (866) 207-4751 in the U.S. or +44 (0)808 234 1127 in the U.K.  76  Cheniere Energy » First and Forward  2019 Corporate Responsibility Report  TRADE ASSOCIATIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS As the leading provider of LNG in the United States, we engage with industry, trade and business associations as a matter of strategic priority. While our participation and involvement in such organizations is important, at times our official position on certain issues may differ from positions or views advocated by such organizations. We provide our insight and expertise on policy issues affecting the natural gas industry and our operations. Our employees may periodically serve on federal advisory committees or NGO committees to provide expert counsel. For a list of major associations and memberships, see Cheniere Energy major memberships and industry associations.33 POLITICAL ADVOCACY AND LOBBYING We expect employees to uphold the highest standards of ethical behavior and conduct all political advocacy activities in compliance with applicable state and federal laws as well as company policies. Political Contributions The Cheniere Energy, Inc. Political Action Committee (PAC) allows employees to 33 Cheniere Energy major memberships and industry associations: https://cheniere.wiki/2XCWK2G 34 Federal contributions database: https://cheniere.wiki/3794VGW 35 Texas State database: https://cheniere.wiki/3cG9zgX 36 Louisiana State database: https://cheniere.wiki/3eYnvUZ Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Cheniere PAC political contributions  $176,400  $48,500  $82,500  $76,800  Direct corporate political contributions  $22,500  $1,314,673*  $6,000  $67,500  Total political contributions  S198,900  $1,363,173  $88,500  $144,300  * Includes direct PAC contributions of $1,292,723 to support a state constitutional amendment.  Direct political contributions are made in compliance with all state laws and regulations. voluntarily make contributions to support candidates or political parties in state or federal elections in the United States only, primarily in states where we operate. A five-member PAC committee oversees the PAC. The committee reviews and either approves or denies each individual contribution. In the 2019 calendar year, the PAC contributed $76,800 to U.S. political parties and candidates. The dollar value of each contribution and its recipient is publicly available at the federal contributions database.34 Cheniere makes direct corporate contributions. Company funds or assets used to make a political contribution must be permitted by law in the relevant jurisdiction. It is our policy that company funds or assets will not be used to make a political contribution to any political party or candidate, unless approved by a compliance officer. Lobbying Our corporate vision drives our strategy on engaging policymakers and the positions we advocate on proposed rules and legislation. We comply with regulatory standards associated with registration and reporting of our lobbying activities, which are limited to the United States only. We disclose lobbying expenses as required by Congress at the Federal Lobbying Database34 and by state agencies at the Texas35 and Louisiana state databases.36 ABOUT THIS REPORT ESTABLISHING THE FRAMEWORK, DRIVING TRANSPARENCY Being first isn’t about accomplishment. It’s about setting standards and expectations for those who follow. We are mindful of that. And while we embrace our success as a company, we are also passionate about sustainability moving forward. In 2019, we launched Cheniere’s CR program and are proud to share our inaugural report, supporting our goals of enhanced transparency and disclosure. GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE Review sustainability policies and strategies impacting the company CEO AND EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP Review processes developed by the CR team and coordinate approval of the CR report STEERING COMMITTEE Provide feedback on strategic work plans, review CR report and support the integration of CR into Cheniere’s corporate culture WORKING GROUP Support report development and provide feedback on processes to implement the CR program Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM As an integral part in preparing this report, we established a cross-functional CR team made up of representatives from the following functions in 2019: • Climate and sustainability • Corporate environmental • Gas supply and trading • Health and safety • Human resources services • Internal audit • Investor relations • Legal compliance and ethics • Operations site management • Operations support • Origination • Supply chain management • Treasury The CR team includes a management-level working group and a steering committee made up of senior and executive leaders. The steering committee met regularly in 2019 to provide guidance on the development of our inaugural CR report. The SVP of PGPA coordinated the approval of this report with our executive leadership and board of directors. As the global ESG space evolves, it is important that our CR team members and leaders remain informed and engaged on matters that influence our business. Therefore, we circulate periodic updates on emerging climate and ESG issues to the entire CR team. ANALYSIS OF RELEVANT ESG ISSUES To guide our disclosures for this report and prioritize the ESG issues most relevant to our business and of most interest to our stakeholders, we conducted an analysis of relevant ESG issues — a first for U.S. LNG. We use the term “relevant” instead of the commonly employed term “material” used by GRI and others to avoid the confusion with the term “material” as used to assess disclosures governed by U.S. securities laws more generally. GRI defines material topics as those that reflect significant economic, environmental and social impacts and/or substantively influence stakeholders’ assessments of the organization’s ESG performance in the reporting period.37 The figure below outlines our process. During our analysis, we reviewed qualitative and quantitative disclosures requested by leading ESG rating agencies, as well as major sustainability and industry-specific reporting guidelines relevant to our business model. These reporting guidelines included IPIECA, GRI, SASB and TCFD. Since SASB does not have an existing LNG industry reporting standard, we considered relevant disclosures from SASB’s Oil & Gas: Refining & Marketing, Midstream, and Exploration & Production industry standards. This process allowed us to understand the industry-specific ESG disclosures that key reporting organizations and rating agencies deem important. ANALYSIS OF RELEVANT ESG ISSUES COMPILE DISCLOSURES REQUESTED BY ESG RATINGS AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES ISS, MSCI, Sustainalytics GRI, IPIECA, SASB, TCFD BENCHMARK AGAINST PROXY PEERS AND LNG COMPANIES SELECT CR DISCLOSURES AND CLASSIFY INTO KEY THEMES ENGAGE WITH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 37 GRI (2016). GRI 101: Foundation 2016: https://cheniere.wiki/3f0BDgE 80 To further identify relevant ESG topics, we benchmarked ESG reporting practices of our proxy peers and several additional companies that operate a liquefaction business segment. We combined our benchmarking results with the disclosures recommended by reporting frameworks and rating agencies and then engaged with internal and external stakeholders for feedback. Internal subject matter experts, as well as external investors, financial institutions and non-profits provided input. This process resulted in a decision to include approximately 75 metrics and disclosures in our inaugural CR report across six key themes — climate, environment, team, health and safety, community and governance. These themes align with our business strategy and Climate and Sustainability Principles.  OUR STAKEHOLDERS Engaging with those to whom we answer We actively and regularly connect with our stakeholders to build enduring relationships. We listen to their needs, concerns and priorities. During our ESG engagements and throughout our general business activities this year, we identified the key interests of our stakeholders. The table, seen on the next page, describes our main stakeholder groups, their primary interests and the ways in which we typically engage with them. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 81 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Customers Employees Banks and financiers Indigenous peoples Local communities Regulators and elected officials Investors Reliability and security of LNG supply GHG emissions Air quality Health and safety Compliance and ethics Safety culture Personal safety Emergency response Employee training and development Talent attraction, engagement, retention Diversity and inclusion Compliance and ethics Climate strategy GHG emissions Community engagement Indigenous peoples Cultural heritage Indigenous rights and land rights Direct impacts (noise, dust, traffic) Local content Community investment Direct impacts (noise, dust, traffic) Stakeholder engagement Air quality Biodiversity Effluents and waste Political involvement Climate strategy GHG emissions Compliance and ethics Corporate governance Compensation Climate strategy Board diversity Personal safety Emergency response Local procurement Compliance and ethics In-country meetings with Cheniere Site visits to Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi Industry conference attendance by senior representatives Long-term customer workshops Executive and employee safety committee meetings Employee health and safety training Employee feedback on health and safety programs Employee engagement surveys Town hall meetings, Cheniere Listens, HENRY Employee affinity groups Ethics and compliance training Ethics hotline Meetings and calls Engagement with outside consultants when required for financing initiatives Engagements with tribal leaders Midship stakeholder feedback mechanism Engagements and collaboration with tribal leaders and representatives Periodic community open houses and workshops Ongoing in-person meetings and briefings Coastal Bend Community Advisory Panel (CAP) Stakeholder feedback mechanisms Meetings with local elected officials Meetings with state and federal elected officials and regulatory bodies Permitting process with state and federal agencies Policy discussions, letters and meetings Cheniere PAC Memberships in trade associations Proxy statement Quarterly earnings calls Annual general meeting Supplier monitoring Review and adherence to Cheniere’s health and safety policy and supplier code of conduct Contractor safety training   SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Setting global initiatives in motion In 2015, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of its 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The SDGs serve as a call to action for governments, civil society and the private sector to address the world’s most pressing challenges. In 2019, we assessed the alignment of our core business to the SDGs. We identified five goals that best align with our sustainability priorities and to which we have the opportunity to make the greatest positive contribution through our business activities and interactions with our stakeholders: Goal 4: Quality Education Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Goal 13: Climate Action Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals We are in the process of mapping Cheniere’s contributions to these SDGs. We identified five of the 17 SDGs that best align with our business activities and sustainability priorities. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 83 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report  EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Cheniere retained Deloitte & Touche LLP to conduct limited assurance of select climate and environment indicators included in this report for the year ending December 31, 2019, including: • Total Scope 1 GHG emissions • Scope 2 GHG emissions • Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity • Methane emissions intensity • Criteria air pollutant emissions • Criteria air pollutant emissions intensity The full report can be found at cheniere.com. LNG vessel at berth, Corpus Christi LNG Terminal, San Patricio County, TX KEY PERFORMANCE DATA38 METRIC UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019    Total revenues39  $ Millions  1,283  5,601  7,987  9,730  LNG exported40  MMscf  186,364  706,645  939,066  1,455,161  LNG trains (in full operation)41  #  2  4  4  7  CLIMATE 42  Total Scope 1 GHG emissions43  Metric tons COe2 1,302,962  3,505,689  4,555,261  6,798,317  Carbon dioxide  Metric tons CO2  1,283,269  3,472,978  4,514,944  6,740,560  Methane  Metric tons CH4  758  1,231  1,511  2,159    Nitrous oxide  Metric tons NO2 2  7  8  13  Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity44  Metric tons COe/2 6.99  4.96  4.85  4.67 MMscf LNG exported  Methane emissions intensity45  %  0.021  0.009  0.008  0.008  Scope 2 emissions46  Metric tons COe2 - - 31,009  172,399  ENVIRONMENT  Criteria Air Pollutant Emissions47  SO x  Short tons  7  20  21  33  NO x  Short tons  1,017  2,310  3,195  4,762  VOC  Short tons  159  103  169  239  Emissions Intensity  SO x  Short tons/Bcf of LNG exported  0.04  0.03  0.02  0.02  NO x  Short tons/Bcf of LNG exported  5.45  3.27  3.40  3.27  VOC  Short tons/Bcf of LNG exported  0.87  0.15  0.18  0.16  Reportable Hydrocarbon Spills48  Number of spills  #  0  2  0  1    Volume of spills  Gallons  0  2,640  0  1    Terrestrial acreage disturbed49 Acres 420.7 --3,340.7 38 Figures presented may not precisely sum due to rounding. 39 Cheniere Energy, Inc. 2020 10-K: https://cheniere.wiki/2UgXSHi. 40 Quantity exported in the calendar year for LNG export equipment as reported to the United States DOE. 41 In 2018, two additional LNG trains began commissioning with the production of first LNG and were placed into full operation in 2019.  42 All CO e is reported using 100-year Global Warming Potentials (GWP). Methane GWP = 25 and N O GWP = 298. Emissions of CO , CH and N O are reported on an absolute basis without GWP weighting. 2 2 242 43 As reported to the EPA GHGRP. In 2018, emissions from both LNG facilities and one of our two compressor stations met the reporting threshold. In 2019, both our Sinton and Gillis compressor stations met the reporting threshold. 44 Reported as total Scope 1 GHG emissions per million standard cubic feet of LNG exported in the calendar year as reported to the EPA. 45 Reported as metric tons of methane emissions per metric tons of LNG exported (as methane) per the ONE Future Reporting Protocol. 46 Scope 2 emissions are based on electricity purchased for use at major offices and operating sites (Sinton and Gillis compressor stations, CCL and SPL LNG facilities) using the location-based method per the GHG protocol Scope 2 guidance: https://cheniere.wiki/2Y9gjyG. Scope 2 emissions are reported as of 2018 per data availability. 47 As reported annually to the to the LDEQ and TCEQ (2016 – 2018) and LDEQ, TCEQ and the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) (2019). 48 We define reportable spills as a spill of liquid materials containing hydrocarbons to the ground or water that exceeds a regulatory-based reportable quantity and requires an immediate (< 24 hours) notification to a regulatory agency. Our business focuses solely on natural gas. Reportable spills from our operations refer to spills from service equipment, process equipment, or similar sources. 49 The construction of the 23-mile Corpus Christi Pipeline in 2016 caused a terrestrial disturbance of 420.70 acres. In 2019, the construction of the Midship Pipeline caused a terrestrial disturbance of 3,340.7 acres. The Creole Trail Pipeline and both LNG terminals were constructed prior to 2016. The construction of liquefaction trains occurs within our terminals and does not cause additional disturbance to surrounding terrestrial areas. KEY PERFORMANCE DATA  METRIC  UNIT  2016  2017  2018  2019  TEAM  Employees  Total employees   #  912  1,205  1,345  1,537    United States – Texas  #  513  718  812  939  United States – Louisiana  #  331  414  450  497  United States – Other  #  6  3  7  18    International  #  62  70  76  83  Employee gender and ethnic diversity  Female  %  27.6  25.8  27.3  26.8  Male  %  72.4  74.2  72.7  73.2  Ethnic minority50  %  24.8  26.9  27.6  28.5  Diversity in management51  %    Women in management  %  22.4  24.7  25.8  27.0  Ethnic minorities in management  %  20.3  21.5  23.1  23.1  Employee age diversity  Employees <30  %  12.8  13.5  12.5  12.9  Employees 30-50  %  60.9  61.8  63.3  63.8  Employees >50  %  26.3  24.6  24.2  23.2  Employee turnover Total turnover rate  % 13.6 11.3 10.9 11.4   Voluntary turnover % 6.0 5.2 4.1 5.1   Involuntary turnover % 7.6 6.1 6.8 6.3 50 A percentage of staff each year has elected not to disclose ethnicity information. Ethnic minority categories include American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander and two or more races. 51 This category includes both executive and non-executive management. A percentage of staff has elected not to disclose ethnicity information each year. KEY PERFORMANCE DATA METRIC UNIT 2016 2017 2018 2019 HEALTH AND SAFETY52  TRIR  Total Recordable Incident Rate – Employees  Per 200,000 hours  0.43  0.08  0.07  0.16  Total Recordable Incident Rate – Contractors  Per 200,000 hours  0.56  0.42  0.36  0.33  Total Recordable Incident Rate – Combined  Per 200,000 hours  0.55  0.39  0.32  0.30  LTIR Lost Time Incident Rate – Employees Lost Time Incident Rate – Contractors Lost Time Incident Rate – Combined  Per 200,000 hours Per 200,000 hours Per 200,000 hours  0 0.07 0.07  0 0.03 0.02  0 0.01 0.01  0.05 0.04 0.04  Fatalities Employees Contractors  # #  0 1  0 0  0 0  0 0  COMMUNITY Significant local supplier spend53 % --.Community investment $ millions .->2.4 >3.7 GOVERNANCE Board age Average board member age # --5955 6056 Political contributions  Cheniere PAC political contributions  $  176,400  48,500  82,500  76,800  Direct corporate political contributions54  $  22,500  1,314,673  6,000  67,500  Total political contributions  $  198,900  1,363,173  88,500  144,300  52 TRIR and LTIR are calculated according to the OSHA standard. These figures slightly differ from those in the proxy statement due to a minor change in calculation methodology to better align with industry practice. 53 Significant local suppliers represent vendors located in Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma from which Cheniere procured a significant value of goods and services through the supply chain management unit. Other suppliers represent the remainder of Cheniere vendor spend. Cheniere procured goods and services in Oklahoma throughout 2019 during the construction of Midship Pipeline. 54 Direct corporate political contributions are made in compliance will all state laws and regulations. 2017 contributions include direct PAC contributions of $1,292,723 to support a state constitutional amendment. 55 As reported in Cheniere’s 2019 proxy statement: https://cheniere.wiki/3f3Xq7b 56 As reported in Cheniere’s 2020 proxy statement: https://cheniere.wiki/2XFV8W3 Looking forward we will continue to strengthen the quality of our reporting as we progress in our sustainability journey. With each passing year we will continue to share more data and accomplishments.   LOOKING FORWARD I joined Cheniere as its SVP of PGPA less than two years ago. It has been one of my first and highest priorities since joining the company — as well as a priority of our board, executive leadership and employees — to collect and share with you key information that affirms our commitment to environmentally, socially and financially sustainable operations. In some ways, we have a major advantage in doing this — our vision statement is to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world. In other words, we make money by making the world’s overall energy mix cleaner. We are demonstrating that our commitment to sustainability goes beyond vision statements. That’s why in 2018 we adopted our first Climate and Sustainability Principles: • Science • Operational excellence • Supply chain • Transparency On the last principle of transparency, this report is part of that effort. We believe our operations are of such caliber that it would only benefit us to provide clear, substantive disclosures. We assembled dozens of individuals across Cheniere to develop this inaugural report, which includes a significant quantity of data on our company, our reportable emissions, our challenges and our opportunities. As our CEO Jack Fusco said in his introductory letter, this report is just our first. We have shaped it to align with elements of leading sustainability reporting guidelines such as those of IPIECA, GRI and SASB and have included a number of disclosures that align with the recommendations of the TCFD. Moving forward, we will continue to strengthen the quality of our reporting as we progress in our sustainability journey. We hope that with each passing year we will have more data and accomplishments to share with you beyond what our young company has already achieved. Christopher Smith Senior Vice President Policy, Government and Public Affairs 