TEAM WE ARE THE SUM OF OUR PEOPLE Cheniere’s strength lies within the collective expertise of its people. They help drive our success, build our reputation, establish our legacy and deliver on our commitments — First and Forward. Attracting the best and most diverse talent is a priority. To engage them, we offer fulfilling career opportunities. To keep them engaged, we continually listen to, train, develop and reward them on their journey of professional growth. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 39 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report OVERSIGHT Our SVP and chief human resources officer is responsible for human capital management, including talent attraction and retention, rewards and remuneration, employee relations, employee engagement, diversity and inclusion and training and development. We communicate progress on our human capital programs to our board annually. United States - Texas 513 718 812 939 United States - Louisiana 331 414 450 497 United States - Other 6 3 7 18 International 62 70 76 83 Total 912 1,205 1,345 1,537 TALENT ATTRACTION, ENGAGEMENT AND RETENTION Looking for top talent. Inspiring them in the right ways. TALENT ATTRACTION Through our recruitment efforts, we seek top diverse talent who will continue to drive our strong performance. We have a competitive offering that provides us with a solid pipeline of candidates. Internally and externally, we post openings to attract individuals with a range of backgrounds, skills and experience, offering employee bonuses for referring highly qualified candidates. In addition, we actively recruit at colleges and conduct information sessions at select universities including Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-Serving Institutions. To encourage emerging talent to consider a career at Cheniere, we offer paid internships as well as entry-level rotational positions. We pair each intern with a mentor, offering both structured learning and topical business experience. We recently enhanced our rotational program, which systematically moves analysts around the organization so they may explore a variety of career paths and we are developing an engineering rotation program. Additionally, we partner with Genesys Works, a local non-profit organization, to provide professional internships to high school students from under-served communities. In 2018, we launched a local apprenticeship program to develop the next generation of operations and maintenance professionals. In partnership with local community colleges in Louisiana and Texas, the program awards grants to help offset the cost of tuition for students. After completing required coursework, students transition to on-the-job training at our LNG facilities. In 2019, 40 students participated in the program and our first graduates commenced employment at Cheniere. LIFESTYLE AND BENEFITS We value work-life balance and encourage a healthy lifestyle. To support that, we provide a highly competitive compensation and benefits package. Given the varied roles and functions within our company, locations may offer work schedules that align with business needs. Our wellness program offers employees incentives to maintain an active lifestyle and set personal wellness goals. Incentives include online education related to health and nutrition as well as subsidies for fitness devices and gym memberships through the LiveWell365 platform. We also offer mammography screenings, rooms for nursing mothers and biometric screenings on site. These competitive benefits support our employees’ health and financial well-being: • Medical, dental and vision insurance • Life insurance • Business travel accident protection • Wellness reimbursements • Retirement benefits • Maternity and paternity leave • Short and long-term disability protection • Bereavement leave • Paid holidays and vacation time off Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 41 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Strong workforce communication lies at the core of everything we do. Through HENRY, our internal communications online platform, as well as town halls, all-hands meetings and other information sessions, we share company updates, videos, internal and external news and other information with our teams. In 2019, we created a sustainability feature on HENRY to engage and educate employees on sustainability and ESG issues. To further engage our workforce, we offer a variety of employee activities including: breakfast mingles, Cheniere Foundation committees, cultural champions teams, employee safety committees, lunch-and-learns, team-building exercises and  volunteer events. EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK We conduct anonymous engagement surveys to better understand our employees’ connection with Cheniere and their work and to identify opportunities for improvement. We share information from our survey results with employees globally and with leaders in each business, creating action plans to address areas of greatest opportunity. In 2018, over three-quarters of our employees participated in our engagement survey. We performed extremely well against internal and external benchmarks; 90% of 2018 responses were favorable. We also offer employees the means to voice concerns and offer suggestions to management. Online suggestion boxes are available for each location. Designated cultural champions teams gather, log and respond to the suggestions. In 2016, we also launched Cheniere Listens, a program for employees to submit questions or concerns. We value all feedback and aim to quickly address any concerns. We promote an environment of open and honest communication. With an integrated open-door culture, we encourage employees to approach their managers at any time to discuss concerns or share ideas. We also have an ethics reporting hotline. For more information, see compliance and ethics within the Governance chapter. Annual turnover rate  13.6%  11.3%  10.9%  11.4%  Voluntary  6.0%  5.2%  4.1%  5.1%  Involuntary  7.6%  6.1%  6.8%  6.3%  CASE STUDYGiving high school kids real-world experience and inspiration As part of our commitment to community engagement and promoting education, we offer high school students in the Houston area internships through Genesys Works, an organization that supports students in underserved communities. While working at Cheniere for a year, these students gain relevant work experience and build confidence to prepare for college and fulfilling careers. Before joining Cheniere, the students take summer classes with Genesys Works, to learn the necessary skills for working in a corporate environment. Once they arrive, participants shadow employees, develop professional skills as they work with our team and are encouraged to think about their future aspirations. In 2018, we had six participants with Genesys Works and in 2019 we had seven. “Being part of Genesys Works has helped me get an insight in working in a corporate setting. Cheniere has influenced me to become more confident and taught me different career opportunities, how to communicate with others and understand the importance of teamwork. Because of Cheniere, it helped me become the best version of myself.” NATALIE ALFARO, 2019 GENESYS WORKS TEAM MEMBER Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 43 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report When different ideas and perspectives come together, the result is an empowered culture in which innovation can grow.    DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION What makes us different makes us stronger When different ideas and perspectives come together, the result is an empowered culture in which innovation can grow. SUPPORTING A DIVERSE WORKFORCE Employees thrive in a diverse culture. To create this environment, we are committed to equal employment opportunity and to compliance with all federal, state and local laws that prohibit workplace discrimination, harassment and unlawful retaliation. Both our discrimination and harassment and equal employment opportunity policies demonstrate our commitment to building an inclusive workplace, regardless of background, race, beliefs, nationality or gender. Through our targeted recruitment efforts, we attract a variety of candidates with a diversity of backgrounds, skills, experience and expertise. We encourage our employees to leverage their unique backgrounds in support of our efforts to grow a culture of diversity. Our employee resource group Women Inspiring and Leading Success (WILS) — affiliated with Pink PETRO, Lean In Energy and Women’s Energy Network (WEN) — has a mission to promote a global culture of diversity and inclusion that fosters teamwork, respect and a rewarding work environment. This network offers employees industry-wide mentoring as well as opportunities to support women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) in our communities. WILS organizes internal workshops and forums around diversity and inclusion, leadership and skill development to support professional growth. Our employee engagement survey includes several questions on diversity and inclusion. The survey results, combined with ongoing assessment of diversity metrics, provide us with important information on our diversity and inclusion practices. EMPLOYEE GENDER DIVERSITY EMPLOYEE AGE DIVERSITY 27.6%  72.4%  25.8%  74 2%  27.3%  72.7%  26.8%  73.2%  26.3%  60.9%  12.8%  24.6%  61.8%  13.5%  24.2%  63.3%  12.5%  23.2%  63.8%  12 9%  2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Female Male 50+ 30–50 Under 30 EMPLOYEE ETHNIC DIVERSITY* WOMEN AND ETHNIC MINORITIES IN MANAGEMENT† 27.0%25.8%24.7% 23.1% 23.1%22.4% 21.5%20.3% 6.8% 2016 2017 2018 2019 Women Ethnic minority Non-ethnic minority Ethnic minority Undisclosed 2016 2017 2018 2019 * A percentage of staff each year has elected not to disclose ethnicity information. For further information see Key Performance Data. † This category includes both executive and non-executive management. A percentage of staff each year has elected not to disclose ethnicity information.   DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING Because individual growth and collective success are one in the same Growth is rewarding both professionally and personally. It shows us who we are and what we are capable of, while guiding us towards what we can be. For us as a company, it makes sense to provide our people with all the tools and support necessary for them to succeed. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT We leverage the 70:20:10 model for overall employee development, as we believe this offers employees the greatest opportunity for growth. We focus on 70% of learning through experience, 20% through working with others and 10% from formal learning modules. Employees work with their supervisors, training and organizational effectiveness teams to create development plans based on role requirements and individual career aspirations. We offer a core curriculum to all employees on topics such as project management, crucial conversations, presentation skills and negotiations. We actively encourage our employees to take ownership of their careers and offer a number of resources to do so. We fund our employees’ external professional certifications, continuing education and professional conferences and offer avenues for mentoring and job shadowing programs through our partnerships. We also offer leadership development, including executive coaching, university-based immersion programs, a Leadership Foundations Program and a Core Curriculum™ for all employees. Our employees have embraced this culture and participate in initiatives such as the Cheniere Administrative Professionals and Support group and Toastmasters to further develop their skills. We conduct regular talent reviews with managers to identify development needs as well as succession and workforce plans. PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Employees undergo annual performance reviews to ensure the ongoing development of their skills and expertise. The formal year-end review consists of a detailed self-assessment and manager feedback, both of which evaluate an employee’s performance against his/her performance goals and our values. To ensure that employees are on track for their goals each year, we encourage managers to conduct frequent informal reviews with employees. DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING To ensure safe, reliable and efficient operations in a highly regulated environment, we offer online and site-specific learning opportunities. Training is managed through our Learning Management System, Cheniere LEARN, where employees can access online courses covering topics including compliance, technical training, office productivity, project management and leadership. Some of these courses have been developed in-house by instructional designers with customized content specific to our facilities. Leaders have access to dashboards and analytics to monitor compliance and competency. Our in-house trainers and assessors provide on-the-job technical training on the equipment and technologies at our facilities. Training programs are refreshed in alignment with regulatory compliance and business requirements. In 2019, employees completed over 160,000 hours of technical, employee development and compliance training. 160,000HOURS OF TECHNICAL, EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND COMPLIANCE TRAINING Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 47 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CASE STUDYGoing the social distance: Our COVID-19 response As we address the unprecedented challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, we rely on the collective strength of our people. Cheniere responded swiftly, implementing measures to support our employees, contractors and communities while maintaining safe and reliable operations. PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE • Established temporary housing and added protective measures at both  LNG facilities for the workforce. • Required social distancing and work-from-home protocols. • Enhanced cleaning and disinfecting practices at all offices and sites. • Implemented a pandemic personal risk assessment policy. • Provided regular updates to staff through HENRY. • Administered temperature checks at both LNG facilities. • Hired a medical advisor to consult on best practices. • Paid sick leave, short-term disability and family medical leave. • Implemented a case management process at all locations. • Provided PPE including hand sanitizer, cleaning supplies and travel kits. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES In response to the unprecedented impact caused by COVID-19 globally, Cheniere donated more than $1,000,000 to organizations in Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma, Washington D.C., the United Kingdom and China. These donations helped reduce food insecurity and supply provisions and equipment for first responders and frontline healthcare workers. As part of the donation, we partnered with the City of Houston, Project C.U.R.E. and the Astros Foundation to sponsor a “no touch” medical supply drive in Houston. This included a $50,000 public matching donation campaign benefiting Project C.U.R.E. Protecting the safety and well-being of our workforce is most important. We will continue to closely monitor and follow guidance from the World Health Organization and government officials as well as the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines. In the coming months, we will remain focused on our response and the lessons learned that help us to remain resilient.   HEALTH AND SAFETY EMBRACING A ZERO-INCIDENT CULTURE. ZERO EXCEPTIONS. There is nothing we value more than the well.being of our people, our customers and the communities in which we operate. Safety is one of our core values and is embedded throughout our business and culture. Our commitment, along with the expectations we have for employees and contractors, is outlined in our health and safety policy. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 49 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report HEALTH AND SAFETY FRAMEWORK Our health and safety management system framework defines our approach to safety and keeps safety central to all aspects of our business. There are four elements to the framework. HEALTH AND SAFETY DOCUMENTATION Our health and safety actions and expectations are established through several standards and procedures including but not limited to: • Contractor management standard • Incident management standard • Industrial hygiene standard • Management of change standard • Occupational health management standard • Process hazard analysis standard • Process safety management standard • Risk management standard Our standards are designed to fulfill regulatory requirements for both the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) training and competency. Safety training is essential to protect the well-being of our employees. In addition to enterprise-wide required safety training, employees working on-site receive additional site-specific training to develop workplace safety competency. GOVERNANCE AND ASSURANCE Cheniere’s assurance process helps us assess our safety performance and identify opportunities to improve health and safety processes and programs. We conduct site-based assessments, functional verifications and audits and request employee feedback to determine program effectiveness. Management reviews our assessments annually and recommends corrective actions. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Continuous improvement is embedded in every aspect of health and safety at Cheniere. We continuously seek ways to improve our programs and leverage lessons learned, strengthen our safety culture and increase employee engagement as we work toward leading safety performance. COMBINED EMPLOYEE AND CONTRACTOR LTIR AND TRIR 0.55 0.39 0.32 0.30 0.07 0.040.02 0.01 2016 2017 2018 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE We are proud to have achieved steady performance improvements in Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) since LNG exports first began in 2016. Over the past few years, management has implemented and refined programs to promote safety in the workplace and increase engagement and awareness, further strengthening our safety culture. In 2019, we outperformed our enterprise-wide safety targets for TRIR and LTIR with both employees and contractors. We have established more aggressive safety targets for 2020 to drive continuous improvement. Our annual incentive program for all employees and executives is tied to safety performance. For more information, see our proxy statement.24 In 2019 we outperformed our safety targets SAFETY TARGETS 0.43 Target 0.05 Target Employee + Employee + contractor TRIR contractor LTIR 24 As reported in Cheniere’s 2020 proxy statement: https://cheniere.wiki/2XFV8W3 52 Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Since 2016, we have had zero employee fatalities. Regrettably, one of our contractors was fatally injured in 2016. Over the past few years, we have implemented new programs and continue to educate personnel and promote safe practices in the workplace. Safety metrics  2016  2017  2018  2019  Fatalities  Employees 0000 Contractors 1000 Employees 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 Contractors 0.07 0.03 0.01 0.04 Combined LTIR 0.07 0.02 0.01 0.04 Employees 0.43 0.08 0.07 0.16 Contractors 0.56 0.42 0.36 0.33 Combined TRIR 0.55 0.39 0.32 0.30 * TRIR and LTIR are calculated per 200,000 hours per the OSHA standard. Metrics may differ slightly from those previously published due to a change in calculation methodology to better align with industry practice. SAFETY CULTURE AND COMMITTED LEADERSHIP Embracing our motto: “One Safety Culture for One Cheniere” At Cheniere, health and safety principles are ingrained in our behaviors and procedures. Safety for us is a core value, maintained by open communication between employees and leadership while encouraging individual accountability. LEADERSHIP AND EXECUTIVE OVERSIGHT Strong leadership underpins our safety culture. The executive safety committee, sponsored by our CEO, is a cross-functional group of employees who meet quarterly to review safety performance and company-wide health and safety strategic priorities. Our SVP of operations chairs the committee and maintains accountability for health and safety across the organization. The SVP of operations is supported by the corporate and site-based health and safety teams at our LNG facilities and pipeline locations and reports performance to the board of directors quarterly. SAFETY COMMITTEES Our safety committees, made up of employee volunteers, are active at all company locations. These committees play a key role in fostering our safety culture. Members serve as safety ambassadors and set a positive example for the rest of our workforce. Our site-based Sabine Pass, Corpus Christi and Pipeline safety committees meet frequently to evaluate safety opportunities and share lessons learned. At office locations, members raise awareness and educate employees on safety topics such as emergency preparedness and ergonomics. Safety committees listen to employee suggestions and collaborate to develop new ideas to improve company programs.   PERSONAL SAFETY Because our people matter, safety matters When someone gets hurt, we all feel it. To protect our most valued assets — our people — we have implemented programs to enhance incident prevention and response in the workplace. PREVENTING INCIDENTS On site, our employees and local managers meet to review potential hazards and discuss best practices to prevent incidents before starting a job. During these meetings, they review work plans, identify potential risks and address protocols that help prevent incidents. Our leadership also promotes and enforces optimum workforce occupational health and industrial hygiene, including mandating appropriate safety gear and taking steps to minimize noise exposure. We train employees to make them aware of our occupational health tools and services, such as first-aid kits and tips for how to maintain good general health at work. Our hazard recognition program helps identify and mitigate potential hazards in the workplace. Select employees trained in hazard recognition are responsible for surveying our operations for potential safety hazards, reporting those identified and developing a solution with management. In 2019, we implemented a new hazard-reporting system across operations that enabled real-time tracking. We also empower our people to exercise stop work authority if they have a safety concern. If any employee or contractor recognizes a potential hazard or unsafe behavior in the workplace, they have the authority and the obligation to stop work at any time. Engaging employees We believe that every employee is responsible for making a positive contribution to the safety of personnel and for promoting effective safety engagement. Employees are encouraged to share lessons learned about incidents as well as offer solutions using our safety alert program. Using peer-to-peer learning and lesson sharing engages our people to participate in conversations about safety. DOCUMENTING AND RESPONDING TO INCIDENTS We encourage employees and contractors to report all incidents openly and offer the option to remain anonymous. If a safety incident occurs in the workplace, we respond by documenting and investigating the situation. We manage incidents to closure, identifying and sharing key lessons learned and implementing corrective actions to prevent recurrence. Should the need arise, we provide services to treat work-related injuries and illnesses. Our two LNG terminals maintain around-the-clock paramedics and have access to emergency services. We also ensure that all locations, including our corporate offices, have first-aid and CPR-trained employees. PEOPLE  PLANT  PROCESS  Develop internal competency for process safety management  Design, construct, operate and maintain plants to promote facility integrity  Implement effective processes to achieve safe operations  PROCESS SAFETY Process safety involves the management of unplanned or uncontrolled releases of hazardous materials that could occur as a result of failures in process, procedures or equipment. Avoiding such an event — or mitigating its consequences — requires an understanding of what, where and when something can go wrong. We manage process safety throughout the lifecycle of our facilities and rely on alignment between people, plant and process. “The time for safe behavior is always. Each and everyThe requirements within process safety protocols also integrate with employee’s safety behavior inherently builds the strong other health and safety processes, such as audits, incident management and investigation and emergency response. We are currently enhancing safety culture we have here at Sabine Pass LNG.” our process safety program and developing the capability to identify, CRAIG CORDER SUPERVISOR, EMERGENCY RESPONSE classify and track process safety events aligned with American SABINE PASS SAFETY COMMITTEE MEMBER Petroleum Institute (API) 754 process safety event reporting.   EMERGENCY RESPONSE Expecting the unexpected and ready to respond While we never want to find ourselves in a crisis, being prepared at all times minimizes risk to our employees, contractors, communities and the environment. Our emergency response program provides enterprise-wide guidelines for emergencies such as spills, fires or extreme weather events. Dedicated on-site emergency response teams can also access corporate-level resources through the business support team (BST) for assistance as needed. Depending on the situation, the BST may involve executive management. Each site team and the BST ensure that response planning and execution are aligned. EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS Site-specific emergency response plans (ERPs) provide step-by.step instructions for potential events that may require an emergency response at our LNG facilities, pipelines and corporate offices. Each ERP provides guidance on the responsibilities of each ERP role, including first responders, employees and management. ERPs also outline communication protocols for local law enforcement, external emergency responders, internal personnel and regulatory agencies. We require certain site and office personnel to complete annual training, including tabletop exercises and a minimum of one annual mock-drill under the Incident Command System (ICS) structure. ERPs undergo annual reviews to verify that they satisfy internal and regulatory requirements. Emergency response teams conduct on-site monthly drills to simulate hurricanes, power loss, leaks and other events. To ensure alignment, we conduct company-wide drills in conjunction with our corporate BST. EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION We maintain an emergency alert system to communicate with personnel enterprise-wide, which includes notification to the appropriate emergency response team. Keeping our local communities safe and informed is imperative. Each site has a method for communicating with community members as needed. In 2018, we partnered with the Corpus Christi Coastal Plains Local Emergency Planning Community to fund an on-demand text alert system. We also host routine briefings, workshops and town hall-style meetings within the community to address safety concerns and questions. And in 2019, we invested $120,000 to increase capacity for emergency notification infrastructure in Bryan County, Oklahoma. CASE STUDYUsing AI to simulate critical safety “This is not a drill” is the moment in any profession when experience and training is truly tested. At Cheniere, we want to arm our operators with the skills and training they need to maximize efficiency and react appropriately if something were to ever happen. “The OTS is the first training tool that allowed me to get hands-on training in a simulated environment. The technology that it uses realistically depicts the actions that are required to safely start up, shut down and respond to emergency and abnormal operations.” ALEX GUILLORY SHIFT TRAINER For our panel operators, we implemented an operations training simulator (OTS) which replicates our control room and enables our operators to learn and practice their skills in a safe simulation environment. The simulator provides employees with training on plant start-up and shutdown and proper handling of abnormal situations throughout the lifecycle of plant operations. It enhances our control room teams’ abilities to operate facilities and respond to emergencies. 4,884 In 2019, our employees logged 4,884 total training hours on the OTS, increasing our capacity to respond safely and effectively to emergency situations at our plants. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 57 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 