Our urgency to address the key considerations of ESG issues — how our company manages our environmental footprint, values the safety of our people and impacts communities large and small — is core to our operations and our shared values. MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Cheniere is a young company. Our commercial liquefaction operations only started in 2016, when we became the first company to initiate large-scale exports of U.S. liquefied natural gas, or LNG. Our employee tenure at Cheniere averages approximately 3.5 years of service. And we have big plans. We’ve created impact around the world, beginning with our first cargo. We’ve provided dozens of countries access to clean, secure and affordable energy from the United States. We’ve upended the previous prescriptive paradigm of LNG deliveries, replacing it with destination-free cargoes providing both transparency and liquidity on pricing around the globe. We’ve given countries a source of energy that increases their security and options and reduces pollution from their dependence on oil and coal. In fact, each LNG cargo that leaves our terminals, depending on its destination, could result in a displacement of about 140,000 - 200,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions generated by a coal plant. As young as we are, we have made sustainability a priority. As a first-mover and industry leader, as an important component of the United States and global energy system and as a company that provides a cleaner source of energy to millions of people at a time when environmental and social issues are more urgent than ever, we already have a track record for change. Our urgency to address the key considerations of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues — how our company manages our environmental footprint, values the safety of our people and interacts with and impacts communities large and small — is core to our operations and our shared values. Indeed, the arrival of COVID-19 and its social and economic impacts reinforces the need to address ESG issues, as it relates to the safety of our workers, our relationships with our communities and our place in a connected, changing global energy system. The LNG facilities and associated infrastructure we have built have created or supported tens of thousands of domestic jobs and represents more than $30 billion invested in American energy. Our diverse, engaged and inclusive workforce strengthens our mission. And to date, we have contributed thousands of volunteer hours and we have donated millions to charities and communities. The LNG we produce is an important and competitive alternative to more environmentally damaging sources of energy like coal and oil. Along with reductions in carbon emissions when compared to the use of higher-emitting fossil fuels, our LNG emits significantly less air pollution, helping provide cleaner air in cities around the world. And finally, as the largest domestic producer of LNG, we are positioning ourselves to meet a global demand with less impact by engaging our natural gas suppliers on methane emissions management and advancing science, so that a cargo of LNG from Cheniere will meet high ESG performance standards. We’re proud of what we do and what we detail in this inaugural report, but it is just the first step. We will continue to look for ways to create positive impacts on our communities, our economy and our environment and welcome feedback on how we can improve our efforts. Thank you for your investment in Cheniere and your interest in our commitment to a sustainable future. Be safe, Jack A. Fusco President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer ABOUT CHENIERE A UNIQUE COMPANY WITH AN EVOLVING HISTORY Cheniere didn’t start out as the largest U.S. LNG exporter. Just over a decade ago, we built facilities to import and receive LNG from other countries. Then, technology advances unlocked new natural gas resources in the United States. We responded by changing our path to LNG exports, leading the way for energy availability and emissions reductions worldwide. Our story is one of a global energy system that has shifted over the last decade towards lower-polluting fuels that are affordable and reliable. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 5 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report OUR COMPANY Today, we are a unique and growing company — the fi rst publicly traded and operating pure U.S. LNG company. Headquartered in Houston, we’ve produced more tha n  950 cargoes of LNG that have reached 35 markets as of 2019.1 Those cargoes have originated from what is now one of the largest LNG facilities in the world — our Sabine Pass Liquefaction facility in Cameron Parish, Louisiana; and from the fi rst greenfi eld LNG facility in the lower 48, our Corpus Christi Liquefaction facility. We also operate and own two pipelines that supply our facilities and operate a new pipeline in Oklahoma, owned in part by Cheniere. Cheniere is a full-service LNG company. We purchase natural gas from the effi cient North American market, process and liquefy the gas into LNG and offer our customers the option to load the LNG onto their vessels at our terminals, or have us deliver the LNG to regasifi cation facilities around the world. We do all of this while investing in the communities where we live and work and conducting our business in a safe and responsible way. DELIVERIES TO 35 MARKETS AROUND THE WORLD35 1  As of December 31, 2019.  BEGAN OPERATING OUR SECOND LNG FACILITY IN SOUTH TEXAS LAUNCHED METHANE STUDIES THROUGH COLLABORATORY TO ADVANCE METHANE SCIENCE RANKED #383 ON THE FORTUNE 500 SHIPPED MORE THAN 950 CARGOES CONTINUED TO FOCUS ON SAFETY, BEATING OUR ANNUAL SAFETY TARGETS PRESIDENT AND CEO JACK FUSCO AWARDED CWC LNG EXECUTIVE OF THE YEAR SIGNED TWO FIRST-OF-A-KIND INTEGRATED PRODUCTION MARKETING DEALS WITH UNITED STATES GAS PRODUCERS INVESTED OVER $3.7 MILLION INTO OUR COMMUNITIES ON-BOARDED SEVEN LONG-TERM LNG CUSTOMERS LNG — SUSTAINABILITY ON A GLOBAL SCALE LNG is increasingly becoming part of the global energy system and is making a positive impact around the world. Our product is replacing higher-emitting fossil fuels, improving air quality and supporting the transition to a lower-carbon energy economy — all while providing responsive, reliable and affordable energy. When we make LNG, we strip out impurities and airborne toxins, helping to combat air pollution and limit public health risks in the countries that import our LNG. Estimates show that when used for power generation in natural gas combined-cycle power plants, LNG emits virtually no mercury or particulate matter (PM) and can provide significant improvements in nitrogen oxide (up to 82%) and sulfur dioxide (up to 99%) emissions relative to coal on a lifecycle basis.2,3 CHENIERE IN THE LNG VALUE CHAIN Along with reducing air pollution, our global customer base is seeking to combat challenges related to climate change. In fact, every country and region that our cargoes have been delivered to is a signatory to the Paris Agreement and has outlined measures to reduce emissions. We firmly believe U.S. LNG can provide a viable pathway to help our customers meet their climate and environmental goals and support the global energy transition. That transition is one toward a lower-carbon system that is more flexible and provides greater energy access to millions of people. As the largest LNG exporter in the United States, our business is a key component within this transition. See Climate for more information. PRODUCTION  GAS PROCUREMENT  LIQUEFACTION  LNG SHIPPING  CUSTOMER'S  AND PROCESSING  AND PIPELINES  AND STORAGE  NATURAL  GAS SYSTEM  2 National Energy Technology Laboratory (2016). Grid Mix Explorer version 3. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2XEBoll  3 National Petroleum Council (2011). Prudent Development: Realizing the Potential of North America’s Abundant Natural Gas and Oil Resources. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/376vAEz  8  Cheniere Energy » First and Forward  2019 Corporate Responsibility Report  OUR CLIMATE AND SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES Even as Cheniere’s LNG is creating positive impacts in health, climate and energy reliability, we recognize that improvements must continue to be made to enhance the environmental performance of our LNG and the natural gas industry overall. That’s why we established our Climate and Sustainability Principles in 2018 as part of our long-term climate and sustainability strategy. These principles guide our efforts and help strengthen our business model in a new energy economy. Our strategy starts with these principles, but does not end there. We continue to support ongoing and pragmatic solutions to long-term sustainability issues — investing in the communities where we live and work, creating a diverse and supportive workplace and conducting our business with safety as a top priority. As stakeholders are becoming more socially aware and environmentally responsible, being successful requires maintaining relevance in a changing world. To that end, Cheniere is dedicated to operating responsibly — and setting that standard moving forward. CASE STUDYLNG’s global environmental benefits LNG from Cheniere is already helping to make an impact on BEIJING AIR QUALITY INDEX (AQI) AND NATURAL GAS DEMAND improving air quality and reducing carbon emissions in markets around the world. 140 25 In China, environmental policies have focused on air quality issues, 120 including the 2018 “Blue Sky” three-year action plan. From 2016 to 2018, China’s natural gas use increased by more than 30%. Over that same period, the country’s LNG consumption more than doubled to about 56 million tonnes per year (mtpa), with a significant number of cargoes originating from Cheniere’s Sabine Pass facility. Air quality improved over those years, especially in urban areas, as millions of households switched from coal to gas heating. By 2019, Beijing’s average Air Quality Index, which includes PM2.5 — the kind of Average Air Quality Index (.g/m3) 100 80 60 40 fine-particle pollution that can cause significant health risks — improved 20 over 30% relative to 2014. At the same time, natural gas helped create a net benefit to the climate. A recent study by the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL), estimates that every U.S. LNG cargo shipped to China has the potential to displace GHG emissions of approximately 140,000 metric tons CO2e, equivalent to taking over 30,000 cars off the road for a year. That’s just one example of the kind of impact Cheniere’s LNG can have globally to improve public health and the environment and support the transition to a lower-carbon future. 00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Beijing Average AQI Natural Gas Demand Source: China National Bureau of Statistics, Cheniere Energy Analysis (2020). CLIMATE TAKING THE ROAD TO A LOWER-CARBON ECONOMY AND UNIQUELY POSITIONED TO DO SO We recognize the scientific consensus related to human influence on climate change and the dual challenge of providing affordable energy to a growing global population while transitioning to a lower-carbon future. We see natural gas as a fundamental component within this transition and aim to support our customers in meeting their climate and environmental goals. In line with our vision to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world, we aim to engage in business activity that can support this transition while preserving shareholder value. Understanding, managing and reporting on climate-related financial risks and opportunities is critical for our business. The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established recommendations for voluntarily reporting such risks and opportunities in 2017. Over the past year, we listened to feedback from our stakeholders on the importance of TCFD and transparent reporting. In response, we are pleased to voluntarily align with several TCFD disclosures in our inaugural Corporate Responsibility (CR) report and to be one of the first LNG companies globally to do so. As we move forward, we will work toward improving our reporting. The TCFD Index details our alignment with the TCFD recommendations. CLIMATE GOVERNANCE Board oversight We established board-level oversight of climate and sustainability issues in November of 2018. We update our board on these relevant issues, as well as management plans and projects implemented at least annually. The board also reviews our annual enterprise-wide risk assessment (ERA), which includes climate-related  risks. Role of management Our sustainability efforts are managed by executive-level leadership. Cheniere’s senior vice president (SVP) of policy, government and public affairs (PGPA) heads our enterprise-wide climate initiatives and maintains oversight of climate-related risks. The SVP of PGPA provides periodic updates on climate and sustainability programs to executive leadership, including the CEO and the board. CLIMATE STRATEGY Implementing a plan to provide the world with clean and affordable natural gas. We believe that natural gas is a foundational fuel with an important role to play in the low-carbon transition. We recognize that significant efforts will have to be made to respond to the energy challenges and opportunities of the future and have developed our climate and sustainability strategy to strengthen Cheniere’s business model in this transition. As recommended by the TCFD, the following tables outline potential climate-related risks and opportunities that we identified for our business. The TCFD divides climate risks into two categories, physical and transition risks: • Physical risks are potential risks related to the physical impacts of climate change. • Transition risks are potential risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy. Transition risk is further divided into four categories: policy and legal risk, technology risk, market risk and reputation risk. Physical risk is divided into acute and chronic risk. We identify potential physical and transition risks and opportunities below, along with descriptions of the potential financial impacts. POTENTIAL CLIMATE-RELATED PHYSICAL RISKS AND FINANCIAL IMPACTS Acute risk  Increased frequency and severity of severe weather events (e.g. hurricanes, storm surge, temperature volatility)  Interruption of operations; damage to assets; delays in the completion of construction projects; increased insurance premiums  Chronic risk  Rising sea levels; rising average temperatures  Damage to coastal assets; increased insurance premiums; increased  resiliency costs  POTENTIAL CLIMATE-RELATED TRANSITION RISKS AND FINANCIAL IMPACTS Policy and legal risk  More stringent state and federal reporting obligations and regulatory approval processes Carbon policies and regulations  Higher compliance costs and difficulty obtaining and maintaining permits from regulatory agencies Increased natural gas prices; higher cost to supply gas to LNG terminals  New and existing subsidies for renewable energy sources  Reduced demand for LNG due to policy changes  Technology risk  Policies restricting or banning hydraulic fracturing Technological advancements and increased integration of renewable energy sources  Restricted domestic gas supply and increased costs; reduced competitiveness of LNG in global markets Reduced demand for LNG  Market risk  Uncertainty in market signals  Shifts in energy prices due to impacts of climate change on supply and demand  Increased cost of raw materials Increased natural gas prices; increased production costs Changing customer and financial market sentiment Reduced demand for LNG due to changing customer preferences Negative stakeholder feedback; poor operations by certain actors within Failure to hold social license to operate; increased communications costs; the natural gas supply chain challenges attracting and retaining talent; increased cost of capital; reduced revenue POTENTIAL CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES AND FINANCIAL IMPACTS Technology and production efficiency Upstream technology improvements resulting in abundant gas that provides a low-cost, immediate pathway to a lower-carbon future Improvements in facility design, energy and production efficiency Improvements in shipping efficiency incentives for carbon mitigation Investments in Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS); engagement with natural gas suppliers on emissions management and assessment of supply chain lifecycle emissions Reduced operating costs and increased production efficiency, resulting in increased revenue Increased customer demand due to the ability of less carbon-intensive LNG to meet customers’ climate goals; increased revenue due to increased competitiveness of lower-emitting LNG; reputational benefits; increased access to capital Government policies and Shifts in consumer preferences leading to greater demand for natural Increased revenue due to increased global demand for less carbon-consumer sentiment gas relative to other fossil fuels intensive energy sources Access to new markets as a result of government climate policies Increased revenue due to access to new and emerging markets CASE STUDYReducing methane emissions benefits climate and business If we want to capitalize on the climate benefits of LNG and natural gas overall, it’s important to minimize methane leakage across the natural gas value chain. And when it comes to our business, the more methane that is captured and not leaked, the more we can produce. Leaking methane is not good for business. Consistent with our Climate and Sustainability Principles, we initiated efforts to engage our natural gas suppliers on managing their emissions footprints in 2019. We hosted our first supplier sustainability workshop to encourage open dialogue and best practice sharing on methane management and to begin collaborating with suppliers to assess the emissions profile of our supply chain. ” I buy gas to make LNG, not to have it leak into the atmosphere. Working with our suppliers and others, we can reduce leaks, flaring and other practices and create even more positive impacts from our LNG.” COREY GRINDAL SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, GAS SUPPLY AND TRADING “Reducing methane emissions improves the environmental performance of natural gas. We support peer-reviewed science to innovate new ways to identify, measure and eliminate fugitive methane emissions throughout the domestic natural gas value chain.” CHRISTOPHER SMITH SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT POLICY, GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS In June 2018, we co-founded the Collaboratory to Advance Methane Science (CAMS) to improve scientific understanding of methane emissions across the entire natural gas value chain. By collaborating with experts from industry, academia and the scientific community, CAMS will deliver cost-effective solutions to reduce methane emissions from the natural gas sector. The founding members include Cheniere, Chevron, Equinor, ExxonMobil and Pioneer Natural Resources. In 2019, CAMS awarded its first grant to the University of Texas-Austin to make a publicly-available methane emissions calculator and to study methane emissions profiles across various oil and gas basins. Cheniere’s LNG has already created impact by displacing higher-emitting fossil fuels and reducing emissions globally. Through our supplier engagement and methane research efforts, we aim to further strengthen the environmental competitiveness of U.S. LNG. Our climate and sustainability strategy To position Cheniere to respond to the risks and opportunities identified above, we recently began developing our climate and sustainability strategy. Our strategy builds on our Climate and Sustainability Principles and supports Cheniere’s vision and purpose to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world. And beyond simply being economically competitive, we want to remain environmentally competitive compared to other global suppliers. Our strategy guides our efforts to bolster the environmental competitiveness of Cheniere-delivered LNG and strengthen our proven business model within the global energy transition. Our supply chain and operations are subject to regulatory and voluntary measures that promote responsible operations. In fact, approximately 70% of the gas we purchased from producers in 2019 came from companies committed to a methane reduction target. Cheniere and our suppliers promote research and development on GHG emissions characterization and mitigation as well as transparently report GHG data to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other regulators. Collectively, these efforts reinforce the environmental competitiveness of our delivered LNG to customers globally. 2019 NATURAL GAS SUPPLY VOLUMES4 SUPPLIED BY COMPANIES THAT VOLUNTARILY ADOPTED METHANE70% REDUCTION TARGETS Supply chain We work with our partners to reduce environmental impacts throughout our supply chain Beyond these efforts, engagement with our major gas suppliers is a core pillar of our Climate and Sustainability Principles. As the largest physical domestic consumer of natural gas, we connect U.S. producers to global markets. Through proactive engagement, data sharing and a joint commitment to emissions mitigation, we believe we can further improve the carbon intensity of Cheniere-delivered LNG. This can potentially help mitigate future regulatory risks and lead to the development of new business opportunities. In 2019, we began such engagements at our first supplier sustainability workshop. SUPPLIED BY COMPANIES THAT PARTICIPATE IN VOLUNTARY EMISSIONS 79% REDUCTION PROGRAMS 4 Reflects volumes purchased from oil and gas production companies in 2019. Voluntary emissions reduction programs include the ONE Future Coalition, Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), the Climate and Clean Air Coalition Oil and Gas Methane Partnership, EPA Natural Gas STAR Program and the Methane Guiding Principles. Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Operational excellence We design and operate our facilities to reduce environmental impacts In addition to reducing emissions from our supply chain, we explore opportunities to reduce our own footprint. We employ environmental prudence, scientific research and technological advancements to ensure disciplined operations. In 2019, we raised our run rate production guidance based on production optimization, maintenance optimization and efficiency projects, which will help improve operational efficiency. We also implement best practices for emissions monitoring and management across our operations. Science We promote and follow peer-reviewed science to assess our impacts, anchor our engagements and determine our actions It is our priority to ensure our actions are rooted in best available science and data. We support climate science and research through engagements with research entities and think tanks to inform our decision-making. In 2018, we co-founded CAMS.5 In 2019, CAMS issued its first grant to a consortia of researchers led by the University of Texas to develop an open-access model to simulate methane emissions from any oil and gas production basin. We have supported other scientific studies to assess our lifecycle emissions and will continue to engage with the research community. Transparency We communicate openly and proactively with our stakeholders This report highlights our first step toward enhancing transparency and disclosure. In addition to TCFD, our external stakeholders identified the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) as an important growing reference. That’s why we incorporated several disclosures from SASB’s Oil & Gas: Refining & Marketing, Midstream, and Exploration & Production industry standards relevant to our business in our inaugural report. We intend to continue to engage and listen to our stakeholders, because we believe transparency is the basis of building trust. In 2019, we also enhanced communication internally. We created an internal sustainability blog and hosted lunch-and-learns to educate employees on our climate and sustainability and CR programs. These initiatives help foster a culture of sustainability within our organization. 5 CAMS: https://cheniere.wiki/2YptawW 18 Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report LNG vessel at berth, Sabine Pass LNG Terminal, Cameron Parish, LA RESILIENCE IN A LOW-CARBON FUTURE: FIVE TRENDS We fully acknowledge the challenges and opportunities to our business model posed by the global energy transition. The five trends outlined here speak to this reality and affirm our view that natural gas is and will be a critical component in the low-carbon energy transition and future global energy supply.6 Coupled with our climate and sustainability strategy, we believe Cheniere’s business model will remain resilient in a lower-carbon future. “GHG emissions from energy supply can be reduced significantly by replacing current world average coal-fired power plants with modern, highly efficient natural gas combined-cycle power plants or combined heat and power plants, provided that natural gas is available and the fugitive emissions associated with extraction and supply are low or mitigated.” IPCC CLIMATE CHANGE 2014 SYNTHESIS REPORT Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 19 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 12 The global middle class is growing rapidly and it needs energy The world has entered a period of higher development and prosperity, dominated by the growth of the middle class. Over a billion people will transition from being poor or vulnerable to the middle class or higher by 2030, adding to a growing middle class, primarily in Asia.7 Higher levels of development correlate to higher energy consumption, as developing economies grow their modern sectors — industry, motorized transport and urbanization — spurring growth in energy demand. MIDDLE CLASS DOMINANCE IN 2030 5.3 B 2.3 B 450 M 300 M Poor  Vulnerable  Middle  Rich  (-150 M)  (-900 M)  Class  (+100 M)  (+1.7 B)  Figures in parentheses indicate the change in the number of  people in each category by 2030 compared with 2018. Source: Brookings Institution, World Data Lab (2018). Policymakers have recognized the need to address climate change As global energy demand grows, so do concerns about climate change. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) concludes that “human activities are estimated to have caused approximately 1.0°C of global warming above pre-industrial levels, with a likely range of 0.8°C to 1.2°C.”8 Policymakers have recognized the need to limit temperature rise to less than 2°C (3.6°F) above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century.9 CHANGE IN GLOBAL SURFACE TEMPERATURE RELATIVE TO AVERAGE TEMPERATURES (°C) 1 0.5 0 -0.5 1880 1900 1920 1940 1960 1980 2000 2020 Annual Mean Smoothing Source: NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies (2019). 6 These five trends relate to the low-carbon energy transition only. We acknowledge that there are other trends and developments that affect the conditions in which Cheniere operates. 7 Kharas, H. and Hamel, K. (2018). A Global Tipping Point: Half the World is Now Middle Class or Wealthier. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2UkTxTo 8 IPCC. (2018). Global Warming of 1.5ºC. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2BBP3kE 9 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. (2015). Adoption of the Paris Agreement. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2XF2MQa 20 Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 The energy transition could take decades and natural gas can help support a lower-carbon future International Energy Agency (IEA) data shows that the share of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in global primary energy demand in 2018 has barely shifted since 2000, in fact rising from 80% in 2000 to 81% in 2018.10 And while modern renewable energy sources (e.g. solar, wind, geothermal and liquid biofuels) have seen tremendous growth globally with falling costs, history shows that every major energy source has taken 15 - 20 years to capture at least a 10% share of global energy supply.11 Although it remains GLOBAL PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND 100% Other renewables unclear how quickly renewables will be able to significantly penetrate global supply to meet growing demand, other sources, including natural gas, are projected to continue to play a significant role in the global energy mix. At the same time, natural gas will continue to help enable the adoption of renewables. According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA),12 the transition to sources such as wind and solar require balancing supply and demand to overcome challenges related to limitations in output and reserve requirements. The growth of renewables has been, in part, aided by fast-cycling natural gas plants, which are vital to smoothing out intermittency in solar and wind power. HISTORICAL ENERGY TRENDS 47% Global Primary Energy Consumption by Fuel (%) 43% 42% Biomass and waste Hydro 27% Nuclear Gas Oil 0 30 600 30 600 30 600 30 60 1840 1920 1940 2000 36% 27% Coal Coal Oil Natural Gas Renewables 2000 2018 Source: https://cheniere.wiki/2MMBSQ8 (2019), Vaclav Smil (2017), Cheniere Energy Analysis (2019). Source: International Energy Agency (2018, 2019). 10 International Energy Agency. (2019). World Energy Outlook 2019. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/3cJQVEO 11 Smil, V. (2014). A Global Transition to Renewable Energy Will Take Many Decades. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2MEv1Za 12 International Renewable Energy Agency (2019). Solutions to Integrate High Shares of Variable Renewable Energy. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2z9gBgm 4 Natural gas remains a crucial energy source in any realistic outlook and can be part of the energy mix in a less than 2°C warming scenario Technological advances in oil and gas production have ushered in an era where gas supplies are abundant, reliable and economical. This has fundamentally changed the paradigm to the dual challenge: providing affordable energy while addressing a proven, immediate pathway to a lower-carbon future to mitigate the impacts of climate change and poor air quality. As a versatile resource with application in every major sector of the global economy, natural gas plays an important role in the low-carbon transition. We believe that energy transition scenarios that combine environmental considerations, current energy business models and low-carbon technology investments are likely to require natural gas to continue to play a key role in the future low-carbon energy mix. This is supported by independent organizations such as the IEA,13 Oxford Institute for Energy Studies,14 Resources for the Future15 and Energy Transitions Commission.16 The IEA forecasts that, even under a 2°C warming carbon-constrained scenario,17 natural gas will provide nearly a quarter of global energy demand in 2040. LNG facilities will remain critical to meeting future demand and the risk of stranded LNG export facilities appears limited. In fact, under IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), LNG trade grows by 81% by 2040 relative to 2018 levels, implying an important role for LNG in a low carbon transition pathway. “ No [LNG] export facilities would need to be closed prematurely and all facilities that exist in 2040 would be needed (indeed new facilities would need to be built): the risk of stranded LNG export facilities therefore looks limited.” IEA WORLD ENERGY OUTLOOK 2017 PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND – SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SCENARIO 8% 11% 18% 17% 10% 4% 12% 23% 7% 4% 29% 9% 26% Other Oil GasCoalrenewables Nuclear Hydro Bioenergy Source: International Energy Agency (2019). 24% 13 International Energy Agency. (2018). World Energy Outlook 2018. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/3dGIE67 14 Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. (2019). The Energy Transition and Oil Companies’ Hard Choices. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2BJgxFd 15 Resources for the Future. (2018). Global Energy Outlook 2019: The Next Generation of Energy. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2Y7WU1a 16 Energy Transitions Commission. (2017). The Future of Fossil Fuels: How to Steer Fossil Fuel Use in a Transition to a Low-Carbon Energy System. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/3h3cNP6 17 International Energy Agency (2017). World Energy Outlook 2017, OECD Publishing. https://cheniere.wiki/2Y7Xg80 The SDS is an IEA scenario that includes “an integrated approach to achieving internationally agreed objectives on climate change, air quality and universal access to modern energy.” The SDS is fully aligned with the Paris Agreement’s goal of “holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C.” 22 Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Fuel displacement is one of the key pillars for achieving the less than 2°C goal Natural gas with its lower-carbon footprint (relative to other fossil fuels), can provide significant emissions reductions to meet the Paris Agreement’s 2°C goal.18 In fact, the IEA estimates that switching to natural gas has already helped limit the rise in global emissions since 2010 and has avoided over 500 million metric tons (Mt) of CO2 emissions between 2010 and 2018. According to the IEA, there is a near-term potential for 1.2 gigatons (Gt) of CO2 reductions globally (~4% of current energy-related CO2 emissions) by fuel displacement to natural gas in the power sector, which could provide 8% of the reductions needed under the IEA’s SDS. A recent peer-reviewed challenge reinforces the role of natural gas and LNG in the low-carbon transition. We recognize the critical need to understand and manage risks and opportunities posed by climate change and are operating a business model consistent with global decarbonization efforts. Cheniere considers the increasing focus on carbon management in the energy industry to be a tailwind for our business — not a headwind. GHG REDUCTIONS BY MEASURE TO MEET THE IEA’S SDS* 40 35 paper reinforced that increased fuel displacement to natural gas is a key pathway to reducing CO2 emissions and achieving “climate stabilization objectives for the next 50–100 years.”19 Based on current literature, each cargo that leaves our terminal and is used to generate natural gas-fired Gigatons (Gt) CO2e37% 30 25 32% 20%20 electricity could potentially result in a reduction of 140,000-200,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions, if displacing electricity from a coal-fired power plant.20 Cheniere continues to evaluate GHG lifecycle analyses of U.S. LNG relative to other fossil-fuel sources, including coal and other natural gas supplies. The IEA identifies continued improvements in methane emissions management and further commercialization of CCUS as important pillars to achieve the 2°C goal while meeting the energy demand of a growing global population and providing reliable energy. The scale of this dual 18 International Energy Agency. (2019). The Role of Gas in Today’s Energy Transitions. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/377Bzc0 12% 15 Stated Policies Scenario E˜ciency & fossil fuel subsidy reform Renewables & reducing least-e˜cient coal power Nuclear, CCUS, fuel-switching Other Sustainable Development Scenario Source: International Energy Agency (2018). * The graph represents central estimates as reported in the study. 19 Tanaka, K., Cavalett, O., Collins, W.J. and Cherubin, F. (2019). Asserting the Climate Benefits of the Coal-to-Gas Shift Across Temporal and Spatial Scales. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/2MEx0N6 20 Roman-White. et al. (2019). Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Perspective on Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States: 2019 Update. Retrieved from: https://cheniere.wiki/37aC3OK DISPLACING COAL WITH LNG REDUCES GHG EMISSIONS* 1 LNG cargo displaces ~200,000 metric tons CO˜e in the European Union  2  1 LNG cargo displaces ~140,000 metric tons 1 CO˜e in China  Cheniere  GHG FOOTPRINT OF ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION  CO SAVINGS FROM COAL-TO-GAS SWITCHING 2BY REGION COMPARED WITH 2010  1,20 0 1,00 0  0  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  800  -100  U.S.  Million tons (Mt) CO2-200  China  Over 500Mt of  -300  CO2 avoided  Europe  India-400GHG Emissions kg CO2e/MWh(busbar),100-yr GWP China European Union -500 Rest of World Natural gas footprint  Coal footprint  -600  Source: Cheniere Energy Analysis, National Energy Technology Laboratory (2019).  Source: International Energy Agency (2019).  *We estimate over 200,000 metric tons of CO2e reductions for the European Union based on a 100-year GWP, and 140,000 metric tons for China based on a 20-year GWP to illustrate the range of potential CO2e reductions from one cargo (~3.6TBtu) of LNG.  24  Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report  RISK MANAGEMENT In line with our First and Forward theme, our vision is fixed on the road ahead. As we progress in our sustainability journey, we are developing efforts to identify, assess and manage climate-related risks and integrate these into our overall risk management approach. Risk assessment model We conduct an ERA to identify short- and medium-term risks within a five-year time horizon. We analyze these risks in terms of their potential financial or reputational impact on the organization. The chief risk officer (CRO) is responsible for overseeing the ERA process. The group risk committee, which is chaired by the executive vice president and chief financial officer (CFO), reviews the ERA and the CRO presents the findings of the assessment to the board. The SVP of PGPA reviews and reports the climate-related transition and physical risks identified for our annual ERA to the CRO. Identifying and managing climate-related risks and opportunities To identify and manage climate related risks and opportunities outlined by the TCFD, we employ several mechanisms. Transition risk To identify climate-related policy risks and opportunities, we assess domestic and international climate policies through proprietary third-party and public information. We analyze how climate and energy policies in key destination markets can affect our business and communicate findings with management. These assessments are ongoing and supported by collaboration with internal subject matter experts as needed. Our Climate and Sustainability Principles inform our approach to managing climate-related risks and opportunities. Consistent with our transparency principle, we manage climate-related reputational risks via engagements with key stakeholders, including investors, banks and financiers, ESG rating agencies, customers and local communities. To address opportunities related to supply chain emissions improvements, we engage our major natural gas suppliers. Physical risk According to the U.S. Global Research Program, U.S. energy and transportation systems are expected to be increasingly disrupted by climate change and extreme weather events. Such impacts could have an adverse effect on our operations. To help address these risks, our LNG facilities are designed, constructed and operated to withstand a variety of extreme weather conditions, incorporating design features that meet stringent regulatory requirements. For example, equipment is located well above expected storm surge heights and installed with controls to allow for safe shut down should an extreme weather event occur. Our facilities are also built to withstand Category 4 hurricane winds. Our emergency response plans — developed and implemented at every asset and facility — help us prepare for and minimize potential impacts from emergency situations, including extreme weather events. We identify crisis-management scenarios and conduct drills across various business functions to simulate hurricanes, power loss and other emergency situations. These efforts help maintain flexibility, reliability and safety across our operations. Metrics A more precise understanding of climate-related issues requires that we assess a range of metrics, including Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity and methane intensity.21 Between 2016 and 2019, new liquefaction trains came online at Sabine Pass and commissioning exports from our Corpus Christi LNG facility began. As expected, our total Scope 1 GHG emissions increased during this period. However, we are proud to report that our GHG intensity has decreased over the past four years. As we grow LNG production to meet global natural gas demand, we will focus on monitoring our GHG emissions intensity, as a more meaningful measure of GHG performane management in addition to absolute emissions. SCOPE 1 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS* 13 2,159 4.96 4.85 4.67 8 1,511 7 1,231 2 758 2016  2017  2018  2019  Scope 1 emissions intensity  N˜O (metric tons)  CH° (metric tons)  CO˜ (metric tons)  (metric tons of CO˜e/MMscf  of LNG exported)  * Scope 1 GHG emissions include emissions reported to the EPA under the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP). All CO2e is reported using 100-year Global Warming Potentials (GWP). Methane GWP = 25 and N2O GWP = 298. GHG emissions intensity is reported as total Scope 1 GHG emissions per million standard cubic feet (MMscf) of LNG exported in the calendar year as reported to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). Total LNG trains  #  2  4  4†  7  LNG exported‡  MMscf  186,364  706,645  939,066  1,455,161  Methane  emissions  %  0.021%  0.009%  0.008%  0.008%  intensity§  Scope 2 emissions¶  Metric tons COe  —  —  31,009  172,399  2 * All CO2e is reported using 100-year GWP. Methane GWP = 25 and N2O GWP = 298. Emissions of CO2, CH4 and N2O are reported on an absolute basis without GWP weighting. † In 2018, two additional LNG trains began commissioning with the production of first LNG and were placed into full operation in 2019. ‡ Quantity exported in the calendar year for LNG export equipment as reported to the DOE. § Methane intensity is reported per the ONE Future Reporting Protocol as metric tons of methane emissions per metric tons of LNG exported (as methane) as reported to the DOE. ¶ Scope 2 emissions are based on electricity purchased for use at major offices and operating sites using the     location-based method per the GHG protocol Scope 2 guidance. 21 According to GRI, Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by an organization. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed by an organization.  26  Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report  GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND ENERGY Stepping up on emissions management and leaving a smaller carbon footprint As a company, our vision is to provide clean, secure and affordable energy to the world. At the same time, we are driving operational efficiencies to minimize our own GHG emissions and energy consumption. OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE Our operations team, with support from the corporate environmental team, is responsible for GHG emissions compliance. The SVP of operations maintains responsibility for managing GHG emissions at our facilities, reporting emissions to regulatory agencies and providing updates to the board of directors regularly. As required by our environmental policy,22 we monitor, track and report environmental performance, including GHG emissions. These requirements help us ensure that we adhere to the legal limits on our GHG emissions as an LNG provider. Our GHG permits dictate our emissions limits and regulate how we commission our facilities, perform operations and maintenance and report emissions performance. We also report GHG emissions annually for our compressor stations and terminals to the EPA, employing calculation methodologies under 40 CFR Part 98. MANAGING AND REDUCING GHG EMISSIONS Throughout design, construction and ongoing operations, we implement efforts to reduce emissions and improve our operational efficiency. LNG facilities Our largest sources of GHG emissions are our LNG facilities. When designing LNG terminals, we evaluate and select equipment and technologies to responsibly manage emissions and reduce costs. For example, we design our facilities to employ compressed air instead of natural gas to control valves and other equipment. To support the optimization of our overall portfolio, we have taken steps to improve the efficiency of our chartered vessels. Several newbuild vessels will leverage innovations to improve efficiency, such as reliquefaction technology to capture and reuse “boil-off gas,” which consists of methane. The vessels will also use state-of-the-art engines that significantly reduce fuel consumption. At our terminals, we reuse boil-off gas generated during normal operation as well as during ship-loading and return it back into the process rather than flaring it. Pipelines We operate two pipelines, the 94-mile Creole Trail and 23-mile Corpus Christi Pipelines, which primarily supply natural gas to our LNG terminals. We take advantage of the best available technologies in pipeline design and construction, employing best practices for managing emissions. For instance, our standard practice is to avoid using high-bleed natural gas pneumatic devices and instead use compressed air controllers where possible to eliminate methane emissions. Our compressors also reduce methane releases by remaining pressurized for 12 hours after a shutdown, helping reduce the number of blowdowns. 22 Environmental policy: https://cheniere.wiki/3dIv8yP METHANE EMISSIONS Methane emissions constitute a small fraction of our total GHG operating emissions. As a prudent operator, we perform Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) at our terminals and compressor stations to monitor fugitive emissions, including methane. In 2019, methane emissions contributed about 0.79% of our total Scope 1 GHG emissions. Fugitive emissions accounted for just 0.10% of our total GHG emissions reported to the EPA. We monitor for leaks across our operations utilizing Optical Gas Imaging (OGI) cameras or EPA Method 21 techniques on a quarterly 2019 GHG EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN 99.15% 0.10% 0.06% Fugitive CH4 0.79% 0.69% Vented CH4 CO2 N2O CH4 to annual basis. We also conduct routine Audio Visual and Olfactory (AVO) inspections at our LNG facilities and incorporate LDAR results into estimates of fugitive emissions. In 2019, our methane intensity was 0.008%. In other words, for every metric ton of LNG (as natural gas) produced, we emitted only 0.00008 metric tons of methane. In addition to reducing emissions from our operations where possible, we engage our suppliers on managing methane emissions and support methane research. For more information, see Climate. METHANE INTENSITY* 0.021% 0.009% 0.008% 0.008% 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Methane intensity is reported per the ONE Future Reporting Protocol as metric tons of methane emissions per metric tons of LNG exported (as methane) as reported to the DOE. MANAGING ENERGY CONSUMPTION Efficiency is prioritized throughout the lifecycle of our projects. We design and construct our facilities to optimize cost-effective, energy-efficient operations and seek opportunities to capture and reuse energy where possible. At our Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi facilities, we capture a portion of waste heat from our refrigeration gas turbines and reuse it to support various energy-intensive processes, thus increasing our overall thermal efficiency. These systems ensure that our production facilities maintain a high level of reliability, availability and energy efficiency. At our offices, we also employ several additional energy-saving strategies, such as installing energy-efficient lighting and minimizing HVAC use when our offices are closed. Our headquarters in Houston and our office in Washington D.C. are each located in certified LEED Gold buildings. Consistent with our Climate and Sustainability Principles, we are pursuing avenues to strengthen operational excellence at Cheniere. We endeavor to reach beyond the “business as usual” mentality and find innovative ways to optimize our performance. Total LNG # 2 44† 7 trains LNG MMscf 186,364 706,645 939,066 1,455,161 exported‡ Total Metric tons 1,302,962 3,505,689 4,555,261 6,798,317 Scope 1 CO2e emissions§ Carbon Metric tons 1,283,269 3,472,978 4,514,944 6,740,560 dioxide CO2 Methane Metric tons 758 1,231 1,511 2,159 CH4 Nitrous Metric tons 2 7 8 13 oxide N2O Scope 1 GHG Metric tons 6.99 4.96 4.85 4.67 emissions CO2e / MMscf intensity| LNG exported Scope 2 Metric tons --31,009 172,399 emissions¶ CO2e * All CO e is reported using 100-year GWP. Methane GWP = 25 and N O GWP = 298. Emissions of CO , CH and N O are reported on an absolute basis 2 2 242 without GWP weighting. † In 2018, two additional LNG trains began commissioning with the production of first LNG and were placed into full operation in 2019. ‡ Quantity exported in the calendar year for LNG export equipment as reported to the DOE. § Scope 1 GHG emissions include emissions reported to the EPA under the GHGRP. In 2018, emissions from both LNG facilities and one of our two compressor stations met the reporting threshold. In 2019, both of our compressor stations met the reporting threshold. | Reported as total Scope 1 GHG emissions per million standard cubic feet (MMscf) of LNG exported in the calendar year as reported to the DOE. ¶ Scope 2 emissions are based on electricity purchased for use at major offices and operating sites using the location-based method per the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.  ENVIRONMENT BEHIND OUR NAME IS A LEGACY OF PRESERVATION With two major facilities near the Gulf of Mexico, we operate in close proximity to areas rich in wildlife and natural resources. It isn’t odd to see an alligator on the premises or flocks of migratory birds landing on a nearby bayou or beach. The Louisiana Chenier plain, a natural geological feature along the Louisiana coast, inspired the name of our company. In accordance with that spirit, we respect the environment throughout our operations. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Our corporate environmental policy23 outlines our approach to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner and articulates the importance of compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations — including proper permitting, construction and operation of all projects. Our policy applies to all employees, contingent workers, contractors and consultants. To put our policy into practice, we have implemented elements of an Environmental Management System (EMS) in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. We expect to systematically integrate and more fully document the remaining elements of our EMS in the near future. OVERSIGHT Our operations team — with support from corporate environmental — oversees compliance and management for air quality, effluents and waste. The vice president (VP) and general manager (GM) of each LNG terminal is responsible for facility-level compliance on these issues and the VP of pipeline operations is responsible for compliance at our pipelines. We conduct assurance projects, including audits, to assess compliance with external and internal obligations. Consistent with our environmental policy, we conduct regular monitoring and reporting on these issues. The SVP of operations manages environmental programs and updates the board of directors quarterly on our performance. BIODIVERSITY It’s wild out there, we like to keep it that way Our two LNG facilities are located near areas rich in biodiversity. That closeness to nature is a cultural constant in the Gulf of Mexico and informs our respect for biodiversity throughout our operations. In fact, biodiversity factors were considered as part of our determination to minimize construction and operational impacts when we built our two LNG terminals. We’ve also implemented several coastal restoration and mitigation projects — all as part of our effort to support the biodiversity surrounding our operations. COMPLIANCE AND OVERSIGHT As required by our permitting authorities, we conduct environmental assessments before implementing projects. Each assessment considers biodiversity issues, such as potential effects on sensitive species and terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. We provide a detailed environmental review of our major Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).regulated projects, in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Our VP of corporate environmental oversees our efforts to minimize biodiversity impacts, including programs associated with various permitting actions at state and federal levels. Our environmental experts are directly involved with the permitting process, fulfilling FERC and other regulatory agency requirements and developing the resource reports that support the NEPA Environmental Assessment (EA) or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). 23 Environmental policy: https://cheniere.wiki/3dIv8yP ASSESSMENT PROCESS A biodiversity impact assessment is a key feature of our project-planning process, especially on major projects overseen by FERC. Our experts study potential site locations and perform a robust analysis of the species and habitats in the area, identifying stakeholders and consulting with other relevant federal and state regulatory agencies. We hold public discussions to solicit input from the public and agencies about the project and integrate the results with process information, our commitments, potential impacts and proposed strategies into resource reports. We outline our strategy for mitigating any potential negative biodiversity impacts during the entirety of the project and conduct field and route surveys to support our regulatory applications. We submit the resource reports to FERC as part of the application and depending on requirements, FERC may complete an EA or EIS to provide further information related to the proposed project’s potential environmental and safety impacts. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC may choose to establish mitigation measures identified in the NEPA process. Once we receive approval from FERC and other resource agencies, the commission issues a Notice to Proceed with construction. We followed the environmental and biodiversity assessment process outlined above for all major LNG facilities and pipelines and are required to comply with all laws and regulations throughout ongoing operation. Source: FERC: https://cheniere.wiki/3cKXAyt MANAGING IMPACTS Our LNG facilities and pipelines are not located in areas of protected conservation status or critical habitat. Construction activities to expand our facilities will not cause additional disturbance to terrestrial areas. In line with our environmental policy, we carefully manage projects with an emphasis on reducing and mitigating environmental impacts. For our pipeline operations we: • Route our pipelines to minimize potential ecosystem impacts. • Restore habitats to pre-construction condition or better, where possible. • Monitor pipeline restoration areas and document habitat restoration. • Restore any affected wetlands or buy wetland credits to offset impacts. Beyond compliance with environmental and wildlife protection laws and regulations, we have developed internal policies and procedures to safeguard ecosystems and wildlife. Our wildlife procedure outlines our approach for interacting with wildlife identified on Cheniere property. Our migratory bird procedure sets out the appropriate actions should a migratory bird nest be found at one of our sites. MITIGATION PROJECTS We mitigate biodiversity impacts and support both voluntary and required restoration projects in our local communities, such as: Calcasieu Lake Biodiversity Offset: During the construction of our Creole Trail Pipeline, we worked with the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries to develop 16 acres of oyster reefs and fish habitat in Calcasieu Lake. This voluntary project helped offset any potential biodiversity loss due to our pipeline construction. To this day, the oyster reefs continue to thrive and have become a popular location for commercial harvesting. This project led to successful conservation of the ecosystem, as well as local economic development. Sabine Pass tidal mitigation project: We built the Sabine Pass terminal and created a 70-acre tidal wetland mitigation area — nearly double the size required to meet our obligations. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers previously used this area for dredged material placement. By building channels to allow water to enter the wetland system, we were able to create a viable wildlife habitat. This area is now protected from future dredge placement and other development activities. The wetlands continue to thrive, supporting dozens of species of fish, crustaceans and birds. Shamrock Island breakwater mitigation project: We collaborated with several federal and state agencies including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and Texas Parks and Wildlife Department to construct 16 breakwaters around Shamrock Island in Corpus Christi Bay. The new breakwaters, an investment of about $4 million, will help prevent erosion in the area, promote the growth of seagrass and protect bird habitat. The island is prime nesting location for many water birds, including black-crowned night heron, roseate spoonbill and reddish egret. Galveston Bay oyster gardens: We awarded Restore America’s Estuaries, a non-profit estuary conservation organization, $50,000 to support Gulf-region restoration projects. One such project, the Galveston Bay Foundation’s oyster shell recycling and restoration project, reclaimed 115 tons (230,000 pounds) of oyster shells from restaurants to create “oyster gardens.” These gardens consist of recycled oyster shells hung from docks and piers around the Galveston Bay to recruit oyster larvae during AIR QUALITY Improving our own air quality, even as we improve the world’s In addition to doing our part to meet global needs for improved air quality, Cheniere is setting an example within our own company, managing emissions from air pollutants in every facet of our business, from development through operations. COMPLIANCE AND OVERSIGHT We manage our operations in accordance with relevant state and federal laws and regulations. The EPA regulates our operations at the federal level and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) are our primary state environmental regulators. We submit periodic environmental reports outlining our performance, including: • Annual criteria air emissions inventory to LDEQ (i.e. NOx, SO2, CO, VOC). • Annual criteria air emissions inventory to TCEQ. • Semi-annual and annual Title V Operating Permit Compliance Reports to the EPA, LDEQ and TCEQ. We have also adopted several internal standards, procedures and guidelines — such as the air permit compliance and reporting procedure — to manage air quality. MANAGING AND MONITORING EMISSIONS We responsibly manage and monitor emissions from air pollutants across our operations. We select equipment that utilizes technology for air-emission controls, such as for NOX and other criteria air emissions. Emissions management Examples of emission controls employed at our facilities include low NOX burners and Dry Low Emissions (DLE) technology to reduce NOX emissions. In our pipeline operations, we use electric motor drives at certain compressor stations, which do not produce direct emissions, as well as technologies to reduce NOX and carbon monoxide emissions. These efforts help ensure that our emission control practices meet regulatory requirements and the emissions limits set in our air permits. Air monitoring We implement stringent management and reporting mechanisms to monitor air quality at our facilities. Consistent with our environmental policy, we monitor and track our criteria air emissions to determine our compliance status with respect to our hourly and annual emission limits. Emissions tests are performed on our turbines periodically following EPA reference methods. We perform LDAR at our terminals and compressor stations to monitor fugitive air emissions. Optical Gas Imaging (OGI) cameras or EPA Method 21 techniques are used to detect leaks across our operations on a quarterly to annual basis. Our LDAR monitoring includes: • Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) LDAR and 40 CFR 98 Subpart W monitoring at our Corpus Christi and Sabine Pass facilities. • 40 CFR 98 Subpart W monitoring at our Creole Trail and Corpus Christi pipelines. • VOC LDAR monitoring per New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) at our Corpus Christi pipeline. • Routine VOC inspections at our LNG storage tanks. We leverage numerous tools to evaluate performance, such as assurance projects, including focused air compliance audits, and assess compliance with external and internal obligations. Between 2016 and 2019, we brought new LNG trains online and expanded our production capacity. As our business continues to expand, we remain prudent in managing air emissions according to our internal policies, as well as state, federal and local regulatory requirements. Total  #  2  4  4*  7  LNG trains  LNG exported†  MMscf  186,364  706,645  939,066  1,455,161  Total SOX emissions  Short tons  7  20  21  33  Total NOX Short 1,017 2,310 3,195 4,762emissions tons Total VOC Short 159 103 169 239emissions tons * In 2018, two additional LNG trains began commissioning with the production of first LNG and were placed into full operation in 2019. † Quantity exported in the calendar year for LNG export equipment as reported to the DOE. CRITERIA AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS INTENSITY (SHORT TONS/BCF OF LNG EXPORTED) 5.45 3.40 3.273.27 0.87 0.160.180.150.03 0.02 0.02 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total SOx Emissions Total NOx Emissions Total VOC Emissions ADDRESSING COMMUNITY NEEDS We responsibly manage our operations to limit impacts in the areas where we operate. As part of the permitting process, our major air permits go through a public notice and comment period at least every five years as our air permits are renewed. Additionally, as described in our environmental policy, we regularly consult with stakeholders on environmental issues, including members of the communities in which our facilities are located. For more information on our stakeholder engagement efforts see community engagement within Community. CASE STUDYTaking air quality to school We partnered with the University of Texas to sponsor the installation of an ambient-air monitoring station within Gregory-Portland Independent School District (G-PISD) property in Portland, Texas. This school district is located near several industrial facilities and, as a responsible neighbor, we designed and installed this air Photo Credit: gpair.ceer.utexas.edu monitoring station — Portland’s first — to enhance the existing local air quality network and to help address community needs. The air monitoring station began operating in 2019. It gathers air quality data and shares information about the results publicly, measuring levels of volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and fine particulate matter. Our partners at the University of Texas manage the project and engage local stakeholders through public presentations on the operations of the air monitoring site, data findings and analysis. By working with G-PISD, we put local communities at the center of our commitment to the environment and act as a responsible neighbor. “We appreciate Cheniere’s partnership with our school district and their diligence in addressing the community’s desire to monitor air quality in our area. This station will serve not only to provide public information and potential educational opportunities for our students, but it will also act as a catalyst for industrial transparency in our region.” DR. PAUL CLORE SUPERINTENDENT Portland Broadway Station, Portland, TX Cheniere Energy » First and Forward 37 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report   EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Managing our output — and our impact Among its many characteristics, the world is also finite. This reality underscores the importance of containment and waste reduction. To achieve these goals, we endeavor to comply with all relevant laws and regulations for waste and effluent management. Comprehensive facility-specific plans and procedures are in place detailing characterization, storage, transportation and disposal: • Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. • National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Wastewater Management Procedure. • Waste Minimization Plan. EFFLUENTS Our operations generate effluents from reverse osmosis and sanitary treatment systems, as well as stormwater runoff. We submit monthly discharge monitoring reports to our regulators and perform effluent discharge assessments. Spills At each site, we maintain Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure plans, helping to minimize the likelihood of occurrence and outlining spill control and response measures. Should a spill occur, we adhere to our site-specific emergency response plans to help protect the safety of our personnel. For more information see emergency response, within Health and Safety. In January of 2018, after a sustained and unusual freezing period in Southwest Louisiana that affected a specific valve on a tank at Sabine Pass, one of our storage tanks released approximately 39 cubic meters of LNG. Our employees responded as trained, the release was contained, we reported the incident to all required authorities and there was no danger to the environment, the community or our workers. While we regret this incident occurred, we have made efforts in consultation with regulatory agencies and experts to prevent it from happening again. WASTE We generate waste during construction and operations, as well as from office activities. In all areas, we take measures to dispose of our waste in a safe and responsible manner and encourage our employees to reduce waste in our offices. At our facilities we follow waste-minimization plans and waste storage and labeling procedures. Distinguishing between hazardous and non.hazardous waste, we carefully store, label and handle these wastes separately. We contract a qualified and licensed third party to transport and dispose of our hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and submit hazardous waste data to our regulators. We try to recycle wherever and whenever we can, including the waste oil generated in our LNG facilities. To divert waste from landfills, we maintain active recycling programs at our Houston, Washington D.C. and London offices. Our headquarters in Houston and our Corpus Christi office implemented a battery recycling program and we are working to expand recycling efforts at our sites. We also provide our employees with reusable bottles and shopping bags to help reduce single-use plastic waste and raise environmental awareness. 