CITIZENSHIP REPORT MPC’s refinery in Garyville, Louisiana, owns and maintains this wetland as a wildlife habitat certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council. MPC maintains a total of 1,284 acres of wildlife habitat (see Page 33 for more). FROM THE CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO FELLOW EMPLOYEES, NEIGHBORS AND SHAREHOLDERS, Our approach to business sets us apart. We work under the assumption that we will be successful only if we get our health and safety, environmental stewardship, corporate citizenship, integrity, and diversity and inclusion right. This Citizenship Report provides insight into how we are performing in these critical areas. It’s worth asking how our values-based approach has worked for us. Consider a few important facts: • We lead the refining industry in energy efficiency. Since the EPA’s ENERGY STAR® Program began, Marathon Petroleum has received 33 of the 44 ENERGY STAR designations awarded to refineries. This represents 75 percent of the recognitions — a huge share, considering our refineries represent less than 10 percent of the total U.S. capacity. • We were the first U.S. refining company to adopt the American Chemistry Council’s rigorous Responsible Care® management system companywide. To this day, we are the only refiner to do so. Responsible Care gives us a structured system for continually improving our performance in health, environment, safety and security. • We have 10 locations, including our headquarters and four of our refineries, that are certified as Star sites under the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Voluntary Protection Program. This is a challenging certification that we choose to implement because it’s a way for us to go well above regulatory requirements as we strive to make our workplaces ever safer. I could say that despite the enormous investments of time and money these accomplishments have required, we are a profitable company. Instead, I would argue that these investments make us more profitable. Marathon Petroleum Corporation traces its roots back to its founding in 1887. No company can achieve that kind of longevity without being committed to the health and safety of its employees and the communities where it operates. No business can put profits ahead of environmental stewardship and expect to succeed. No corporation can ignore the needs of its neighbors and expect to attract and retain employees, or be welcome in a community. That our values contribute to our bottom line is unambiguous. At year-end 2015, total return on our shares was 171 percent, or 25 percent annualized, since we became an independent company in mid-2011. During that time, we earned a cumulative $13 billion in profit and returned an average of $5.7 million every day to our shareholders. Our values are not mere words, repeated for their feel-good resonance; they are integrated into our identity as a company, and they drive our success. They require us to take concrete actions, to expend significant effort and resources. Yes, we conduct our business with uncompromising financial acumen; we rigorously evaluate our return on capital employed, monitor our debt, track our price-to-earnings ratio and optimize expenses. But our values set us apart from companies that make those metrics their sole criteria for success. I invite you to read this Citizenship Report to learn more about what sets us apart. ABOUT US WHAT WE MANUFACTURE The core of MPC’s business is manufacturing. We use feedstocks – crude oil and other blendstocks – to produce a variety of refined products used by tens of millions of consumers. The products we and other refining companies manufacture are used directly or indirectly by virtually every single person in our nation. The fuels we produce transport children to schools, deliver produce to grocery stores and heat homes. Asphalt paves roads and is the main ingredient in the manufacture of roofing materials. Lesser-known products like cumene or propylene are used to manufacture items that make our lives easier, safer and more convenient, such as plastics, paints and inks, cosmetics and flexible foam. MPC is the nation’s third-largest refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.8 million barrels per calendar day in its seven-refinery Supplied Terminals Pipelines Barge Dock system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,400 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 2,770 convenience stores in 22 states. MPC owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 8,400 miles of crude and light product pipelines and 5,000 miles of gas gathering and natural gas liquids (NGL) pipelines. MPC also has ownership interests in 54 gas processing plants, 13 NGL fractionation facilities and two condensate stabilization facilities. Through subsidiaries, MPC owns the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, NGLs, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’s distribution network and midstream service businesses in the Midwest, Northeast, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions. 19 8,400Approximate miles of pipeline that MPC owns, leases or has ownership interest in Inland Owned Leased waterway barges barges towboats 205 14 Owned transport trucks 2,210Owned or leased railcars173 MPC’s refineries are managed as one integrated system, optimizing feedstock and raw material inputs. This results in economies of scale that optimize capital expenditures and capacity. TOP 10 REFINED PRODUCTS MPC MANUFACTURED IN 2015 BASED ON VOLUME • Product: Gasoline Used for: Transportation fuel • Product: Diesel Used for: Transportation fuel • Product: Jet fuel Used for: Transportation fuel • Product: Refinery fuel Used for: Non-salable hydrocarbon materials used to fuel refinery units • Product: Asphalt Used for: Road paving and the manufacture of roofing shingles • Product: Petroleum coke Used for: Fuel in boilers and cement kilns. Some grades can be further treated and used in carbon anodes for aluminum smelting and as electrodes for electric arc furnaces. • Product: Aromatics (xylene, benzene, cumene, toluene) Used for: Production of paints, printing inks, adhesives, flexible foam, styrene and plastics • Product: Heavy fuel oil/slurry Used for: Fuel for some utilities and marine vessels • Product: Olefins (primarily propylene) Used for: Production of paints, household detergents, carpet fibers, foam insulation and auto parts • Product: Propane Used for: Primarily a heating fuel MPC facilities received American Chemistry Council Responsible Care® awards 10MPC facilities have earned the federal Occupational55 Certificates of Excellence Safety and Health8 Certificates of Honor Administration’s 6 Certificates of Achievement highest Voluntary Protection Program status. MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Illinois, was awarded the first-ever Platinum Accreditation from the Cambridge Center for Behavior Studies, for the facility’s behavior-based safety program. 13 of MPC’s inland vessels earned the Chamber of Shipping America’s MPC has Jones F. Devlin placed inSafety Award, the topwhich recognizes vessels that have operated for at 20%least two years without of the most efficient a seafarer involved in a freight companies lost-time injury. for our category in the EPA’s SmartWay Transport Partnership. We have been in the best performance range for grams of carbon dioxide per ton-mile for three straight years. MPC earned the Platinum Safety Award from the International Liquid Terminals Association for exemplary safety. MPC earned the Perfect Game award from the Association of American Railroads. MPC manages 1,284 acres of certified habitat for wildlife. MPC has earned 75%of the Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY STAR recognitions awarded to refineries. That’s despite owning and operating just10% of total U.S. refining capacity. 