Our Community INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES In order to create shared value with our stakeholders, we work to act responsibly and make real, positive impacts in the communities where we operate. We do this by providing support to 501(c)(3) nonprofit and government-related organizations and agencies in the form of foundation grants, corporate contributions and sponsorships, and through workplace giving and volunteerism. Through our strategic combination with Andeavor and our continued commitment to creating sustainable, shared value, we continue to evolve our strategy to assess and contribute to helping all our communities thrive. We invest in our communities in three primary ways: . Charitable giving, which includes through the Marathon Petroleum Foundation and other company donations. . Corporate and local giving, which includes our support of local organizations and local chapters of national organizations. . Employee giving and volunteering, through which we support our employees’ desires to continue making their communities better places to live and work. Both MPC and Andeavor provided monetary support, expertise and volunteers to national and local nonprofit organizations and causes that aligned with our business priorities, values, business expertise, and geographies. Each organization focused on philanthropic activities to create long-term, strategic relationships with nonprofits and other organizations to create innovative, sustainable solutions to meet local needs. MPC GIVING MPC supports the work of United Way, an organization that shares our dedication to improving lives and strengthening communities where we live and work every day. Within these communities, we’re addressing important issues such as kindergarten-readiness, workforce development and financial stability. We couldn’t create this positive impact on society without the overwhelming help and support of our employees and community partners. Together, we donated more than $2.4 million to the United Way in 2018. MPC is a title sponsor of the Findlay Miracle League, an organization dedicated to promoting the health and well-being of individuals with disabilities. Athletes from around the nation visit Findlay, Ohio, each year to play on a field custom-designed to accommodate special-needs children, providing an astroturf surface with thick padding to ensure a safe environment for wheelchairs and for children who may have difficulty with mobility. MPC subsidiary Speedway LLC, based in Enon, Ohio, raises funds for the Children’s Miracle Network (CMN) Hospitals, which includes canister collections at the point of sale in Speedway stores and specially themed days for employees to engage customers. Speedway holds an annual Speedway Miracle Tournament in Ohio, which in 2018 alone raised nearly $3 million and has become one of the largest golf events benefiting CMN Hospitals. In 2018, Speedway contributed more than $9.5 million to the organization. The company also committed $1 million over five years to Dayton’s Children’s Hospital to construct the Flight Gallery Atrium, which is part of the new, eight-story patient tower providing new technologies and spaces for patient activities and treatments. Our Community | 29 A Miracle League athlete has some fun at the Blanchard Valley Health System Miracle Park in Findlay, Ohio. MPC management, employees and retirees were integral to the planning, funding and construction of the park, which provides sensory-stimulating activities for individuals with special needs. 30 | Our Community THE MARATHON PETROLEUM COMPANY FOUNDATION Andeavor followed the foundation model of giving and strategically focused its community investments on three core areas where it could make a positive, measurable impact: science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education; environmental conservation/sustainability; and public safety. A sampling of the foundation’s efforts in these three categories include: The combination of MPC and Andeavor created the opportunity to refine and strengthen MPC’s platform for charitable investment. As part of our shared value approach to business, MPC adopted the foundation approach to serve local needs and tap into the philanthropic passions of our employees. The new Marathon Petroleum Foundation’s strategic objectives are to promote vocational and STEM education, environmental conservation and public safety. BRINGING OUR GIVING STRATEGY TO LIFE A Focus on STEM MPC’s success relies on our ability to recruit and retain employees with exceptional STEM-related skills. STEM-related skills are also in high demand throughout the job market and offer rewarding careers to job seekers. Investing in STEM-related initiatives is a strategic focus area that allows us to better prepare middle school, high school and career/ technical education students for professional and academic success through increasing access to high-quality educational resources and instruction. Public Safety at MPC and in Our Communities Health and safety is a core value at MPC, and we are focused on making our communities stronger and safer places to live, work and play. We provide funding, equipment and support to first responders, government agencies and community-based organizations to increase the overall safety of the communities where we operate. Our Community | 31 Championing Environmental Conservation/Sustainability Environmental stewardship is another core value for MPC. We support government agencies, environmental and community groups, and trade, professional and industry associations devoted to efforts that protect, conserve and sustain our environmental resources. 32 | Our Community EMPLOYEE GIVING AND VOLUNTEERING Our employees embrace their role as good neighbors, and we work to support them in making a difference in their communities. We support our employees in their personal charitable donations to nonprofit organizations by supplementing gifts made by employees, retirees and directors to colleges and universities through our Matching Gifts Program. When a contribution of at least $50 is made to an accredited college or university, MPC will contribute a dollar-for-dollar match, up to $10,000 annually. Our Volunteer Incentive Program helps to recognize and encourage employee volunteerism with community organizations by providing contributions to qualified nonprofit organizations where employees and/or their spouses volunteer their time. The program provides up to $500 annually to the organizations on behalf of employees, family members and friends. MPC’S CINCINNATI BIOREFINING DIVISION NAMED A CORPORATE HERO BY THE UNITED WAY In 2018, our Cincinnati Biorefining Division earned a Corporate Heroes Award from the United Way of Greater Cincinnati for the second consecutive year, recognizing their contribution of volunteer support to the organization. In total, 72% of our Cincinnati biorefinery’s employees devoted over 1,000 hours through both company-sponsored volunteer events and personal volunteerism. MPC’s biorefinery is the first-ever back-to-back Corporate Heroes Award winner. Our Community | 33 ECONOMIC IMPACT IN OUR COMMUNITIES Our business generates significant economic value and positive impact in communities where we operate and for the broader economy. With our newly integrated company in 2018 and expansion across the U.S. and Mexico, we maximized our economic impact across many communities. By the end of 2018, we employed more than 60,000 employees while paying millions of dollars in local, state and federal taxes. FINDLAY, OHIO: LOS ANGELES REFINERY INTEGRATION PROJECT A SPOTLIGHT ON OUR HOMETOWN CENTERS ON COMMUNITY IMPACT We value our hometown of investment dollars to support the Last fall, we completed the Los Highlights from the project include: Findlay, Ohio – where we’ve been local school district and University Angeles Refinery Integration and . Created 4,000 jobs over the project headquartered for over a century – of Findlay, as well as the Marathon Compliance Project to physically lifespan, including more than 1,800 and work hard to be a good neighbor Center for the Performing Arts. connect the adjacent Carson and union jobs by making sure our hometown is a Wilmington facilities, thus further . Generated more than $264 million in Community investment is, and will vibrant, prosperous community to integrating and upgrading the total labor income for the region continue to be, an integral part of live and work. Recently, we have combined Los Angeles refinery . Expected to generate an additional our business. committed millions of community for cleaner and more efficient $86 million in tax revenues at local, operations. The $460 million project state and federal levels lead to both environmental and . Expected to lead to a $700 million local community benefits, as well revenue increase for local businesses as operational efficiencies across the business. 