Responsible Care Guiding Principles • To lead in ethical ways that increasingly benefit society, the economy and the environment. • To design and develop products that can be manufactured, transported, used and disposed of or recycled safely.   • To work with customers, carriers, suppliers, distributors and contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport and disposal of chemicals, and provide hazard and risk information that can be accessed and applied in their operations and products. • To design and operate facilities in a safe, secure and environmentally sound manner.   • To instill a culture throughout all levels of the organizations to continually identify, reduce and manage process safety risks. • To promote pollution prevention, minimization of waste and conservation of energy and other critical resources at every stage of products’ life cycles.   • To cooperate with governments at all levels and organizations in the development of effective and efficient safety, health, environmental and security laws, regulations and standards. • To support education and research on the health, safety, environmental effects and security of products and processes. • To communicate product, service and process risks to stakeholders and listen to and consider their perspectives. • To make continual progress toward a goal of no accidents, injuries or harm to human health and the environment from products and operations, and openly report health, safety, environmental and security performance. • To seek continual improvement in the integrated Responsible Care Management System to address environmental, health, safety and security performance. • To promote Responsible Care by encouraging and assisting other companies to adhere to these guiding principles. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 10 COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY OUR VALUES PROMOTE ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recognizes environmental justice as the “fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin or income with respect to the development, implementation and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies.” EPA recognizes communication as a pillar of environmental justice, as it helps to ensure open and honest access to information and resources. At MPC, we recognize that doing business in our communities is a privilege and have embraced community engagement through our core values. Community engagement is a key part of being a good neighbor to the people who live near our major facilities. We strive to ensure open, two-way communication and take into account the needs of our neighbors when conducting our business. Open Communication The most visible of these efforts are the Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) at our refineries. CAPs are made up of representatives from the communities in which our refineries operate – teachers, retirees, business owners, elected officials, activists and others. At each meeting, a member of the refinery leadership team provides an update to the community members, detailing the facility’s safety and environmental performance and providing updates on any significant projects. Some CAPs meet monthly, while others meet every other month. Some of the CAPs are dedicated only to the MPC refinery, while others include several industrial facilities in the same meeting, depending on the level of industrialization in the area. For example, multiple industrial facilities attend a joint CAP meeting in Texas City, Texas, including our two MPC refineries there. We also use other means to ensure open communication with communities, tailored to meet the needs of each location. Our Detroit refinery is a good example, as it is located in a heavily industrialized area with residential neighborhoods nearby. That facility maintains a website to provide status updates to neighbors when refinery alarms are sounded for operational reasons. Neighbors can sign up on the website to receive the status updates via text message, email or automated voice call. The refinery also publishes a newsletter after each CAP meeting and sends it to every address in the two ZIP codes nearest the refinery. We Respond to Community Concerns When major projects are planned at MPC refineries, local communities are kept fully informed via public meetings where we seek their feedback. As an example, in advance of an expansion at the Detroit refinery, completed in 2012, MPC held public informational meetings and made numerous commitments to the community to minimize environmental burdens. Just some of these included retrofitting all Detroit city school buses with particulate-matter controls, sweeping public streets to reduce dust from construction traffic, installing ambient air monitors near the refinery and establishing a fully paid scholarship program, among other measures. In addition, we listened to the communities’ concerns about our expanding footprint toward nearby homes and initiated a program to offer above-market purchase prices to residential homeowners in the neighborhood. About 90 percent of the homeowners opted to participate in this home buyout program. Similarly, while we evaluated a potential project at our Garyville, La., refinery in 2014, we held two public meetings in the area to describe the project and hear what residents had to say. We held these meetings even though the project was not certain, because we feel it’s important to keep our neighbors informed. Community response was positive. We have since deferred a final decision on the project due to market conditions. 11 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Galveston Bay Refining General Manager Ray Brooks and Texas City Refining General Manager Connie Bradley at a meeting of the Texas City - La Marque Community Advisory Council. Ray and Connie provide safety, environmental and community activities updates to community members at the council meetings. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 12 COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY WE WORK TOWARD STRENGTHENING THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE Through individual efforts and by joining with their fellow co-workers, MPC’s thousands of employees work to make the communities where they live – and where MPC operates – stronger, safer and more prosperous. Cleaning up public spaces, fundraising for United Way, contributing to law enforcement, participating in charity runs and walks, serving those in financial distress, contributing to the education of our young people… these activities and dozens more are integral to many employees’ lives, and are integral to MPC’s role as a responsible corporate citizen. “We recognize that there are almost as many causes deserving of support as there are people in our company,” says Paul Smith, MPC’s Administrative Services manager. “We have a sizable budget allocated each year to cultural and scientific organizations, scholarships, educational institutions, United Way and more. But we also take a grassroots approach and ask our employees to help determine where our philanthropic dollars should go.” One way this is done is through MPC’s Local Giving network, which consists of charitable giving committees at locations where MPC has major operations. These groups, because they are most familiar with the unique needs of their communities, make decisions about how the company’s charitable contributions can have the most positive impact on those who live nearby. Another way to tap our employees’ collective wisdom about where company donations will do the most good is MPC’s Volunteer Incentive Program. For a community-based public charity at which an employee or his or her spouse volunteers at least 24 hours in a calendar year, MPC will donate $500, for a total of $1,000 per family each year. While there is great variety in the organizations and causes to which we donate, what all our philanthropic donations have in common is that they align with our values: health and safety, environmental stewardship, an inclusive culture, integrity and corporate citizenship. MPC employees volunteer their time at Gorman Heritage Farm, a nonprofit outdoor education center in Evendale, Ohio. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 1413 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Through generous donations from its customers, vendors and employees, Speedway LLC (a subsidiary of MPC) contributed more than $8 million to Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals in 2014. Speedway has contributed approximately $68 million to the organization since 1991. 15 CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY WE FOCUS ON OUR VALUES MPC employees have long been aware of the company’s – and their co-workers’ – commitment to the values that make us a strong company. For decades, internal publications have kept employees informed about our community involvement – raising funds for charities, supporting local schools, volunteering for churches and other organizations, organizing events, building homes, cleaning up public areas and much more. In 2014, MPC launched the MPC Newsroom, so that others who have a stake in the communities that we all share can stay informed about our efforts. The MPC Newsroom provides an in-depth look at our community involvement – what we do, who benefits from our activities and who organizes them. We also provide stories about our commitments to health and safety, environmental stewardship, integrity, and our diversity and inclusion efforts. For example, in 2014 MPC’s office location in Indianapolis achieved Voluntary Protection Program Star Worksite status from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. How difficult is that status to achieve, and what does it mean? The MPC Newsroom article provides a story, photos and video to explain. The MPC Newsroom also provides insight into MPC’s business. How is our conversion of new retail locations to the Speedway brand progressing along the East Coast? How does MPC’s emergency response team work? How is MPC’s Canton, Ohio, refinery handling new liquids production from the Utica Shale formation? How does MPC ensure we expand supplier diversity? These questions – and many more – are addressed in “The Business of MPC” section of the Newsroom. The MPC Newsroom also encourages two-way communication; you can contact any member of MPC’s Public Affairs team directly from the Web page. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 16 HEALTH & SAFETY PROCESS SAFETY IS CRITICAL TO PROTECTING WORKERS AND COMMUNITIES In simplest terms, process safety means that our pipes, tanks, processing units, valves and other hardware all work as intended – keeping hazardous substances where they belong, at the right temperatures and being handled the right way. Of course, for that to work, the controls we have in place must all function properly too – maintenance plans, equipment testing, alarms, monitoring systems and the procedures people use as they work with these components. “There isn’t a single moment of any day or night that we aren’t focusing on process safety,” says Jim Nelson, MPC’s Refining Process Safety manager. “It’s absolutely fundamental – we construct, maintain and operate our facilities with the constant awareness that process safety events can have dire consequences.” That awareness spurs a companywide commitment to share information about process safety events. Whenever process safety events take place at an MPC facility, a detailed investigation and analysis are conducted, and the results are shared throughout the company by publishing a Process Safety Advisory (PSA). “PSAs are part of our effort to ensure that all of our employees – from management to operators – are equipped with information that can help us avoid conditions that have led to process safety events in the past,” says Nelson. This commitment to share process safety lessons is also a characteristic of our industry as a whole. As we produce the fuels and other refined products that make people’s lives better, refiners and petrochemical manufacturers want all workers to be safe, whether at our own companies or elsewhere in our industry. That’s why we – MPC and others – share process safety event findings with other companies through the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, an industry association. Our strong, companywide emphasis on process safety protects employees, contractors and the communities where our facilities operate. We not only adhere to rigid standards to avoid process safety events, but we empower our employees to shut down operations, without having to check with a supervisor, when they feel there is a process safety risk. At our union and non-union plants, we investigate incidents – including near-misses – with teams of employees that include both hourly and salaried personnel. “Whether it’s the safety of our people, the safety of communities or the integrity of our operations, process safety is one of the most critical aspects of Marathon Petroleum’s day-to-day work,” Nelson says. “I’m proud to work for a company that places such an emphasis on this, not just internally, but among our colleagues in the industry as well.” Refining Process Safety Manager Jim Nelson holds an on-site meeting with Health, Environment and Safety Professional Cindy Budrick at MPC’s Detroit refinery. Employees at MPC’s refinery in Texas City, Texas 