HEALTH & SAFETY WE WORK CLOSELY WITH LOCAL EMERGENCY RESPONDERS IN THE INTEREST OF PUBLIC SAFETY When a tanker truck full of gasoline and diesel crashed and caught fire on Interstate Highway 94 near Detroit, local firefighters requested help from MPC’s Detroit refinery. The refinery’s firefighters have the expertise and the specialized equipment to control hydrocarbon fires, and they were happy to lend a hand. “When it comes to guarding against threats to public safety, there is no fence between company and community,” said Dave Whikehart, MPC’s vice president of Environment, Safety and Corporate Affairs. “When we join forces, everyone benefits.” That’s why, at any given moment, MPC refineries, terminals and other locations are working with local firefighters, law enforcement and emergency management agencies to help strengthen their ability to protect the communities that rely on them. Sometimes that means lending a hand, like during the fire in Detroit, and many similar mutual-aid requests our firefighters respond to. Other times, it means providing critical training and equipment to law enforcement, firefighters and other emergency responders. In 2015 alone, MPC provided rescue equipment, mobile data computers, radios, personal protective equipment, gas monitors, body cameras and specialized training to various emergency responders. The police departments, fire departments and others benefiting from the equipment and training were from communities throughout MPC’s operating areas. Charlotte, North Carolina; Knoxville, Tennessee; Kuttawa, Kentucky; Lansing, Michigan; and St. Elmo, Illinois, are just a few of the dozens of communities that benefited from MPC’s commitment to help. One of the largest single contributions was at MPC’s Green Bay, Wisconsin, terminal, where we and two other industry partners agreed last year to pay $225,000 toward the cost of a state-of-the-art emergency response boat. The Green Bay Fire Department paid $90,000 toward the cost of the vessel, and retains use of it for the public’s benefit. “I’ve been around the fire service profession going on 34 years, and I’ve never before seen a commitment by local industry like this,” said Green Bay Metro Fire Chief David Litton. HEALTH & SAFETY WHEN IT COMES TO SAFETY, JUST COMPLYING WITH THE RULES ISN’T ENOUGH We have an ambitious vision of no injuries, no incidents and no harm to the environment. For a manufacturing company that processes, transports and markets volatile substances, that means we never allow ourselves to be satisfied with how safe we are. We are constantly on the lookout for better ways to protect our employees, contractors and communities. That’s where our interests align with those of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The federal agency’s Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) gives us a structured way to avoid fatalities, injuries and illnesses. The minimum requirement to be part of VPP is to maintain injury and illness rates below the Bureau of Labor Statistics averages for our industry. But MPC strives for much more. “Our focus is to continue moving our facilities to VPP Star status,” says Keith Robson, MPC’s manager of Safety, Security and Emergency Preparedness. “Star status is difficult to achieve and requires a deep commitment by everyone involved. But this is the kind of focus on safety we want.” To become a Star site under the VPP program, a facility has to apply to OSHA, and then undergo a rigorous, on-site evaluation by a team of safety and health professionals from OSHA and from other VPP sites. This evaluation team can consist of up to 20 people, depending on the size and complexity of the site, and the evaluation can take up to 10 days. The evaluation team focuses on how engaged employees and management are in the site’s safety, whether hazards are being prevented and controlled, the type of training provided to employees and contractors, and much more. This in-depth evaluation must be repeated every three to five years for a location to remain certified as a VPP Star site. Ten MPC facilities have earned VPP Star status, and five others are in various stages of working toward the designation. It’s a lot of effort for the sites involved, but Robson says it’s well worth it. “VPP, and the many other safety programs and processes we use, are integrated into everything we do because safety is non-negotiable,” says Robson. “There is no business objective that supersedes our health and safety commitment.” MPC’s certified VPP Star Sites • Marathon Pipe Line facility in Clermont, Indiana • Terminal in Speedway, Indiana • Terminal in Columbus, Ohio • Marketing and Transportation Engineering office in Indianapolis, Indiana • Texas City, Texas, refinery • Detroit, Michigan, refinery • Marathon Pipe Line-operated Capline facility in Patoka, Illinois 	• Headquarters Office Complex in Findlay, Ohio 	• Robinson, Illinois, refinery 	• Garyville, Louisiana, refinery A goose and her goslings at MPC’s certified wildlife habitat at its Cane Run Asphalt Terminal in Louisville, Kentucky.