Our People Our people are the foundation of our success, and we strive to continue cultivating a strong workplace culture grounded in our core values. This has a direct impact on employee engagement, enhancement and satisfaction, and is essential to our recruitment, retention and development efforts. Our employees help us champion a workplace that allows each person to maximize their full potential and encourages them to seek the career opportunities they desire. We welcome new ideas, invest in our people, and work to foster a collaborative and inclusive team environment. “We need diverse perspectives and ideas to continue our success, to create solutions where we face challenges and to shape our future. Every day we work to create an environment where people feel valued for who they are and what they do and inspired by the opportunities we have to positively impact people’s lives.” Fiona C. Laird Chief Human Resources Officer Human Rights Campaign Forbes 2018 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Forbes America’s Best Employers for Diversity Foundation’s Corporate World’s For many years, we have promoted greater awareness Best of how valuing all perspectives leads to better business Equality Index Score: Employers decisions – for our employees, shareholders, business partners and communities. We are proud to be recognized 85 by external organizations for our efforts and progress, and we are excited about our plans to keep improving. WORKFORCE PROFILE Total Workforce (60,350 employees) women racial/ethnic minority groups Workforce Excluding Speedway (20,120 employees) women racial/ethnic minority groups Baby Boomers MillennialsGeneration X Our People | 23 Top Supporter of Historically Black Colleges and Universities – U.S. Black Engineer Information Technology Magazine 24 | Our People DIVERSITY & INCLUSION We recognize that an inclusive culture makes us a better company and ensures better results for our business. In 1999, we established our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) program based on key insights and learnings from the diverse communities where we operate and the people who come to work for us each day. Today, our D&I program – led by our officer-level Diversity Committee and managed by our D&I Office – focuses on equipping leaders and employees to practice inclusive behaviors; creating awareness of how our differences benefit each other, the company and our many stakeholders; and tracking our progress. We also enforce Human Resource policies to protect and support employees, such as anti-discrimination, anti-harassment, drug and alcohol use, workplace violence and reasonable accommodation policies. Board of Directors Officers Senior Management* women racial/ethnic women racial/ethnic women racial/ethnic minority groups minority groups minority groups LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY Our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace starts at the top and is a priority for our 12-member Board of Directors. In January 2018, the Board adopted an amendment to our Corporate Governance Principles to expressly affirm its commitment to seeking diverse director candidates, and through our combination with Andeavor, we increased the number of women on our Board. And, 50% of our Board committee chair positions are now held by individuals from typically underrepresented groups.  Beyond the Board, we strive to reflect diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives at all levels of leadership within the company. Our Officer team, composed of our most senior company leaders, is responsible for day-to.day leadership of MPC’s business and strategic direction. In 2018, we expanded this highly qualified team to 29 individuals as part of our ongoing growth, including doubling the number of women officers. *Excludes Speedway The daily contributions and performance of our divisions and departments are led by our talented Senior Management group. These 149 leaders are among our top four pay grades below officer level, and we actively develop this team as potential internal successor candidates for officer-level positions. As part of our commitment to diversity and facilitating equal opportunities among our senior management and officer ranks, in the spring of 2018, we implemented balanced slates during the hiring process for posted positions in our top six non-officer pay grades. This means we strive to consider at least one qualified individual from racial/ethnic minority groups or one female, either an internal or external candidate, in the final candidate pool for these job openings. A STRATEGIC APPROACH Our combination with Andeavor presented a critical opportunity to build upon our D&I efforts as our workforce expanded. Following the merger, we immediately enhanced our D&I strategy and assessed existing tactics for alignment and improvement opportunities. Our new, more focused strategy is built on three pillars: building awareness, increasing representation and ensuring success. Underlying each pillar is a process for accountability and measurement. Building Awareness Building awareness of what makes us different and unique is the first step of our strategy. We regularly host D&I workshops, employee panels and activities, including more than 80 in the legacy MPC organization alone in 2018. For example, we hosted a dialogue on race during Black History Month and one on gender in the workplace during Women’s History Month. We also developed and introduced three new diversity-focused trainings in 2018. These included a training on Diversity of Thought to help leaders better understand how to practice inclusion and one on avoiding unconscious bias in the hiring process. Nearly 300 leaders attended these courses. To celebrate MPC’s D&I month in November, we hosted three-time NBA champion Bruce Bowen for a presentation webcast to the whole company. Bowen discussed the importance of coming together as a team to achieve success, especially during times of change – a message especially relevant as we worked to integrate thousands of employees from Andeavor. Moving into 2019, we plan to relaunch our Employee Networks companywide, creating six employee-led teams and chapters dedicated to supporting, mentoring and helping to advance specific diverse populations. Increasing Representation We actively work to increase the representation of qualified women, those from racial/ethnic minority groups, military veterans and other diverse individuals in our workforce through targeted external recruitment efforts, military recruitment activities and on-campus efforts. One example is our ongoing involvement with Minority Bridge Programs to build our talent pipeline and invest in future generations. These programs are designed to support the successful transition to college of incoming freshmen of socioeconomically, racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds through staff and faculty guidance, skill development and professional mentoring. In 2018, we continued our sponsorships of Minority Bridge Programs at five universities, and 18 of our intern/co-op positions were filled by students from these programs. . Louisiana State University – Summer Scholars . Michigan State University – Engineering and Science Success Academy (ESSA) . North Carolina A&T State University – Helping Orient Minorities to Engineering (HOME) . The Ohio State University – Pre First-Year Academic and Career Engagement (PREFACE) . University of Cincinnati – Emerging Ethnic Engineers (E3) Ensuring Success We believe our long-term success is fueled both by fostering inclusion at our worksites as well as in the communities where we live and work. We conduct community outreach and participate in community-led diversity celebrations and educational events to help build awareness outside our doors. In 2018, our offices and field locations participated in a number of local events supporting the diverse backgrounds of their communities. A few include Dorr Street Live in Northwest Ohio (an urban festival celebrating African-American heritage); a Martin Luther King Day march and Diwali Festival in Texas; and several Pride events with the LGBTQ+ community, including a Pride picnic in Kentucky. In 2018, we also partnered with the Findlay-Hancock County Chamber of Commerce to lead the formation of the Community Inclusion Coalition, a coalition of local businesses and civic organizations focused on building a more inclusive community. The coalition meets quarterly to discuss and address community and business issues and opportunities related to diversity and inclusion.  Our People | 25 DEVELOPING DIVERSE LEADERS As a high school senior, Tracie McCall was awarded an engineering scholarship by Ashland Inc., a company that later became part of MPC. After graduating from the University of Kentucky, she joined our Catlettsburg, Kentucky, refinery. Starting as a young engineer, Tracie took advantage of MPC’s personal and professional development classes, including leadership development programs and courses enhancing commercial, communication and presentation skills. Tracie applied those skills to excel in several roles at MPC, including process design engineer, technical buyer, quality professional and petrochemicals manager at several of our U.S. locations. She has now returned to Catlettsburg as the Product Control Manager, leading a team of more than 120. “MPC has afforded me career opportunities and the ability to grow in ways that I couldn’t imagine,” explains Tracie. “I’ve been able to parlay those opportunities into so many unique career paths. The company gives employees the opportunity and platform to grow, and I’m grateful for the support and preparation I’ve received.” As part of our efforts to encourage other women and employees with diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds to seek leadership roles, we have created and hosted a wide range of D&I activities, including an annual D&I month and worksite-based teams, to nurture a culture of belonging. “From a career perspective, employees want to have career fulfillment and feel like they belong,” Tracie shares. “MPC’s D&I program allows for people who are allies and supporters to participate in our efforts. The ‘lunch and learn events,’ presentations, panels and other activities really help to raise awareness and support.” 26 | Our People ATTRACTING TOP TALENT We recognize that competing for the best talent is more challenging than ever. Following our combination with Andeavor, we created three distinct segments in our Talent Acquisition team – Executive Recruiting, Experienced Recruiting and University Recruiting – to specialize in the company’s broad range of current and future talent needs and differing candidate expectations. This allows us to engage more personally with each potential candidate as we work together to explore why MPC could be the right choice for their next career step. To attract the best candidates, we believe it’s essential that our Talent Acquisition team reflects our commitment to hiring qualified individuals with diverse backgrounds, perspectives and experiences.  TALENT ACQUISITION TEAM women racial/ethnic minority groups RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT We actively work to recruit and retain top talent and develop the skills and capabilities of all our people. Our Human Resources department manages several programs to attract candidates from all walks of life. For example, our University Recruiting program is championed by our officer team and is designed to recruit students and recent graduates and provide them tools to succeed as they start their careers. We also engage in certain external programs focused on placing military veterans in civilian jobs. Internships and Co-ops Our paid intern/co-op program is our primary pipeline for full-time, entry-level hires. College students can participate in one of our program’s three terms – spring, summer and fall – after completing their freshman year, and opportunities Our People | 27 INVESTING IN OUR FUTURE Chelsea Parson joined the Engineering and Science Success Academy (ESSA) at Michigan State University (MSU) to broaden her horizons and gain an appreciation for the engineering profession. ESSA is a four-week, residential, academic intensive program designed to acclimate incoming freshmen to both the academic and environmental aspects of post-secondary education. Through ESSA, Chelsea met recruiters from MPC, a program sponsor since 2016, who offered her hands-on experience. “MPC’s sincere approach and willingness to invest in my success convinced me to apply for the company’s co-op program,” recalls Chelsea, a mechanical engineering major. “In turn, I was able to build a strong network and future at MPC.” Since first joining us as a project engineer co-op in spring 2017, Chelsea has completed three additional co-op terms with MPC, and plans to return as a full-time employee upon graduating in June 2020. “I was really impressed that during my first co-op rotation I was able to participate on a cross-functional team tasked with inspecting an interstate butane pipeline partially located in one of MPC’s refineries,” explains Chelsea, who is currently president of MSU’s National Society for Black Engineers chapter. “Between that and being part of the first intern-led D&I team, I quickly realized that I could be part of meaningful work and influence significant changes that would benefit MPC and its employees.” are typically available year-round at 20 to 25 locations across the company. In 2018, we hired 519 interns and co-ops at various stages in their college careers, and 119 accepted our offers for full-time employment. Training and Development Career training and development are critical for retaining a successful and engaged workforce. In 2018, 623 employees participated in our companywide MPC Leadership Development Program. The program, which has been in place for more than a decade, offers a variety of courses with different focus areas targeted at different levels, including leadership skills related to safety and environmental stewardship, supervisor development and commercial skills training. For some programs, we partner with colleges and universities, like our Marathon Advanced Leadership Program, a two-week course that we conduct in partnership with the University of North Carolina. We also offer employees additional development opportunities, such as mentoring, local leadership programs and classes on topics like delivering powerful presentations, negotiating and advancing their careers. The MPC Leadership Development Program and other training programs are undergoing changes as a result of our combination with Andeavor, and we anticipate offering an enhanced program in 2019. 2018 HIRES Total Hires 2,650* women racial/ethnic minority groups Interns/Co-ops 519 women racial/ethnic minority groups Intern-to-Employee Conversions 119 women racial/ethnic minority groups *Excludes Speedway and employees who joined through our strategic combination with Andeavor COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS We are committed to providing a work environment that inspires and rewards the dedication and performance of our employees. Both MPC and Andeavor provided competitive compensation and offered health benefits to all eligible employees, their spouses or domestics partners, and their dependents, including medical, dental and vision insurance. Other benefit programs offered by both companies included retirement programs, life insurance, education assistance, family assistance, short-term disability and paid vacation and sick time. No substantial changes were made to legacy company benefit programs between Oct. 1, 2018, and year-end. As part of our efforts to quickly unify our growing workforce, we introduced integrated and enhanced benefit programs starting on Jan. 1, 2019. LOOKING FORWARD The engagement of our people and the strength of our culture are imperative to the success of our business and the work we do each day – and both require ongoing reinforcement and active support from our leaders. In 2018, we began work to develop a vision and strategic pillars, and to enhance our core values, to reflect our larger, stronger company, and we look forward to introducing the outcome to all our employees in 2019. 