FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO Fellow employees, neighbors and shareholders, This year marks Marathon Petroleum Corporation’s 130th year of providing the most affordable, reliable and plentiful energy the world has ever known. Our diversification into the natural gas business through our logistics partnership, MPLX LP, positions us well for a future in which the world’s need for energy continues to grow. Petroleum and natural gas are the energy sources that make modern life possible, and we are proud to play a prominent role in bringing them to the world. Fossil fuels continue to propel mankind into a better future every day. The engine technologies that drive worldwide transportation and agriculture constantly become more efficient. Our nation’s enormous power-generation needs increasingly are met by affordable, domestic natural gas supplies, lowering the emissions of our power sector. And we are able to do our critical work of processing, manufacturing and transporting energy supplies with a smaller environmental footprint than ever before. In fact, Marathon Petroleum’s refining system is among the most energy efficient in the nation. The Environmental Protection Agency has recognized U.S. refineries with 48 ENERGY STAR awards for energy efficiency and environmental compliance. We have earned 36 of those awards – more than all other refining companies combined. We also apply our energy efficiency approach to our transport trucks, inland marine fleet and other aspects of our operations. Our manufacturing processes are cleaner and safer than ever. At the same time, as the world’s energy needs rise, alternative energy sources like wind and solar are often portrayed as virtually free of trade-offs. It’s fortunate, then, that the World Bank has studied the matter and pointed out in a report this year that wind, solar and other energy technologies routinely called “clean,” are actually “significantly MORE material intensive in their composition than current traditional fossil-fuel-based energy supply systems.” In fact, the report notes that under the Paris Climate Accord, which aims to keep global temperature rise to 2 degrees Celsius, some metals required in “clean” energy our Related Scenarios Sincerely, Gary R. Heminger MPC  2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT ABOUT US MPC is the nation’s third-largest refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.8 million barrels per calendar day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,600 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 2,730 convenience stores in 21 states. MPC owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 10,800 miles of crude oil and light-product pipelines. Through subsidiaries, MPC owns the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership. Through MPLX, MPC has ownership interests in natural gas gathering and processing facilities with approximately 5.6 billion cubic feet per day of gathering capacity, 8 billion cubic feet per day of processing capacity and 570,000 barrels per day of natural gas liquids (NGL) fractionation capacity. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, NGLs, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’s distribution network and midstream service businesses in the Midwest, Northeast, East Coast, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions. CRUDE OIL REFINING CAPACITY BPCD  NCI*  Galveston Bay 459,000  13.0  Garyville  543,000  11.2  Detroit  132,000  9.9  Robinson  231,000  9.8  Catlettsburg  273,000  9.3  Canton  93,000  7.8  Texas City  86,000  7.8  TOTAL  1,817,000  10.7**  *Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) calculated per Oil & Gas Journal NCI formula **Weighted Average NCI BPCD: barrels per calendar day Source: MPC Data MPC LOGISTICS* 63 Owned and part-owned light product terminals 18 Owned asphalt terminals 10,800Approximate miles of pipeline that MPC owns, leases or has ownership interest in 18Inland 204Owned 18Leased waterway barges barges towboats 163Owned transport 2,074Owned or leased trucks railcars *INCLUDES MPLX LP MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT      3 TOP 10 REFINED PRODUCTS MPC MANUFACTURED IN 2016 BASED ON VOLUME • Product: Gasoline Used for: Transportation fuel • Product: Diesel Used for: Transportation fuel • Product: Jet fuel Used for: Transportation fuel • Product: Refinery fuel Used for: Non-salable hydrocarbon materials used to fuel refinery units • Product: Asphalt Used for: Road paving and the manufacture of roofing shingles • Product: Petroleum coke Used for: Fuel in boilers and cement kilns. Some grades can be further treated and used in carbon anodes for aluminum smelting and as electrodes for electric arc furnaces. • Product: Aromatics (xylene, benzene, cumene, toluene) Used for: Production of paints, printing inks, adhesives, flexible foam, styrene and plastics • Product: Heavy fuel oil/slurry Used for: Fuel for some utilities and marine vessels • Product: Olefins (primarily propylene) Used for: Production of paints, household detergents, carpet fibers, foam insulation and auto parts • Product: Propane Used for: Primarily a heating fuel 4 | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT MPC CONDUCTS ITS BUSINESS ACCORDING TO FIVE VALUES: •  Health and Safety: We have the highest regard for the health and safety of our employees, contractors and neighboring communities.  •  Environmental Stewardship: We are committed to minimizing our environmental impact and continually look for ways to reduce our footprint.  •  Integrity: We uphold the highest standards of business ethics and integrity, enforcing strict principles of corporate governance. We strive for transparency in all of our  •  Corporate Citizenship: We work to make a positive difference in the communities where we have the privilege to operate.  •  Inclusive Culture: We value diversity and strive to provide our employees with a collaborative, supportive, and inclusive work environment where they can maximize their full potential for personal and business  operations.  success.  | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT      5 OUR VALUES AND GOVERNANCE Our values dictate how we approach our business decisions. Our board of directors and executive management recognize that our shareholders expect a solid return on their investment. But those who own MPC stock also share our expectation that we will earn profits honestly, inclusively, and while protecting the environment, our employees and contractors, and the communities where we operate. HOW WE LIVE OUR VALUES Our governance is transparent and promotes accountability. On our website we post our Corporate Governance Principles, bylaws, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, and various corporate governance policies, guidelines and procedures, among other governance-related documents. These documents provide a clear view of how we operate our business. They can be found here: http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investor_ Center/Corporate_Governance/ We also post our Code of Business Conduct, which members of our board, executive officers and salaried employees are required to read and adhere to. The code provides guidance for a variety of business situations, and multiple ways to report instances in which ethical, honest business practices may have been breached. Our code also makes explicit our requirement to respect the human, cultural and legal rights of individuals and communities and to promote, where we can and within the parameters of our business role, the goals and principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our MPC employees volunteer during the United Way of Hancock County’s Days of Caring in Findlay, Ohio. acknowledgment of these principles is consistent with our dedication to enriching the workplace, preserving the environment, strengthening the communities where we operate and engaging with our stakeholders to pursue progress toward these goals. Our inaugural Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report describes Board of Director oversight of risk management and the policies and procedures we use to ensure we are adhering to our core values. The publication can be found here: http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/About_MPC/ Publications/ A key component to operating pursuant to our health, environmental, safety and security values is our commitment to obtain companywide RC14001® certification, further described in this report on Page 8. In this report, you’ll also see that we combined Diversity and Inclusion and Talent Management into a single organization; because we value diversity, we are integrating it into the way we find, recruit, retain and manage our talented employees. Similarly, we have spent billions of dollars on environmental stewardship and safety measures, which we describe in this report. The articles in this report and our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report demonstrate Marathon Petroleum Corporation’s robust set of policies and procedures in the areas of business integrity, corporate responsibility and human resources. HIGHLIGHTS MPC’s Cincinnati Renewable Fuels MPC Terminal, Transport & 36 56 of ExcellenceMPC facilitiesRail organization earned the plant earned the earnedResponsible Care® Environmental CertificatesWaste Minimization, ProtectionNumber of Reuse and Recycling Agency’s ENERGY STAR 3 Earned Certificates MPC facilities have earnedEnvironmental Award from the of Honor the highest level ofChallenge forAmerican 7 Received Certificates Voluntary Industry for reducingProtection of AchievementChemistry Council Protectionits energy intensity by from the American Chemistry CouncilAgency’s Program14status from the federal Occupational Safety andENERGY STAR Health Administrationin onerecognitions earned year30.7% by MPC refineries MPC’s Canton, Catlettsburg, Detroit, Garyville  MPC was recognized as a member of the  MPC’s Canton refinery received Gold Status  and Robinson refineries and several MPC  state of Tennessee’s  recertification from the  terminals received the GRAND SLAM AWARD from the American Association of Railroads as  Green Star Partnership, recognizing its environmental management systems,  Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies, recognizing the refinery for its behavior-based  exemplary shippers of hazardous materials  performance and accomplishments  safety program  Number of MPC manages MPC hasMPC’s Terminal, Transport & Environmental placed inRail business unit received an the topProtection environmental 20%excellenceAgency’s of companies in the EPA’s programcertifiedENERGY STAR 12 21 Smartway Transport Partnership, certificationwildlife habitatsrecognitions earned by consisting of which recognizes thefrom the best-performing freightstate of South Carolinaall other refiners in the U.S., carriers for carbon efficiency for its Belton terminal