Fellow shareholders, friends and neighbors, Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) helps make our communities and our nation stronger. We’re a manufacturing company that provides well-paying jobs, our manufacturing plants are located in the U.S., and the products we make are produced with over 80 percent North American crude oil. We are actively engaged in improving the communities where we do business, and we voluntarily participate in initiatives that take our health, safety, environmental, governance and other performances well beyond minimum requirements. We advocate on behalf of our industry and the interests of our customers, and we’re transparent about our political engagement. Our commercial success and service to society are inextricably related. Our profitability contributes to the prosperity of shareholders across the nation, including retirees and pension funds, among others. Fueling opportunity: MPC’s employees work to manufacture, transport and sell the fuels and other petroleum products that make life better for tens of millions of people in the U.S. and around the world. Our products unlock opportunity for people in all walks of life by making transportation and commerce possible on a massive scale. Our manufacturing facilities, offices and other work locations provide thousands of well-paying jobs, and our extensive network of Speedway convenience stores provide employees with opportunities to gain valuable skills and long-term career prospects in a successful, technology-oriented retail environment. Helping neighbors: Our company is actively engaged in the communities where we do business. We take a grassroots approach to our community involvement – one that is driven by our employees who live in and near the communities where we work. Every community has unique needs, and nobody knows a community better than the people who live there. Our employees volunteer their time, their resources and their expertise accordingly, and MPC is proud to support their efforts. We match charitable contributions, donate to nonprofits for which employees volunteer, and more. Our employees also help to determine how MPC’s financial contributions to communities are allocated. The end result is that we contribute where, when and how it is most needed. Protecting people: We take an uncompromising approach to the safety of our employees and neighbors. At our facilities – whether it’s refineries, pipelines or terminals – employees are empowered to shut down operations if they believe there is a potential safety hazard. We constantly work to reduce our incident rate, and we won’t stop until every employee and contractor goes home just as safe and healthy at the end of every shift as when they arrived. Protecting the environment: We manufacture the fuels that millions of people rely on every day, and we work toward accomplishing this critical work with an ever-smaller environmental footprint. As an example, at the six refineries we owned from 2002 through 2014, we increased gross throughputs by almost 40 percent. But during that same period, our greenhouse gas emissions – a measure of energy efficiency – increased by only 8 percent. In short: we are doing more with less. We make enormous contributions to society, and I’m proud to present this Citizenship Report to detail some of our important accomplishments and progress. Sincerely, Gary R. Heminger President and Chief Executive Officer 1 CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2 ABOUT US WHAT WE MANUFACTURE The core of MPC’s business is manufacturing. We use feedstocks – crude oil and other blendstocks – to produce a variety of refined products used by tens of millions of consumers. The products we and other refining companies manufacture are used directly or indirectly by virtually every single person in our nation. The fuels we produce transport children to schools, deliver produce to grocery stores and heat homes. Asphalt paves roads and is the main ingredient in the manufacture of roofing materials. Lesser-known products like cumene or propylene are used to manufacture items that make our lives easier, safer and more convenient, such as plastics, paints and inks, cosmetics and flexible foam. 3 CITIZENSHIP REPORT MPC is the nation’s fourth-largest refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,500 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 2,750 convenience stores in 22 states. MPC optimizes operations through an extensive logistics system, including more than 200 owned and third-party terminals, an inland waterway system of towboats and owned or leased barges, 142 transport trucks, and more than 2,200 owned or leased railcars. We also own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of pipeline. Through subsidiaries, we own the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership. All information as of Dec. 31, 2014 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 4 5 CITIZENSHIP REPORT THE MEANING OF OUR WORK By manufacturing petroleum products, we help make virtually every aspect of modern life possible. And because of ever-improving processes and technologies, we do this critical work more cleanly and safely than ever before. The fuels we produce enable farmers to till, irrigate, plant and harvest crops to feed themselves and their communities. Reliable and affordable fuels empower people to transport themselves to markets, schools, medical facilities and community events. Diesel and gasoline allow businesses to provide the goods of our everyday lives, as they procure raw materials, manufacture products and transport them to those who need them. During times of emergency, petroleum fuels can help alleviate suffering. Recovery from natural disasters is quicker and safer with petroleum-fueled ambulances, fire trucks and law-enforcement resources. During power outages, electricity at hospitals and markets can be quickly restored with petroleum-powered generators. Food, medical supplies and construction materials are provided to those in need by trucks, aircraft and marine vessels powered by petroleum fuels. Petroleum fuels enable us to build the structures in which we live, work, shop, learn and heal. Petroleum products are all In this Citizenship Report, we provide insight into how we provide petroleum products, so critical to every aspect of our lives, while we maintain safe, environmentally sound and community-conscious operations. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 6 SOCIAL BENEFITS OF CARBON PEOPLE’S LIVES ARE WHAT MATTER MOST Fossil fuels don’t just make our lives more comfortable and convenient; fossil fuels save lives. That may seem like a bold statement, especially with so many environmentalists advocating that we dramatically and quickly reduce our use of fossil fuels. But consider: If a hurricane or tornado cuts power to hospitals and grocery stores, it’s diesel- and gasoline-powered generators that will prevent medicines and food from going bad and keep operating rooms well-lit. If your home catches fire, diesel-powered fire trucks and ambulances respond. In many regions of the world – including some places in the U.S.– fossil fuels power desalination plants that turn seawater into fresh water for crops, livestock and people. In addition to saving lives, consider how fossil fuels make modern life possible: growing the food that feeds the world, manufacturing the textiles that clothe us and the materials that house us, and moving these building blocks of life to where they’re most needed. Transportation over long distances – by air, rail, road and water – makes commerce and trade economically feasible for billions of people. There is no energy source other than fossil fuels that can accomplish these things on the scale needed to meet our needs – not currently, and not even on the horizon. All these activities that require energy also result in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. In fact, CO2 emissions are almost synonymous with energy use. Carbon emissions, prosperity and poverty reduction: From 1990 through 2011,* world gross domestic product (GDP) in current dollars increased from about $23 trillion to over $72 trillion. During this time, global CO2 emissions increased from about 23 gigatons per year to over 34 gigatons per year. In short, for every additional metric ton of carbon dioxide emissions, global GDP increased by about $4,400. During this same period – 1990 through 2011 – as GDP and CO2 emissions rose, the world poverty rate went from about 36 percent to about 14 percent. That’s hundreds of millions of lives made better in innumerable ways. So when some environmentalists or politicians tell us we have to dramatically reduce our use of fossil fuels, they are telling us we have to sacrifice not just comfort and convenience, but also sacrifice prosperity, poverty reduction and the many other benefits that come from using fossil fuel energy – better health, longer lifespans, safer homes, lifesaving capabilities and much more. There are those who refer to the “social cost of carbon.” But look around you, and you’ll see the social benefits of carbon. These benefits are not only everywhere; they are immediate. They make lives better today. They save lives today. If human life is a priority – and we believe it is the priority – then these benefits are paramount. As we work to continually improve our health, safety and environmental performance, the social benefits of carbon continue to be more widespread, and at less cost than ever before. Marathon Petroleum Corporation is proud to make people’s lives better through the fuels and other products we manufacture, and by adhering to the values we have outlined in this Citizenship Report. We are proud to contribute to the social benefits that fossil fuels make possible. *The latest year for which the World Bank provides global poverty data 