Environment We believe we have an obligation to be environmentally sustainable and responsible on behalf of all our stakeholders. This is why we have invested – and continue to invest – hundreds of millions of dollars to make our operations more energy efficient, reduce our environmental impacts and emissions, and diversify our business. Working with internal and external stakeholders in communities across the country, we hold meaningful discussions, listen and take action to address their concerns. Our work gained recognition in 2018 from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a leading petroleum company in energy efficiency and environmental compliance as an ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year. We have also earned the award in 2019. Environmental Leadership and Management A culture that champions environmental stewardship comes from the top. That’s why, in late 2018, our Board established its Sustainability Committee to oversee sustainability practices and performance, including our annual Sustainability Report and Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report. In addition to the Sustainability Committee, our senior management team has developed a strong enterprise risk management (ERM) process for identifying, assessing and managing environmental, social and reputational risk, as well as monitoring the performance of risk-mitigation strategies. Our Health, Environmental, Safety and Security (HES&S) Management Committee at the executive-leadership level is a critical component of our Enterprise Risk Management process. This committee meets quarterly with HES&S personnel and leadership across the enterprise to evaluate performance and to discuss strategic HES&S, corporate citizenship and public policy issues, as well as climate-related matters. Environment | 35 Following the 2018 strategic combination with Andeavor, we’ve been working to deploy our management systems, standards and programs enterprise-wide, as well as integrating our processes and procedures to ensure consistency of our environmental performance and standards. For more information on our operational management systems, see Page 10 of this report. CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS Our stakeholders expect us to consider climate-related risks, the environment and the communities where we operate. For three consecutive years, we have published our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report to provide our stakeholders a better understanding of climate-related risks. This report is based on the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD’s) set of recommendations for “consistent, comparable, reliable, clear and efficient climate-related disclosures by companies.” Our 2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report includes information about our scenario planning, business strategy, energy efficiency-efforts and accomplishments, water management and climate resiliency. We believe our investors, and other interested stakeholders, will find that the extensive disclosures in this report, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report and website align with the TCFD’s principles and demonstrate our financial strength, adaptiveness and resilience to climate-related risks. What’s more, the report demonstrates our industry leadership in reviewing and assessing climate-related risks while articulating our long-term strategy to enhance our business and protect the environment. 36 | Environment ENERGY Energy efficiency is a vital factor in creating long-term value both for MPC and the communities where we live and work. We consider energy efficiency to be a core business function, an important responsibility and an opportunity. Energy efficiency is one of the most important factors in reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs) and other emissions. Being more energy efficient also makes economic sense. Our energy-efficiency strategy has helped us save almost $500 million in energy costs over the past 10 years. With the integration of the Andeavor assets into our portfolio, we expect to identify additional energy-efficiency opportunities over the coming years, which we expect will further reduce our energy use and lead to additional emission reductions (for more information, please see the GHG Emissions section, on Page 37). Since 2014, we have reduced our energy intensity by 16%. Refining’s Focus on Energy Program Our “Focus on Energy” program was established in 2010 as the cornerstone of our overarching strategy to effectively manage and reduce energy usage at our refineries. The program is championed by an “Energy Technologist” who works with dedicated energy coordinators at each refinery. This team interacts with refining management, operations and engineering staff to identify and implement energy saving strategies. The program is now being expanded to the legacy Andeavor refineries. In 2018, our “Focus on Energy” program provided the foundation with an updated version of our MPC Refining Energy Business Plan, which aims to improve energy performance by executing across five strategies: 1) identifying, establishing, tracking and communicating individual operating parameters; 2) benchmarking energy performance; 3) incorporating energy efficiency into proposed capital and expense projects; 4) identifying and implementing energy-efficiency improvements; and 5) embedding energy efficiency into our culture. Overall, the program has allowed us to greatly increase our energy efficiency and decrease our GHG intensity. Additionally, we saved approximately $500 million in energy costs since 2007 and, in 2018, $57 million. To read more about this program, please see our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report. Other Efforts to Improve Energy Efficiency Outside of our Refining segment, we also track and measure energy efficiency to implement reduction efforts throughout our company. One example is Speedway’s comprehensive energy assessment program, in which a cross-functional team evaluates and implements store-level, energy-saving initiatives. In 2018, the team worked to assess incremental energy-efficiency improvements, including lighting upgrades, across almost 800 of our more than 3,900 convenience stores. The improvements aim to reduce electricity consumption for lighting at each store. Throughout 2018, our Marine organization continued to implement its fuels optimization program in our inland and oceangoing marine fleets. The program has reduced fuel usage by up to 2 million gallons per year while preventing the emission of over 20,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases. The program requires captains to continuously monitor speed and acceleration, resulting in an average speed reduction of about 2 mph and an overall reduction of fuel usage by as much as 20%. ENERGY REDUCTION RECOGNITION Our energy-efficiency programs have been recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the ENERGY STAR® and SmartWay® Programs. The EPA also recognized MPC in 2018 as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for Energy Management. This is the highest level of EPA recognition under the program, and we were the only petroleum company in 2018 to earn this distinction. One of the primary drivers behind our achievement is the formation of a company-wide, cross-functional Energy Team where members share ideas, make plans and implement projects. In 2018, we also worked with the EPA and community stakeholders to host an Energy Industrial Showcase event with representatives from other industries and community members in the region at our Garyville, Louisiana, refinery. The event was an opportunity to share information about our energy-efficiency programs and will be held in future years following the success of this 2018 event. Industry collaboration was another important factor in our success. In 2018, we worked with ENERGY STAR Partner companies and the EPA to benchmark and share best practices for building and growing energy-efficiency programs. As an outcome of this collaboration, we are assessing how we can further incorporate learned practices from other companies. GHG Emissions Due to the nature of our business, our operations result in both direct and indirect GHG emissions. Direct GHG emissions are produced through the combustion of natural gas and other fuels that we use to generate heat, steam and electricity and to power vehicles. Direct GHG emissions also result from the production of hydrogen. Indirect GHG emissions are the result of purchasing utilities such as electricity and steam. Beyond energy-efficiency measures, we have proactively taken other measures to reduce our GHG emissions per unit of throughput, referred to as GHG intensity. In addition to reducing our energy use, we have focused on diversifying our business to include natural gas gathering and processing, biofuels manufacturing and expanded retail offerings. This strategy has significantly decreased the carbon intensity of our company over the past five years as more of our manufacturing inputs shift toward lower carbon-intensity fuels. In 2018, we decreased our direct and indirect GHG emissions (also referred to as Scope 1 and 2 emissions) intensity by 2% through GHG emissions reduction methods such as flare reduction, actively reducing methane emissions and continuing to diversify our portfolio. ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENTS AT TRUCK TERMINALS Our Terminal, Transport and Rail organization continually examines its operations to bolster environmental performance. This has led to ongoing investments in upgraded technology at light-products terminals. We have installed vapor recovery units (VRUs) at 53 of our terminals in the Eastern United States to replace vapor combustion units. The older technology burns fuel vapors that result from loading transport trucks, but VRUs collect and recycle the vapors to eliminate emissions that would result from burning the vapors. In 2018, our VRUs recovered approximately 16 million gallons of product, avoiding nearly 140,000 tonnes of GHG emissions. Armed with this success, we also proactively installed continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) with SmartStart® VRU processing equipment at 46 terminals. The VRUs in these systems operate only when a truck is being loaded, resulting in power cost savings of more than $1.2 million in 2018. The CEMS also helps us to lower GHG emissions, and aids regulatory compliance by shutting down the terminal if it detects elevated emission levels. Environment | 37 LOWER SPEEDS, NEW FUEL, HYBRID POWER: A WINNING COMBINATION ON THE WATER Our Marine group has been recognized by the Port of Long Beach, California, for its participation in the port’s Green Flag vessel speed-reduction program. Our vessels voluntarily lower their speeds to reduce emissions of diesel particulates, nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides. In 2018, this practice also saved almost 67,000 gallons of fuel, which avoided an estimated 686 tonnes of GHG emissions. Additionally, our Marine organization requires non-MPC vessels that come to any of our five docks in Long Beach to comply with these speed requirements. To further enhance these efforts, our vessels have switched from using fuel with 3.5% sulfur content to using fuel with only 0.1% sulfur content more than one year before it was required. 2014   2015   2016   2017   2018   0  5  10  15  20  25  30   Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Intensity (tonnes C02e/mboe input) Includes data from facilities that MPC did not yet own so that performance can be compared across the same asset base over time. Assets included are those which MPC owned/operated as of Dec. 31, 2018. 62 38 | Environment Environment | 39 AIR QUALITY AND EMISSIONS Air quality is important to our business and our Company wide Criteria Pollutant Emissions (thousand tons) stakeholders, including the local communities where we operate. We are committed to implementing 2002 106 programs and strategies that improve air quality. Since 2002, our facilities reduced emissions of 2014 62 criteria pollutants (six pollutants defined and tracked 42% Reduction2015by the U.S. EPA) by 42% – more than 44,000 tons. In 2018, we continued this trend. Criteria 2016pollutants we track and report include sulfur dioxide, 662017 REDUCING METHANE EMISSIONS Within our natural gas gathering and processing operations, we actively work to reduce fugitive methane emissions – known as unintended methane leakage – from our systems. As part of an agreement with the U.S. EPA, we have developed new and modified our operations practices to specially designed emission collection pipeline launching and receiving station that FLARE REDUCTION STRATEGY Flares are essential safety equipment that combust excess gases that are unable to be recovered. Flaring is, however, something we try to avoid where possible. To do so, we have a flare reduction program that helps us to prevent flaring, recover gases and ensure effective combustion, if gases must be flared.  systems at our refineries, with a total it is used, which equates to an estimated 1,000 tonnes of methane emissions avoided per year. As agreed with the EPA, we have shared our innovative launching and receiving station designs with others in our industry to promote additional technologies, increased monitoring systems methane reductions. We also deployed effectively lower fugitive methane emissions. systems for our pipelines that allow the gases to be reused rather than flared, In 2018, we completed a multiyear nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, volatile organic One new technology includes a redesigned project to install flare-gas recovery compounds (VOC) and particulate matter. resulting in reduced emissions and flaring. minimizes emissions by as much as 91% when project cost of more than $500 million. Air Emissions Flare-gas recovery systems recover gas Air emissions are a byproduct of crude oil refining that has entered the flare system, so it 0 22 44 2018 66 88 110 and gas-processing operations and are also can be used as fuel within the refinery SOx NOx CO VOC PM10generated at logistics facilities in loading, unloading, rather than being burned in the flare. Recovering these gases reduces the transporting and storing crude oil and refined Data includes Andeavor assets. We have achieved the overall reduction in criteria pollutant emissions while increasing throughputproducts. We monitor, track and report our emissions need to purchase natural gas, lowering in our Refining segment, adding our entire natural gas Gathering and Processing business, and growing our logistics assets since the GHG and pollutant emissions. in accordance with federal and state laws and Since 2014, we have recovered more than 41 billion cubic feet of gases and avoided approximately 1.7 million tonnes of GHG emissions. In 2018 2002 baseline year. regulations. We have also implemented a variety of programs and projects to reduce air emissions and improve air quality. We have invested over $1 billion since 2002 to alone, we have avoided more than 500,000 tonnes of GHG emissions due to the flare-gas recovery systems. We estimate that our flare-reduction program has resulted in more than a  achieve our criteria pollutant emissions reductions. We are also making ongoing improvements within our natural gas gathering and processing operations designed to further reduce emissions.  90% reduction in emissions of volatile  organic compounds and a nearly 60%  reduction in GHG emissions from flares.  In our natural gas gathering and  processing operations, launching  and receiving systems that help clear  liquids from pipelines have become  much more efficient, and we make  the technology available to our  industry peers on our website.  40 | Environment SPILL PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Our business operates vessels, pipelines and facilities where releases of oil and other hazardous substances could potentially occur. We strive to achieve zero spills of crude oil, petroleum products or other materials. We work continuously to prevent spills through operational practices and technology, and we plan and practice spill response to be prepared in the event a release occurs. Regulations require us to maintain emergency plans at our facilities so that we are prepared to respond in the event of an oil or hazardous substance release. Our Oil Spill Response Plans/Facility Response Plans are reviewed and approved by various agencies, such as the U.S. Coast Guard and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. We go above DEIs (count) 2252014 124 2015 2016 119 982017 2018  116  0  50  100  150  200  250  Tier 3 & 4 DEIs  Tier 2 DEIs  and beyond in planning and preparing in the event of a release so we can act swiftly, safely and effectively.  An important component of our preparedness program is conducting simulation and training exercises. Our emergency response team conducts simulations at different locations each year. In 2018, we conducted 43 regional simulation exercises and 40 regional equipment deployment simulations. These events are an opportunity for us to exercise and update our response skills. In addition, each of our business units maintain on-site emergency preparedness groups that train, exercise and drill commensurate with the potential risk of a release from each site. Oil Spills (barrels) 17,044 2014 1,385 2015 3,483 2016 871 3,922 2017 2,223 2018 1,473 9,000 18,000 0 Spills to land Spills to water Pipeline Integrity Management To ensure the integrity and safety of our pipelines, we use comprehensive integrity management practices to address the various risks to pipelines. The risks may include third-party damage, corrosion, operator error, equipment failure or weather events. Our asset-integrity management program for our pipelines is made up of a variety of routine processes and procedures. This includes an operator-qualification program, design and construction standards to meet and exceed various regulatory and compliance requirements, ongoing equipment inspections and maintenance, and public awareness and stakeholder engagement, among others. More information about these programs can be found at www.marathonpipeline.com. We work hard to prevent pipeline incidents. When an incident does occur, our trained emergency responders act quickly to shut down the pipeline and isolate the release. We work closely and collaboratively with federal, state and local agencies to address and investigate the incident, and then we take lessons learned to inform our continuous improvement efforts. PREVENTING RELEASES THROUGH NEW TECHNOLOGIES The adoption of new technologies and innovation in our industry is an important component of our spill preparedness and response strategy, as they can be used to assess the integrity of our assets and address releases when they occur. In-line inspection technology, for instance, can provide useful data to identify corrosion, cracking, defects, third-party or weather damage, and hazards before a leak or spill occurs. Drones are another tool used to collect better, closer imagery of potential damage to a pipeline relative to images we can obtain from aircraft. These technological tools provide additional benefits such as maintaining personnel safety and reducing the cost of other methods to assess asset integrity. MPC is committed to being a leader in this area. WASTE AND HAZARDOUS WASTE In refining, transporting and marketing petroleum fuels, both nonhazardous and hazardous wastes are generated. MPC’s environmental engineers work with our operations planners to focus on safely managing the wastes we generate. We carefully contain and label drums, boxes, bins and roll-off containers; work to minimize the waste we generate; and recycle or beneficially reuse as much of the waste as possible. We work to ensure that our waste materials are sent to properly permitted waste disposal and recycling facilities that we verify have a good track record of compliance with state and federal waste disposal regulations. The volume of waste generated in any given year varies significantly, as it is highly dependent on scheduled maintenance and remediation activity. Reducing Includes MPC, Speedway and Andeavor for all years shown. the amount  Waste Generation & Disposal  of waste  (thousand tons)  we produce  carries both  2014  financial and  environmental  2015  benefits. As  such, we  2016  continually  work to reduce  2017  the volume  of waste  2018  generated,  while seeking alternatives  0  250 Hazardous Waste Nonhazardous Waste  500  for disposal,  Recycled Waste  such as beneficial reuse, reclamation and recycling. One example is the installation of thermal desorption units (TDUs) at our Garyville, Louisiana, and Robinson, Illinois, refineries, with one in development at our Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas, as well. The process carried out by these units has three primary benefits: 1) hydrocarbons are recovered and returned to the refining process as feedstock; 2) the hazardous characteristics of the waste materials are removed; and 3) the total volume of waste material is reduced. Another example of managing waste responsibly is our Waste Management Vendor Approval Program, a corporate program that requires hazardous and nonhazardous waste management vendors be approved by our corporate environmental department before our operating components may use the vendor. As part of the program, we use a structured vetting process to ascertain environmental compliance to ensure our waste materials are disposed of responsibly and in accordance with the law. A similar example is our Business Partner Pre-Qualification Review Standard that sets forth procedures for identifying, assessing and mitigating risks and liabilities among business partners that are in a direct contract relationship with MPC and have custody and control over our product. Waste Management & Recycling MPC sustainably manages hazardous refinery wastes from tank-cleaning projects and other recurring maintenance activities. As refinery tanks are cleaned, the residual material is removed and Environment | 41 placed in secure waste containers and then trucked to a cement kiln for processing into waste-derived fuel. Since 2014, more than 66,000 tons of waste from our refineries became an alternative-fuel source for the cement manufacturing industry.  The primary fuel firing cement kilns to heat raw materials and chemically transform them into cement has historically been coal. The waste-derived fuel blend from our waste reduces the amount of coal the cement manufacturer would otherwise need to use in their process. In addition, sand, sediment, iron scale or other material in the fuel blend becomes part of the cement product. By recycling the waste in this manner, we also avoid sending the material to landfills. By turning our wastes into fuel and cement, cement manufacturers have reduced coal use by over 33,000 tons. In 2018, 932,528 gallons of waste-derived fuel was sent to cement kilns, which kept 2,792 tons of waste out of landfills. WASTE MINIMIZATION TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF WASTE REQUIRING OFF-SITE DISPOSAL We also actively manage waste on- and off-site to recover oil for reuse in the refining process and minimize the total amount of waste requiring other treatment or disposal. These waste management operations include a combination of 1) centrifuging to separate water, oil and solids to reduce the volume of material prior to disposal; 2) thermal separation to recapture oil vapors so that they can be condensed back to liquid phase; and 3) coker injection used to recover and recycle oil waste as feedstock and solid waste to become petroleum-coke product. In 2018, we recovered 160,700 barrels of oil, which were reintroduced into the refining process to be turned into transportation fuels. DEIs include three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. Data includes MPC, Speedway, and MPLX. Tier 2 DEIs are less severe than Tier 3 and 4 DEIs. We report them here because we consider them a leading indicator that helps us to identify potential problems before they occur. Spills that are less than 1 barrel but reported to an agency due to local regulation are also included; spill data from entities purchased by MPC are included as reported by the acquired company. WATER AND WASTEWATER Managing Our Water Water is an essential resource to our business and managing it responsibly is critical to our operations, the communities where we operate and the environment. Water is used to add heat to the process (as steam), remove heat from the process (as cooling water), remove salts and impurities from crude oil, protect equipment from corrosion, generate hydrogen and clean equipment during maintenance activities.  With our recent acquisitions, we have additional operations located in water-stressed areas that are projected to become more stressed by mid-century due to population growth, changing climate and rainfall patterns. We monitor information sources such as the National Climate Assessment, Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and real-time government drought data to identify which operating locations are in current and future water-stressed areas, so we can effectively focus resources accordingly. Managing Water in Water-stressed Regions The availability of clean fresh water is vital to our operations and the communities where we operate. Responsibly managing the use and sourcing of fresh water is a critical focus, particularly in the water-stressed regions in the U.S. Our primary water conservation efforts are divided into four primary areas: 1) design; 2) reduction; 3) reuse and recycling; and 4) sourcing. Specific case studies and our strategies for each of these focus areas can be read in our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report. Within our Refining organization, we are developing a “Focus on Water” program similar to our “Focus on Energy” program described on Page 36 of this report. Managing Wastewater MPC’s wastewater standards are established by the EPA and state regulatory agencies, which require that we obtain permits for wastewater discharges. We monitor the water we discharge to ensure we are meeting the standards reflected in these permits and report monthly to relevant regulatory agencies. We actively track wastewater discharge to publicly owned treatment works (POTW), surface water and injection wells, and look for ways to reuse wastewater wherever possible. In the instances we are unable to recycle wastewater, we properly treat it before releasing it back into the environment. Wastewater discharged from our operations must meet strict quality standards.  Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity• (m3/mboe input)  Wastewater Discharge Intensity• (m3/mboe input)  2014  2014  2015  2015  2016  2016  2017  2017  2018  2018  A crane at MPC’s certified wildlife habitat in Garyville, Louisiana  0 30 60 90 0 10 20 30 40 50 *Charts on this page include Refining and Midstream operational segments. Includes MPC and Andeavor data for all years shown. Wastewater discharge levels are influenced by variation in annual precipitation levels.  60  BIODIVERSITY Some of our operations are located near environmentally sensitive habitats and ecosystems. As part of our commitment to being a responsible neighbor and community member, we work toward safeguarding and protecting our local habitats. This includes site reviews when determining new pipelines as well as our ownership and maintenance of wildlife habitats certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC). In 2018, we owned 1,347 acres of WHC-certified habitat land across 23 certified habitats. The WHC promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management on corporate lands through partnerships and education. MPC participates in habitat certification and carries out community education and engagement programs and partnerships. Key highlights from 2018 include: . Contributing to the Fort-Rouge Gateway (FRoG) Partnership, a Detroit-based group focused on developing the Fort Street Bridge Park, and hosting 60 eighth-graders at our conservation site near our Detroit refinery. . Carrying out a project with Texas City Parks Department to reestablish wildlife habitats and a wildlife observation trail at local parks near our Galveston Bay refinery. . Maintaining a 15-year partnership with local schools at Marathon Pipe Line’s Martinsville, Illinois, location. A 2018 highlight was the “Formal Learning” project with local high school science classes to provide a field location and support for a grasshopper study at the location’s conservation site. . Hosting local community groups such as the Wabash Valley Pollinator Club at one of our Robinson refinery habitats in Illinois. Other highlights include school partnerships and tours for students ranging from kindergarteners to college students, making habitats available to academic institutions for conservation studies, and opening our gates to community members simply wanting to enjoy the nature found in their local communities. Renewable Energy and Products Company Performance  Metric  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE(1)  Sales and other operating revenue  $mm  97,817   72,051   63,339   74,733  96,504  Income from operations  $mm  4,149   4,708  2,386   4,018   5,571  Net income attributable to MPC  $mm  2,524   2,852   1,174  3,432   2,780  Capital expenditures and investments  $mm  4,738  16,283   3,059   3,106  4,304  Environmental expenditures  $mm  535  630  883   792  957  OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE  Manufacturing Inputs(2)  million boe  1,358  1,522  1,588  1,669  1,717      Refining  million boe  1,026  1,055  1,075  1,107  1,111      Midstream gas plants  million boe  332  466  513  562  605  Refining crude oil capacity utilization  percent  95  99  95  97  96  OUR RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO Over the years, we have made significant investments in the production and blending of renewable fuel sources and the research and development of new technology as part of our overall business strategy. Renewable products help MPC meet our compliance requirements but more importantly drive the continued improvement in fueling our nation and the world. In addition, MPC’s strategy has helped to position us for future business success. Providing renewable transportation fuel – and associated renewable products – is an example of our approach and commitment to shared value. Renewable Production Through various operations and collaborations, we currently produce several forms of renewable fuel and blendstocks – products that are blended into gasoline or diesel fuel prior to its being sold. We produce approximately 410 million gallons of corn ethanol annually through joint ownership in three plants. We also own and operate a biodiesel plant that uses soybean oil as a feedstock. In 2018, we completed a retrofit of a unit at our Dickinson, North Dakota, refinery to allow for the co-processing of renewable feedstock and regionally sourced Bakken crude oil, enabling the production of a 5% renewable diesel blend. Encouraged by this success, we made the final decision to complete the full conversion of the refinery’s production to renewable diesel. Technology Advancement With the aim of developing lower-carbon renewable products, we are working with several early-stage renewable companies. To support efficient and competitive renewable development, we are fostering technologies that will leverage our existing integrated refinery infrastructure to develop high-quality, low-carbon, infrastructure-compatible renewable products that can be blended seamlessly with traditional fuels for use in vehicles on the road today. A wholly-owned subsidiary, Virent is focused on developing a commercial facility to produce cost-effective, low-carbon, bio-based fuels and bio-paraxylene (a key raw material used in the production of bio-polyester). We also are continuing a cooperative effort to develop the first commercial facility to process separated municipal solid waste to produce a bio-feedstock, which we intend to co-process at our Martinez, California, refinery along with traditional refinery feedstock. 