ECONOMIC IMPACT CONSIDER WHAT PETROLEUM FUELS MAKE POSSIBLE IN YOUR LIFE It’s fashionable in some circles to portray petroleum fuels as a villain. With any energy source, there are trade-offs, and petroleum fuels certainly are no exception. At the same time, it’s critical that we consider the benefits of any energy source as well (see sidebar at right). We often hear about the trade-offs involved in petroleum fuels, but seldom do we hear about those for other energy sources. For wind and solar power, we have to consider the mining operations required to procure some of their most basic components; the amount of land they require to generate their power; the fact that they’re not consistently available; and the killing of wildlife caused by wind turbines and some solar technologies. For biofuels, we must consider how much land they require to grow; the energy that goes into planting, fertilizing and harvesting them; the lesser energy content of some biofuels; and the extent to which biofuel crops displace food crops. Trade-offs like these have to be carefully weighed against benefits. In this report, you will find (on Pages 61 through 68) environmental, safety and other measurements that are important to our business. We want you to know about how we handle the trade-offs society is accepting in exchange for the enormous, life-enhancing, life-saving benefits of petroleum fuels. We are constantly working to reduce our emissions, increase our efficiency and enhance overall well-being. Our company – indeed, our industry – produces petroleum fuels more efficiently and cleanly than ever before, reducing the trade-offs we have to accept as our energy-rich future unfolds. Transport trucks load fuel and asphalt at MPC’s terminal in Tampa, Florida, serving hundreds of thousands of consumers in the region. Which of these would you give up? There are no energy sources capable of replacing petroleum fuels in our society; not today, and not in the foreseeable future. Below are just a few examples of daily activities and benefits that would be impossible without the fuels we manufacture. • Drive reasonably priced vehicles that can take you, your family and your belongings hundreds of miles on a single fueling. • Travel to faraway places by plane, train or boat. • Find any food, clothing or other goods you want. They will be on the shelves courtesy of petroleum fuels that power the ships, trains and trucks that deliver them. • Save lives with ambulances, fire trucks and law enforcement vehicles that are kept on the road with diesel and gasoline. • Build our nation, communities and neighborhoods. Petroleum fuels power the bulldozers, cranes, backhoes, cement trucks and generators that make construction possible. • Feed the world by manufacturing the fertilizers that make modern agriculture possible, as well as powering the tillers, combines and other equipment that plant, tend and harvest our crops. • Live full, independent lives as we take our kids to sports practices, games, music lessons and school events; visit the doctor’s office; attend church; go to the supermarket, department store or mall; go for a drive in the country; run the air conditioning if it’s hot; move your daughter into her dorm at college; attend your family reunion two states away… and so much more we can take for granted. ECONOMIC IMPACT WE RECOGNIZE ABILITY AND DRIVE, AND WE REWARD IT WITH CAREER ADVANCEMENT At MPC, our ranks are full of employees who have worked their way up from entry-level positions to roles of great responsibility. Our retail subsidiary, Speedway LLC, is a great example of how we reward merit. “Because we are a retail organization, we have more than 33,000 employees interacting with millions of customers each day,” said Phil Hall, Speedway’s vice president of Human Resources and Training. “That’s an enormous number of opportunities for our people to show their drive and dedication, and we’re constantly on the lookout for that kind of enthusiasm and ability.” Speedway’s vast talent pool has yielded results. Many Speedway non-store and management positions, including at its headquarters in Enon, Ohio, are filled by people who have started out in one of Speedway’s 2,770 stores and taken their careers in directions that made sense for them. Geritha Courts, for example, started with Speedway in 2000 as a part-time customer service representative to help her parents pay for her wedding. Having worked with managers of various styles and ability, Courts decided she wanted to put the best of what she had seen into practice. Speedway managers saw her talent and gave her the opportunity. “And after I decided to stay on, I found that I really loved training and building people up so they could achieve the next level of management,” she said. “That’s what really inspired me – helping people achieve their potential with the company.” Courts rose to the level of senior general manager, running five successful stores over six years. This year, she began a new career trajectory as a recruiter for Speedway. “Over time, I decided I wanted to explore new options and return to school,” she said. “This position will allow that to happen.” Gene Freeman started as a store manager in 1989 and rose through the ranks as a district manager, pricing coordinator, training coordinator and other positions at over a dozen locations. Freeman is currently the company’s manager of Training and Communications. “If you would have told me in 1989, when I was a store manager, that today I would be in this position with the second-largest company-owned and -operated convenience store chain in the nation, I would have shaken my head in disbelief,” said Freeman. “This has been an amazing journey.” Like Freeman, Heidi Lewis started as a store manager in 1989, rose through the ranks, worked at more than a dozen locations, and now is head of the company’s Light Products Pricing and Fuel Optimization organization.“There are so many stories like this throughout Speedway,” says Hall. There’s Michael Earegood, who started as a district manager trainee, and now is a maintenance manager for more than 1,200 stores. There’s Diana Anderson, who started as a store manager and earned her degree while working her way up to her current position as a division human resources manager. “A comprehensive list would be very, very long,” Hall said. “We are proud of the opportunities we provide, and we’re so fortunate to have such talented employees who make their careers with us.” Speedway Recruiter Geritha Courts started her career as a part-time customer service representative. Her talent and drive opened up a variety of options. The Washington Monument in Washington, D.C.