Stakeholder Engagement At MPC and MPLX, we value open dialogue with our stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, business partners, customers, the communities we call home and governments. Our sustainability strategy is guided by ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders to inform our understanding of the issues and trends facing our industry and company. We seek to understand stakeholder perspectives and incorporate their feedback and insights into our approach to sustainability. Importance to society Business impact 10 Methane Emissions Intensity Reduction Target We have established MPLX’s “Focus on Methane” program as a holistic approach to voluntarily reduce methane emissions along all aspects of MPLX’s natural gas gathering and processing operations. Target: Reduce MPLX methane emissions intensity 50% by 2025 from 2016 levels • Pneumatic control valves: Over 80% of our more than 25,000 pneumatic controllers are powered by compressed air, meaning they are not a source of methane. For the remaining gas-driven controllers we plan to replace the remaining ~300 high-bleed controllers by the end of 2022 and begin implementing a program to either convert ~3,000 intermittent bleed controllers to low bleed or compressed air or implement an LDAR program to assure performance. • Pipeline launchers and receivers: As part of an agreement with U.S. EPA, we developed proprietary technology to minimize emissions from pipeline launchers and receivers. MPLX shared its solutions with nearly 1,000 people via in-person trainings, and our royalty-free patents are available on the MPLX website. • Fugitive LDAR: Currently, approximately 25% of our 180 compressor stations are being monitored under existing LDAR programs. We plan to implement LDAR programs at the remaining compressor stations by 2023. • Compressor rod packing: We have completed trials to reduce emissions from compressor rod packing using a low-emission packing material and installing vent flow measurement. Over the next three years we will expand the use of this design across the business as part of routine rod packing replacements. • Maintenance venting: We are optimizing necessary maintenance venting and blowdowns to reduce emissions going to the atmosphere, including using vapor recovery units and/or portable flares. WHY A METHANE REDUCTION GOAL? Natural gas, which consists primarily of methane, emits half the carbon dioxide of coal when used to generate electricity. Given this significant advantage, coal-to-gas switching for power generation is one of the best “quick win” strategies that can be employed to reduce near-term GHG emissions. Our commitment to voluntarily reduce methane emissions maximizes the climate benefits of natural gas investments. Emergency Preparedness Robust preparedness is essential to ensuring we can respond effectively should an emergency event occur. Consistently investing in our response capabilities equips us to mitigate and manage the impact in the event of an incident. We strive to perfect our initial response to an incident, which is critical to limiting the impacts on people and the environment. All our operating locations have emergency response teams and site-specific emergency preparedness and response plans tailored to the risks they may encounter. These location-specific plans are subject to regular drills to ensure proper execution in the event of an actual incident. Several agencies review and approve our plans, including the EPA, the U.S. Coast Guard and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). MPC’s Emergency Preparedness Group (EPG) supports local teams by overseeing our response program and making sure we can respond rapidly and appropriately to an emergency incident anywhere we operate. The EPG staff coordinates with business components to share best practices and resources across the company. For incidents that may require resources beyond those available at a local facility, our EPG maintains a Corporate Emergency Response Team (CERT). It comprises approximately 250 employees with response expertise and training in the Incident Command System (ICS), a globally recognized organizational structure designed to integrate resources across multiple agencies and organizations, should an emergency event occur. Tiered Response System: Tier 1  Tier 2  Tier 3  Incidents are directed by a local response team Incidents are directed by a district/regional response team Incidents are larger in scope and complexity and directed by the Corporate Emergency Response Team Consistent Training and Improvement To maintain readiness, our CERT members and other emergency response personnel participate in various exercises and work alongside federal, state and local responders, such as the EPA, the U.S. Coast Guard, state environmental protection or wildlife agencies and local emergency responders. MPC and MPLX maintain an emergency response exercise program to test and continually improve our response capabilities: • Our exercises follow the guidelines of the federal government’s National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP), which meets the requirements of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and all federal, state, and local requirements. • Exercises not only help prepare for emergency situations, but are also used to review, critique and improve our emergency response plans. • We take a collaborative approach to emergency preparedness. In addition to training our own employees and contractors, we engage federal, state, local and tribal agencies, local fire departments and other first responders, and community members who have an interest in the design and development of our plans and exercises. In 2020, we adjusted our approach for drills and exercises to align with protocols in place for the COVID-19 pandemic and completed all required exercises. 