HEALTH & SAFETY WE PROTECT OUR PEOPLE THROUGH ALL-ENCOMPASSING SAFETY PROGRAMS Manufacturing, transporting and marketing the fuels and other petroleum products that millions of people rely on every day requires constant vigilance. The feedstocks we use, and the products we make from those feedstocks, can pose multiple hazards if handled improperly. After being in the petroleum business for 128 years, we have a very strong set of processes and procedures that enable us to conduct our important work safely. But our vision is to have zero injuries, so we are constantly looking for ways to improve. From a cultural standpoint, health and safety permeates every facet of our operations. Whether it’s at one of our refineries, pipeline facilities or fuels terminals; on one of our marine vessels or transport trucks; or in a control room or office building, we emphasize safety first and foremost. To be clear, there is no business objective that supersedes the safety of our employees and contractors. Toward achieving our vision of zero injuries, we implement behavior-based safety programs throughout our operations. Safety 1 is one such program, implemented companywide. In the past, our employees took personal responsibility for themselves, but were sometimes reluctant to correct each other if they saw potentially unsafe behaviors. Safety 1 addresses this by providing specific guidance on peer-to-peer communications – not just how to communicate safety advice to a co-worker, but how to receive such advice. “Permission and Pledge” is a central component of Safety 1 – employees give others permission to correct them if they ever see them working unsafely, and pledge to do the same for others if need be. In 2014, MPC’s Texas City, Texas, refinery joined its sister refineries in Robinson, Ill.; Detroit, Mich.; and Canton, Ohio, in being accredited by the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies, using well-defined standards of evidence-based practice. Since 2003, the four refineries have been accredited or reaccredited 25 times. The accreditation process involves an extensive application and an on-site visit, during which auditors review the program, verify data, and interview employees and management. Receiving accreditation places the behavior-based safety programs at these MPC facilities among the top 1 percent of all behavior-based safety programs practiced throughout the world. MPC also participates in the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP). The VPP requires a rigorous application and inspection process, resulting in three levels of designation: Demonstration, Merit and Star Status. The highest level of designation is Star Status, which eight MPC facilities have earned. Five MPC facilities have submitted their applications and are awaiting a VPP audit or are actively working toward VPP Star Site designation, and five more MPC sites plan to submit VPP applications to OSHA this year. “MPC’s vision of zero injuries is ambitious, which is why for years we have gone above and beyond minimum safety requirements,” says Keith Robson, MPC’s corporate manager of Safety, Security and Emergency Preparedness. “We work every day to identify ways of achieving that vision.” HEALTH & SAFETY WE ARE IMPLEMENTING NEW PRODUCT SAFETY STANDARDS In the U.S., we’ve been using petroleum products widely for about 150 years. All these years of experience give MPC a head start when it comes to product safety; it would be difficult to find anyone who isn’t already familiar with the common hazards associated with gasoline, diesel or kerosene. To help our customers and the public with these basics, MPC routinely distributes or makes available precautionary handling fact sheets called “Safety Data Sheets” (SDSs) for our products. In an effort to be fully transparent, MPC has also placed SDSs for every finished product we manufacture on our website: http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/brand/products/sds/ But we won’t simply assume that the product safety measures we’ve employed in the past can’t be enhanced. “Part of being an American Chemistry Council Responsible Care® company is going the extra mile in the name of product stewardship, and adopting the new Product Safety Code’s management practices is along that extra mile,” says Dr. Rudy Breglia, MPC’s manager of Toxicology and Product Safety. Adopting the management practices, Breglia added, demonstrates that doing business the right way is vitally important to MPC, and to anyone who handles or uses our products. The Product Safety Code goes beyond regulatory requirements to reassure consumers that the chemical industry makes products that are safe for their intended uses, understands its responsibility and considers health, safety and environmental stewardship top priorities. We recognize that while people need and want our products, everyone also wants to feel safe when using them. Breglia notes that implementing the new Product Safety Code is a complex process, requiring 11 management practices to be put in place. By the end of 2014, MPC President and CEO Gary R. Heminger signed the Responsible Care Product Safety Code attestation statement noting that the company had implemented the first three practices: Leadership commitment: Our company leadership is committed to a culture of product safety in word, policy and deed. Accountability and management: We have clearly established accountability for product safety, and these practices are integral to the way we operate. Prioritization of products: We use a risk-based process to consider available hazard, exposure and intended use information to rank products in need of further evaluation. As a company that is ultimately responsible for meeting its consumers’ needs, Breglia emphasizes that an increased focus on product safety – and management practices to ensure a sound approach – will strengthen MPC’s commitment to safeguard our employees, facilities, neighbors and the consumers we serve. 21 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Dr. Rudolph Breglia Manager of Toxicology and Product Safety CITIZENSHIP REPORT 22 An employee at MPC’s South Houston Green Power co-generation plant, which is co-located with MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery. The co-generation plant generates steam and electricity from natural gas, meeting all of the power needs of the refinery and selling excess power into the local grid. 