Scope 3 Emissions Scope 3 emissions result from the use of our sold products and are not directly controlled by MPC. MPC established a 2030 target to reduce absolute Scope 3 – Category 11 GHG emissions by 15% below 2019 levels. MPC's Scope 3 target covers Category 11: Use of Sold Products, for products manufactured at the company's refineries. Informed by guidance from the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and Ipieca, the calculation of Scope 3 – Category 11 emissions is based on refinery yields because MPC's refinery yields are larger than marketed volumes. absolute scope 3 - category 11 ghg emissions 2030 Goal Progress 11% Refining Scope 3 - Category 11 GHG Emissions (million tonnes) 440 420 400 380 360 340 320 2030 Goal - 363  2019 2020 2021 2020 data is not representative of a normal year because production was impacted by COVID-19. Since 2019, we have achieved an 11% reduction in our Refining Scope 3 – Category 11 GHG emissions. This significant reduction was achieved, in part, by ceasing crude processing at three petroleum refineries. One refinery has been successfully converted to renewable diesel production and another is undergoing such conversion. Additional detail on our GHG emissions, including climate change risks and opportunities, can be found in our annual Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report. Capital Allocation Our risk-based strategy for capital allocation is designed to drive capital discipline and long-term competitive returns for our shareholders. We continue to require higher return-on-investment (ROI) thresholds for projects with greater financial and regulatory uncertainty than those with more stable cash flow and less regulatory risk. The ROI thresholds are highest for refining investments where high carbon pricing and market uncertainty impose more risk. This acts as a de facto carbon price because refining projects, with the highest carbon exposure, must overcome a much higher hurdle rate than, for instance, investments in our MPLX natural gas G&P business, with lower carbon exposure. Projects are also individually evaluated against our long-term price forecast, which considers the demand projections from various Paris-aligned scenarios along with our GHG, methane and water intensity reduction targets. These targets provide a backstop to align investments with our strategies to reduce GHG intensity and footprint over time. This process is driving significant capital investment that supports a lower-carbon future. For example, we are investing to convert our Martinez, California, refinery into a renewable diesel facility. This is in addition to more than $500 million of growth capital invested to convert our Dickinson, North Dakota, refinery. As a result of these two asset conversions, we expect to become one of the largest renewable diesel producers in the world. Further, we continue to invest growth capital to expand and increase utilization of our strategic natural gas business. Finally, of the growth capital allocated to our legacy refining assets, the vast majority is directed at strengthening the competitive position of our assets rather than increasing capacity. WE INCORPORATE ENERGY AND GHG MANAGEMENT INTO PROJECT DESIGN, SO THAT OUR COLLECTIVE GROWTH PROJECTS SUPPORT OUR 2030 GOALS. Focus on Energy Through our Focus on Energy program, we have achieved significant energy reductions and cost savings, including avoiding the equivalent of nearly 2 billion Btu/hour of energy use and over $65 million per year in costs. This is roughly the same amount of energy used by over 100,000 homes in a year. 2021 ENERGY REDUCTION EXAMPLES: Detroit Refinery CHANGING COMPRESSOR USAGE A change in compressor usage is allowing the Detroit refinery to meet the needs of its flare gas recovery (FGR) system while cutting electricity costs, energy intensity and Scope 2 GHG emissions. After feasibility tests, the refinery confirmed it could optimize the compressor utilization with a new compressor arrangement. To implement the new arrangement, the refinery completed multiple control improvements. These adjustments reduced baseline natural gas flow to the flare, improved compressor startup and switching operation and now require only one small compressor to remain online in normal situations. The anticipated annual benefits include: • Reducing electricity consumption by almost 3,500 megawatt-hours per year saving $191,000 • Lowering the refinery’s energy intensity index level 0.2 points • Eliminating more than 2,000 metric tons per year of Scope 2 GHG emissions Galveston Bay Refinery IMPROVING REACTOR EFFICIENCY Our Galveston Bay refinery implemented an advanced process control application that continually optimizes the reactor systems in two naphtha desulfurization units, generating cost savings and reducing emissions and energy intensity. The refinery anticipates: • Saving more than $530,000 a year in combined hydrogen and natural gas costs • Reducing annual Scope 1 GHG emissions by 6,933 metric tons and annual Scope 3 GHG emissions by 1,568 metric tons Robinson Refinery COMMITTED TO MAINTAINING A ROBUST INSULATION PROGRAM An audit of the crude oil and ultraformer units at our Robinson refinery helped quantify the benefits of a healthy insulation program. Insulation improvements  reduced energy consumption by nearly 100 billion Btu per year, saving almost $400,000 annually. More importantly, Robinson reduced its CO2e emissions by over 5,000 metric tons per year. In addition to annual audits, our employees’ diligence is just as important to maintaining a healthy insulation system. If employees see missing or damaged insulation, we ask them to notify the Operations or Maintenance Departments. This is especially important after large planned maintenance periods or outages, when insulation may have been removed to repair or inspect a piece of equipment. One small piece of missing insulation may seem inconsequential, but several across the refinery can add up to a substantial impact. MPLX CONTINUES TO DRIVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS Smart-Start Vapor Recovery MPLX terminals utilize vapor recovery units (VRUs) to recover vapors as trucks are loaded with fuel. Continuous emission monitors equipped with Smart-Start processing equipment allow the VRUs to operate only while loading, saving power and decreasing emissions. Utilizing Smart-Start technology at 55 VRUs across MPLX terminals avoided 17,930 metric tons of CO2 emissions in 2021. Variable Frequency Drives MPLX terminals use centrifugal pumps to deliver gasoline, diesel and jet fuel to barges, rail cars, trucks and ships that take our product to its next distribution point. These pumps are sized to deliver product at various flow rates depending on how many loading arms are active at any given time. Historically, the pumps would run at maximum speed to deliver whatever flow is required. Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) are electrical devices that can be installed to control the speed of the motors that are powering our pumps. By controlling the speed of the pump to deliver just the right flow rate at the desired pressure, there is less energy wasted through the system. MPLX has partnered with an energy consultant to develop a tool that will calculate and identify energy savings based on historical pump and motor data. Results will be used to determine where to best deploy the VFD technology. MPLX Partners to Advance Quantification, Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of GHG Emissions PARTNERING In early 2022, MPLX announced a collaboration with Cheniere Energy, Inc. (Cheniere) and other natural gas midstream companies, methane detection technology providers and leading academic institutions to implement quantification, monitoring, reporting and verification (QMRV) of GHG emissions at natural gas gathering, processing, transmission and storage systems specific to Cheniere’s supply chain. The program is intended to improve the overall understanding of GHG emissions and further the deployment of advanced monitoring technologies and protocols. The QMRV program will support Cheniere’s Cargo Emissions Tag initiative to provide GHG emissions data to customers for liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes, a critical first step for the industry to quantify GHG emissions, enhance transparency and over time look for reduction opportunities to maximize the climate benefits of LNG. The midstream QMRV work will be conducted by emissions researchers from Colorado State University and the University of Texas. The measurement protocol designed by the research group and Cheniere will be field tested at MPLX facilities that are part of Cheniere’s supply chain. The midstream QMRV program involves a combination of ground-based, aerial and drone-based emissions monitoring technologies. The midstream QMRV program requires emissions monitoring over at least a six-month period, with all data independently analyzed and verified by the project’s academic partners. By participating in the program, MPLX will gain expertise in advanced monitoring techniques and technologies that we can leverage to further reduce methane emissions throughout our vast gas gathering and processing network. TO IMPROVE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In 2022, MPLX joined The Environmental Partnership, which is a coalition of nearly 100 oil and natural gas companies committed to continuously improving environmental performance in members’ operations across the country. The Environmental Partnership provides a platform for the industry to collaborate with stakeholders and share best practices and new technologies. The Partnership’s goals are consistent with the aims of our Focus on Methane program. Specifically, partners commit to the following: • A program to replace, remove or retrofit high-bleed pneumatic controllers • A program to install or retrofit pneumatic controllers with lower- or zero-bleed methane emissions devices • A leak detection and repair program for natural gas and oil facilities • A program to reduce emissions from compressors • A program to reduce emissions from pipeline blowdowns and flaring CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES We are committed to living out our core value of Safety andEnvironmental Stewardship by minimizing our environmental impact. ~$1 BILLION amount we invested in 2021 to improve the environmental performance of our assets 59% REDUCTION in Tier 3 and 4 DEIs since 2018 Across the company, we have implemented advanced practices and technologies and made significant investments to conserve natural resources. WE ARE DEDICATED TO THESE PRIORITY AREAS: Environmental Management Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is third-party reviewed for alignment with the RC14001® standard. This standard incorporates our environmental stewardship policies, which include responsibilities to assess and minimize our environmental impact, train our employees on environmental management best practices and communicate with stakeholders about the environmental impacts of our products and operations. Holding Ourselves Accountable We link environmental performance to employee compensation and measure it using the Designated Environmental Incident (DEI) metric. It tracks three categories of environmental incidents: spills, environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. We use four DEI tiers to measure severity, with Tiers 1 and 2 being the least severe and Tiers 3 and 4 being more severe. 30,000+ HOURS OF ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING FOR MPC EMPLOYEES Nature-Based Solutions In 2021, we harnessed the power of nature-based solutions — through programs such as Integrated Vegetation Management, Integrated Habitat Management and Urban and Community Forestry — to mitigate the impacts of our operations related to both biodiversity and climate. Moving Along the Path to Urban and Community Forestry Urban and Community Forestry (UCF) provides environmental resilience, equitable canopy cover, habitat for wildlife and many other benefits to the communities that need it most. Our Detroit, Michigan, refinery worked with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) to implement an urban forestry project called Marathon Gardens. It seeks to increase the habitat value and air and water quality in an industrial neighborhood while encouraging community participation. Throughout the years, MPC employees have collaborated with a variety of community partners, including WHC staff and interns from Grow Detroit’s Young Talent and other volunteer groups, to expand and maintain the habitat. We frequently invite residents from the surrounding community to take part in weeding and planting events. PROJECT TIMELINE 2014: MPC employees assessed existing trees, identifying invasive species and trees in poor condition. These trees were removed and healthy native species were planted alongside an assortment of understory vegetation, wildflowers and native grasses. Non-native wetland vegetation, including invasive phragmites, was also removed from the banks of an on-site oxbow and replaced with native trees and shrubs. 2019: Five years after the initial tree assessment, three acres of forest have been established. Monitoring has shown a 90% survival rate among the planted trees. Deer, coyotes and foxes, turtles and many bird species, including yellow warblers, American goldfinches and red-winged blackbirds, have been identified on-site. 2021:MPC employees conducted another planting, this time in a public park area, to provide residents with more opportunities for outdoor recreation, in line with municipal goals. MPC worked with WHC to select trees for the plantings and prioritized species adept at removing particulate matter from the air, such as sycamore and burr oak. Vacant residences were razed and planted, increasing the amount of vegetative groundcover that could capture and filter stormwater. IN 2021, WE OWNED AND MAINTAINED 1,200+ ACRES OF WHC-CERTIFIED HABITAT LAND ACROSS 20 CERTIFIED HABITATS The Wildlife Habitat Council is the only voluntary sustainability standard designed for broad-based biodiversity enhancement and conservation education activities on corporate landholdings. MPC has a nearly 30-year standing relationship with WHC and manages one of the longest-running certified sites in the country, located near our Catlettsburg, Kentucky, refinery. Across operations, we continue to actively participate in habitat certification and carry out engagement programs and partnerships. Spill Prevention Our commitment to safely and responsibly operating our assets is critical and fundamental to our business and to protecting our employees, contractors, communities and the environment. We support this commitment through operational practices and technology focused on a goal of zero spills. SPILL PREVENTION AND DETECTION TECHNOLOGIES By integrating new technologies and industry innovations into our spill prevention and preparedness strategies, we are better equipped to rigorously assess the integrity of our assets and address releases if they occur. Across MPLX, we continue to make investments to improve pipeline in-line inspection and assessment technology programs. We have implemented a combination of state-of-the-art pipeline inspection technology and advanced analysis techniques for the continued safety of the public and environment. New technologies adopted: • Launched quarterly patrols of select pipeline rights of way using airplanes equipped with specialized sensors that detect hydrocarbon spills. • Piloted the use of operational cameras to detect crude andhighly volatile liquid (HVL) spills at remote pipeline stations. We plan to employ this artificial intelligence technology at 45 additional facilities in 2022. PIPELINE INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT We use comprehensive integrity management practices to address risks to pipelines, protecting their integrity and safety. These risks may include third-party damage, corrosion, operator error, equipment failure, geohazards or weather events. Inspections In-line Inspection (ILI) - ILI tools travel through pipelines, scanning and measuring a pipe’s walls for signs of dents, corrosion or cracking. Above-Ground Inspections - Pipeline routes are visually inspected with air and/or ground patrols to detect land disturbances and pipeline leaks. Waterway Crossing Inspections -High-resolution sonar equipment is used to inspect underwater pipelines to determine how erosion and water channel changes may impact the pipe. Evaluating Threats Geohazard Management -Our process to monitor, assess, inspect and remediate potential hazards associated with earth movement from both landslides and subsidence in unstable terrain and varied geological conditions. Risk Modeling -Annual risk modeling is conducted to systematically identify potential hazards to each pipeline, assess their relative significance and develop reduction measures that properly address risks. Corrosion Control Protective Coating -Coating that prevents corrosion is applied to the outer surface of pipelines and storage tanks. Cathodic Protection Systems -Cathodic protection systems are installed along pipeline routes to help prevent external corrosion. Monitoring and Detection 24/7 Pipeline Monitoring -Our highly trained personnel monitor pipeline pressure, flow and volume 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Leak Detection Technology -Sensors and meters on pipelines detect drops in pressure or changes in flow rate and alert personnel. Pipeline Safety Engagement Ongoing Education -We educate landowners, first responders and community partners located near our pipelines about safe digging practices and emergency response. MARINE INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT Marine environments present a unique set of challenges that require a comprehensive approach to spill prevention. Inspections Vessel General Permit Inspections -We inspect the deck areas of vessels and barges daily. Spill Kit Inspections - Every six months, we visually inspect the contents of every spill kit to verify they are intact and ready to use. Special Marine Measures Double-Hulled Barges and Vessels -All of our barges used for river transport of raw materials and refined products are double hulled. All new vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters are also double-hulled and existing vessels are either double fulled or appropriately retrofitted. Spill Valves - Most of our barges are equipped with spill valves designed to prevent a catastrophic failure if a barge has become over-pressurized. Deck Coaming and Drip Pan Containments - Approximately 99% of our barges are equipped with special drip pan containments that exceed regulatory requirements for barges. Drip pan containments capture spills before they enter rivers and other bodies of water. Training Barge Transfers -We require our trainees to assist on 10 loads and 10 discharges before conducting barge transfers unassisted as a credentialed mariner, well exceeding regulatory requirements. MPLX’S LOGISTICS AND STORAGE ORGANIZATION RECEIVED THE 2022 U.S. COAST GUARD’S REAR ADMIRAL WILLIAM M. BENKERT MARINE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GOLD AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE 