ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE ARE CONDUCTING RESEARCH WITH ARGONNE NATIONAL LABORATORY IN SEARCH OF GREATER ENGINE EFFICIENCY Ever since automobiles were invented, their engines – and the fuels that run them – have been steadily improving. This process has accelerated over the past few decades as emissions reductions have become increasingly important. “Automotive and fuels researchers have made significant strides in efficiency over the past 30 years,” said MPC Fuels Technology Manager Fred Walas. “As our products become more and more specialized, we realize we cannot optimize the fuel and engines independently. Instead, we must treat them as a combined system to achieve higher efficiencies economically.” So MPC and Argonne National Laboratory – part of the U.S. Department of Transportation – have joined forces to research fuel-engine interactions. Argonne and MPC both have decades of expertise, and our collaboration will bring together experts on fuel design, analysis and production with scientists who work on advanced engine combustion and emissions formation. The joint effort supports the Co-Optimization of Fuels and Engines initiative, launched by the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Office and Bioenergy Technologies Office. The researchers hope to make substantial gains that couldn’t be achieved by working on engines or fuels separately. In addition to supplying test fuel and expertise, MPC has also provided Argonne with a Cooperative Fuel Research engine, a test platform used throughout the industry to determine how fuels perform in internal combustion engines. Argonne’s engineers will work closely with MPC experts to ensure efficient knowledge transfer and to assess potential improvements. “Our effort is aimed at gaining knowledge that can help not just MPC, and not just our industry, but the public at large,” said Walas. “We’re proud that we can contribute to Argonne’s mission of advancing America’s scientific leadership and preparing the nation for a better future.” Director of Argonne National Laboratory’s Energy Sciences Division Don Hillebrand, left, shakes hands with Fred Walas, MPC’s Fuels Technology manager, at MPC’s Refining Analytical Development facility in Catlettsburg, Kentucky. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE ARE ACTIVELY EXPLORING THE POTENTIAL FOR WIND AND SOLAR POWER AT OUR FACILITIES In November 2012, we installed a 6,000-panel solar array at the municipal Water Pollution Control Center in Findlay, Ohio. Our objective was to study the potential for using solar energy at our industrial facilities. “At the three-year mark, the array had generated 2,460 megawatt hours, all of which we donated to the city of Findlay,” said Jim Northrup, an engineer with MPC’s Supply, Distribution and Planning organization. That amount of electricity offset the city’s power costs by more than $190,000. “That’s a significant savings for the city, and we’re happy to continue making that contribution,” said Northrup. But if the array were generating power for an MPC facility, those cost-savings wouldn’t be enough to offset the amount of investment we have made in the facility for construction and ongoing maintenance. “We’re learning a lot about how a solar array works, but we’re not seeing a cost reduction we would consider compelling,” he said. Implementing what we learned from the Findlay array, we installed solar panels to power monitoring equipment on some of our storage tanks in Florida. This helped us avoid running power lines to the equipment. MPC will operate the Findlay solar array at least until late 2017, continuing to gather data on its performance. MPC is also exploring the potential for wind power. In February 2016, a wind turbine at our pipeline pump station in Harpster, Ohio, began operation. The turbine – built, owned and operated for us by a third party – generated about 673,000 kilowatt hours through April, which provided us a savings of $4,000. “So far, the wind turbine is generating results that are about what we expected,” said Northrup. The main driver behind the turbine is its potential to save the company money. In the area where the pump station is located, we project our electricity costs are likely to increase over the next several years. Our agreement with the company that built the turbine gives us a slight reduction in power rates each year for the term of our agreement with them. A second reason for the project is to gain knowledge. “The wind turbine company will share all project and operating information with us,” said Northrup. “This gives us the opportunity to learn about how wind technology might be useful at some of our other locations.” CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 2016 30 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE ARE YEARS AHEAD OF EPA REGULATIONS ON THE REFINING INDUSTRY By January 2019, U.S. petroleum refiners will have to be in compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Refinery Sector Rule. But throughout its seven-refinery system, MPC is already substantially in compliance. “We are well ahead of the rule, primarily because we worked with the EPA to help establish the science behind several aspects of the rule,” said MPC Refining Environmental Manager Ruth Cade. One of the primary drivers behind our aggressive approach to compliance is our collaborative research efforts on flare performance as part of an enforcement action that began in 2008. When notified of the EPA’s concerns regarding flare combustion efficiency, we took action. We conducted the first-ever performance tests of operating flares at our Texas City and Detroit refineries, and used the knowledge gained to establish operating parameters for all of the 22 flares throughout our refining system at the time. Our compliance strategy was formalized in a “consent decree,” which was finalized in 2012. Our research helped provide the basis for the new flare standards in the EPA’s Refinery Sector Rule. In essence, the rule protects public health and the environment by determining the best processes and technologies to control emissions. The EPA determines what technologies are available to refiners, and also looks at pollutant thresholds that could impact public health. Based on the two factors, the EPA establishes rules for the industry. “For most of the new rule’s standards, we are substantially in compliance today,” said Cade. “Rather than looking at environmental compliance as a drain on productivity, our philosophy is that being a safe, compliant operator is fundamental to our success as a company. We like to lead in areas of environmental stewardship because we see real business value. It’s simply not acceptable to cut corners, and in fact, we consistently go above and beyond what’s required of us.” There are five primary areas that refiners will There are five primary areas that refiners will be required to address under the EPA’s new Refinery Sector Rule. MPC’s refineries are currently either in compliance, or well ahead of the deadline for compliance, in all of these areas: 1. Flare emissions: Flares are used by refiners as safety features. If there is any unit upset at a refinery, excess materials can be routed to the flare to be burned, rather than released into the air. This reduces toxicity. The new rule sets operating limits designed to ensure efficient flare combustion. 2. Coker emissions: At refineries that produce petroleum coke (a coal-like solid fuel), the large coke drums must be depressurized before they are emptied. The new rule requires the drums’ internal pressures to be at a low level, to avoid excess emissions when they’re depressurized. 3. Atmospheric relief valves: Many refineries have valves that allow process materials to vent into the atmosphere if the pressure gets too high. This is a safety feature to avoid a more serious incident. The new rule requires three levels of safeguards for these valves before they vent to the atmosphere, in order to reduce the potential occurrence of these events. 4. Ambient fenceline monitors: Refiners will have to place portable carbon tubes that detect benzene levels around their facilities. Benzene is toxic in high concentrations. 5. Standards for startup and shutdown: In the past, normal operating standards during startup and shutdown of refining operations were exempt and not regulated, because these phases only occur on an infrequent basis. The new rule establishes standards for these special circumstances. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE MAINTAIN 1,284 ACRES OF CERTIFIED WILDLIFE HABITATS MPC owns and maintains 20 wildlife habitats certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), with a total of 1,284 acres of land. The WHC promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management on corporate lands through partnerships and education. MPC participates in habitat certification as part of its long-time commitment to environmental stewardship. HABITAT SITE: Garyville, Louisiana, refinery property Acres managed for wildlife: 450 HABITAT SITE: Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve, Catlettsburg, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: 360 HABITAT SITE: Martinsville Tank Farm, Martinsville, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 188 HABITAT SITE: Palestine Neil Pit, Palestine, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 80 HABITAT SITE: Lincoln Trail College and Palestine High School Nature Habitat, Robinson, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 50 HABITAT SITE: Speedway Office Complex, Enon, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 42 HABITAT SITE: Washington Park, Robinson, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 31 HABITAT SITE: Kuttawa Asphalt Terminal, Kuttawa, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: 25 HABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Asphalt Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Indiana Acres managed for wildlife: 10 HABITAT SITE: St. Elmo Asphalt Terminal, St. Elmo, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 9 HABITAT SITE: Marathon Pipe Line Heath Station, Heath, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 8.35 HABITAT SITE: Huntington Light Products Terminal, Huntington, Indiana Acres managed for wildlife: 8 HABITAT SITE: Cane Run Asphalt Terminal, Louisville, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: 7 HABITAT SITE: Big Spring, Kentucky This site is unique in that the land is not owned by MPC, although MPC has a right of way for an underground pipeline through the property. Part of the property, including the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat cooperatively between MPC and the landowner. Acres managed for wildlife: 4 HABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Light Products Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Indiana Acres managed for wildlife: 4 HABITAT SITE: Nashville Asphalt Terminal, Nashville, Tennessee Acres managed for wildlife: 3.5 HABITAT SITE: Hutsonville School Nature Habitat, Hutsonville, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 3 HABITAT SITE: North Bend Asphalt Terminal, North Bend, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 1 HABITAT SITE: Findlay Office Complex, Findlay, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: <1 HABITAT SITE: Owensboro Station, Owensboro, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: <1 MPC employees in Speedway, Indiana, celebrate achieving the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s designation as a Star Worksite under the Voluntary Protection Program. 