Water Freshwater withdrawal intensity reduction target 2030 Goal Progress 15% Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity (megaliters/million boe) 100 95 90 85 80 75 2030 Target - 75.5 70 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 We actively monitor and manage water use throughout all operations, continually looking for ways to reduce our use of this shared resource and use it more efficiently. To further our commitment to water conservation, we have voluntarily set a companywide target to reduce freshwater withdrawal intensity 20% by 2030 from 2016 levels. Water Use in Operations Water is vital to our refining operations. We source water from rivers, lakes, wells and municipal water plants and also purchase some recycled water for use in refining. In contrast, MPLX gas processing plants are designed to use little or no water in their routine operations. Nearly all plants have hot oil heaters that burn fuel gas to transfer heat into the process units and air-cooling units that circulate hot product through air-cooled radiators, minimizing the need for water. Managing Wastewater We operate 11 biological treatment plants and three primary treatment facilities across our refinery locations. Water not reused or consumed in refining activities is collected at these on-site facilities to be treated and recycled back into refining activities or treated and discharged. Water is treated to meet or exceed required state permit or pretreatment permit limits. Our systems are set up for only fully treated water to be discharged to a surface body of water such as a lake, river or bay, so that the quality of these waters is maintained. WE USE FRESH WATER IN REFINING OPERATIONS TO: • Add heat to our refining process (as steam) • Purify products (as stripping steam) • Remove heat from the process (as cooling water) • Remove salts and impurities from crude oil • Protect equipment from corrosion • Generate hydrogen • Control emissions • Clean equipment during maintenance activities • • • • • • Water Results Through a variety of innovations, we have reduced our freshwater withdrawal intensity by 15% since 2016 and have plans for additional reductions. In 2021, we continued our refinery-wide “Focus on Water” program to further assess water use, understand and mitigate water risks and identify opportunities to reduce water use. As a result, MPC refineries saved a combined 866 million gallons of fresh water. Across the company we continued to further align water management practices to make significant progress toward our 2030 target. 2021 REFINING WATER SAVINGS EXAMPLES: Catlettsburg refinery SAVED 161 MILLION GALLONS OF FRESH WATER by reducing the frequency and durations to clean or backwash filters that treat its boiler feed water without impacting water purity performance. Detroit refinery by expanding operation of reverse osmosis units, enabling the reuse of ~25% of the refinery's total effluent. Galveston Bay refinery SAVED 20.5 MILLION GALLONS OF FRESH WATER by modifying the regeneration procedure for water-softening equipment, reducing backwash and fast rinse times by 33%. Garyville refinery SAVED 13.7 MILLION GALLONS OF FRESH WATER by increasing the amount of wash water recycled in a distillate hydrotreater, ultimately reducing demand for steam. Kenai refinery SAVED 14.5 MILLION GALLONS OF FRESH WATER by using an air cooler that utilizes air instead of water to cool waste water going into the biological treatment unit. Los Angeles refinery SAVED 26.4 MILLION GALLONS OF FRESH WATER by using an anti-scaling dispersant to reduce cooling tower water use. The dispersant made it possible to increase the number of times water can be cycled back through the towers, reducing the amount of fresh water used. MPLX WATER SAVINGS LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY FOR SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE Marathon Pipe Line LLC (MPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of MPLX, leverages technology through the use of highly sophisticated In-Line Inspection (ILI) tools which eliminate the use of water without sacrificing accuracy. MPL embarked on a multi-year journey with a third-party to drive a step-change improvement in ILI crack detection technology, increasing the probability of finding critical seam defects from 90% to 99%. The tool also detects hook cracks, reducing the need for hydrotests, which were historically used to identify such defects. Through the use of in-line inspection tools, MPL avoids hydrotesting nearly 400 miles of pipeline per year, realizing an average annual savings of 7 million gallons of water. Air Quality and Emissions Air quality is important to our business, our stakeholders and the local communities where we operate. We are committed to continuously improving our programs and strategies that improve air quality and implementing them throughout our operations. From 2002 through 2021, this approach helped us reduce our criteria pollutants by 54%, while the footprint of our refining and natural gas assets expanded. And we’re committed to maintaining open and ongoing dialogue with the people who live near our operations on a wide range of topics that are important to them, including air quality. FROM 2002 THROUGH 2021, WE HAVE ACHIEVED A 54% REDUCTION IN CRITERIA POLLUTANT EMISSIONS WHILE THE FOOTPRINT OF OUR REFINING AND NATURAL GAS ASSETS EXPANDED. Companywide Criteria Pollutant Emissions (thousand tonnes) 2002 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 0  20  40  60  80  100  Total SOx emissions  Total NOx emissions  Total VOC emissions  Total PM10 emissions  Total CO Emissions  Reducing Gas Flaring Avoiding flaring is one of our key priorities. Our refineries implement flare reduction programs that help minimize flaring while recovering gases and enabling efficient combustion. In addition, flare gas recovery systems return gas to the refining process instead of flaring, reducing criteria pollutant emissions and GHG emissions. Minimizing Fugitive Emissions We use acoustic imaging cameras, also known as FLUKE® Imagers, to quickly and accurately locate air, gas and vacuum leaks in compressed air systems. These devices use extremely sensitive microphones to detect sounds both in the human hearing range and the ultrasonic range. Initially used to identify air leaks at our compressor stations and gas plants, they are now being used across our refineries and natural gas gathering and processing assets, where they are used to confirm that leak repairs are effective. Transparent Community Air Monitoring We’ve implemented detailed, near real-time, public-facing, air monitoring systems for our Detroit and Los Angeles refineries. These systems, which can be found on the refineries’ websites, provide easy-to-read, color-coded classifications that provide a quick glance of overall air quality, emission levels, wind direction, wind speed and temperature. Members of the community can also opt in to an alert system that can notify them when air quality reaches a certain level. AN EXAMPLE OF CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT AT OUR LOS ANGELES REFINERY In 2021, we decreased carbon monoxide emissions at our Los Angeles refinery by 23% due to operational changes within a fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit. When it was realized that the FCC unit was struggling to operate with reduced carbon monoxide (CO) emissions rates, different CO catalyst promoters were evaluated and tested to lower both CO and NOx emissions. The most effective promoter was then utilized in conjunction with installation of a new catalyst loader. This new loader automatically loads both fresh catalyst and the CO catalyst promoter into the unit, instead of manual loading. Not only has this new loader been more reliable, but its integrated notification feature alerts operators to any performance issues. Investing in the energy evolution to lower carbon intensity and capture value Renewables and Emerging Technologies 31 Martinez Renewable Fuels Project Substantial strides were made toward converting our Martinez, California, refinery into a renewable fuels facility. In May 2022, the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors approved the final Environmental Impact Report and land use permit for the project, concluding the required environmental review process under the California Environmental Quality Act. When complete, the Martinez facility will be larger than any renewable diesel production facility operating in the U.S. today, producing nearly 48,000 bpd. In March 2022, we announced our intent to form a joint venture with Neste for the Martinez Renewable Fuels facility. MPC and Neste will leverage their complementary core competencies in the joint venture. MPC brings experience in renewable diesel facility conversion, large capital project execution and operating expertise. Neste brings knowledge in sustainable feedstock sourcing and in renewable liquid fuels production. The agreement reflects both partners’ commitment to obtain low carbon intensity feedstocks to achieve the project objectives of providing fuels that meet the demand driven by the California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS). The Martinez facility is currently targeted to begin production in late 2022, with full production and pretreatment capabilities to come online in 2023. The facility is expected to be capable of producing 730 million gallons per year by the end of 2023. Estimated total project costs for Martinez are approximately $1.2 billion. A Range of Renewable Fuels Solutions Our current portfolio includes a diverse mix of renewable fuels. RENEWABLE DIESEL Our Dickinson, North Dakota, Renewable Diesel facility started producing renewable diesel in November 2020 and reached full capacity in the second quarter of 2021. As the second largest facility of its kind in the U.S., it can produce approximately 184 million gallons of renewable diesel per year. The facility converts biogenic oils — distillers corn oil, soybean oil and tallow—and used cooking oil into renewable diesel, which can be used in existing infrastructure and engines. The renewable diesel produced today has a carbon intensity that’s over 50% lower than diesel derived from petroleum, and we continue to explore projects that have the potential to produce net-zero fuel at the facility, such as renewable electricity, carbon capture, utilization and sequestration, and regenerative agriculture. BIOFUELS PRETREATMENT Our Beatrice, Nebraska, pretreatment facility, which we acquired and repurposed in 2020, began operations, processing advantaged feedstock for transport to our Dickinson Renewable Diesel facility. The pretreatment facility uses Midwestern agricultural and waste feedstocks such as distillers corn oil, soybean oil and tallow. Additional feedstock for Dickinson will come from our Cincinnati, Ohio, pretreatment facility, which recently began operating after being converted from a biodiesel plant (pictured on the right). BIOCRUDE We are working with Fulcrum BioEnergy to process approximately 800 bpd of biocrude derived from municipal solid waste. ETHANOL Through our joint venture with The Andersons, Inc., we have the capacity to produce approximately 475 million gallons of ethanol per year. We hold an ownership interest in ethanol production facilities in Albion, Michigan, Logansport, Indiana, Greenville, Ohio, and Denison, Iowa. FEEDSTOCK PARTNERSHIP In 2021, we closed on a joint venture with ADM to produce soybean oil to supply the rapidly growing demand for renewable diesel fuel. The joint venture, Green Bison Soy Processing, LLC, will own and operate a soybean processing complex in Spiritwood, North Dakota, with ADM owning 75% of the joint venture and MPC owning 25%. Expected to be complete in 2023, the $350 million Spiritwood facility will source and process local soybeans and supply the resulting soybean oil exclusively to MPC. The Spiritwood complex is expected to produce approximately 600 million pounds of refined soybean oil annually — enough feedstock for approximately 75 million gallons of renewable diesel per year. Moving Toward Commercialization Virent, a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC, is working to commercialize its BioForming® Platform for converting bio-based feedstocks into low-carbon renewable fuels and chemicals. It has the potential to make a broad impact on the renewables industry by developing pathways for producing both renewable fuels and chemicals from the carbohydrate portion of plants to achieve lower-carbon products. Feasibility Assessment Virent and MPC recently initiated a commercial-scale plant feasibility assessment. Plans for feasibility include more detailed engineering work and exploring commercial options for off-take, investment, financing and potential partnerships. The first plant focus is currently on gasoline and sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). At its facility in Madison, Wisconsin, Virent’s demonstration plant has accrued over 30,000 hours of total operating time, generating process engineering data that will allow for direct scale-up to a first commercial plant. New Market Opportunities Virent is working to create new market opportunities by enabling renewable gasoline, which can reduce the carbon intensity of gasoline. Virent’s Bioform® gasoline is currently registered with the EPA for use as a gasoline blendstock up to 45% and has the potential to achieve a lower carbon footprint for the gasoline market. Life cycle analysis studies indicate a greater than 50% carbon intensity reduction, with options to achieve net-zero or better. When used in a hybrid vehicle, BioForm gasoline can provide a carbon intensity comparable to electric vehicles. Virent has created options for renewable chemicals by expanding the market for 100% bio-based plastics, fibers and films. Most recently, Coca-Cola’s 100% plant-based bottle prototype was developed using Virent’s bio-based paraxylene (BioForm® PX), which is made from naturally occurring sugars. Through this future-facing packaging solution, Virent has the potential to contribute to the industry’s goal to achieve 100% plant-based content, while also providing opportunities for bio-based polyester fibers and other bio-based chemical feedstocks. MAKING AVIATION HISTORY VIRENT’S BIO-BASED FUEL USED IN HISTORIC COMMERCIAL PASSENGER FLIGHT USING 100% SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL Virent contributed to an aviation industry first in December 2021, as United Airlines flew an aircraft full of passengers using 100% SAF in one engine and petroleum-based jet fuel in the other. Virent used its BioForm® process to produce synthesized aromatic kerosene (SAK) — a critical component that made the 100% SAF possible. Virent’s proprietary technology converts widely available, plant-based sugars into fuels that are 100% renewable and 100% compatible with today’s aviation fleet. For this flight, Virent used corn sugar to manufacture the fuel component that made petroleum blending unnecessary and demonstrated that we can power sustainable aviation without modifying today’s modern airline engines or the infrastructure that serves the airline industry. Because Virent’s SAK is made from plant-based feedstocks, the carbon impact on a life cycle basis is less than that of petroleum-based fuels. Virent is targeting greater than 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions for SAK from a commercial project, with the potential to achieve net-zero emissions using options such as renewable electricity, renewable natural gas and carbon capture and sequestration. Virent has also developed data from engine testing that shows an SAF blend using its SAK is cleaner burning and has lower particulate matter emissions than conventional jet fuels. Embracing sustainability in decision-making, in how we engage our people and in how we create value with stakeholders Engaged and Energized Workforce 37 Embracing a Culture of Safety 49 Engaging Our Stakeholders and Communities 55 Advancing Supply Chain Sustainability 62 Accountable and Transparent Governance 64 