A Message from Our CEO About Marathon Petroleum Corporation Sustainability at MPC Safety Integrity and Governance Stakeholder Engagement Our People Our Community Environment Renewable Energy and Products Performance Data Content Index (IPIECA & GRI) Glossary Fellow shareholders, friends and neighbors, At Marathon Petroleum Corporation, we are proud of the work we do to enhance life’s possibilities throughout our nation and around the world. We provide energy and other products that are critical to millions of people’s daily lives, and we are committed to doing it responsibly. That means adhering to our values of health and safety, environmental stewardship, integrity, corporate citizenship and an inclusive culture. It also means being transparent about our performance related to these important values. We have published our annual Citizenship Report since becoming an independent company in 2011, providing stakeholders like you with an in-depth look at the many ways we live up to our values. In this year’s report, renamed our Sustainability Report, we are bringing you an enhanced level of accountability by using reporting standards of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association. You will find here a more robust discussion of our corporate governance and a careful focus on the processes and programs we use to manage our performance. Through this new disclosure, our objective is to provide you with greater insight about how we work toward continual improvement. We achieved a significant milestone in 2018, as Marathon Petroleum’s strategic combination with Andeavor expanded our operational footprint from coast to coast. We are now a leading integrated, downstream energy company operating the nation’s largest refining system. We are one of the largest midstream operators in North America and have a nationwide retail and marketing business. As the world’s need for reliable, affordable, plentiful energy continues to grow, our expanded scale gives us the opportunity to create shared value with so many more of our neighbors, communities and fellow human beings around the world. In this report, you’ll read about how we manage, measure and continually improve our safety performance and environmental stewardship, changes we are making to enhance our community involvement, and progress we are making toward ever greater diversity and inclusion. Our performance in these areas is top-down: driven, executed and monitored by our Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team; and bottom-up: a result of our thousands of employees’ enthusiasm and dedication to the values that make us successful. Our success would not be possible without those of you who have a stake in our company’s operations – whether you are one of our neighbors, an employee, a business partner, customer, appointed or elected official, or a shareholder. I thank you for your interest in Marathon Petroleum Corporation, and encourage you to read this report to learn more. Sincerely, Gary R. Heminger Chairman and Chief Executive Officer About Marathon Petroleum Corporation 2018 by the Numbers ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITY SAFETY AT OUR CORE AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Reduced direct and energy indirect Partnered with and GHG emissions intensity by contributed to 2% in 2018 local and national organizations such American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) as the United Way, Children’s Hospital Reduced our criteria pollutant intensity of San Antonio, American Red Cross, Elite Silver Safety Award at three of our refineries by 10% and overall criteria Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Girl Scouts of the USA, Children’s Miracle pollutant emissions by 7% Voluntary Protection Program Network Hospitals and Ronald Star Site designation, OSHA’s highest status, McDonald House CharitiesReduced freshwater withdrawal intensity at 18 facilities 16% since 2014 2018 and 2019 EPA ENERGY STAR Owns and manages 1,347 acres Partner of the Year, the only refining company to of wildlife habitat certified by the earn the award those years Wildlife Habitat Council Recognized by Forbes as one of America’s Best Employers for Diversity Achieved a score of 85% on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2018 Corporate Equality Index Reduced the number of personal safety incidents by 8% in 2018 across our Refining operations 4 | About MPC About Marathon Petroleum Corporation Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) is the largest petroleum refiner in the U.S., with more than 3 million barrels per day of crude oil capacity in our 16-refinery system. Our core values of health and safety, environmental stewardship, integrity, corporate citizenship, and an inclusive culture help drive the success of our fully integrated system. In 2018, MPC strategically combined with another independent refiner, Andeavor, which significantly expanded our footprint across key markets, enhanced our midstream footprint in the Permian and Bakken basins, and created our nationwide retail and marketing portfolio. This strategic combination has allowed us to continue our journey of building a valued, dynamic energy company that enhances life’s possibilities, while anchored in our core values. Today, we are the largest refining company in the U.S., doing business through our subsidiaries in 41 states and the District of Columbia; the Mexican states of Baja California, Sonora and Sinaloa; and with trading operations in Canada and Singapore. Our 12,000 retail and marketing locations include our branded retail outlets across the U.S. and in Mexico, and Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, which owns and operates retail convenience stores nationwide. Our 16 refineries are linked to this retail and marketing system through a robust distribution network and midstream service business. MPC’s midstream business includes its ownership of the general partner and majority limited partner interests in MPLX LP, which owns and operates natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation assets, as well as crude oil and light product transportation and logistics infrastructure. Headquartered in Findlay, Ohio, our fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, natural gas liquids, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through our distribution network and midstream service businesses in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and West Coast regions. We have a growing renewable energy portfolio, including our biodiesel facility in Cincinnati, Ohio; joint-venture ownership of three Midwest ethanol plants; ongoing conversion of one of our petroleum refineries to produce renewable diesel; and our wholly owned subsidiary, Virent, that produces advanced biofuels from plant sugars and lignocellulosic materials. MPC At A Glance The largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and midstream business in the U.S. 131 years of experience in the energy business, with roots tracing back to 1887 Over 60,000 regular full-time and part-time employees 113.5 million gallons of refined products sold per day 16,600 miles of pipeline Over 3 million barrels per day of crude oil refining capacity across 16 refineries A marine business that owns and operates23 vessels and 256 barges Biodiesel production capacity of 80 million gallons per year About MPC | 5 Nearly 12,000 nationwide retail and marketing locations Land- and water-access terminal facilities with 27.3 million barrels of capacity Natural gas processing throughput of 7.5 billion standard cubic feet per day 6 | About MPC About MPC | 7 An Integrated Business Model Our uniquely integrated business provides us with extensive flexibility, enabling us to meet the growth needs of the market and respond promptly to shifts in market conditions. REFINING AND MARKETING: . Our Refining system is the largest in the U.S., with more than 3 million barrels per day of throughput capacity. Our 16 refineries are in the West Coast, Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent regions of the U.S. and are integrated with each other via pipelines, marine operations, transport trucks, railcars and storage terminals to maximize operating efficiency. . We sell our refined products to independent retailers, wholesale customers and our branded jobbers within our 41-state marketing area. MIDSTREAM: . We are the general partner and majority limited partner unitholder in MPLX LP, a midstream company that owns and operates crude oil and light product transportation and logistics infrastructure, as well as natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation assets. . The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries, terminals and other logistics assets to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. RETAIL: . We have the nation’s second-largest company-owned and -operated convenience store chain. We sell transportation fuels and merchandise through convenience stores that we own and operate, primarily under the Speedway brand, as well as through direct dealer locations, mainly under the ARCO® brand. For more information on our operational and financial performance in 2018, please see our 2018 Annual Report. 8 | Sustainability at MPC Sustainability at MPC ABOUT THIS REPORT This 2018 Sustainability Report, published October 2019, is MPC’s eighth annual Citizenship Report and covers our safety, governance, social and environmental activities, initiatives, and performance for calendar year 2018. Last year’s Citizenship Report covering calendar year 2017 can be found online at https://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Responsibility/Corporate-Citizenship/ and Andeavor’s 2017 Sustainability Report can be found online at https://www.marathonpetroleum.com/content/ documents/Andeavor_2017_SR_FINAL_Web.pdf. This report has been developed in accordance with the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) Sustainability Reporting Guidance. It is also largely informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, which were used to guide the materiality and stakeholder engagement process and narrative development of our management approach. The information and data in this report covers all MPC and legacy Andeavor entities, including Andeavor Logistics LP, Speedway LLC and MPLX LP for the calendar year 2018, unless otherwise indicated. Data included has been reviewed by MPC’s Internal Audit organization. Through our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report, we continue to provide a risk assessment that follows guidelines set forth by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). Our third Perspectives report is available on our website. We encourage open dialogue and any feedback that can help to inform and improve our immediate and long-term sustainability performance. The contact for this report can be reached at sustainability@marathonpetroleum.com. ACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH SHARED VALUE We view sustainability as our environmental, social and economic responsibility. We believe that sustainability is a fundamental process of shared-value creation, in which strategic investment and innovation help our society achieve economic growth, environmental preservation and resource conservation. This shared value helps ensure the social and economic needs of future generations are met. BOARD OVERSIGHT AND RESPONSIBILITY Achieving shared value and ensuring we operate our business in a responsible and sustainable manner is not only the responsibility of our tens of thousands of employees and business partners through their daily decisions and actions, it also comes from the top. Oversight by our Board of Directors supports strong corporate governance. In late 2018, our Board established a board-level Sustainability Committee. This committee oversees our health, environmental, safety and security policies, plans, programs and practices, and reviews our performance and public reporting on these matters. The committee reviews our annual Sustainability Report and our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report, and oversees our management team’s efforts on contingency planning, emergency response activities and stakeholder engagement. It also provides oversight on a variety of environment, social and governance (ESG) topics. More information on our Board’s Sustainability Committee and its responsibilities, as well as our executive leadership committees, can be found in our 2019 Proxy Statement and 2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report. Sustainability at MPC | 1110 | Sustainability at MPC REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE We are required to comply with regulations governing safety, environment, workers’ rights, equal employment opportunity, human rights and social justice.  Our operations, assets and processes require specialized knowledge, advanced operating procedures and a commitment to excellence to ensure safety and maximize environmental stewardship. Our approach to sustainability is defined by not only the work we do to conform and comply with all laws and regulations, but also by our drive to meet or exceed our own rigorous environmental and safety targets. DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE The combination of MPC and Andeavor in 2018 presented an unprecedented opportunity to integrate and combine two dynamic legacy management systems: MPC’s RC14001® (Health, Environment, Safety and Security Management System) and Andeavor’s Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). This combination helps to ensure best practices for continual improvement of our operations and the availability, utilization, profitability and reliability of our assets. It also supports our ability to invest in communities, ensure risk governance, preserve the environment and conserve natural resources. After more than 15 years of continual improvement under the Responsible Care® Management System, MPC adopted the RC14001® certification process in 2018 to further enhance and promote sustainable practices in our operations. RC14001 is a management system that combines Responsible Care® with the globally recognized ISO14001 environmental management system, established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). ISO is an independent, nongovernmental international body that provides specifications for products, services and systems that ensure quality, safety and efficiency. RC14001 provides us with a management system that integrates health, environmental stewardship, safety and security and is third-party audited to ensure compliance and continual improvement. Throughout 2018, we worked to increase the number of sites certified to RC14001. Six refineries, Marathon Pipe Line and our Terminal, Transport and Rail organization have been certified to the standard. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND expectations and business. We also conducted more information on our approach to stakeholder industry and peer benchmarking to assess the engagement, see Pages 20 and 21 of this report. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT* sustainability strategies, priorities and actions We undertook an in-depth materiality assessment taken by our industry; reviewed non-governmental We then gathered feedback via in-depth surveys to identify the environmental, social and governance organization (NGO) materials and advocacy that asked stakeholders to indicate each topic’s topics that were most relevant to our company campaigns; media coverage; trends in the regulatory level of priority. Survey results, along with an and our stakeholders. That materiality assessment, internal assessment to better understand each environment; and shareholder feedback from our guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) engagement initiatives. This external research helped topic’s overall impact, were used to develop a Standards, informs the content of this report and  inform the broader sustainability context in which prioritized list. High-priority and moderate-priority our future sustainability strategy development. we operate. topics are listed below. The outcome of this assessment was an enhanced understanding of the topics most significant to our PRIORITIZATION VALIDATION business, the environment and society. We reviewed, approved and validated our final The next step in our materiality assessment process prioritization of the material topics. Each topic was to engage more than 1,000 internal and external IDENTIFICATION OF TOPICS is included in this report and can be found in stakeholders to understand key focus areas and their We reviewed source documents, such as business our IPIECA (International Petroleum Industry priority across the economic, environmental and plans and strategies, employee communications, Environmental Conservation Association) and social aspects of our business. External stakeholders external communications, and materials from both Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index. included community residents, Community Advisory MPC and Andeavor, to assess the broad landscape Panels (CAPs), advocacy organizations, emergency of topics affecting our industry, society, stakeholder HIGH PRIORITY TOPICS responders, elected officials and regulators. For Air Emissions MODERATE PRIORITYAnti-corruption Practices TOPICS Board and Executive Leadership Diversity Climate-related Risks Ethical Business Practices Native Peoples Engagement Oil Spill Prevention Process Safety Worker Safety Workforce Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity Community and Stakeholder Engagement Endangered Species and Ecosystems Employee and CEO Compensation Philanthropic Investment and Employee Volunteerism Sustainability Oversight Waste Minimization and Handling Water Use and Wastewater Management *Distinct from concepts of materiality in financial reporting and under securities laws, a sustainability materiality assessment seeks to consider impacts an organization may have on the broader economy, environment and society, and factors viewed as important to stakeholders. 