MPC TAKES ITS HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITMENT TO A NEW LEVEL Since 2001, MPC’s health, environment, safety and Rail; the Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas; and security (HES&S) performance has been continually Marathon Pipe Line LLC. The rest of the company will improving under the Responsible Care® Management begin certitfying to the new standard in 2018. System, and we are now moving into a more rigorous Similar to Responsible Care, RC14001 provides the phase of HES&S management that represents a new company a management system that integrates health, level of commitment: RC14001® certification. environmental stewardship, safety and security, and is RC14001 is a management system that combines third-party audited to ensure compliance and continual Responsible Care with the globally recognized ISO14001 improvement. environmental management system, established by “I couldn’t be more proud of what we have the International Organization for Standardization. ISO, accomplished under Responsible Care,” said Heminger. as the organization is called, is an independent, non.“We are very well-positioned in our industry from an governmental international body that provides world-HES&S standpoint, and holding ourselves accountable class specifications for products, services and systems to this higher standard will ensure we keep improving that ensure quality, safety and efficiency. across all our operations.” “RC14001 is a more detailed, prescriptive set of standards than the Responsible Care Management System, and after more than 15 years of continual “I couldn’t be improvement in our HES&S performance, we are now more proud of what going to hold ourselves accountable to this we have accomplished higher standard companywide,” said under Responsible Care. We Chairman and CEO are very well-positioned in Gary Heminger. our industry from an HES&S Four MPC organizations standpoint, and holding already certify ourselves accountable to to the RC14001 standard: the this higher standard will ensure Detroit refinery; Terminal, Transport & we keep improving across MPC Responsible Care Coordinator Melissa Kinn oversees the company’s all our operations.” implementation and compliance with RC14001, a more detailed, Gary Heminger, Chairman and CEO prescriptive set of standards. 10 | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT MPC BEGAN BUILDING PIPELINES IN 1906 | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT      11 WE DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN PIPELINES RESPONSIBLY OUR APPROACH TO PIPELINE SAFETY IS INFORMED BY MORE THAN A CENTURY OF EXPERIENCE. When we develop a pipeline, our planning phase takes into account the unique terrain, environmental and other characteristics of the path the pipeline will take, as well as the potential impacts it could have on landowners and the environment. We discuss pipeline projects with regulatory agencies to make sure we understand any questions or concerns they might have. We discuss the project with landowners whose properties might be affected by rights of way. We conduct civil, environmental and accompany them on field visits they might archaeological surveys of proposed rights of way wish to make to verify the conditions we have to ensure the proposed path of the pipeline is outlined in our permit applications. suitable. This information supports our permit Some permit applications involve the applications with regulatory agencies. opportunity for public comment. We support During an extensive permit application process, regulatory agencies by providing technical our permits are reviewed by regulators, and information they might need to respond to we answer any questions they might have, or public comments. During the pipeline construction process, and once a pipeline is built, we consider landowners to be valuable partners. We interact with them based on three core principles: WE’RE REPLACING SAFE PIPELINES  TO MAKE THEM EVEN SAFER Marathon Petroleum Corporation owns, leases or has ownership interests in about 10,800 miles of crude oil and light-product pipelines, and we’ve been in the pipeline business for over a century. Using a powerful We know that operating pipelines profitably means operating them safely, and as stewards of the combination of physical environment we all share. So we go well beyond what’s required of us. inspections and predictive modeling, We are constantly inspecting,  we’ve identified waterway crossings evaluating and maintaining  where we plan to  our pipelines. re-lay pipeline segments below the beds of  the waterways. And we’re expanding  that program to Under our program,  Federal regulations require  we have inspected  specific inspections on  We’re replacing pipeline segments  40 that have no problems with them, because  of our pipeline segments  where they cross waterways. we are committed to safe operations. 340 550 All numbers reflect the status of a multiyear program as of Sept. 1, 2017 Marathon Petroleum Corporation is the general partner of MPLX LP, a master limited partnership we formed in 2012 to own, operate, develop and acquire midstream energy infrastructure assets. This includes pipelines, which are the safest, most economical way to transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. One of MPLX’s subsidiaries is Marathon Pipe Line LLC (MPL). Here you’ll find statistics on MPL’s performance last year. 2016: Pipelines by the Numbers 50 In-Line InspectionTool Runs  13 HydrotestInspections  150 Waterway CrossingInspections  In-line inspection tools are diagnostic tools that travel inside pipelines scanning the walls with technology similar to an ultrasound or an MRI in a doctor’s office. These tools inspect for dents, corrosion, cracks and other anomalies. MPL and MPC employees are prepared to respond Hydrotest inspections to a pipeline 159 471identify defects that might emergency MPL employees are trained affect pipeline integrity in incident command. during operation. These 24 hours a day tests allow us to test the 7 days a week integrity of pipelines under environmentally safe 365 days a year conditions. 106Emergency preparedness exercises, drills and equipmentWaterway crossing deployments inspections examine completed. how deep pipelines are underground and This is identify which pipelines are prone to erosion and water channel changes. 73more than required by regulation. 99.99993% OF BARRELS TRANSPORTED SAFELY REACHED THEIR DESTINATION  10 RELEASES INSIDE AN MPL FACILITY RESULTING IN 8 TOTAL BARRELS RELEASED  2 RELEASES OUTSIDE AN MPL FACILITY RESULTING IN 859 TOTAL BARRELS RELEASED  543,148 Public awareness mailings sent to the public, excavators, schools, public officials, farmers, landowners and residents along our rights of way. This is 289,277 more than required by regulation. 4,665 Aerial patrols of our rights of way completed. This is 2,652 more than required by regulation. Barrels rounded to the nearest whole number. 16 MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Until late last year, tourists who visited the MPC-owned San Francisco Plantation in Garyville, Louisiana, could take part in a guided tour that provided scant information about the enslaved people whose forced labor made the plantation possible. Personnel at MPC’s Garyville refinery, where the plantation is located, began a research process in 2015 aimed at bringing greater prominence to the lives of those who helped build the nation’s economy of that era. “The economic viability of plantations in the mid-1800s was based on an inhumane system of enslaved people, and when we present the history of the San Francisco Plantation, we need to acknowledge that,” said Tracy Case, general manager of the Garyville refinery. “We can’t focus only on the charming attributes of the plantation house and grounds; we should tell the whole story. The enhancements to the plantation tour experience were inaugurated in March 2017. On this page you can see some of the most prominent changes.   Interpretive signage adds information about the experience of enslaved people in conducting the complex work of the plantation, including the planting, tending, harvesting and manufacture of sugar. Statues depicting enslaved people add a personal feel to the places where they used to live. Tours now include information about the social history of the home, including the role of enslaved people in everyday life. 