WE HAVE INTEGRATED DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INTO OUR RECRUITING, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Jaime De La Cruz has a vision for diversity and inclusion that might surprise some people. “Diversity and inclusion is about everyone,” he says. “No matter your race, gender or gender identity, age, religion, sexual orientation, political affiliation or any other aspect of who you are, the way we see diversity and inclusion encompasses all of us.” De La Cruz, manager of MPC’s Diversity, Inclusion and Talent Management organization, newly created in 2016, says there’s a misconception that diversity and inclusion is only about race, sexual orientation, or other hot-button social issues. “While that’s part of it, by no means is that all,” he says. “What diversity and inclusion means, at its heart, is that every single one of us is incredibly valuable and has enormous potential; we wouldn’t be working at MPC if that weren’t the case.” A wide variety of factors can make a group diverse, and this means the individuals would approach their work differently. Inclusion principles mean we recognize differences, appreciate them, and work with them to maximize everyone’s ability to contribute. “When we respect all differences – the obvious ones and the more subtle ones – and we practice inclusion, then we unlock everyone’s potential and really start to see positive results for the business,” De La Cruz says. Those positive results come from a basic human trait: when people feel valued, they contribute more. “It’s not speculation – it’s fact – that when everyone is engaged, everyone contributes,” he says. “When everyone feels comfortable, they feel more free to share good ideas and challenge things that could harm our performance, like unsafe practices or inefficient processes and procedures.” These benefits of diversity and inclusion, in fact, prompted MPC to integrate it into the way we find, recruit, retain and manage our talent. “We feel that Talent Acquisition and Organizational Development are the natural homes for our diversity and inclusion efforts,” says De La Cruz. “These are the functions where we are positioned best to unlock everyone’s potential from the time they’re recruited, through their hiring process, and into their development as professionals at our company.” MPC’s Manager of Diversity, Inclusion and Talent Management, Jaime De La Cruz, leads MPC employees in a diversity workshop. WE HAVE INVESTED BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY When we say environmental stewardship, health and safety are corporate values, we aren’t making a vague promise; we’re making a long-term commitment. Over the past decade, we have spent billions of dollars on this commitment, and in 2016 alone, we invested $732 million in capital expenditures, operations and maintenance, and remediation related to health, environment and safety. Just a few examples: • Refinery flares: As part of the EPA’s refinery flare enforcement initiative, we collaborated with the EPA to define operating parameters that ensure flare combustion efficiency. We were the first company to produce and publish the results of our own flare performance tests, and we have made significant investments in flare improvements throughout our refining system. By the end of 2016, these investments had resulted in an 87 percent reduction in emissions of volatile organic compounds, an 85 percent drop in hazardous air pollutants, and a 51 percent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from 2007 levels. By the end of 2018, we will have invested more than $375 million in this program. • Tier 3 fuels: The EPA’s “Tier 3 Fuels Program” requires refiners to further reduce the amount of sulfur in gasoline. We are investing in technologies throughout our refining system to comply with this rule. • Energy efficiency programs: MPC is one of the most efficient refiners in the nation. Our refineries have earned more ENERGY STAR® recognitions from the EPA than all other refiners in the U.S. combined. • Galveston Bay wastewater treatment plant: We are making investments at our Galveston Bay refinery’s wastewater treatment plant that will reduce volatile organic compound emissions by approximately 100 tons per year. • Galveston Bay heater replacements: We are replacing old heaters with new ones equipped with state-of-the-art emissions controls to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by over 370 tons per year. • Galveston Bay thermal desorption unit: We’re investing in this technology that heats hazardous material to remove hydrocarbons. This enables us to reduce the volume of waste produced and transform hazardous material to a non-hazardous substance. • Process safety improvements: We continually invest in process safety, which helps further protect our people, environment and communities. We have made recent investments in tank and vessel relief and instrumented systems, as well as upgrades for compressor protection, to further reduce the risk of a release. • Detroit wastewater re-use: Our refinery in Detroit is piloting a system that recycles 300 gallons of wastewater per minute. This program may be expanded to recycle larger volumes, depending on the results of the pilot program. 22 | MPC 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT WE HAVE 1,327 ACRES OF CERTIFIED WILDLIFE HABITAT MPC owns and maintains 21 wildlife habitats certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), with more than 1,327 acres of land. The WHC promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management on corporate lands through partnerships and education. MPC participates in habitat certification as part of its long-time commitment to environmental stewardship. HABITAT SITE: Garyville, Louisiana, refinery property Acres managed for wildlife: 450 HABITAT SITE: Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve, Catlettsburg, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: 360 HABITAT SITE: Martinsville Tank Farm, Martinsville, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 188 HABITAT SITE: Palestine Neil Pit, Palestine, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 80 HABITAT SITE: Lincoln Trail College and Palestine High School Nature Habitat, Robinson, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 50 HABITAT SITE: Speedway Office Complex, Enon, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 42 HABITAT SITE: Washington Park, Robinson, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 31 HABITAT SITE: Pollinator Prairie, Robinson, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 30 HABITAT SITE: Kuttawa Asphalt Terminal, Kuttawa, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: 25 HABITAT SITE: MPLX Marine Repair Facility, South Point, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 13 HABITAT SITE: Stoy Station, Stoy, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 11 HABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Asphalt Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Indiana Acres managed for wildlife: 10 HABITAT SITE: St. Elmo Asphalt Terminal, St. Elmo, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 9 HABITAT SITE: Marathon Pipe Line Heath Station, Heath, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 8 HABITAT SITE: Cane Run Asphalt Terminal, Louisville, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: 7 HABITAT SITE: Big Spring, Kentucky. This site is unique in that the land is not owned by MPC, although MPC has a right of way for an underground pipeline through the property. Part of the property, including the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat cooperatively between MPC and the landowner. Acres managed for wildlife: 4 HABITAT SITE: Nashville Asphalt Terminal, Nashville, Tennessee Acres managed for wildlife: 4 HABITAT SITE: Canton Refinery Westwoods, Canton, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 3 HABITAT SITE: Hutsonville School Nature Habitat, Hutsonville, Illinois Acres managed for wildlife: 3 HABITAT SITE: Marathon Gardens, Detroit, Michigan Acres managed for wildlife: <1 HABITAT SITE: Owensboro Station, Owensboro, Kentucky Acres managed for wildlife: <1| MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT WE’RE BUILDING A CERTIFIED WILDLIFE HABITAT IN DETROIT A few years ago, the Oakwood Heights neighborhood in Detroit was a blighted residential area. Many of the homes were abandoned, making them targets for squatters, arsonists and other criminal activity. And so, when our Detroit Heavy Oil Upgrade Project moved the refinery’s footprint closer to the neighborhood, we offered buyouts to the several hundred homeowners in the area. More than 80 percent chose to take the offer. After hundreds of demolitions and a tremendous amount of effort and investment by the refinery and its staff, most of Oakwood Heights is now well-maintained lawn and trees. Refinery Environmental Professional Treva Formby is implementing the refinery’s vision for 18 acres of the former neighborhood to be converted to a habitat certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council. “We plan to develop a 12-acre forest bordered by five acres of prairie and an acre of new wetland,” she said. “And this is part of a larger, longer-range vision for a green space called Marathon Gardens, encompassing about 100 acres and including wildlife habitat restoration, park-like areas and urban farming.” The long-term vision for the former Oakwood Heights neighborhood is 100 acres of urban farming, wildlife habitat and park-like areas. MPC 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 25 Thanks to the tireless efforts of volunteers from the refinery and the community, the Wildlife Habitat Council certified about a quarter acre of the former Oakwood Heights neighborhood last fall. In order to achieve the certification, volunteers from the refinery and community got together to plant trees, shrubs and grasses; weed the area to keep out invasive species; and keep the area litter-free. 26 | MPC 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT MPC management, employees and retirees were integral to the planning, funding and construction of the Blanchard Valley Health System Miracle Park in Findlay, Ohio. The park provides a playground with sensory-stimulating activities, an extensive ramping system and a cushioned, rubberized surface for individuals who are physically, mentally or emotionally challenged. OUR EMPLOYEES ARE ENGAGED AND SEE MPC IN A FAVORABLE LIGHT | How does MPC measure up? Every two years, we commission a companywide survey of employees. The 2016 survey consisted of two parts: employee engagement, which was provided by Sirota Consulting; and a health, environment, safety and security (HES&S) section provided by Safety Performance Solutions. The 2016 survey measured employee engagement across several corporate dimensions that are important to our business success, as well as perceptions of our HES&S situation. A favorable score of 80 percent or higher is considered a strength, 65 to 79 percent is moderate, and below 65 percent is an opportunity to improve. OUR GREATEST STRENGTHS: Of the 93 questions on the combined surveys, 78 scored an 80 percent or above (that’s up from 67 questions scoring 80 percent or above in 2014). Our employees also scored 39 questions at 90 percent favorable or higher, an improvement over the 30 questions at that level in 2014. Among our greatest strengths: Employees firmly believe MPC promotes a workplace characterized by safety and environmental stewardship. A large majority of employees give their supervisors high marks when it comes to health and safety, clearly setting expectations and modeling safe behavior. Employees feel they have received adequate safety and environmental training to do their jobs. Nearly everyone believes that production is not put ahead of safety, and that their supervisor would support them stopping a job for safety reasons. | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT      29 About 90 percent of employees are proud to work for MPC and would recommend the company as a place to work. Sixty-four percent of employees believe that “The promotion process selects employees with the ability and motivation to work safely.” That was our lowest-scoring question, and an issue we are focusing on for improvement. HOW WE COMPARE TO OTHERS IN OUR INDUSTRY Belief that management is more concerned about keeping people safe than with keeping the injury statistics low: 29 percent higher than industry comparison groups Feeling that supervisors do not put production ahead of safety: 26 percent higher than industry comparison groups Belief that our safety reward/recognition programs encourage working safely and participating in safety activities: 24 percent higher than industry comparison groups Feeling that discipline for safety violations is fair and consistent: 25 percent higher than industry comparison groups HOW BIOFUELS WORK IN OUR  REFINING AND MARKETING SYSTEM The U.S. government requires that fuel refiners and others blend biofuels into petroleum fuels. Those who are obligated to blend biofuels are call “obligated parties,” and to prove compliance with the law, obligated parties must turn in Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). A RIN is generated whenever a gallon of biofuel is produced and sold. As an obligated party, Marathon Petroleum Corporation is required Whenever a gallon of qualifying biofuel is produced and sold, a RIN is generated. RINs prove compliance with the federal biofuels mandate. to present to the EPA enough RINs to show we complied with our Renewable Volume Obligation, which changes each year. This biofuels mandate and system is called the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). Below is a basic representation of how the RFS works in our system. Most gasoline in the U.S. is 10 percent de-natured ethanol. Blends with up to 15 and 85 percent ethanol *As an obligated party, MPC separates the RIN at a different point; we separate it when we receive the biofuel, rather than at the point of blending. 