MANAGING FOR CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT WE IMPLEMENTED RESPONSIBLE CARE® IN 2002, AND IT SETS US APART MPC is the only refiner that adheres to the rigorous requirements of Responsible Care. You might find yourself wondering why Responsible Care matters. After all, refining companies have to adhere to federal, state and local regulations when it comes to health, safety and environmental performance. And refiners also have their own processes and procedures to stay safe. But Responsible Care requires a company to go beyond minimum requirements, and to continuously improve. Through Responsible Care, companies improve their environmental, health, safety and security performance for their facilities, processes and products. And this commitment must include their entire operating system. In MPC’s case, that means Responsible Care covers our seven refineries, dozens of refined-product terminals, thousands of miles of pipelines, hundreds of barges, scores of transport trucks and much more. A key element of the Responsible Care Management System is mandatory certification by an independent, accredited auditor. All companies taking part in Responsible Care in the U.S. undergo headquarters and facility audits to ensure they have structures and systems in place to measure, manage and verify their performance. And the program yields results. Responsible Care companies are almost five times safer than the average of the U.S. manufacturing sector as a whole, and three times safer than the chemicals industry overall. Responsible Care companies have reduced process safety incidents by 51 percent since 1995, and from 1988 to 2014, they have reduced hazardous releases to the air, land and water by more than 74 percent. “Responsible Care is integrated into everything we do,” says Melissa Kinn, MPC’s Responsible Care coordinator. “Because we have been a Responsible Care company for well over a decade, we don’t consider it a program that we impose on our business. Instead, it’s simply the way we operate.” MPC’s Corporate Responsible Care® Coordinator Melissa Kinn MPC employees volunteer during the United Way Days of Caring in Hancock County, Ohio. The Salvation Army’s Bed & Bread Club truck, fueled by MPC, provides meals to Detroit residents in need. 11 CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 2016 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT THE PRODUCTS WE MANUFACTURE HELP THOSE IN NEED As the Salvation Army’s Bed & Bread truck travels through some of Detroit’s poorest neighborhoods distributing food, one resource the charity doesn’t have to worry about is the vehicle’s next tank of gas. MPC’s Detroit refinery actively supports the Bed & Bread program by providing fuel for the vehicle, keeping it moving as it takes meals to those in need. “One of the inspiring aspects of our business is that every day we come to work, we’re manufacturing the fuels that make modern life possible,” said Dave Roland, general manager of the Detroit refinery. “Donating fuel to the Salvation Army’s Bed & Bread truck is a concrete way for us to make life better for those who need it most.” Because petroleum products are fundamental to transportation, they play a role in almost every aspect of daily life that benefits the public. In addition to hunger alleviation, another example is law enforcement. Since July 2013, the Detroit refinery has helped to refurbish three Detroit Police Department (DPD) vehicles, fund officers’ pay for directed patrols in neighborhoods adjacent to the refinery, and has provided all the fuel for police cruisers conducting the directed patrols. “Road repairs that were being conducted in the area had been affecting the DPD’s response times to calls in our area, so we thought funding these directed patrols would be a good solution for our neighbors,” said Rich Robell, head of refinery security. “Initially, the program was jointly funded with the Michigan Department of Transportation and the city of Detroit, but since their funding ran out, we’ve been happy to continue financing the program.” Through March 2016, the program had funded more than 1,300 shifts and resulted in shorter average response times than the rest of the city of Detroit. “Charity and public safety are just two aspects of daily life that we help make possible through the products we make,” said Roland. “We’re happy to use our core business as a way to enhance our neighbors’ lives.” CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 2016 12 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT SPEEDWAY AND ITS CUSTOMERS FUND CRITICAL TREATMENTS AND SERVICES FOR CHILDREN When you make a purchase at any of Speedway’s 2,770 stores, you are likely to see a canister by the register with the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals® logo on it. Maybe you’ll drop some of your change in that canister, not giving it much thought. But that small act of charity adds up to enormous benefits for sick and injured children. Speedway LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC, has been a corporate partner with Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals since 1991. It has contributed over $78 million to the nonprofit organization, with the majority of funds raised coming from the generosity of our millions of customers. This fundraising supports 58 Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals in regions where Speedway does business. Those donations have had a tangible impact on children’s lives. Just a few examples: • The Speedway Burn Center at Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis • Support for the Kosair Children’s Hospital transport team in Louisville, Kentucky • A mobile intensive care unit at Dayton Children’s Hospital in Dayton, Ohio • A family kitchen on the pediatric intensive care unit floor at Chicago’s Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital • A family waiting area in the neonatal and pediatric intensive care units at Beaumont Children’s Hospital in Royal Oak, Michigan Speedway contributions also come from Miracle Balloon icon campaigns, bowl-a-thons and employee payroll contributions programs. Through the generosity of its vendor partners, Speedway also hosts the largest single-day golf fundraising event for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, raising more than $2 million in 2015 alone. “Year after year we are in awe of Speedway’s commitment to supporting children’s hospitals in its communities,” said John Lauck, president and CEO of Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. “It’s partners like this – that fully embrace our mission to care for sick and injured kids – that allow us to provide more valuable resources to our hospitals.” This year, Speedway is celebrating 25 years of supporting the charity. “I am quite proud of Speedway’s partnership with Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, and humbled by the generosity of our customers and vendor partners as well as the enthusiasm of our employees for this very worthwhile cause,” said Tony Kenney, president of Speedway. “When you hear these kids’ stories of bravery and courage, you understand why Speedway is so passionate in our efforts to help. These are, after all, the children in our own backyards, and they deserve our very best effort.” 13 C CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 2016 14 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT A LARGE PART OF OUR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IS A CORPORATE COMMITMENT TO UNITED WAY At MPC, our charitable giving – like our community involvement as a whole – is a grassroots effort, driven by our employees. Every community where we operate has a unique set of needs, and nobody knows these needs better than the people who live there. MPC employees volunteer their time, resources and talents for organizations they care about. MPC matches their qualifying charitable contributions, donates to eligible nonprofits where they volunteer, and more. United Way operates with a very similar approach, identifying and supporting the organizations that meet their communities’ unique needs most effectively. For example, the United Way Galveston County Mainland – which serves the area of Texas where two of our refineries are located – supports 31 partner agencies, ranging from the local chapters of national organizations like the American Red Cross and the Salvation Army, to more community-specific groups like the Sunshine Center and Connect Transit. Robinson, Illinois, where another of our refineries is located, is served by the United Way of Knox County, Indiana, and Crawford County, Illinois. It supports 12 agencies in Crawford County and 24 in Knox County, focusing on meeting the needs that characterize these rural areas. In contrast, the United Way for Southeastern Michigan, covering the area where our Detroit refinery is located, partners with more than 80 agencies, and is geared toward the needs of the large metropolitan area. And so it goes in each community where MPC operates: the company and United Way support their neighbors in need. Given the United Way’s tailored, community-driven approach, it’s only natural that MPC has partnered with it. In fact, our partnership goes back decades. When the United Way of Hancock County, Ohio, first took shape in 1955, we donated office space in our headquarters to house it. Today, our employees throughout our operating areas raise funds for the United Way through golf tournaments, raffles, auctions and much more. MPC matches a portion of these donations to augment the total contribution. Since MPC became a standalone company in 2011, our matching contributions alone have been $5,126,110. “Our decision to support United Way at the corporate level was an easy one,” says Administrative Services Manager Paul Smith, who oversees the company’s philanthropic budget. “We look closely at a community’s needs and allocate funding to high-quality nonprofits that make people’s lives better. At the end of the day, that’s what we all want.” COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT WE RESPOND TO OUR NEIGHBORS’ CONCERNS At our refinery in Detroit, we planned a project to enable us to produce lower-sulfur gasoline required by the “Tier 3” rule from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Since the project would require us to install new equipment at our facility, we filed a permit application with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) to install it. Adding new processes to a refinery – especially to remove sulfur from fuels – typically requires more energy. It also means there will be more emissions. In our permit application with the MDEQ, we projected our additional emissions would include about 22 tons per year of sulfur dioxide (SO2), most of which our existing permit already allowed us to emit; 22 tons per year of nitrogen oxides; and smaller increases in several other pollutants that are regulated by the EPA. Our emissions of all pollutants still would have been well under the levels allowed under our permit. However, during public hearings held in Detroit, we heard from community residents, elected officials and civic leaders, who told us they opposed any increase in emissions from the refinery at all. They were especially concerned about SO2. Within a 2-mile radius of the Detroit refinery, there are several industrial facilities, including steel mills, power plants and more. In fact, all of the Detroit refinery’s emissions of “criteria air pollutants” – those that are regulated and tracked by the EPA – amount to only 3 percent of those emissions within that 2-mile radius. Nonetheless, residents were concerned about the cumulative effect of even a small increase. We then shared as much information as possible with local residents and elected officials. Among other details, we noted that we are committed to other projects that would reduce our overall SO2 emissions more than the Tier 3 Project’s increases. “What we heard from the community, including Detroit Mayor Michael Duggan’s administration, was this: If you’re going to reduce SO2 emissions anyway, then add those reductions to your current permit application, and make them enforceable,” said Dave Roland, general manager of the Detroit refinery. “So we worked with Mayor Duggan’s administration and the MDEQ, and that’s exactly what we did.” Through engineering and technology adjustments, we were able to change our projected increases of three pollutants, including SO2, into net decreases, and we are projecting much smaller increases in other criteria pollutants. Roland said that when we applied for the permit with the MDEQ, the company did everything by the book. “But in doing so, we overlooked something important – we should have contacted the elected officials from Detroit and neighboring communities before we filed, to let them know about the project, what benefits it will provide and why we were applying,” he said. “I think the Tier 3 permit process turned out well for everyone in the end, and as a result, our approach will be more positive and proactive in the future.” MPC employees at our Detroit refinery. MPC and other industry partners pooled resources with the Green Bay, Wisconsin, Fire Department to purchase a firefighting and rescue boat to serve the community and local industry.