Integrity and Governance BUSINESS ETHICS Our commitment to corporate responsibility is essential to the success of our business and our ability to create shared value for our stakeholders. At MPC, we have laid a foundation for principled business decisions based on respect, dignity and honesty, and with a focus on our core values of health and safety, environmental stewardship, integrity, corporate citizenship and an inclusive GOVERNANCE AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS Strong corporate governance is critical to our long-term business success. MPC’s Board of Directors has ultimate oversight over the management of our business. The Board is comprised of 12 directors, 10 of whom are independent. The independent directors have elected the Chairman and CEO and the Lead Director to lead the Board. The Board maintains four committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Sustainability. The roles of these committees are discussed in more detail on Page 9 and in our 2019 Proxy Statement. Our Board of Directors, as a whole, possesses a combination of the skills, professional experience, and diversity of backgrounds to ensure an effective mix of perspectives. The average tenure of our Board members is 3.7 years, and 33% of the directors are women or ethnic minorities. Most of our directors have senior corporate leadership, strategic planning, risk management, industry, operations and financial experience, and all have a background in public company board service. More information about our Board and each director’s qualifications can be found in our 2019 Proxy Statement. More information about the diversity of our Board can be found in the People section of this report on Page 24. COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS AT MPC Conducting business with the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct, as guided by our Code of Business Conduct, is of the utmost importance to us and our business. All MPC employees must follow our Code, which defines expectations for ethical decision-making, accountability and responsibility. All salaried MPC employees are required to regularly complete Code of Business Conduct training and an annual Code certification. This certification includes an ethics questionnaire and provides the opportunity for employees to disclose any issues that could be a violation of the Code. In 2018, 100% of all salaried MPC employees completed the annual certification. For accountability, we regularly report on the ethics and compliance program to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Our suppliers, vendors, contractors and business partners are expected to comply with the Code, as well as all applicable laws, rules and regulations. We provide to our business partners information that articulates the Code; guidelines regarding conflicts of interest, meals, gifts and entertainment; and access to our Integrity Helpline. We also expect them to support effective compliance programs in their own organizations. In addition to the Code of Business Conduct, we have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, including our CEO, CFO, controller, treasurer and other leaders performing similar roles. This separate Code of Ethics affirms the principle that the honesty, integrity and sound judgment of our senior executives with responsibility for preparation and certification of our financial statements is essential to the proper functioning and success of our company. 20 | Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement | 21 We continue to develop new policies and working groups aimed at building and sustaining mutually beneficial relationships with all tribes within our operational footprint to increase shared value between the company and native communities. As part of our commitment to this process, we engage third-party consultants to help us develop programs to educate our employees about native communities and create relationship-building opportunities. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY Our business is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governments. As a result, it is our responsibility to provide information and advocate for sound federal, state and local policies that enable us to continue providing affordable, reliable transportation fuels and other products to the communities we serve. We engage with the political process in several ways, including lobbying, grassroots activity, issue advocacy, participation in trade associations, supporting an active employee political action committee (PAC) and, where lawful, the direct support of political candidates and ballot issues. We report our total PAC and corporate contributions on a state and federal level as required by law and, in the interest of good governance and transparency, publish this information on our Political Engagement and Disclosure website.   Because we believe participation in the political process is vital to a free and democratic society, we encourage our employees to exercise their right to engage in political activities of their choosing. For more information on our political engagement philosophy, trade association memberships and lobbying disclosures, visit our Political Engagement and Disclosure website here: https://www.marathonpetroleum.com/ Responsibility/Political-Engagement-and-Disclosure/. TRADE ASSOCIATIONS Like most large companies, we are active in trade associations and similar groups at the national, state and local levels. We believe participation in these associations is important to the company’s role as an industry leader and active member of the business communities in which we operate. These associations engage in many activities for the benefit of their members, including encouraging industry standards among member companies.   Many trade associations actively engage in lobbying on issues that impact their respective members. Through our participation in trade associations, we seek to champion legislative solutions that are in the best interests of the company and the many stakeholders we serve. We believe it is important to be engaged with these organizations so our positions on issues of importance to the company can be expressed. Our senior management annually reviews our trade association memberships and assesses the effectiveness of and continued participation in the respective groups and the utility of any new memberships. We pride ourselves on taking an active role in our trade associations and have executives, technical experts and other personnel serving in various leadership and supporting roles within such groups. We recognize that viewpoints of other trade association members may differ from our own. When this occurs, we seek to work with the association membership to promote reasonable compromise. However, we do not control the position that any trade association may take on any particular issue. In 2018, annual dues greater than $50,000 incurred by MPC for national trade associations totaled $14.8 million, of which approximately $1.1 million (7%) was attributable to federal lobbying efforts and approximately $6.5 million (44%) was attributable to state and grassroots lobbying and broad advertising communications designed to generally promote the energy industry and educate consumers. Approximately $7.2 million (49%) of MPC payments made to national trade associations in 2018 was attributable to tax deductible, program-related activities such as training and the establishment of industry standards. A list of trade associations to which we paid dues at or above $50,000 per year, and which may engage in lobbying activities, is available on our website: https://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Responsibility/Political-Engagement-and-Disclosure/. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We recognize the importance of positive, meaningful interactions with a broad spectrum of our stakeholders and they are central to creating shared value. Our approach to stakeholder engagement includes building support for business operations, fostering strong community ties so that we can maximize our positive impacts, and maintaining continuous dialogue with community leaders and representatives where we operate. Our stakeholders include employees, investors, contractors, customers, suppliers, business partners, communities, Community Advisory Panels (CAPs), advocacy organizations, emergency responders, elected officials and regulators. Each group is critical to our broader, overarching stakeholder engagement strategy. We achieve shared value by fostering open communications with these groups, listening to their diverse perspectives, forging partnerships, responding to concerns and making positive, strategic investments. We will continue to evolve, expand and grow our approach to stakeholder engagement to meet the changing needs of our company and our stakeholders. In 2018, following the acquisition of Andeavor, we engaged with new groups in the areas of the country where our operations have expanded. COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANELS (CAPs) Most MPC refineries convene independent groups of local stakeholders through CAPs to formalize engagement with local community leaders and residents. CAPs are made up of representatives from the community, which can include teachers, retirees, business owners, elected officials, residents who live near our facilities, community organizers and other interested parties, depending on the community. Each CAP meets on a regular basis to learn more about key activities within their local refinery and other community news. At each meeting, a member of the refinery leadership team provides an update to community members, detailing the facility’s safety and environmental performance and providing relevant updates on significant projects. Most importantly, the CAPs provide us insight into activities and issues within our communities and identify ways that we can further enhance our engagements where we live and work.  While most of our CAPs are dedicated only to our facilities, some CAPs in more industrialized areas include industry partners and peers. These combined panels offer opportunities for community members to hear from, and provide feedback to, the broader industry. WORKING WITH NATIVE COMMUNITIES Our acquisition of Andeavor expanded our operations across the U.S. and increased our interactions with native communities – a key stakeholder group for MPC. Strong partnerships with these communities are critical to our success, and we strive to respect all tribal rights and traditions.  