OUR PEOPLE FORBES RANKED US AMERICA’S BEST EMPLOYER; WE CREDIT OUR EMPLOYEES AND OUR VALUES If you ask MPC senior vice president of Human Resources and Administrative Services Rod Nichols for the formula that got us to the top of the Forbes list, he’ll tell you it’s simple: define your company values, articulate clearly what they mean, and consistently adhere to them. Easier said than done. “A company’s culture is the product of all it has done, and all it does on a daily basis,” said Nichols. “We’ve been in business since 1887, and historically we have had a high level of loyalty and low employee turnover. It’s extremely difficult for other companies to match that kind of history and the strong values and culture it creates.” But if other employers are looking for hints, Nichols is happy to share one of MPC’s defining characteristics: ”Our values are a product of our culture, and they begin and end with our employees,” he said. “We put them into words and articulate them all the time.” Even if an employee can’t rattle off MPC’s five core values – health and safety, environmental stewardship, corporate citizenship, diversity and inclusion, and integrity – they nonetheless live them every day. “We don’t hang a list of our five values in offices or at our operating sites, but we reinforce them in hundreds of ways,” said Nichols. As just one example, he cites our value of integrity. “If an employee questions the integrity of a fellow employee’s actions, it’s not just because he or she knows integrity is one of our values,” Nichols said. “It’s because we provide tools and processes to follow up – anonymous reporting and protection from retaliation, for example. So our values – and the culture they have built – are already there; we just make sure we support them.” Some of MPC’s support for our values and culture comes through specific programs, like Diversity and Inclusion or Business Integrity and Compliance. But by and large, our culture comes from our people. “Our employees place enormous value on safety, environmental stewardship, and on their role as good, honest citizens,” Nichols concluded. “So they want MPC to reflect that. The company’s role in most cases is not to steer people toward action, but to find ways to facilitate what they want to do anyway.” CITIZENSHIP REPORT | 2016 38 OUR PEOPLE OFFERING BENEFITS TO SAME-SEX SPOUSES IS NOTHING NEW TO US Same-sex marriage is a hot-button social issue that can affect people deeply. It can resonate on personal, spiritual and political levels, which makes it an issue that can be controversial – and even divisive. But MPC is a corporation, charged with doing its critical work as effectively, safely and efficiently as possible. This means our policies look at the matter with a practical eye: we want to attract the best employees for every position in our company. If we lose an excellent employee, or fail to attract one, then our performance could suffer. Our pay, benefits and policies reflect this; we consider our employees our most valuable asset, and that’s how we treat them. For years, we have offered health benefits to employees’ spouses and domestic partners, regardless of their gender. So when the U.S. Supreme Court’s Obergefell v. Hodges ruling in 2015 made same-sex marriage legal across the nation, the biggest change to our benefits was that same-sex spouses were recognized under our retirement plan. “Before the Obergefell ruling, if an employee was legally married in a state that allowed same-sex marriages, then his or her spouse would have been eligible for our company-sponsored health, vision, dental and other insurance benefits,” said Rod Nichols, MPC’s senior vice president of Human Resources and Administrative Services. “We strive to deliver a benefits package that is socially and fiscally responsible; consideration of our diverse population is essential in designing benefits that are attractive.” But MPC’s practical approach doesn’t stop at mere policy or benefits. After all, there are many for whom same-sex relationships – including marriage – violate deeply held personal beliefs. Our Diversity and Inclusion organization provides workshops, panel discussions with gay employees, and discussion sessions companywide to address the issue. “Our emphasis is always very practical,” said Jaime De La Cruz, MPC’s manager of Diversity, Inclusion and Talent Management. “A diverse array of thinking, life experience, socio-economic origin and demographics makes us a much stronger, smarter company. This doesn’t always mean agreement, endorsement or friendship, but it does mean professionalism and valuing your fellow employees.” MPC Chairman of the Board Thomas Usher addresses shareholders at the 2016 Annual Shareholders Meeting. This was Usher’s last meeting before retiring.