ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE ARE THE INDUSTRY LEADER IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY In order to produce the fuels and other products our millions of customers rely on, MPC must use a significant amount of energy. Our electric bill in 2014, for example, was approximately $450 million. We also use natural gas in many of our energy-intensive processes. We therefore have a powerful incentive to implement processes and install equipment that increase our energy efficiency. These efforts have consistently paid off, making MPC the industry leader in energy efficiency. Since the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) started awarding ENERGY STAR® designations to refineries, it has awarded 39 such recognitions. MPC has earned 30 of them. That’s 77 percent of refinery ENERGY STAR awards, despite the fact that MPC owns and operates just under 10 percent of the nation’s refining capacity. MPC Energy Technologist Michael Harp notes that achieving ENERGY STAR designations requires not just first-quartile energy efficiency, but also environmental compliance with no outstanding environmental violations. “This is a situation in which we have achieved industry leadership because business considerations and our values work together to benefit everyone,” says Harp. “We are committed to being good stewards of the environment, good neighbors and responsible with our shareholders’ resources. Energy efficiency helps us to keep each of those commitments.” In 2010, MPC established the Focus on Energy Initiative to bolster our commitment to improving efficiency of operations. As part of this initiative, a team of specialists work to make energy-efficiency incentives more visible to operations and technical personnel at our refineries. The initiative has also identified medium- and long-term improvements for implementation, having completed dozens of detailed unit reviews and identified hundreds of projects and studies. “We’re certainly proud to be the industry leader in energy efficiency, but our culture of continual improvement means we’ll never consider our work complete,” says Harp. “We are always looking for that next opportunity to improve our efficiency. It’s good business, and it’s the right thing to do.” CITIZENSHIP REPORT 24 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE CONTINUALLY IMPLEMENT EMISSIONS.REDUCTION MEASURES Manufacturing fuel and other products at our seven refineries is the most energy-intensive and emissions-intensive aspect of MPC’s operations. Our refineries account for 87 percent of the “criteria air pollutants” emitted by MPC. These substances, monitored and regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, include sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, total particulate matter and volatile organic compounds. Consistent measurement of MPC’s criteria air pollutant emissions over a period of several years can be complicated by changes in our assets. We sold a refinery in 2010, for example, and acquired one in 2013. Excluding these changes, however, we can see the trend for the six refineries we owned from 2002 through 2014. This trend shows that we have reduced criteria air pollutant emissions by 57 percent, even as gross throughput at these refineries increased by 39 percent. We have accomplished these reductions primarily by installing the latest control technologies. In addition to criteria air pollutant emissions, MPC’s refining operations are the source of approximately 96 percent of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Indirect GHG emissions are primarily those associated with producing electricity and steam that we purchase to operate the refineries, as well as hydrogen necessary for some of our conversion processes, many of which produce low-sulfur fuels necessary for today’s cleaner-burning engines. When considering the six refineries we owned from 2002 through 2014, our direct GHG emissions increased by only 8 percent, even as gross throughputs increased 39 percent. In other words, MPC is manufacturing more of the fuel and other products millions of people rely on, while doing so with a shrinking environmental footprint per unit produced. It’s also worth noting that MPC’s GHG emissions are a small component of a much larger picture. American society, and the world at large, derive enormous benefits from the fuels we manufacture. MPC’s direct GHG emissions of 17.2 million metric tons in 2014 represent about 7 percent of the total GHG emissions associated with our fuel products, including our direct emissions and those from customers as they use our products. It’s also worth noting that the approximately 259.2 million metric tons of GHGs emitted from producing and consuming our fuel products represent about 4 percent of U.S. GHG emissions in 2013,* and less than 0.6 percent of global emissions in 2010.* *The latest years for which the EPA provides data 25 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Employees at MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 26 During a major drill in 2014, MPC and local, state and federal authorities practiced responding to a crude oil release into a waterway near Memphis, Tenn. In this photo, responders conduct a briefing on the status of the simulated emergency. 27 CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE ARE PREPARED FOR EMERGENCIES MPC’s Corporate Emergency Response Team (CERT) is ready to respond to an emergency at any time. Made up of specially trained employees from organizations throughout the company, CERT is a critical part of MPC’s role as a good corporate citizen. CERT provides response management and corporate resources and technical support during an emergency situation. Members are trained to use the Incident Command System, widely used by government agencies and emergency responders. This allows CERT to integrate seamlessly in a time of crisis. Rick DeFend, manager of MPC’s Corporate Emergency Preparedness, says CERT plays an important role in maintaining the company’s focus on what matters. “We conduct our business while protecting and preserving the health and safety of employees, contractors and community residents,” DeFend said. “We also protect the environment, as well as our property and that of our neighbors.” One of the most important aspects of CERT’s training is a yearly three-day drill. This drill simulates an event that significantly impacts MPC’s operations, the environment, a community or sometimes all three. During these scenarios, CERT practices not just its own ability to respond to these events, but its ability to collaborate effectively with federal, state and local responders. CERT Facts • Established in 1990 • CERT is made up of two main groups: o Emergency Strike Team (about 100 members) o Emergency Support Group (about 85 members) • CERT has responded to product releases, product quality issues and humanitarian efforts. • CERT, along with federal, state and local responders, participates in an annual three-day exercise. Just like real incidents, CERT drills involve federal organizations, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the U.S. Coast Guard; state environmental protection or wildlife agencies, such as the Texas General Land Office or the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality; and local emergency responders, such as fire departments, law enforcement and emergency managers. Annual CERT drills enable MPC to continually improve its ability to respond to incidents, and to maintain successful working relationships with federal, state and local agencies involved in incident response. “One of the most interesting facts about our CERT team is that everyone volunteers to be a part of it,” added DeFend. “These are employees who want to lend their expertise to this effort, and that ensures our response capability is not only robust, but driven by a passion to do the right thing.” CITIZENSHIP REPORT 28 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WE MAINTAIN 1,289 ACRES OF CERTIFIED WILDLIFE HABITATS MPC owns and maintains 20 wildlife habitats certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), with a total of 1,289 acres of land. These sites are certified as either Wildlife at Work or Corporate Lands for Learning sites, and in some cases both. The WHC’s Wildlife at Work program provides a structure for cooperative efforts between management, employees and community members to create, conserve and restore wildlife habitats on corporate lands. Corporate Lands for Learning is a certification program that gives us a framework for opening our habitats to members of the community for educational purposes. HABITAT SITE: Garyville, La., refinery property Acres managed for wildlife: 450 Wildlife at Work certified since 2002 and Corporate Lands for Learning certified in 2014 HABITAT SITE: Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve, Catlettsburg, Ky. Acres managed for wildlife: 360 Wildlife at Work certified since 1994, and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 1999 HABITAT SITE: Big Spring, Ky. This site is unique in that the land is not owned by MPC, although MPC has a right of way for an underground pipeline through the property. Part of the property, including the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat cooperatively between MPC and the landowner. Acres managed for wildlife: 4 Wildlife at Work certified since 2001 HABITAT SITE: Martinsville Tank Farm, Martinsville, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 188 Wildlife at Work certified since 1999, and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2008 29 CITIZENSHIP REPORT HABITAT SITE: Palestine Neil Pit, Palestine, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 80 Wildlife at Work certified since 2006 and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2008 HABITAT SITE: Lincoln Trail College and Palestine High School Nature Habitat, Robinson, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 50 Wildlife at Work certified since 2010 and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2012 HABITAT SITE: Speedway Office Complex, Enon, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 42 Wildlife at Work certified since 1999 HABITAT SITE: Washington Park, Robinson, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 31 Wildlife at Work and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2005 HABITAT SITE: Kuttawa Asphalt Terminal, Kuttawa, Ky. Acres managed for wildlife: 35 Wildlife at Work certified since 2004 HABITAT SITE: Huntington Light Products Terminal, HABITAT SITE: Hutsonville School Nature Habitat, Huntington, Ind. Hutsonville, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 8 Acres managed for wildlife: 3 Wildlife at Work certified since 2011 Wildlife at Work certified since 2008 and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2009HABITAT SITE: Cane Run Asphalt Terminal, Louisville, Ky. Acres managed for wildlife: 7 HABITAT SITE: Nashville Asphalt Terminal, Wildlife at Work certified since 1999 Nashville, Tenn. Acres managed for wildlife: 3.5HABITAT SITE: Marathon Pipe Line Heath Station, Heath, Ohio Wildlife at Work certified since 2007Acres managed for wildlife: 8.35 Wildlife at Work certified since 2014 HABITAT SITE: North Bend Asphalt Terminal, North Bend, OhioHABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Asphalt Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Ind. Acres managed for wildlife: 1Acres managed for wildlife: 10 Wildlife at Work certified since 2012Wildlife at Work certified since 2009 HABITAT SITE: Findlay Office Complex, Findlay, Ohio HABITAT SITE: St. Elmo Asphalt Terminal, St. Elmo, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: <1Acres managed for wildlife: 4 Wildlife at Work certified since 2000Wildlife at Work certified since 2011 HABITAT SITE: Owensboro Station, Owensboro, Ky. HABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Light Products Terminal, Acres managed for wildlife: <1Mt. Vernon, Ind. Wildlife at Work certified since 2014Acres managed for wildlife: 4 Wildlife at Work certified since 2014 Part of MPC’s certified wildlife habitat near its Garyville, La., refinery 