OUR EMPLOYEES ARE KNOWLEDGEABLE AND ENGAGED IN PUBLIC POLICY MPC employees participate in a hands-on educational event called “Inside Congress, which provides insight into the many stakeholder pressures that lawmakers must balance as they adopt their positions, draft legislation, and decide what measures to support. We consider participation in the political process an important part of maintaining a strong refining and marketing industry in the U.S. It also helps us to continue meeting the energy needs of consumers at competitive prices, protect the investment of our shareholders, and be a good corporate citizen. That’s why we encourage employee involvement in the political process, including through the Marathon Petroleum Corporation Employees Political Action Committee (MPAC). MPAC is a voluntary organization that some employees are eligible to join. If they choose to join, they make contributions to MPAC, which then decides (through a board of directors) which political candidates should receive funding. MPAC supports pro-business, pro-industry officeholders and candidates from both major political parties who support issues important to the company and our industry. MPAC assesses candidates based on a variety of criteria, including: • Voting record or position on business and industry issues • Leadership positions or key committee assignments • Representation of a state or district where MPC has assets or employees In addition, MPC uses employees’ voluntary MPAC contributions as an opportunity to support charities throughout our operational areas: For every dollar employees contribute to MPAC, the company donates an equal amount to charities of their choice. 34 | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT YOU MIGHT HAVE HEARD PETROLEUM COMPANIES RECEIVE GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES. WE’D LIKE TO CLEAR UP A FEW THINGS. When a profitable company receives a handout of taxpayer money, taxpayers take notice. So it’s only natural that when people hear the often-repeated assertion that profitable petroleum companies receive billions of dollars in subsidies, they wonder what’s going on. But we have good news. Marathon Petroleum Corporation is profitable, and our petroleum operations aren’t subsidized by your tax dollars. In fact, quite the opposite. As we’ve reported in this publication for years, we pay billions of dollars into federal, state and local treasuries. In 2016, we had about $600 million in income tax expenses alone. See Page 45 for more about our tax payments. So how can anyone say we’re subsidized? The trick is in how they define a “subsidy.” In addition to cash outlays of taxpayer money from the government, they also define subsidies as almost anything that reduces our taxes. If we apply this definition to a typical home-owning family with children, it would mean that if you have a mortgage, you receive subsidies because you deduct mortgage interest and it reduces your taxes. It would also mean you receive subsidies because each of your children represents a deduction on your tax return. The U.S. Treasury Department in Washington, D.C. The fact is, governments reduce taxes on activities they want to encourage. Below is a list of tax reductions MPC uses, none of which is a subsidy, under the common use of the word: • Domestic Manufacturer’s Section 199 Deduction ¡Who is eligible for it: All taxpayers engaged in manufacturing, producing, growing or extraction in the U.S. ¡Details: While most industries are eligible for a deduction of 9 percent, the oil and gas industry is singled out and limited to a deduction of only 6 percent. ¢Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) Inventory Accounting ¡Who is eligible for it: All industries ¡Details: Under LIFO, the most recent inventory purchased is deemed to be used first. In times of rising prices, the LIFO accounting method results in better matching of costs and revenues. It has been a recognized means of valuing inventory under the U.S. tax code since 1939. ¢Federal Biodiesel Blender Tax Credit ¡Who is eligible for it: A biodiesel blender that is registered with the IRS ¡Details: Amounts to $1 per gallon of pure biodiesel, agri-biodiesel, or renewable diesel blended with petroleum diesel to produce a mixture containing at least 0.1 percent diesel fuel. Only blenders that have produced and sold or used that qualified biodiesel mixture as a fuel in their trade or business are eligible for the tax credit. This credit expired Dec. 31, 2016. (Continued on Page 36) 36 | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT • Bonus Depreciation ¡Who is eligible: Any eligible taxpayer ¡Details: Allows businesses to take an immediate 50 percent deduction on the purchase of eligible business property. This accelerated deduction is being phased out. • Work Opportunity Tax Credit ¡Who is eligible: Any eligible taxpayer ¡Details: Available to employers for hiring individuals from certain target groups who have consistently faced significant barrier to employment (such as unemployed veterans, food stamp recipients or ex-felons). • Federal Empowerment Zone Employment Credit ¡Who is eligible: Any eligible taxpayer ¡Details: Available to employers that hire employees who live and work in an empowerment zone, which are designated distressed urban and rural areas. May be eligible for an employment credit of up to $3,000 per eligible employee through the end of 2016. • Research & Experimentation Tax Credit ¡Who is eligible: Any eligible taxpayer ¡Details: A general business tax credit for companies that incur certain defined research and development costs in the U.S. MPC’s refinery in Garyville, Louisiana WE ADVOCATE FOR OUR INDUSTRY AND THOSE WHO USE OUR PRODUCTS MPC’s business operations, like those of all American manufacturers, are subject to extensive regulation at both the federal and state levels through a wide variety of government agencies and programs. A transparent framework of sound, sensible regulations is important to establish standards for safety, environmental protection and other societal expectations. In fact, since 1970, total U.S. emissions of the six common – or “criteria” – pollutants have decreased by more than 70 percent, as manufacturers and other businesses have worked to implement new technologies and comply with various federal, state and local regulations. This translates directly to ever-cleaner air and water for more people across the United States. And importantly, this tremendous progress has occurred while our nation’s economy and population have continued to grow. Regulations also come with a cost – especially as those regulations become increasingly stringent and manufacturers strive to reduce the final remaining fractions of emissions from their operations. In fact, the National Association of Manufacturers found in a recent study that federal regulations now cost the American economy more than $2 trillion each year. These costs ultimately mean that American families pay higher prices for goods and services of all kinds. And unfortunately, an increasing number Federal Government Affairs Director Jake Menefee (center) leads MPC’s Washington, D.C., office. Left to right: Dwight Williams, Steve Higley, Menefee, Guy Beeman, Mike Birsic of regulations in recent years – particularly at the federal level – have raised significant questions about whether the associated costs outweigh any benefits that those regulations might provide. As a result, many policymakers are striving for ways to achieve a better balance within our regulatory framework.  MPC strongly supports sound, transparent regulations that protect human health and the environment, allow technological innovation and enable economic growth. We support the goal of modernizing our nation’s regulatory framework to reduce costly, unnecessary, and duplicative burdens on American businesses and consumers. We will continue to advocate for policy solutions that meet this goal and lead to more efficient, cost-effective, smarter regulation. (Continued on Page 41) 40 | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD (RFS) The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act requires fuel manufacturers and others to blend specific volumes of biofuels – like ethanol and biodiesel – into the nation’s fuel supply. The major problem with the law is that we are required, regardless of fuel demand, to blend increasing amounts of biofuels into petroleum fuels. As a consequence of decreasing fuel demand over the past 10 years, our industry has been required to force an increased percentage of ethanol into the gasoline supply in order to meet the requirements of the RFS. The ethanol requirement imposed by the statute now exceeds 10 percent of projected gasoline demand. This makes compliance increasingly problematic, as most vehicles on the road today cannot safely accommodate fuel with higher than a 10 percent blend of ethanol. To make matters worse, the vast majority of retail stations would be required to make costly upgrades to their refueling infrastructure (such as underground storage tanks, piping and dispensers) to accommodate the sales of higher ethanol blends. Even more alarming is that after 2022, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) unilaterally takes over the RFS, as the mandated biofuel volume tables expire at the end of that year. The EPA will then have wide discretion to set the yearly biofuel volume requirements. MPC advocates allowing consumer choice, rather than a costly mandate, to drive the liquid transportation fuel market. | MPC | 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT      41 TAX REFORM Efforts to reform the federal tax code is a top priority for elected officials in both parties and a topic that poses both opportunities and challenges for MPC. We support comprehensive tax reform and believe efforts should focus on simplifying the tax code and allowing businesses to recover their costs more quickly so they can reinvest in their business. This would generate economic growth and job creation. On the other hand, repealing important current provisions that allow companies to recover cost, such as accelerated depreciation and the Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) accounting method, will have a negative impact on business investment and economic growth. MPC also supports a fair tax code that treats all industries equally, and opposes tax code proposals that pick winners and losers. In addition to advocating for the preservation of various cost recovery provisions, MPC is also engaged on reforming a troubling proposal known as a Border Adjustment Tax (BAT). The BAT would have disallowed the deductibility of all imports, which would raise the tax bill for importers. Because the U.S. produces only half of the crude oil needed to meet our nation’s demand, we are heavily reliant on imported crude oil. Artificially raising the cost of imported crude could raise the cost of transportation fuels.  MPC will continue to advocate on behalf of pro-growth tax proposals with the goal of creating a simpler and more efficient tax code. 