Water Use within Our Operations Water is essential to the refining process, and we continually evaluate ways to enable efficient reuse. MPLX gas processing plants are designed to use little to no water in their routine operations. Nearly all plants have oil heaters that transfer heat to the process units instead of using steam. In addition, air-cooling units circulate hot product through air-cooled radiators instead of using water for cooling. These measures eliminate the need for cooling towers and steam boilers that rely on fresh water. WATER USE IN THE REFINING PROCESS WATER SUPPLY Fresh water is withdrawn from rivers, lakes, wells and municipal water plants or recycled water is sometimes purchased for use in refining activities. REUSED WATER Some wastewater can be reused without additional treatment. RECYCLED WATER Some wastewater is treated to meet technical specifications allowing it to be recycled back into refining activities. REFINING ACTIVITIES Water is used for steam generation, cooling and other refining activities. WASTEWATER TREATMENT Water not consumed in refining activities is either reused without treatment, treated and recycled back into refining activities, or treated and discharged. Water Distribution Wastewater Generation Treated Wastewater WATER DISCHARGE Water is treated to meet or exceed required pretreatment permit limits and discharged to municipal water treatment plants or treated to meet or exceed required federal permit limits and discharged to lakes, rivers and bays. Air Quality and Emissions Our commitment to improving air quality begins at our facilities and extends to the transportation fuels we produce. We have a comprehensive approach to improving air quality that targets lowering emissions of criteria pollutants by producing cleaner fuels, reducing gas flaring and minimizing fugitive emissions. Companywide Criteria Pollutant Emissions (thousand tonnes) 2002 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 20 40 60 80 100 HOW WE AIM TO IMPROVE AIR QUALITY 1. Producing Cleaner Fuels Across the country, MPC refineries produce low-sulfur Tier 3 gasoline, a cleaner burning fuel that could reduce emissions by up to 80%1 in vehicles of model year 2017 and newer, and up to 13%1 in older models. This emission reduction ultimately improves air quality. 2. Reducing Gas Flaring Avoidance of flaring is a key priority. Our refineries implement flare reduction programs that help prevent flaring while recovering gases and enabling effective combustion, if gases must be flared. In addition, flare gas recovery systems return gas to the refining process instead of flaring, reducing criteria pollutant emissions and GHG emissions. 3. Minimizing Fugitive Emissions Acoustic imaging cameras, also known as FLUKE¨ Imagers, are used to quickly and accurately locate air, gas and vacuum leaks in compressed air systems Ñ even in noisy environments. These devices use extremely sensitive microphones to detect sounds both in the human hearing range and the ultrasonic range. Initially they were used to identify air leaks at our compressor stations and gas plants. They are now being used to identify process leaks and methane leaks and may be used to confirm repairs are effective. Optical imaging cameras, also known as FLIR cameras, are used across our operations to scan equipment for potential leak sources and make any necessary repairs. 1As defined by the U.S. EPA. Innovate for the Future Investing in the energy evolution to lower carbon intensity and capture value Renewables and Emerging Technologies Pictured: MPC Martinez facility in Contra Costa County, California 32 2020 Sustainability Report |  33 Promoting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion As we challenge ourselves to be a leader in sustainable energy, a diverse workforce is essential to our success. We want to attract, develop and retain the best talent and create a diverse and inclusive work environment. We strive to always go further in creating a culture of belonging where everyone has the sense that they are appreciated, respected and can bring their true selves to work. To support our commitment to creating a more diverse workforce and to hold ourselves accountable, we set company goals designed to drive our strategy to increase representation of women, Black, Indigenous and people of color in our workforce. In April 2021, we were the first U.S. independent downstream energy company to link executive and employee compensation to DE&I metrics. Guided by a dedicated DE&I team and supported by leadership companywide, our strategy focuses on: ¥ Building awareness of the benefits of diverse perspectives ¥ Increasing representation across the organization ¥ Ensuring success through commitment to ongoing programs that support diverse employees ¥ Applying measurement and accountability to foster an inclusive work environment with opportunities for all employees to grow and develop DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION STRATEGY DIVERSITY FOCUS AREAS: Building Awareness ¥ Education and DE&I workshops ¥ Employee DE&I panels ¥ Community outreach ¥ Employee Network Groups Ensuring Success ¥ Career development ¥ Mentoring ¥ DE&I assessments and interventions ¥ Employee Network Groups Increasing Representation ¥ Balanced slates ¥ Focused external recruitment ¥ Black, Indigenous & People of Color (BIPOC) and female campus initiatives to recruit interns ¥ Employee Network Groups Measurement and Accountability ¥ Scoring and performance ¥ Succession planning ¥ Participation in federal compliance programs ¥ Bonus metric 2020 Sustainability Report |  35 36 2020 Sustainability Report | 37 38 2020 Sustainability Report |  39 40 2020 Sustainability Report |  41 Respecting Human Rights MPCÕs and MPLXÕs Policy on Human Rights, Including the Rights of Indigenous People represents our commitment to respect the human, cultural and legal rights of all individuals and communities. We promote the goals and principles of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and meet the expectations of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. We strive to engage and inform our stakeholders and the communities where we operate. We promote the well-being of our employees by providing competitive compensation and benefits, maintaining safe and healthy work environments, respecting their freedom to associate and bargain collectively, and promoting diversity and inclusion. We prohibit harassment and discrimination and the use of coerced, forced and child labor. Click here to view our Policy on Human Rights, Including the Rights of Indigenous People. Embracing a Culture of Safety The safety of our employees, contractors, business partners, customers and the community is our number-one priority. Consistent with our core values, we approach our work with the highest commitment to safety and a focus on care for the environment. To continually reinforce these values and drive strong performance, we use a combination of best practice-based operational standards, documented work processes, proven management systems and behavior-based programs designed to train, protect and empower our employees and contractors. Personal Safety It is critical that everyone at MPC and MPLX is empowered to create and maintain a safe and healthy workplace. Employees and contractors are held to the same high standards and expectations, and are authorized to stop any work if they feel at risk. Part of our effort to promote safety includes our OEMS, a management system based on the principles of RC14001¨ and the Plan-Do-Check-Act continual improvement cycle. Together, these components provide us with a comprehensive approach to managing risks and preventing incidents, illnesses and fatalities. The personal safety standards that we implement comply with and in many cases exceed local, state and federal regulations. Employees and contractors are trained on these standards, and audits and quality assurance visits are frequently conducted to assess effectiveness. Strict adherence to processes and procedures that help avoid safety and environmental incidents is integral to our safety culture. MPC Refining OSHA Recordable Rate1 (incidents/200,000 hours) U.S. Refining Average2 MPC Refining 33 VPP Star certifications earned COVERING 44 MPC and MPLX facilities 2020 Sustainability Report |  43 Promoting the Health and Safety of Our Workforce During a Global Pandemic MPC activated its CERT to consistently and aggressively respond to needs across our company. In coordination with MPCÕs Heath Services Department, and in alignment with recommendations from the CDC, CERT implemented MPCÕs wide-ranging pandemic response plan. This included distributing to employees and contractors the personal protective equipment (PPE) from our central inventory when the pandemic began Ñ respirators, surgical masks and Some of the actions taken by MPC specifically aimed at protecting and addressing the needs of our employees and contractors include: ¥ Enhancing our cleaning and disinfection measures at all of our locations, focusing on high touch points, common areas, and workstations. ¥ Providing appropriate PPE. ¥ Implementing social-distancing procedures for our essential employees (federally designated Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers) and work-from-home requirements, where practicable. ¥ Requiring daily COVID-19 self-screening per the CDC screening checklist before entering the workplace. ¥ Providing educational resources including videos, emails and signage around facilities. ¥ Providing critical up-to-date information and guidance through a dedicated COVID-19 employee website. ¥ Converting a hotline used for work-related injuries into a dedicated 24/7 nurse hotline Ñ fielding over 12,000 calls. ¥ Managing a COVID-19 email address . MPC medical professionals responded to over 15,000 emails from employees. ¥ Providing oversight to local COVID-19 initiatives and case management with Health Services teams positioned at each of our refineries. ¥ Establishing a strong communication network with key contractors so information could be shared, and providing an avenue for the contractors to report positive cases to MPC. ¥ Establishing a phased-in approach for return to offices based on state and local requirements and restrictions, as well as a sustained local reduction in COVID-19 case positivity rates. ¥ Facilitating a robust campaign educating employees on the vaccines, directly administering or scheduling over 2,400 people across the company through local public health or closed points of distribution. 