ECONOMIC IMPACT WE ARE EXPANDING OUR SUPPLIER DIVERSITY MPC works to continually increase the diversity of suppliers, targeting those that are owned by women, minorities, veterans or are considered small businesses. The corporation currently procures products and services from more than 250 suppliers that are diverse. “Developing a diverse base of suppliers is much more than just the right thing to do,” says Gary R. Heminger, president and CEO. “By increasing supplier diversity, we gain access to a much broader base of competitive suppliers who provide innovative solutions and varying perspectives.” MPC’s commitment to supplier diversity has resulted in significant gains. From 2012 through 2014, we increased the number of diverse suppliers with which we do business by 18 percent. Part of MPC’s success in this area is its Supplier Diversity Internal Advocate Team, a group of volunteers who promote MPC’s supplier diversity and take a leadership role in activities that promote diverse supplier inclusion. “We are committed to strategies that work, and a real driver of our success is collaborating with organizations throughout the corporation to create new opportunities for diverse suppliers,” says Allyson Earles, MPC’s Supplier Diversity coordinator. “We acknowledge our “By increasingnation’s changing demographics and are supplier diversity, fostering opportunities that encourage we gain access to a much meaningful relationships broader base of competitive with our diverse suppliers who providesuppliers – something that will innovative solutions andgive us a competitive advantage in the varying perspectives.” future marketplace.” Gary R. Heminger President and CEO 43 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Procurement Contracts Specialist Ray Dussold talks with other attendees of the Women’s Business Enterprise Council Women’s Business Opportunity Expo in New Orleans, La. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 44 ECONOMIC IMPACT OUR PROFITABILITY BENEFITS OUR SHAREHOLDERS Whether they are individual investors, pension funds, mutual funds, insurance companies or others, MPC’s shareholders benefit from their ownership stake in the company. One of the simplest measures of this benefit is how much the value of your ownership stake would grow as an investor. For example, if you had invested $100 in MPC when we became an independent company in June 2011, you would have seen the value of your stock grow to more than $235 by the end of 2014. This compares favorably to other refining companies, and to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. That $100 would have grown to an average of about $129 with our refining peers,* and to just over $168 with the S&P 500. “Certainly it’s gratifying to see the value of our shares increase, but that’s only part of the story,” says Geri Ewing, director of Investor Relations. “It’s important to consider the other ways we share our prosperity with shareholders, such as our share repurchases and dividends.” In 2014, MPC paid $524 million in dividends to shareholders, and returned another $2.13 billion to shareholders through share repurchases. Since MPC began as a publicly traded company in mid-2011, we returned a total of $7.8 billion to shareholders through the end of 2014. That averages $6 million every day. While providing returns on our owners’ investment in MPC is a basic duty of the company, Ewing says an even more important imperative makes those returns possible. “What we always keep in mind is that we can’t meet our owners’ expectations unless we meet our millions of customers’ needs efficiently,” she says. “That means we have to be safe, protect the environment, be a good neighbor and out-compete the rest of our industry. In short, we have to adhere to our values and work hard, and we do that every day.” * Our refining peers include BP PLC, Royal Dutch Shell PLC, Chevron Corporation, HollyFrontier Corporation, Phillips 66, Tesoro Corporation, ExxonMobil Corporation and Valero Energy Corporation. MPC’s Investor Relations team: Left to right, Teresa Homan, Geri Ewing, Pat Manders and Cindy Hauenstein 45 CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITIZENSHIP REPORT 46 WE ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF OUR INDUSTRY AND THOSE WHO RELY ON OUR PRODUCTS MPC operates in a heavily regulated industry. That’s why we work with lawmakers and regulators at the federal, state and local levels – to keep them apprised of the impact of existing or proposed laws and regulations on our industry. Some of these laws and regulations can have profound effects on our ability to effectively meet the needs of the millions of people who rely on our products every day. For this reason, we sometimes take positions on existing or proposed laws or regulations. This section highlights a few examples. The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act requires refiners and others to blend specific volumes of biofuels – like ethanol and biodiesel – into the nation’s fuel supply. One problem with the law is that we are required to blend increasing amounts of biofuels into petroleum fuels, even if fuel demand overall goes down. This is problematic because most vehicles on the road today cannot safely accommodate fuel with higher blends of ethanol. A second major problem with the RFS is that it injects a huge amount of uncertainty into our industry, because we don’t know how much biofuel we’ll be required to blend. For example, the EPA was supposed to inform refiners and others of our 2014 requirement by November 2013. That would have given us time to prepare. As of this publication’s printing in mid-2015, the EPA still has not finalized the 2014 or 2015 RFS volume obligation. MPC continues to advocate repeal of the RFS. Its provisions are simply unworkable, even if it were properly administered. EPA’s “Clean Power Plan Proposed Rule”: In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the EPA has proposed a rule for power-generation plants, which, by its own estimates, will increase electricity costs to U.S. consumers by 6 to 7 percent, and up to 12 percent in some locations. In order to accomplish the energy-intensive process of converting crude oil to useful products, MPC spent $450 million on electricity in 2014. A 6 to 12 percent cost increase would be significant. The EPA has proposed this rule to achieve a 30 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from U.S. power plants by 2030. But according to figures from the U.S. Energy Information Administration and the EPA, the amount of carbon dioxide emissions that will be reduced in the year 2030 by this rule will equal only about three weeks of emissions from China. Lifting the crude oil export ban: Since the early 1970s, exporting U.S. crude oil has effectively been banned. Despite the increased domestic crude oil volumes, throughout 2014 and into 2015, U.S. refiners have kept pace with supplies, and there has been no oversupply of light sweet crude oil in the U.S. This is important to keep in mind, because some oil producers, and even some policymakers, suggest that there is a glut of light sweet crude in the U.S., and therefore the time has come to lift the crude oil export ban. Any discussion about changing regulations that have been in place for so long must be based on facts rather than misinformation. U.S. refiners are – and will continue – handling domestic crude production. What would benefit U.S. energy consumers most is a comprehensive energy policy that removes our biggest barriers to a free market, such as the RFS. Selecting only one aspect of our energy policy that benefits only one sector of the energy industry simply picks winners and losers. For more information on MPC’s advocacy activities, including contributions to political candidates, please see our website: http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/corporate_citizenship/Political_Engagement_and_Disclosure 