Process Safety Keeping our Operations Safe By applying good practice in the design and implementation of the equipment and systems we use and keeping safety risks and their mitigation at the forefront, we strive to continually improve the safety of our operations. Through our OEMS and adherence to Process Safety Management (PSM), we work to reduce the number and severity of process safety events. This is achieved by maintaining equipment integrity, managing change, and enforcing safe work practices and operating procedures. MPC and MPLX maintain standards for PSM that emphasize managing hazards by using technologies, procedures and management practices. We also maintain a rigorous auditing schedule to ensure facilities are assessed across all 141 process safety elements, which are listed below. Process Safety Elements1 1. Employee Participation 2. Process Safety Information 3. Process Hazard Analysis 4. Operating Procedures 5. Hot Work Permit 6. Contractors 7. Training 8. Pre-Start-up Safety Review 9. Mechanical Integrity 10. Management of Change 11. Emergency Preparedness and Response 12. Trade Secrets 13. Incident Investigation 14. Compliance Audits Our program provides a framework and systematic approach to: • Identify and address environmental, health and safety risks. • Prevent or mitigate an incident’s consequences and assure ongoing operations. • Continuously learn to improve the safety and integrity of our assets. Focusing on Continual Improvement On our journey of continual improvement, we have and continue to implement tools and programs, such as Learning Teams and the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) Walk the Line program. • Learning Teams are sessions in which the team and facilitator discuss a specific task or an unplanned event to better understand the context of how the work is done. • AFPM's Walk the Line program reinforces the fundamental responsibility of employees to know with 100% certainty where a material will flow between any two points in a process unit. If they do not, they need to “walk the line.” Walk the Line upholds a culture of consistency in which we can reduce errors while supporting operators and frontline supervisors in operational discipline and readiness. 2020 Sustainability Report |  47 Industry Safety Awards AFPM Safety Awards Eight MPC refineries were recognized by AFPM for outstanding occupational and process safety programs and performance in 2020. AFPM DISTINGUISHED SAFETY AWARD: ROBINSON REFINERY The Distinguished Safety Award is awarded to the top sites with outstanding safety performance, program innovation and safety leadership. AFPM ELITE GOLD AWARD: DETROIT REFINERY The Elite Gold Award recognizes facilities with safety performances in the top 1% of the industry, and that have demonstrated superior and consistent safety performance, program innovation and leadership. AFPM ELITE SILVER AWARD: ANACORTES REFINERY AND THE DICKINSON RENEWABLE FUELS FACILITY The Elite Silver Award recognizes those sites that have attained top industry safety performance for the application year and demonstrated excellent program innovation and leadership over time. API’S DISTINGUISHED PIPELINE SAFETY AWARD In 2020, MPLX’s wholly owned subsidiary, Marathon Pipe Line LLC, was awarded the American Petroleum Institute (API) 2019 Distinguished Pipeline Safety Award. The recognition was based on selection by pipeline industry peers, and acknowledged the company for fostering a culture of safety, sharing and implementing best practices, and actively participating in and contributing to API policy and technical work. Engaging Our Stakeholders and Communities Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement Our approach to stakeholder engagement is guided by our commitment to creating shared value with our many stakeholders including the communities where we operate. Building strong relationships and maintaining continuous dialogue within communities allows us to maximize our positive impacts. We are focused on understanding our stakeholders’ goals, perspectives and concerns, and incorporating stakeholder feedback into our business strategies. Our engagement programs ensure that we establish regular communications with our local stakeholders, assess community impacts and provide opportunities for stakeholders to share any concerns. We will continue to evolve and expand our approach to stakeholder engagement to meet the changing needs of our company and our stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PLANS Stakeholder Engagement Plans aid in identifying key stakeholders and issues, along with strategies to build and maintain relationships and open dialogue, surface concerns and develop solutions, and forge partnerships, where appropriate. We believe it is important to coordinate across the organization to understand and address our stakeholder needs and interests and drive progress toward our shared goals. Stakeholder Engagement Plans are in place for 100% of our refineries and owned and operated renewable fuels facilities. Our stakeholder engagement process: • Helps MPC leaders and teams engage stakeholders in open dialogue to understand needs and concerns, define priorities, identify resources and pursue shared goals. • Guides facilities to engage key stakeholders and audiences in ways that are tailored to their circumstances. • Recognizes that each community where we operate is unique. Define Priorities, Impacts and Issues Identify Stakeholders and Resources Sustainable Investment  Deliberate Engagement  Track and Measure Engagements  Shared Value  2020 Sustainability Report |  49 WORKING WITH OUR NEIGHBORS Community Advisory Panels Our refineries convene independent groups of local stakeholders through Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) to formalize engagement with local community leaders and residents. When COVID-19 brought about some challenges with traditional face.to-face engagement, CAPs turned to virtual options to continue meeting during 2020. CAPs meet on a regular basis and consist of representatives from the community, which may include teachers, retirees, business owners, elected officials, residents who live near our facilities, community organizers and other interested parties. CAPs provide a forum for: • Listening and gaining insight into activities, issues, concerns and opportunities within our communities. • Updates from refinery leadership on safety and environmental performance, significant projects and other key activities within the refinery. • Identifying ways to further enhance our engagement where we live and work. 2020 Sustainability Report |  51 52 Charitable Contributions and Grants Our partnerships and investments across the areas where we live and work are designed to help advance, progress and strengthen communities. Education and Workforce Readiness Support Over the last 40 years, South Bay Center for Counseling (SBCC) has developed a full range of innovative programs that reach more than 10,000 families across Los Angeles County, including our operation areas in Wilmington, Carson and Long Beach. SBCC’s Energy Pathway Program is a 16-month, industry-tailored training initiative that prepares participants for careers as Process Operators. Over the 10-year history of the program, Energy Pathway has achieved an impressive 72% placement rate and an 85% employment retention rate for jobs in petroleum and process technology-related fields. Many graduates have gone on to become Process Operators at MPC. Enhancing First Responder Capabilities A contribution to the Spokane County Fire District 10 helped the district purchase medical equipment, a LUCAS Chest Compression device, for one of their rescue trucks. Just four days after receiving it, the device was used on a patient for 45 minutes of continuous auto CPR. The patient recovered, was released from the hospital and was able to enjoy Thanksgiving with their family. EMBED SUSTAINABILITY SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITIES DURING COVID-19 In 2020, amid the global COVID-19 pandemic, we sought opportunities to support communities in areas of critical need and where we could make the most impact. During the year, we donated $3.3 million to COVID-19 relief efforts including: • American Red Cross disaster and crisis relief initiatives. • Remote learning initiatives, including laptops, WiFi hotspots, and programming support. • Priority needs, including shelter, food and mental health counseling. • PPE to first responders. We also contributed more than 500,000 N95 respirator masks to 45 health care organizations in the U.S. and approximately 350,000 pieces of PPE in Mexico. Our people also stepped up in a big way in 2020, contributing more than $4 million to communities, so we increased our matching gifts to eligible non.profits to further support their efforts. 2020 Sustainability Report |  53 54 2020 Sustainability Report |  55 56 MPC and MPLX take a proactive approach to supplier diversity with the goal of increasing the number of small and diverse supply chain partners. We aim to do this by providing potentially underrepresented companies an equal opportunity to become a trusted business partner and encouraging participation in our Supplier Diversity Program. 2020 Sustainability Report |  57 58 Sustainability Governance At MPC, our impacts, risks and opportunities related to ESG topics are identified and managed by company leadership with the oversight of our Board. The Board has four committees, each of which is responsible for specific areas of oversight and policy decision-making, as set forth in our Corporate Governance Principles and each committee’s charter. Our executive leadership team has primary responsibility for sustainability strategies and standards. Sustainability is embedded in several cross-functional leadership committees that help ensure our objectives are incorporated into our OEMS standards and sustainability strategies. These are in turn cascaded throughout the organization. These standards and strategies are developed by committees of the executive leadership team and aligned with related procedures and plans at the operational level. Communication and collaboration among the Board, its committees and management are critical to maintaining our aligned direction on sustainability matters. Good governance is our way of ensuring MPC adheres to our mission and is accountable to our shareholders, our customers, our strategic partners and our employees. 2020 Sustainability Report |  59 Operational Excellence Management System We believe that everyone — including our employees, contractors and business partners — shares responsibility for our sustainability performance. We conduct business in a safe, responsible, and cost-effective manner, as set forth in our policies, standards and procedures and managed through our OEMS. A Foundation of Best Practices We began formalizing our OEMS over 15 years ago with adherence to the Responsible Care® Management System (RCMS). In 2018, we combined our RCMS into a more comprehensive RC14001® management system. RC14001® is built on the globally recognized ISO 14001 environmental management system, and includes health, safety and security requirements. In 2020, we published our new integrated OEMS, which expands on the RC14001® scope and aligns with ISO 9001, incorporating quality and an increased stakeholder and process focus. ” – ” 2020 Sustainability Report |  61 62 Integrity of Financial Records The chief executive officer, chief financial officer, controller, treasurer and other leaders performing similar roles at MPC and MPLX are subject to our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. This separate Code of Ethics affirms the principles of honesty, integrity and sound judgment that we expect of our senior executives with the responsibility to prepare and certify our financial statements. In responding to and reporting any alleged Code of Ethics violation, our Business Integrity and Compliance group has direct access to the Board chairman, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, vice president of Audit and the chair of the Board’s Audit Committee. 24/7 Anonymous Integrity Helpline The Integrity Helpline enables employees, contractors, vendors, customers, community members and others to ask questions or raise allegations related to workplace behavior or ethics. While all our employees are encouraged to speak with their immediate supervisors if they have questions or concerns related to ethics and the Code, the helpline is an additional avenue to do so anonymously. Every allegation received through the helpline is investigated in a manner and to the extent appropriate, based on the nature of the allegation. The goal is to resolve all matters within 90 days. Where warranted, investigations may result in discipline, a change in policy or procedure or a determination that an allegation of unlawful and/or unethical behavior could not be substantiated. We maintain a firm no-retaliation policy and will never permit a good-faith submission to be a cause for disciplinary action. Helpline statistics are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, with certain types of allegations escalated rapidly. These include certain allegations regarding financial statements and reporting and allegations of Code violations by directors or officers. 2020 Sustainability Report |  63 Cybersecurity and Privacy To manage cybersecurity risks, we implement several policies, practices and standards to protect our computer systems, data, assets, infrastructure and computing environments from cybersecurity threats — and to safeguard confidentiality, integrity and availability. MPC’s Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for our cybersecurity program and provides periodic briefings to the Audit Committee and the Board. Our Best Defense: Vigilant Employees Our employees and contractors receive training to equip them in managing cybersecurity risks. Informed employees and contractors use common sense and situational cybersecurity awareness to do the same things that physical and digital firewalls do — keep good things in and bad things out. Both employees and contractors act as bidirectional control agents for what comes into and goes out of both company networks and personal home networks. Security on these personal networks is even more important given current expanded work-from-home arrangements. A simulated phishing program is used to train and test MPC email account users on how to act as a “human firewall.” Users are shown how to identify and report phishing emails, and periodically simulated phishing emails are sent to test users’ awareness of phishing attacks. Our phishing program provides immediate feedback to users and notifies the individual’s management in the event of repeated failures. Cybersecurity Policies Our Computer Security Policy governs our cybersecurity efforts and compliance with all legal requirements. The policy is implemented through a governance process that includes standards, procedures, risk management, defense strategy and compliance reviews. Cybersecurity policies apply to MPC and MPLX entities, employees and third parties that own, manage, administer, support, develop or work on company information systems, and to all our computing environments, whether connected to or segregated from our corporate network, including business partners and suppliers. We emphasize policy awareness for employees through training and supervisor engagement, and implement policy compliance through a structured escalation program, if needed. Our Code of Business Conduct further addresses protection of company assets, information systems, social media, business records retention and confidential information. Managing Technology Risks We manage technology risks through a resilient system of layered security architecture. Security limits are placed on physical access, we segment business and operational networks, and align critical applications to withstand cyberattacks by using data centers protected by additional layers of security. Internal IT controls allow us to detect centralized security events by allowing seamless bidirectional data flow between each system and the enterprise security control center. Our cybersecurity program aligns with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Cybersecurity Framework, a control framework that helps companies develop a standardized model on which to build their information technology and operational technology cybersecurity program and subsequently measure their maturity in this important area. 