Campus Partnerships University partnerships are an important component of MPC's campus recruiting strategy, creating additional opportunities for the company to engage with premier talent and more effectively build our early career pipeline. One of the ways MPC demonstrates its commitment to science, technology, engineering and mathematics education is by supporting Bridge Programs at partner universities. These programs: • Prepare students from underrepresented groups to make a successful transition from high school to a university • Give students the opportunity to adjust to the academic, personal and social challenges they may encounter • Promote a structured environment conducive to building the fundamental skills to successfully complete a baccalaureate degree Some of our university partners were able to continue leveraging a virtual platform. In 2021, these programs included: • The Ohio State University Pre First-Year Academic and Career Engagement (PREFACE) • The University of Cincinnati Summer Bridge Program As we work to increase representation of women and BIPOC candidates, we continue to seek new places to find diverse talent. We have been partnering with INROADS and with Hispanic serving institutions, including Texas A&M University, and historically black colleges and universities including North Carolina A&T State University. 2021 HIGHLIGHTS • Hosted a tour of our Cincinnati, Ohio, biofuels pretreatment facility for students from the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Applied Science • Hosted an information session and MPC panel discussion at The Ohio State University Minority Engineering Program Seminar MPC PARTNERS WITH OHIO STATE’S SCHOOL OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES MPC donated $250,000 to The Ohio State University School of Environment and Natural Resources (SENR) to advance terrestrial wildlife ecology research, student learning and sustainability and diversity and inclusion scholarships. • $165,000 for research in terrestrial wildlife ecology • $60,000 to create the school’s Diversity and Inclusion Scholarship Fund • $25,000 for the Students Understanding Sustainability and Taking Action to Improve Nature and Society (SUSTAINS) Learning Community The gift further enhances Ohio State’s efforts to support students from a diversity of backgrounds interested in pursuing careers in the environmental and natural resource fields. The donation supports research to understand the benefits of integrated vegetation management on utility rights of way with a focus on ecology, soil carbon and landowner relations. As part of the new partnership, one Ohio State student was selected for an internship opportunity within Marathon Pipe Line's rights of way vegetation management team in 2022. Additionally, one student from Ohio State’s SENR was chosen for an internship within MPC’s ESG and Stakeholder Engagement team. Investing in Our Employees Compensation and Benefits Compensation and benefits are some of the most direct ways to acknowledge and encourage quality performance and meaningful contributions from our employees. To confirm we are offering competitive pay packages in our recruitment and retention efforts, we annually benchmark compensation, including base salaries, bonus levels and long-term incentive targets. Our annual cash bonus program is a critical component of our compensation, as it provides individual rewards for MPC’s achievement against preset financial and ESG goals, encouraging a sense of employee ownership. Employees in our executive-level pay grades, as well as senior leaders and most mid-level leaders, are eligible to receive long-term incentive awards to align their compensation to the interests of shareholders. In 2021, we began piloting workplace flexibility to allow eligible roles to work remotely one day per week. We will continue to evaluate this practice and evolve as we learn from the experience. TAKING CARE OF OUR EMPLOYEES When Hurricane Ida hit Louisiana, MPC provided fuel, generators, equipment and tools and placed 23 employees in temporary housing, stabilized 33 homes and provided $4,500,000 in interest-free loans to affected employees. “Our local service stations were not receiving fuel for several days after the storm. When they did receive fuel, you would have to wait in line for hours. MPC helped me with the option to purchase gasoline for our generators and vehicles. MPC also helped with the option for the interest-free loans. By providing these services, MPC was a sign of hope during stressful times.” Janice ZeringueAnalytical Processor -Strong leadership is essential to oursuccess, and we support our leaders at all levels with a broad range of trainingopportunities. Our programs — which we offer across the organization — blend business and leadership content, often with external faculty. We use a variety of training methods, including visual, audio, print, tactile, interactive, kinesthetic, experiential and leader-teaching-leader to address and engage different learning styles. We believe networking and access to our executive team are key leadership success factors, and we incorporate these opportunities into all our programs. We introduced two new leadership development programs. New Leader Onboarding (NLO) is designed for newly appointed leaders who have supervisory responsibilities. In 2021, 61 supervisors participated as part of a pilot. In 2022, 180 leaders are expected to participate in NLO. The second new program, Frontline Leadership Skills (FLS), is intended for supervisors of hourly employees and will be available in 2022; 1,400 employees are expected to complete the program. Performance Excellence Our performance process helps our people focus on the core aspects of their job, align on expectations with their supervisors and teams and consider accomplishments within the context of how they were achieved. Supervisors and employees establish up to five performance commitments annually. At the end of the performance cycle, employees receive a scorecard that summarizes results, including assessing performance in terms of values, knowledge and competencies. Each year, nearly 100% of our salaried exempt and salaried nonexempt employees participate in our performance process. EMBRACING A CULTURE OF SAFETY The safety of our employees, contractors, business partners,customers and communities is our No. 1 priority. In keeping with our core values, we approach our work with the highest commitment to safety and a focus on caring for the environment. To continually reinforce these values and drive strong performance, we combine best practice-based operational standards, documented work processes, proven management systems and behavior-based programs to train, protect and empower our employees and contractors. Maintaining High Personal Safety OSHA’S VOLUNTARY Standards PROTECTION PROGRAM We empower everyone at MPC and MPLX to create and maintain a safe and healthy workplace. Employees OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) is a and contractors are held to the same high standards and cooperative program between regulators and industry expectations and are authorized to stop any work if they that recognizes and helps drive exemplary safety feel at risk. Our Operational Excellence Management performance at all levels of an organization. System (OEMS) is based on the principles of RC14001®, including health and safety and the Plan-Do-Check-Act continual improvement cycle. VPP STAR CERTIFICATIONS Together, these components provide us with a 34EARNEDcomprehensive approach to managing risks and preventing incidents, illnesses and fatalities. The personal safety standards that we implement comply with, and in many COVERING cases, exceed local, state and federal regulations. We train employees and contractors on these standards and MPC AND conduct frequent audits and quality assurance visits using MPLX internal and external subject matter experts to assess FACILITIES 45the system’s effectiveness. Strict adherence to processes and procedures that help avoid safety and environmental incidents is integral to our safety culture. 570,000+ HOURS OF HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING FOR MPC EMPLOYEES ACHIEVING VPP STATUS Reducing Safety Risks Through Peer Observations and Feedback We implement behavior-based safety (BBS) programs across all operations, empowering employees and contractors to enhance safety practices in the workplace through peer observations. These programs manage employee exposure at the working interface: the point at which employee activities interact with workplace conditions and management systems. Safety excellence is directly related to the effectiveness of our organization at reducing identified hazards; we have found that BBS programs drive strong safety performance. BBS PROGRAMS • Help identify the reasons for operational choices made • Reinforce safe behaviors • Identify safer ways to perform tasks • Start conversations that lead to safer decisions before injury can occur Reporting and Tracking Incidents All employees and contractors have the responsibility to report an incident or injury, and we prohibit reprisal for reporting. We use a companywide software system to actively report, track and identify trends in incidents and injuries. The system, overseen by management, enables tracking and documentation of incident investigations and corrective actions, if needed, until an incident is closed. We also use this system to measure our operating discipline and management system performance through indicators such as management of change tasks. FIELD AUDIT SCORING TOOL MPC refineries are getting valuable safety information to employees in the field faster than ever before, thanks to new web-based software that creates trend data in real-time to bring visibility and prioritization to emerging risks. MPC’s refining safety group developed the Field Audit Scoring Tool (FAST), which allows for quicker trend analysis and more timely notifications to the field to help avoid potential safety issues. Employees can use FAST to complete four types of safety assessments: a life critical audit, joint jobsite visit, job safety analysis and general safety audit. Assessment observations might include risks such as: • Hoses and cords that create tripping hazards • Wearing inadequate personal protective equipment for existing conditions • Working at heights without being properly secured to prevent a fall • A lack of communication among workers executing a particular task The tool was designed so that anyone with a smartphone or other web-capable device can complete an audit in under five minutes, which can yield a large quantity of valuable data. Software instantly processes the data to show daily behavioral trends on a dashboard that all MPC employees and contractors can access. Program Highlights Engaging Along the Pipeline Marathon Pipe Line LLC (MPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of MPLX, continues to evolve its model public engagement program, Earning Your Trust. This program engages landowners, community members, schools and public officials about pipeline safety and infrastructure. New Neighbor Program MPL’s New Neighbor Program aims to build awareness of pipeline activity and provide educational tools and resources to new landowners. Real-time change of property ownership notifications allow MPL to engage new landowners quickly. Landowners receive initial safety communications within weeks of reported ownership. These more frequent updates have increased employee engagement with landowners. Depth of Cover Program MPL began reaching out to farmers using video messaging to raise awareness of shallow pipes to ensure they exercise care when landscaping and farming. The program included video clips of three to five minutes each showing safe methods of working around potential shallow pipelines and ways to mitigate the risk. The program emphasizes the importance of calling 811 before digging or engaging in other farming activities. This form of digital engagement has reached approximately MPL Virtual Event to Promote Safe Digging For the second year in a row, MPL hosted an 811 Spin-to-Win Facebook Live Event in partnership with the Ohio State Fair. The event promoted 811’s Call Before You Dig campaign in a virtual setting to more than 3,500 viewers. Participants were awarded prizes for correctly answering questions related to safe digging. In total, 811 Spin-to-Win reached nearly 6,500 people across the U.S. MPL RECEIVED OVER 1,200 INQUIRIES ON OUR LANDOWNER LINE IN 2021. Most of the inquiries were simple questions from landowners and fewer than 3% of the calls were complaints. We responded to more than 97% of the 200 farmers and been inquiries within three days of receiving the call. The well received. remaining calls varied in complexity or did not require a response. The average response time for all inquiries was 15 hours. FUELING DETROIT EVENT SERIES DETROIT, MICHIGAN During the summer and fall seasons, the refinery hosted the Fueling Detroit Event Series, four community events that included a family movie night, the Southwest Detroit Farmers Market, Back to School Blitz and a Health and Harvest Fair. The events were held at the Kemeny Recreation Center and nearly 250 guests attended each event. These events brought community members together and helped connect residents to resources such as immunizations, health screenings and other wellness activities. The Fueling Detroit Event Series will continue throughout 2022, including a financial literacy lunch and learn with Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency, a nonprofit organization serving residents throughout Wayne County, Michigan. Engaging with Indigenous Communities MPC and MPLX are committed to fostering relationships with Indigenous communities near our facilities. By embracing the culture and ideology of Indigenous people, we gain perspective into their rich history and understanding on how to best create shared value. Indigenous perspectives on safety and the preservation of cultural and environmental resources inform our planning and execution of projects and operational activities. Our Tribal Affairs Working Group drives proactive engagements to help build sustainable relationships and successful partnerships with tribal communities. We routinely engage with Indigenous communities through hosting facility tours for tribal leadership, conducting business update meetings with tribal governments and participating in tribal cultural events. Respecting Indigenous Cultures Part of establishing dialogue with tribal partners is understanding what is important to them and interacting in a manner consistent with their values. We continue to provide cultural awareness education programs to key stakeholders across our company to improve understanding of Indigenous history, traditions, rights, cultures and governance. This year, our training programs included tribal leaders from the Navajo, Umatilla, Cherokee and Blackfeet tribes as guest hosts. IN 2021, MPC INVESTED OVER $500,000 WITH ORGANIZATIONS THAT DIRECTLY SUPPORT TRIBAL COMMUNITIES IN AREAS WHERE MPC AND MPLX OPERATE. WE ACTIVELY ENGAGE WITH 21 TRIBAL COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE U.S. AND LOOK FORWARD TO EXPANDING OUR REACH WITH OTHER TRIBAL COMMUNITIES WHERE APPROPRIATE. PARTNERSHIP WITH UTE INDIAN TRIBE In the Salt Lake City area, our partnership with the Ute Indian Tribe is multifaceted and long-standing. MPC purchases crude from the Ute Indian Tribe, has natural gas gathering and processing on Ute tribal lands and collaborates with the Uintah Basin Technical College on their Commercial Driver's License and Diesel Mechanic programs, which are well attended by students from the Ute Tribe. In 2021, MPC established the Marathon Petroleum Tuition Gap Funding Program at the Uintah Basin Technical College (UBTech) with a $100,000 grant. This program supports students, including those from the Ute Tribe, to help pay remaining tuition balances where grants, scholarships or tribe subsidies may fall short. The funding provided by MPC allows participating UBTech students to pursue their education without concern for tuition gaps. “Scholarships like these help me pay my tuition and buy books. It helps me reach my goals and by furthering our education, we build stronger communities.” Valirie SerawopUBTech Student of the Year — — Employee Giving and Volunteer Incentive Programs Our employees are passionate about giving to and volunteering for nonprofit organizations in our communities. That’s why we provide a robust matching gifts program and reward those who invest their time. We match 100% of employee donations, dollar-for-dollar, to qualified 501(c)(3) organizations, up to $10,000 per calendar year. Matching Gifts for Higher Education provides a company match of up to $10,000 for qualified gifts to two- and four-year accredited colleges and universities. This is separate from and in addition to the Employee Giving Program match. Our Volunteer Incentive Program allows employees to earn a $500 award for the charity of their choice by volunteering 24 hours or more with a qualified nonprofit. Employees may earn one individual award and one group award for a total of $1,000 in potential awards per year. 2021 EMPLOYEE GIVING 2021 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM $4 MILLION+ 57,500+ employee donations number of employee volunteer hours $3.5 MILLION+ 800+ match on employee donations number of volunteer projects THERE WHEN WE ARE NEEDED MOST HURRICANE IDA RESPONSE On Aug. 29, 2021, Hurricane Ida made landfall in Louisiana as a Category 4 storm. Ida passed directly over an area that's home to more than 1,000 MPC employees, our Garyville refinery, the Garyville, Mt. Airy and St. James terminals, and several pipeline, marine and trucking assets. In the aftermath of the storm, the safety of our employees and community members was our primary concern. Stepping Into Action — Our Initial Response • $1 million donated by MPC to local charitable organizations and municipalities in and around St. John the Baptist Parish. • Distributed food, water, hygiene items and other essentials. • Mobilized volunteers to assist employees with their damaged homes. • Helped address short- and long-term housing needs for employees. • Provided $4,500,000 in interest-free loans to employees for recovery assistance. • Implemented a special matching gift program that matched the first $25,000 of employee gifts made to the American Red Cross of Louisiana and St. John United Way. • $50,000 donated and hundreds of volunteer hours served by employees to aid recovery. Long-Term Recovery Support • Joined the St. John Parish Long Term Recovery Group to assist individuals and families with unmet needs due to the storm. • Partnered with St. John United Way and Eight Days of Hope to rebuild damaged homes — 50 MPC employees and 1,500 volunteers from 42 states participated. • $3 million donated by MPC to provide roofing, painting, carpentry and drywall work at no cost to families impacted. Sustainability Report 2021  | Embed Sustainability 61 WINTER STORMS IN THE SOUTH In February 2021, winter storms swept the nation, delivering heavy snow in the South that affected MPC facilities and employees in Texas and Kentucky. Many were without power and water for days while utility crews worked to restore service. In addition to distributing clean drinking water to employees at our San Antonio and Galveston Bay facilities, MPC also matched qualifying donations dollar-for-dollar through our matching gifts program and provided disaster relief support in the form of grants to the Salvation Army in Ashland, Kentucky, the San Antonio Food Bank and the United Way of Galveston. DEVASTATING TORNADOES In December 2021, tornadoes directly impacted many communities, including our refineries in Robinson, Illinois, and Catlettsburg, Kentucky. Employees donated clean drinking water, cots and children’s toys to help and comfort displaced families. MPC also provided grants in the amount of $10,000 each to the American Red Cross of the Kentucky Region and to Team Kentucky to aid recovery initiatives. HUMANITARIAN AID FOR UKRAINE As war continues to ravage Ukraine, our thoughts are with those immediately affected by the violence and destruction. To assist those in need, MPC: • Donated $1 million to organizations providing direct assistance • Implemented a special match program for employee donations separate from and in addition to the regular matching gifts program • Hosted local collections and fundraisers to support displaced families Advancing a Diverse Supply Chain MPC and MPLX are committed to a diverse and inclusive supply chain—one that is reflective of the communities where we live and operate. Supplier diversity helps us build a stronger, better, more competitive company. We actively build partnerships with diverse suppliers across our operations, and we are committed to providing equal and impartial opportunities to meet our business needs. This approach stimulates local economic development and enhances our long-term business performance by attracting qualified providers of goods and services and improving supplier competition and sustainability. We actively participate in organizations that support the development of diverse and small businesses in the U.S. We are corporate members of several diversity councils, including the National Minority Supplier Development Council, National LGBT Chamber of Commerce and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. Operational Excellence Management System Everyone, from our employees to our contractors and business partners, contributes to our sustainability performance. As set forth in our policies, standards and procedures and managed through our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), we strive to conduct business safely, responsibly and cost effectively. Building on Best Practices Our OEMS helps us manage risks and internal and external requirements, engage with our stakeholders and further deliver on our sustainability objectives. Our current OEMS reflects more than 15 years of refining a comprehensive RC14001® environmental, health, safety and security management system. In 2020, we published our new, integrated OEMS. It expands on the RC14001® scope, aligning with ISO 9001, which incorporates quality and an increased focus on a process approach and stakeholder engagement. Advancing Our Performance Our OEMS outlines the requirements that will enable us to achieve our goals, improve our performance and lead to long-term success. It provides an iterative process and tools to continually improve the work we do through maintaining operational discipline and speaking up with ideas and concerns. We apply performance-based standards that complement our OEMS and establish organizational expectations. We also periodically review and update these standards to reflect changes in laws or regulations, incorporate recommendations arising from audits and incident investigations, integrate stakeholder feedback and continually improve our performance. Our Health, Environment, Safety and Security (HES&S) Management Committee, comprising executive leadership team members, oversees the companywide implementation of our OEMS. EMBEDDING OEMS COMPANYWIDE We have—and continue to implement — resources and tools companywide, such as our OEMS Playbook and OEMS Centers of Excellence. • OEMS Playbook – Published to further embed our OEMS across the company and provide employees with resources that support continual improvement and risk management. To view our OEMS Playbook please visit our website. • OEMS Center of Excellence – A companywide forum for sharing best practices and lessons learned and promoting continual improvement. The forum includes 30 employees tasked at ensuring management system approaches across MPC and MPLX align with the OEMS framework. They also develop attestation audit recommendations, engage in collaborative audit conversations and create OEMS awareness training and content for use companywide. Cybersecurity and Privacy We manage cybersecurity risks by working continuously to protect our computer systems, data, assets, infrastructure and computing environments from threats—and to safeguard confidentiality, integrity and availability. We implement a comprehensive suite of policies, practices and standards that guide our teams on how to mitigate and manage these risks. Our cybersecurity program aligns with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Cybersecurity Framework and relevant NIST publications, such as NIST SP 800-53, NIST SP 800-82. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework helps companies develop a standardized model on which to build their information technology and operational technology cybersecurity program and subsequently measure their maturity in this important area. Our Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for our cybersecurity program and provides routine briefings to the Board of Directors Audit Committee and the Board as a whole at least twice a year. The Audit Committee further reviews and provides input on our cyber and information security strategy. Informed and Vigilant Employees We provide our employees and contractors with special training to help them manage cybersecurity risks. Informed employees and contractors use common sense and situational cybersecurity awareness to do the same things that physical and digital firewalls do — protect our information and critical systems from threats. Employees and contractors alike act as control agents for what comes into and goes out of both company networks and personal home networks. We only allow our secured devices to access our network remotely, since security on these personal networks is even more important given work-from-home arrangements. We use a simulated phishing program to train and test MPC email account users on how to augment our hardware and software safeguards. Users are shown how to identify and report phishing emails and periodically simulated phishing emails test users’ awareness of phishing attacks. Our anti-phishing program provides immediate feedback to users and notifies the individual’s management in the event of repeated failures. Management then takes appropriate actions and additional training is issued. Threat awareness and prevention training begins when an employee is hired and continues throughout each employee’s tenure, delivering training and materials through multiple channels. Contractors also participate in most of these initiatives. OUR ASSET OPERATIONS CENTERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE PROTECTED USING A RESILIENT SYSTEM OF LAYERED SECURITY ARCHITECTURE. Cybersecurity Policies Our Computer Security Policy governs our cybersecurity efforts and supports compliance with legal requirements. The policy is implemented through a governance process that includes standards, procedures, risk management, defense strategy and compliance reviews. Cybersecurity policies apply to MPC and MPLX entities, employees and third parties that own, manage, administer, support, develop or work on company information systems and to all our computing environments, whether connected to or segregated from our corporate network. All employees have access to our cybersecurity policies, and we emphasize policy awareness for employees through training and supervisor engagement and implement policy compliance through a structured escalation program, if needed. Our Code of Business Conduct further addresses protection of company assets, information systems, social media, business records retention and confidential information. Managing Technology Risks We manage technology risks through a resilient system of layered security architecture. We place security limits on physical access, segment business and operational networks and align critical applications to withstand cyberattacks with additional layers of security. Internal IT controls allow us to detect security events by collecting and analyzing data in our centralized Cybersecurity Operations Center. Third-Party Risks Using both internal and third-party vendor-provided capabilities, we maintain a proactive, data-centric cybersecurity risk assessment and management program. As part of the approach, employees are trained to report and escalate suspicious incidents and cyberthreats to our IT Service Desk. From there, threats are screened and escalated to our 24/7 Cybersecurity Operations Center for appropriate action. We continue to expand our due diligence capabilities in response to a changing cloud-computing landscape. Privacy Protecting personal data we receive is a top priority. We comply with applicable privacy laws, as well as applicable privacy regulations and safeguards, which have been applied to our operations. MPC adheres to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which provides a baseline of technical and operational requirements to protect customers’ payment card account data, and we engage a third-party Qualified Security Assessor to assess our compliance annually. INCIDENT PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE • Cybersecurity incident response procedures and business continuity plans are in place and tested at least annually. • Highly trained employees on our Cybersecurity Incident Response Team are ready to respond 24/7. • Risk assessments, vulnerability analyses and targeted penetration testing are conducted throughout the year. • Independent third parties audit, assess and test aspects of our IT and cybersecurity programs annually. 