A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO, MIKE HENNIGAN As MPC and MPLX meet the energy needs of today and invest in an energy-diverse future, our approach to sustainability is key to our success. Only by applying the skill, perspective and creativity of our people in collaboration with community and other stakeholders do we advance our collective goals. We are challenging ourselves to lead in sustainable energy by strengthening the resiliency of our operations, innovating for the future and embedding sustainability in decision-making and how we engage our people and stakeholders. We apply this approach to environmental, social and governance (ESG) as we execute our three strategic priorities — to strengthen the competitive position of our assets, embed a low-cost culture and improve commercial performance. We continue to challenge ourselves to lead in sustainable energy by deepening ESG commitments to drive long-term benefits for our business and stakeholders. To enhance our suite of sustainability goals, in 2022 we became the first U.S. refining company to commit to an absolute Scope 3, Category 11 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction. Our absolute Scope 3 reduction goal of 15% below 2019 levels by 2030 builds on our goal to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 30% below 2014 levels by 2030 — a goal linked to compensation. We also committed to reduce methane emissions intensity 75% below 2016 levels by 2030 across our natural gas gathering and processing operations. This expands on our previous 50% by 2025 methane goal, which we are pleased to report is nearing accomplishment. Aligned with our commitment to natural resource conservation, we continue to pursue our goal to reduce freshwater withdrawal intensity 20% from 2016 levels by 2030. In 2022, we are allocating significant growth capital to renewables, including the conversion of our Martinez, California, refinery to a renewable fuels facility. When complete, the Martinez Renewable Fuels facility will be larger than any renewable diesel production facility operating in the U.S. today, while generating approximately 60% less GHG emissions per year than its prior operations. To maintain a competitive workforce and reflect the diversity of our communities, we added a diversity, equity and inclusion metric tied to compensation — the first U.S. independent refiner to do so. In 2021, we exceeded the goal we set to increase BIPOC new hires, but fell short of our women new hire goal. We continue to improve our existing programs and evaluate new programs that will aid in the retention and recruitment of women. Through our DE&I strategy of building awareness, increasing representation, ensuring success, and measurement and accountability, we are embracing the power of our differences to strengthen our company. This strength was put into action when we supported communities and coworkers impacted by Hurricane Ida. After initially providing food, water, hygiene items and funding, I am proud of how our people have continued to give of their time, talent and treasure to support long-term recovery. To date, MPC has activated over $8.5 million in recovery assistance. Across the board, our talented people put our sustainability goals into action in ways that offer concrete examples of leadership. Our energy efficiency performance was recognized with a third consecutive ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year — Sustained Excellence Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Only 16 companies from across the entire U.S. industrial sector received the recognition, and we were the only recipient with fuels manufacturing as its primary business. In December 2021, our subsidiary Virent’s bio-based fuel technology was used in the first commercial passenger flight using 100% sustainable aviation fuel compatible with today’s jet engines. I invite you to read on to learn about the ways we’re working together to provide the energy the world needs in responsible and sustainable ways. We are open to your feedback and welcome you to share your thoughts with us at sustainability@marathonpetroleum.com. Sincerely, Michael J. Hennigan President and Chief Executive Officer, MPC and MPLX June 2022 2021 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS First independent U.S. downstream energy company to establish an ABSOLUTE SCOPE 3 - CATEGORY 11 GHG EMISSIONS TARGET to reduce 15% below 2019 levels by 2030 Expanded our  METHANE EMISSIONS INTENSITY TARGET to reduce 75% by 2030 from 2016 levels 23% REDUCTION in companywideScope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensitysince 2014 First independent U.S. downstream energy company to establish a DIVERSITY,EQUITY ANDINCLUSION GOAL linked to compensation 46% REDUCTION in methane emissions intensity since 2016 15% REDUCTION in freshwater withdrawal intensitysince 2016 Established a pipeline right-of-way BIODIVERSITY TARGET Virent's products used in 1ST COMMERCIAL PASSENGER FLIGHT with 100% sustainable DOW JONES Sustainability™ North America Index for the third straight year aviation fuel FIVE American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers safety awards Sustainability Report 2021  | Introduction 05 $21 MILLION+ invested in communities by MPC and MPLX 100% SCORE on Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index Third consecutive U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence Award and four additional Challenge for Industry Awards OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY At MPC and MPLX, our commitment to sustainability means taking actions that create shared value with our stakeholders — empowering people to achieve more, contributing to progress in our communities and protecting the environment we all share. We are challenging ourselves to lead in sustainable energy — meeting the needs of today while investing in an energy-diverse future. This objective drives us to strengthen the resiliency of our business, innovate for the future and embed sustainability in all we do. ESG PERFORMANCE LINKED TO COMPENSATION Safety and environmental performance have long been a part of our companywide annual cash bonus programs. In 2021, we introduced a diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) component — making us the first U.S. independent downstream energy company to link improving diversity representation to compensation, in the same way we led the industry in linking GHG intensity reductions to compensation. Our ESG metric, which includes DE&I, GHG intensity and environmental and safety performance components, is weighted at 20% of our annual cash bonus program. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND SHARED VALUE At MPC and MPLX, we value open dialogue with our stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, business partners, customers, the communities we call home and governments. Our sustainability strategy is guided by ongoing dialogue with stakeholders to inform our understanding of the issues and trends facing our industry and company. We seek to understand stakeholder perspectives and incorporate their feedback and insights into our approach to sustainability. • Code of Business  • Investor presentations  • Supplier Code of  • Global, regional and local  • Websites, news and social  • Advocacy  Conduct • Integrity Helpline • CEO communications • Regular employee communications • Performance management • Safety meetings • Training and professional development • Employee Network Groups • Wellness programs  and conferences • Engagement with analysts and portfolio managers • Engagement with investor stewardship teams • Annual Shareholder Meeting • SEC filings • Press releases  Conduct • Business partner reviews • Sourcing process • Contract management • Supplier diversity program • Value creation opportunities • Supplier audits • Supplier recognition awards • Strategic partnership management  industry events, forums and conferences • Company events and meetings • Partnerships and working groups to advance best practices  media • Community investment programs • Community engagement and board representation • Bridge programs • Employment • Landowner events • Focus groups • Community surveys • Facility tours • Community hotlines • Community Advisory Panels • Facilitation of community events  • Policy development • Industry and trade association representation • Regulatory compliance • Permit reviews • Regulatory audits • Collaboration on community investment projects • Facility tours • Marathon Petroleum Corporation Employees Political Action Committee  • Sponsorships  1 Excludes crude/feedstock purchases 2 Includes sales, use, excise taxes IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING TOPICS In 2021, we refreshed and updated our reporting materiality assessment to prioritize environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics based on external developments and stakeholder feedback. Consistent with Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Core reporting guidelines, we continued to focus on topics that reflect significant ESG impacts and enable stakeholders to assess our company performance. We engaged both external and internal stakeholders to understand their perspectives on a broad range of identified topics. We had extensive engagement with stakeholders and shareholders holding over 70% of our outstanding shares. Discussions included a wide range of issues, such as climate change risks and opportunities, executive compensation, incentivizing ESG goals through compensation, Scope 3 targets and political engagement, including trade associations and climate lobbying. We combined the updated information gathered from these engagements with insights from industry benchmarking, governmental regulations, voluntary initiatives and analysis of online news and social media trends utilizing Datamaran®. The majority of our topics remain and are of similar priority relative to our previous materiality analysis in 2021.  One new topic, management of local impacts, was added this year. This topic refers to the mechanism to assess, manage and mitigate any potential direct or indirect negative impacts of our business in the local communities in which we operate. Material Reporting Topics1 GHG emissions Climate change risksand opportunities Public health risks Water use and conservation Diversity, equity andinclusion Energy management Cybersecurity Management oflocal impacts Stakeholder Ecological impacts engagement Human capitalmanagement Human rights Transparency Governance structures IMPORTANCE TO SOCIETY and mechanisms Understanding thelegal and regulatory Supply chain management environment Employee engagement Critical incident risk management Air quality andemissions Workforce health and safety Process safety Business ethics and accountability 1Distinct from concepts of materiality in financial reporting and under BUSINESS IMPACT securities laws, material sustainability topics according to GRI consider impacts an organization may have on the broader economy, environment and society and factors viewed as important to stakeholders MOST SIGNIFICANT HIGHLY SIGNIFICANT (EXTERNAL) HIGHLY SIGNIFICANT (INTERNAL) SIGNIFICANT Strengthening our business for today, while building durability for the future Lowering Our Carbon Footprint 11 Conserving Natural Resources 