OUR PEOPLE WE ARE COMMITTED TO AN INCLUSIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT At MPC, we believe it’s critical to our success that we maintain a work environment where all employees are respected and valued for the full range of strengths and talents they bring to the workplace. After all, it doesn’t make sense to hire the best employees if they’re not able to perform to the best of their abilities with us. That’s why our Diversity & Inclusion office – and our employees – are always looking for ways to overcome barriers or challenges that might prevent full participation in the important work we do. But it’s more than just a business imperative. It is, in fact, one of our five core values – part of our commitment to do right. As such, diversity and inclusion is not all business; there are often personal dimensions. “It’s not uncommon for people to tell me they’ve had personal moments of discovery during one of our workshops or presentations,” says MPC Senior Diversity Consultant George Stoll. “There are things they never realized about other people, and things they never realized about themselves, that can come out during these sessions.” The issues Stoll discusses with employees can touch upon culture, heritage, politics, gender, religion and more. “Sometimes the information I provide – and that our fellow employees provide – can be fascinating and informative,” says Stoll, “and it can also shake the foundational beliefs that some people have about themselves and about others.” For example, says Stoll, if an employee feels that certain terminology or ways of interacting in a workplace are upsetting, another employee might suddenly realize that she or he has been unwittingly contributing to someone’s discomfort. “Awareness is a big part of what we do, and we also give people concrete actions they can take to make sure they’re fostering as inclusive an environment as possible,” says Stoll. The Diversity & Inclusion office uses the “Inclusion Continuum” to illustrate the progression MPC is striving to achieve. The Inclusion Continuum includes intolerance at its lowest level, and moves up through tolerance, awareness, understanding and finally valuing. “Our objective is to move the entire company – every organization, every person – up the continuum,” said Stoll. “I am proud of what MPC has done so far, but we have more work to do. We will always be striving for a higher level.” 31 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Senior Diversity Consultant George Stoll conducts a diversity and inclusion workshop at MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La. CITIZENSHIP REPORT 32 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY IS A SUCCESS FACTOR AND A MATTER OF PRINCIPLE For MPC’s Talent Acquisition team, the stakes are high. Because MPC manufactures the fuel and other products that make modern life possible, the work we do is critically important to millions of people every day. “That means we’re searching for the best candidates for every position we have available,” says MPC Talent Acquisition Supervisor Tony Moore. “We make sure we are recruiting students and recent graduates from a diverse array of colleges and universities, as well as skilled professionals from everywhere – any industry, any geographic location.” Moore and his team are looking for a combination of skills and characteristics that match MPC’s rigorous requirements. They look for people who are technically proficient in their chosen fields, so measures of performance – whether grades or job accomplishments – are important. “But it goes beyond that,” says Moore. “We have to keep in mind that millions of people rely on MPC for some of their most essential needs, so we also look for candidates who show drive and passion for this important work.” One of the factors Moore and his team focus on is diversity. “This is important for us, because diversity directly correlates with success,” he says. “We know that when we have a diverse workplace, we have a wider range of backgrounds and abilities that provide different ways of understanding our world. That means that for any given project, problem or day-to-day task, we’re availing ourselves of the widest array of talent possible.” Cultural, racial, religious, ethnic, political, gender … these measures of diversity, Moore says, are indicators, but aren’t necessarily the reason for his team’s diversity talent-acquisition efforts. “Those labels are markers that society uses, but what we’re striving for is actually much bigger than that,” he says. “Our society is one of the most vibrant the world has ever seen because of the amazing diversity of people who make it what it is. We work to tap that same diversity of talent and worldviews for the benefit of our company and the millions of people who rely on our products.” MPC recruiters talk to job seekers during a jobs fair at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University in Greensboro, N.C. 33 CITIZENSHIP REPORT CITIZENSHIP REPORT 34 35 CITIZENSHIP REPORT OUR PEOPLE OUR EMPLOYEES ARE OUR MOST VALUABLE ASSET, AND THAT’S HOW WE TREAT THEM The work we do at MPC is critical to the millions of people who rely on the products we manufacture, transport and market. That’s why we strive to attract and retain the best people for every job we have. Part of that effort is our Total Rewards – the pay, career, benefits and work/ life programs we offer employees. In 2014, we invested more than $1.2 billion in pay for our employees. But take-home pay is just the start. We provide health insurance to our full-time employees, including options for dental and vision plans, as well as company-paid disability benefits and life insurance. We help secure our employees’ financial futures by offering a 401(k) with a company match and a cash balance plan that includes a contribution of up to 11 percent by the company, with a minimum of a 3 percent return. And we are one of just over 20 percent of the Fortune 500 companies that currently offer both a defined benefit pension plan and a 401(k) retirement plan. “Our industry is extremely competitive when it comes to rewarding our employees, so at MPC we are always looking for new ways to add value to their lives in ways that are meaningful,” says Robin Love, MPC’s manager of Benefits Administration. Just this year, she noted, MPC increased the company-paid life insurance coverage to two times an employee’s annual pay, added a company-paid accidental death benefit of one year of an employee’s annual pay, and established a customer-service line with MPC’s health insurance provider that’s available exclusively to MPC employees and their families. MPC’s benefits also seek to enhance employees’ personal lives through programs like adoption assistance, scholarships, tuition reimbursement and providing cash donations to nonprofits where employees volunteer their time, MPC ranked third among many other benefits. on the Forbes “Our objective is to make sure our Total Rewards program is always greater Best Employers 2015 list, than the sum of its parts,” says Love. “We want our employees to be happy and outranked and healthy in their careers, while all its industry peers. at the same time we reinforce our corporate values of integrity, corporate For details, seecitizenship and an inclusive culture.” www.forbes.com/best-employers/ Robin Love Benefits Administration Manager CITIZENSHIP REPORT 36 How does MPC Measure Up2014 Employee Survey Results OUR PEOPLE OUR EMPLOYEES ARE ENGAGED Every two years, MPC commissions a companywide survey of employees by organizational assessment and employee survey firm Sirota Consulting. Through this survey, we explore employee engagement and the perceptions of our health, environment, safety and security (HES&S) situation. The employee engagement portion of the 2014 survey included 49 questions, while the HES&S portion included 43. Employee participation in the engagement portion of the survey was 88 percent, while 86 percent participated in the HES&S portion. We present some of the most important survey metrics below. If positive responses to a statement are 80 percent or higher, it is considered a strength. If positive responses are below 65 percent, it is considered an opportunity for improvement. We had only two statements that indicated opportunities for improvement. OUR GREATEST STRENGTHS Of the 92 total questions, 67 scored 80 percent positive responses or higher, and are considered strengths. Below are some of the highest-scoring items: • Just about everyone feels that MPC promotes a culture of safety (95 percent) and environmental stewardship (94 percent). • A huge majority (90 percent) of those surveyed would recommend MPC as a place to work and are proud to work for the company. • Almost all employees (96 percent) enjoy a good relationship with their co-workers. • Virtually all employees feel they have received adequate safety training (95 percent) and environmental training (92 percent) and often correct safety hazards themselves (92 percent). • Most employees feel their supervisors would support them for stopping a job for safety reasons (93 percent) and also support the Behavior Based Safety program (91 percent). • Nearly all employees would report something they believed to be illegal or unethical (94 percent) and also feel encouraged to report potential environmental violations (95 percent). • Nine out of 10 employees have confidence in the future of the company and are highly motivated to go above and beyond to help MPC be successful. OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE Of the 92 total questions, two scored less than 65 percent positive responses. • Only 60 percent of employees feel their organization has enough employees to do a quality job. • A similarly low proportion (61 percent) believe that the promotion process rewards employees with the ability and motivation to work safely. HOW DO WE COMPARE? A significant number of the employee engagement and HES&S questions on the survey allow us to compare ourselves to other companies in an industry comparator group. MPC rated substantially higher than comparator employee groups in several areas. Below are those in which we rated 20 percentage points or more above our comparator group: • That we would report a minor injury: 20 percent higher • Belief that management is more concerned about keeping people safe than with keeping the injury statistics low: 28 percent higher • That meeting production goals rarely requires employees to put themselves at risk: 20 percent higher • That my supervisor would support stopping work for safety reasons: 21 percent higher • That we would report a near miss: 22 percent higher • Belief that discipline for safety violations is fair and consistent: 20 percent higher • Belief that everyone (including contractors) is held to the same safety standard: 20 percent higher • Feel that our supervisors do not put production ahead of safety: 26 percent higher • Our safety reward/recognition programs encourage employees to work safely and participate in safety activities: 20 percent higher.