“Now, more than ever, we remain dedicated to supporting consumers with integrated energy solutions that provide greater control, are more resilient in the face of natural disasters, and serve as an environmentally conscious energy choice.” A Letter from Our CEO,  WILLIAM J. (JOHN) BERGER Eight years ago when Sunnova was founded, I knew we were going to lead an energy transformation that would change the way people source and use energy. With the global energy industry on the precipice of profound change, we foresaw how the integration of ground-breaking technologies would reshape the way 21st century consumers power their lives and how we could provide distributed and decentralized energy services. Today, distributed solar and energy storage technologies have become one of the biggest game changers of our time. Sunnova’s mission is simple: to power energy independence. We are proud to drive the global energy transformation by harnessing the latest technological innovations that will help bring about a clean energy future. We can achieve more by working together to advance the energy industry through collaboration, integrity, respect, and long-term trusted relationships. Because at the end of the day, we are only as strong as the sum of the relationships we’ve built over the years with our employees, customers, dealers, and partners. The events of 2020 changed the world forever, and tested the strength and resilience of businesses across the globe. The uncertainty brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing climate crisis magnified the importance of having reliable energy during trying times. Now, more than ever, we remain dedicated to supporting consumers with integrated energy solutions that provide greater control, are more resilient in the face of natural disasters, and serve as an environmentally conscious energy choice. The pandemic also exposed social and economic inequalities and emerging human rights allegations that moved the clean energy industry to take corrective actions to ensure ethical sourcing and greater transparency in supply chains. In our inaugural environmental, social, and governance (ESG) report, we reaffirm our commitment to serving all of our stakeholders. To ensure mission alignment, we’ve formed an internal committee of senior management that oversees Sunnova’s ESG strategy with board-level oversight through our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. As we continue to make progress on our ESG strategy, we will strive for continuous improvement. This means strengthening our performance on diversity and inclusion across our organization, continuing to quantify and magnify our environmental impact, fostering partnerships in more communities across the world, and communicating our progress year after year. With a local focus and a global vision, Sunnova aims to create a reliable energy future that will transform the world for the better. I would like to thank the team at Sunnova for their relentless focus, drive, and commitment, and our employees, customers, dealers, partners, and stockholders for powering our pursuit of ESG excellence. We look forward to continuing this important ESG journey with you. William J. (John) Berger Chairman, President, and CEO Sunnova Energy International Inc.  (NYSE: NOVA) is a leading residential solar and energy storage service provider, with customers across the U.S. and its territories. Founded in Houston, Texas in 2012, we started our journey to create a better energy service at a better price. Driven by the changing energy landscape, technology advancements, and demand for a cleaner, more sustainable future, we are proud to help pioneer the energy transition. We are redefining what it means for Houston to be the “Energy Capital of the World.” Through service and the power of partnerships, we are working to accelerate our ESG impact and to create shared value for our customers, employees, communities, partners, and investors. Founded in 2012 107.5K CUSTOMERS1 792 MW DEPLOYED2 1.7 Million METRIC TONS OF CO2e AVOIDED2 2.4 Billion KWH OF CLEAN ENERGY2 1 As of 12/31/20202 Based on the accumulative actual production (kWh) for systems as of 12/31/2020. Our SERVICES Sunnova is dedicated to supporting consumers with integrated energy solutions that provide greater consumer control, that are more resilient in the face of storms and natural disasters, and that serve as an environmentally conscious energy choice. When coupled with other significant advances in home energy management systems and adaptive demand response technologies, our integrated energy solutions provide consumers with greater control over their energy needs. SUNNOVA HOME SOLAR: We help our customers increase their energy independence and take control of their energy costs with clean, renewable solar  energy—right from their rooftop. SUNNOVA SUNSAFE® HOME SOLAR AND BATTERY STORAGE: We offer customers increased energy resiliency and additional protection against potential rising electricity rates with reliable battery storage paired with their home solar system. SUNNOVA SUNSAFE® ADD-ON BATTERY STORAGE: For customers who already have solar, we offer add-on battery backup for increased energy resiliency—day or night, on or  off the grid. ROOF REPLACEMENT: We help customers install a new roof at the same time as their solar system with coverage for 25 years, ensuring their solar system produces clean, renewable energy for years to come. SUNNOVA PROTECT®: Whether customers purchase a new Sunnova home solar system or simply need added protection for an existing home solar  system, we help safeguard their investment with up to 25 years  of worry-free maintenance, monitoring, repairs, replacements,  and energy guarantees. EASY PLAN™ AND EASY OWN PLAN™: We help make going solar affordable with flexible payment  options for customers to lease, own, or only pay for the power their system produces. Our PEOPLE Sunnova’s success is powered by  the diversity of our people as we work together to help change the energy industry for the better. Our team of passionate employees is what makes our positive impact possible. We strive to foster an environment where our employees can achieve their full potential while advancing our mission of powering energy independence. Our Core Values Service We believe in providing a better energy service. We are a technology-enabled energy services provider who delivers with quality and steadfast dedication in the communities we serve. “I feel that I can make a difference or a positive impact on the company every day. I also feel, with my training and experience, that I can pass that knowledge along to my co-workers and have a positive impact on their lives and careers every day.” — Sunnova employee Synergy We believe in achieving more by working together. We are focused on collectively advancing Sunnova and the energy industry through collaboration, integrity, respect, and long-term trusted relationships. Sustainability We believe in doing well by doing good. We provide the world with cleaner, renewable, and more reliable energy by focusing on responsible growth, energy resiliency, and innovation to create lasting value. Our Customers AND DEALERS Our growing network of 435 dealers and sub-dealers helps amplify our impact. We’ve helped over 107,000 customers in more than twenty-two U.S. states and territories achieve energy independence by going solar. We are committed to creating a better energy service at a better price by making the switch to solar easier with customized options, flexible financing, and 25 years of system protection through Sunnova Protect®. Where We Operate* 22+ STATES AND TERRITORIES 435 DEALERS AND SUB-DEALERS *As of 12/31/2020. Awards and Recognition • Happiest Employees Award from Comparably • Best CEO Award from Comparably • Most Admired CEO Award from Houston Business Journal • Best Workplaces Award from ALLY by Pink Petro Service and partnership Our STRATEGY The events of recent years have revealed a true and growing need for energy independence. Facing the impacts of the climate crisis and other social and environmental challenges, homeowners across the globe are looking for ways to improve their energy resilience. It is clear that the traditional energy service model, dependent entirely upon centralized electric grids, is no longer working—we need a new energy paradigm of distributed solar and solar plus storage. By utilizing the latest technologies in solar, storage, secondary generation, and demand control, we are working to turn our customers’ homes into partially or even fully self sufficient nano-grids called the “Sunnova Adaptive Home.” This means our solar plus storage customers will no longer need to completely rely on centralized power. Sunnova will, in turn, aggregate these nano-grids into the Sunnova Network, which will create value for consumers, Sunnova stockholders, and even the centralized grids, ultimately facilitating our long-term vision of becoming a global wireless power company. At Sunnova, we believe that sustainability is the foundation of a strong business and a better tomorrow. We seek to inspire positive social change and foster a culture of integrity, performance, and  ethical business practices. Beyond the impact of our core business, we focus our attention on areas where we believe we can make the biggest positive environmental impact. We are working to reduce the impact of our operations in order to reduce our carbon footprint and  improve efficiency. We understand that our people are vital to our success, and we have put programs and initiatives in place to ensure our workforce is safe, engaged, and able to continue learning and developing at Sunnova. And because a key part of our strategy is our partnerships, we invest in the relationships with our dealers, customers, vendors, and communities so that we can deliver more energy services to more customers to ultimately deliver consumer, grid, and community value. “This past year, nationwide we have seen how climate change is impacting our daily lives. These experiences have brought home how important it is to have clean energy that is affordable and reliable. Sunnova is accelerating this opportunity by offering homeowners a solar energy system to power their homes with clean and renewable energy. Sunnova’s commitment to advancing this energy transformation gives our customers the ability to take control of the energy for their home and to join us and our partners in building a more sustainable energy future.” —Anne Slaughter Andrew, Chair of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee overseeing ESG Strategy In early 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic first shocked communities globally, we took immediate action. As an essential business, we committed to responsibly showing up for our employees, dealers, and customers. Employees To keep our employees safe, we transitioned to online meetings, conferences, and remote work for most employees. For our employees who work in the field, such as Sunnova field technicians, we prioritized safety by providing training in public health best practices, including proper social distancing, hygienic work practices, and daily health screenings. We continue to ensure that our technicians observe appropriate social distancing when interacting with customers and minimize direct interaction whenever possible. Amid the uncertainty of the early days of the pandemic, our CEO hosted virtual town halls every few days to keep employees informed, connected, and comforted. As the pandemic settled into a new normal, we changed the cadence of these town halls to weekly, bi-weekly, and now monthly. We also began issuing quarterly newsletters and pulse surveys to keep our employees connected with the most recent COVID-19 developments. Dealers The pandemic has demonstrated the flexibility and resilience of the dealer model. This has allowed our dealers to focus exclusively on what is going on in the field and tailor their actions to the local situation. Meanwhile, Sunnova has been able to direct our focus on people, capital, assisting our dealers, and providing service to our customers. As we  saw more and more cities across the country calling for  stay-at-home orders, our dealers quickly and nimbly  adjusted their processes by increasing their use of virtual tools to support both their sales and interconnection activities. Our dealers also worked with their respective agencies having jurisdiction to utilize electronic inspections and permitting. These actions have reduced our dealers’ reliance upon face-to-face meetings, allowing them to be able to continue selling our solar energy service and get new customers placed in-service. Now more than ever, the strength of the dealer model is on full display. Customers With people spending more time in the home, homeowners have become focused on ensuring that the energy they use to power their lives is clean, reliable, and affordable. Batteries contribute to homeowners’ peace of mind knowing that if their local grid fails, they will still have the energy they need, whether for their most needed lights and appliances or, depending on their system configuration, their whole home. We have seen this focus manifest in an increased consumer appetite for our service offerings, which we are proud to say are helping power our customers’ energy independence during the pandemic. Throughout this global hardship, our flexible, technology-enabled service model has proven to be well-equipped to meet the challenges of COVID-19 head-on. As we enter the second year of the pandemic, Sunnova will continue to monitor the situation closely to ensure all of our customers, employees, dealers, and partners navigate it safely. 2020 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Sunnova closed out 2020 with strong financial results in line with our pre-pandemic public guidance. This made 2020 the second consecutive year we met our increased guidance targets, demonstrating the forward visibility and predictability of our business model. We achieved these results because of our flexible, technology-enabled service business model and the quick response of our dealers to modify the way they do business. We continued our rapid growth by adding approximately 29,000 customers in 2020, which is a 57% increase from the number of customers added in 2019, and our storage penetration rate on our full customer base nearly tripled to 9.2%. This exceptional growth was fueled by our dealers and sub-dealers who continue to power our differentiated, low-cost model. In fact, we nearly tripled our dealer count by selectively adding 280 dealers and sub-dealers. Full Year Financial Results $59.6 Million ADJUSTED EBITDA1 $55.8 Million PRINCIPAL2 AND INTEREST PAYMENTS RECEIVED ON SOLAR LOANS $10.7 Million ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW1 $3.0 Billion ESTIMATED GROSS CONTRACTED CUSTOMER VALUE AT 12/31/2020 DISCOUNTED AT 4% 1 Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Cash Flows are non-GAAP financial measures. 2 Net of amounts recorded in revenue. 3 Sunnova defines a service as a transaction that Sunnova, or Sunnova’s designee, performs in exchange for a fee from the customer and is counted for the duration of the customer relationship so long as that service is still in effect. A customer relationship is defined by the presence of at least one active agreement such as a service plan or similar offering. 107.5K Customers • Rate of customer acquisition increased 57% in 2020 vs 2019 • 3.7 services3 per customer 435 Dealers/Sub-dealers • Rate of dealer acquisition increased 391% in 2020 vs 2019 • Recent strong growth driven by our dealers expanding their sub-dealer networks to meet customer demand 9.2% Storage Penetration Rate • Storage penetration rate increased from 3.3% as of 12/31/2019 to 9.2% • 1,109 battery retrofits performed Note: Q4 2020 Earnings Presentation; Numbers as of 12/31/2020 Customer Growth Driving Improvements Total Customers (000s) Adjusted EBITDA1, Principal2, and Interest ($M) 107.5 $6.8 $6.1 $32.6  $23.2  $59.6  $20.0  $11.6  $48.3  2018 2019 2020 ADJ. EBITDA INTEREST PRINCIPAL Battery Penetration Rate Adjusted Operating Cash Flow1 ($M) $10.79.2% $6.4 2018 3.3% 2019 2020 0.9% $(10.6)2018 2019 2020 Strong Contracted Customer Value Growth Estimated Net Contracted Customer Value ($M)3 Estimated Gross Contracted Customer Value ($M)3 $2,997 $2,607$1,707 $2,175$1,317 $1,879$1,188 $1,723 $1,476$948 $892 $710 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 6% DISCOUNT RATE 4% DISCOUNT RATE 6% DISCOUNT RATE 4% DISCOUNT RATE As of 12/31/2020 1 Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Cash Flows are non-GAAP financial measures. 2 Net of amounts recorded in revenue. 3 For definitions of NCCV and GCCV, please see slide 39 of our FY20 Q4 earnings presentation. 2020 INNOVATION HIGHLIGHTS As technology continues to rapidly advance, residential solar continues to transition from a product sale to a service sale. Large scale energy service providers such as Sunnova are integrating a growing number of hardware technologies that will make the power industry—the grid— look more like the internet. Instead of having centralized assets with command and control and no intelligence at the endpoints of the system, the power industry in the United States is heading toward a hybrid of centralized and decentralized assets that will be more durable, reliable, decarbonized, and useful to consumers. These decentralized assets can be monitored, controlled, and optimized remotely through cloud-based solutions. Sunnova is opening new growth opportunities to create and sell more energy services to our existing customers, creating further value for our customers  and stockholders. grid services, and ultimately deliver consumer, grid, and community value. As we develop these community microgrids we will endeavor to provide even more energy savings, energy resilience, and energy independence. CONSUMER Renewable Energy Energy Savings Energy Resiliency Home Electrification GRID Peak Load Management Resource Adequacy Transmission/Distribution Deferral Grid Stabilization COMMUNITY Energy Savings Energy Resiliency Energy Independence In this inaugural ESG report, we are proud to showcase our commitment to six  of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). As a leader in the residential solar and storage service industry, our mission, values, and business goals are well-positioned to build a sustainable future. We look forward  to continuing to share our progress against the UN SDGs in the coming years. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Sunnova’s business is centered on a vision for a sustainable future. Our work to expand residential solar, increase access, and reduce cost through our development and government affairs efforts is aligned to achieve all three dimensions of this critical goal. 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Sunnova is committed to growing, training, and retaining a workforce that will power the future. Our unique dealer model helps spur entrepreneurship and expands access to sustainable energy and purpose-led work  for all communities. With our standards for employee safety, training, compensation, engagement, and development, economic growth and work opportunity are core to  our business. 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION, AND INFRASTRUCTURE We envision a future marked by energy independence and a rethinking of current energy infrastructure to ensure stable, dispatchable, local solutions. By enabling microgrids, our work will build a foundation for local communities to enhance energy security through residential solar and battery storage. These solutions are accessible across communities, and we seek to drive impact where it is needed most. 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Residential solar and battery storage technologies are fundamental to the energy transition across cities and communities. By leveraging existing roof space, we can make efficient use of our cityscapes and power our dwellings with clean energy. In addition, by breaking down barriers to access for the cities and communities that have been previously left out of the energy transition, we are working to create an inclusive and just transition. 13 CLIMATE ACTION Our business is driven by a strong sense of urgency to address the climate crisis. Residential solar and battery technologies are an important part of creating a path towards decarbonization and a clean energy future. We measure both the emissions reduced through the deployment of our service offerings and the footprint of our own operations—and will work to continuously improve both. As a business voice for political action, we ensure our government affairs work is in the best interest of climate action. 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Sunnova’s success is powered through partnerships. Our business can only succeed through the bridges we build to new communities and industry partners. We are proud of the work we have accomplished to date through pour partnerships and will strive to continue to partner well to achieve sustainable development goals. 