ENVIRONMENTAL to create lasting value. For our customers, the Sunnova Adaptive Home™ and Sunnova Adaptive Community™ solutions provide clean and reliable energy for existing homes and new home construction, respectively. ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL Opportunities in Clean Energy Climate Change Risks and Opportunities Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Green Financing Framework and Green Bond Reporting SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DATA AND APPROACH Sunnova New HomesOpportunities Building a sustainable future in the new home sector starts from the ground up. From the building’s design, to the sourcing of materials and equipment, to the technology incorporated into the construction —in Clean Energy everything impacts the environment and the lives of Goal: We plan to build a customer base by year-end 2023 whose systems will offset 52 million MTCO2e over their useful life. How we will pursue this goal • Our Commitment to Service • Our Synergy with Partners • Sustainability and Climate Change: Aligning with TCFD Our mission is to power energy independence so that homeowners have the freedom to live life uninterrupted®. Clean, reliable and affordable energy is more in demand now than ever before. Our goal is to be the source of clean, affordable and reliable energy for any community in the United States, and we will reach this goal by championing efforts to develop renewable power generation capacity and/or enable renewable power development through network expansion and “green power” offerings, including microgrids and virtual power plants. Our Commitment to Service Sunnova is dedicated to supporting consumers with integrated energy solutions that provide greater consumer control, are more resilient in the face of storms and natural disasters and serve as an environmentally-conscious energy choice. When coupled with other significant advances in home energy management systems and adaptive demand response technologies, our integrated energy solutions provide consumers with greater control over their energy needs. those who call that building home. That is why we, at Sunnova, are proud to celebrate two major milestones in 2021: the acquisition of the residential solar platform “SunStreet” and surpassing 50,000 new home construction solar installations. The addition of SunStreet’s team and customer base propels Sunnova’s New Home Solar Standard Communities to new levels of social and environmental impact. By working together with our partners in the homebuilding industry we are helping create a lifetime of sustainability and energy independence for homeowners across the United States. Our Synergy with Partners We are building the infrastructure to lead the transition to renewable energy. Our business strategy, leadership and ESG goals are paving the way for an industry-leading operational model that is both innovative and transformative. An Expanding Network In 2021 alone, Sunnova launched the following partnerships with an ongoing commitment to create a robust network of service offerings to our dealers and customers. This partnership will allow Sunnova to offer its customers options from the Brinks Home portfolio of smart home security solutions and allow Brinks Home dealers and authorized representatives to offer their customers Sunnova’s suite of solar, battery and energy services. As the demand for smarter, more energy-efficient homes continues to grow, so too does the home security market.. Home security companies are incorporating new technologies into their offerings to help automate and adapt the home to the consumer’s wants and needs. . https://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/home-security-system-market/ ChargePoint, Inc. is a leading Electric Vehicle (EV) charging network operating in North America and Europe and offers Sunnova customers a variety of EV charging solutions. Sunnova partnered with ChargePoint to help streamline and accelerate growth in EV adoption. EVs in the home increase annual energy demand from 50% to 100% (depending on a user’s specific charging behavior). By bundling a solar system and an EV charger in a single purchase, Sunnova helps customers properly size and install the right energy solution to meet their needs. Additionally, ChargePoint software embedded in their personal Sunnova portal helps customers optimize car charging within their Sunnova home energy ecosystem. Intero, a Berkshire Hathaway affiliate and wholly-owned subsidiary of HomeServices of America, Inc., helps San Francisco residents buy, sell and invest in real estate. By partnering with Sunnova, Intero and its agents differentiate themselves from their competitors, improve their clients’ experience and connect their clients with a reliable energy solution. With continued stress on the energy grid and the increased adoption of battery-powered vehicles, residents throughout the Bay Area are actively searching for reliable energy solutions when considering options for their next home. Intero agents help their current and past clients quickly connect with Sunnova so they can receive the unrivaled service that is synonymous with Sunnova’s brand. Sunnova partnered with AutoGrid to provide reliable demand response resources to Clean Power Alliance’s (CPA) Power Response Program. Through this partnership, Sunnova and AutoGrid will implement and scale a comprehensive distributed energy resources program, executing on a key component in CPA’s strategic Clean Energy Future plan. In the wake of California’s increased wildfire prevalence and grid outages, homeowners are seeking reliable, affordable and self-generated energy to meet their needs. By committing the much needed “behind-the-meter” capacity from Sunnova’s Southern California customers while using AutoGrid’s Flex platform, homeowners will now be able to directly contribute to making their own local grid more stable and efficient by providing it with clean, resilient and distributed resources. In 2021, Sunnova’s solar + storage services launched in 100 stores in Virginia, Maryland, Florida and Reno, Nevada — all areas with significant weather-related impacts on their respective power grids. Sunnova’s trained professionals are accessible at select The Home Depot stores in these markets to guide homeowners on the solar and storage service options available to them and connect them with a local, trusted Sunnova dealer who can design and install the optimal solution customized to their needs. Opportunities in Clean Energy: 2021 Impact Going solar is easier than it has ever been with more customized options, better home EV connectivity, flexible financing and 25 years of service and system protection through Sunnova Protect®. 195,400 2.6 million total customers using one metric tons CO2e avoided or more of our services from these systems in use through 2021 24.6 million metric tons of CO2e avoided from these current systems projected over their 25-year lifetime* * Does not include Sunnova New Homes’ systems. “We’re working to align our Climate Change Risks corporate ERM process across the company with identifiedand Opportunities ESG risks and opportunities Planning for a Renewable Future We seek to build a resilient business that adapts and thrives in a changing climate future. We are working to understand the climate risks and opportunities to our business and to optimize business success, aiming for the highest standards for carbon accounting based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, climate modeling and corporate commitments. The health of our business depends on our ability to adapt to the physical and financial risks and opportunities of climate change. Aligning with TCFD As a renewable energy company with a mission to power energy independence, the future of our business is inextricably linked with climate change and the energy transition. At Sunnova, we have always been mindful of the risks and opportunities of a changing world and the role we play in preserving the climate for future generations. This year, we formalized our approach to assessing these risks and opportunities by aligning with the TCFD reporting framework. Given the importance of this framework to our business success, managing and ensuring over the short and long term sustainability of our impacts to society, this was an important step in our ESG maturity. for greater overall synergy. This will help us better manage, monitor and mitigate our material risks through a company-wide effort, avoiding corporate silos and other communication hindrances.” — Kevin Gonzalez, Vice President, SOX Compliance and Audit In our first year of formal TCFD reporting, we took several steps to align our current ESG practices with the TCFD recommendations: Governance 2021 Alignment Outcomes Our Board of Directors has oversight of all ESG initiatives, including climate-related risks and opportunities. In 2021, we presented the outcomes of our first climate risk assessment to the board and received approval for our future growth in alignment with TCFD, including integration with our ERM procedures. Future Enhancement We will seek to strengthen board oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities and share more frequent updates of our risk identification and targets. Strategy 2021 Alignment Outcomes In our first year of TCFD strategy, we engaged a third-party climate specialist to assess the climate-related risks and opportunities of our business over the short and long term. We engaged internal leads across the company to develop a long list of climate-related risks and opportunities and held workshops to align those that posed the greatest impact to our business. Future Enhancement Our next steps in this process are to fully explore the impacts of these risks and opportunities on our business, to identify appropriate measures for risk management and to assess the resilience of these measures through climate scenario analysis of at least a 2°C scenario. Risk Management 2021 Alignment Outcomes In our first year of TCFD risk management, we sought to integrate our process with our ERM system from the very start. Having identified our climate-related risks and opportunities, we have included these factors in our ERM systems and will evaluate each of these factors along with all risks to our business on an annual cadence. Future Enhancement Aligned with our next steps for strategy, we are working to identify appropriate measures to manage these factors aligned with our ERM practices. For more information on Risk Management, please see the Governance section of this report. 2021 Alignment Outcome: Factors Found Across Our ERM, ESG Materiality and TCFD Assessment SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTION RETENTION/HIRING Metrics and Targets Metrics and targets used by Sunnova to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with strategy and risk management process is a future enhancement. We currently do disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For more information see Greenhouse Gas Emissions. NATURAL DISASTER ESG Material Priority Topic Supply Chain Sustainability Human Capital Management Clean Energy Creation, Climate Risk Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Goal: We will quantify and disclose a complete Scope 3 inventory for all material categories and set a climate target that includes all scope emissions by year-end 2023. How we will pursue this goal • We understand that knowledge is power: we are seeking to learn and understand aspects of our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Scope 3 categories, also referred to as value chain emissions. • Over the next two years, we will conduct a deeper dive of Scope 3 activity, emission factor data and the related collection methods and management systems. We will develop a roadmap for how our Scope 3 data can be improved over time and how it will increase accuracy of the inventory. • In some cases, certain important data may not be readily available, and it will be necessary to explore ways to obtain the information from third-party vendors, develop new processes, systems and/or methods for future reporting. Where We Are in Our Journey In 2021, we reviewed the scope, boundaries and data collection process of our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG inventory. For this year, we chose to limit our Scope 3 disclosure to business travel, waste generated in operations and employee commute. For 2020 previously disclosed Scopes 1 and 2, we revisited data collection and emissions calculation and methodologies to ensure consistency with the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol). The result of this review yielded the 2021 emissions realigned 2020 emissions data which can be viewed on the following page. 2021 and 2020 Sunnova GHG Inventory Data Emissions Avoided Over their lifetime, our current solar systems will help generate nearly 34.6 billion kWh of clean energy, or the equivalent to carbon sequestered by: 405,767,072 tree seedlings grown for 10 years 29,041,223 acres of U.S. forests in one year 165,522 acres of U.S. forests preserved from conversion to cropland in one year Looking Ahead: Limiting and Offsetting Our Emissions As we learn and document our emissions going forward to include Scope 3 purchased goods and services, we’ll better understand how to attempt to limit or offset those emissions. For example, we are currently attempting to purchase electric vehicles for our fleet services, but due to global supply chain issues, we did not finalize this purchase in 2021. 2021 Sunnova Emissions Comparison Emissions (Metric Tons COe)2 Total Corporate Emissions Lease/PPA Systems Loan Systems Other (Services or Prepay)  2,592,526 379,096 2,204,655  3,523  Sunnova Corporate Emissions Avoided Emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 from Sunnova Systems Source: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator, Energy data: 34,627,301,498.1 kilowatt-hours based on total production over the lifetime of systems. Green Financing Framework and Green Bond Reporting A Platform for Transparent and Sustainable Finance Consistent with our commitment to sustainable business practices and advancing corporate social responsibility within the solar industry, Sunnova developed a Green Financing Framework that details which type of projects are eligible for financing / refinancing with the net proceeds of various types of financings Sunnova elects to use. The framework addresses the four major components of the International Capital Markets Association (ICMA) Green Bond Principles (2021), which outlines eligible use of proceeds, the process for project evaluation and selection, the management of proceeds and reporting. View Cicero’s second party opinion. Beyond diversifying the company’s access to capital, this framework also allows Sunnova to demonstrate its qualifications to investors who seek third-party assessed renewable energy investment opportunities. Sunnova obtained a Second Party Opinion from CICERO Shades of Green that provided an independent review on the environmental credentials and the framework’s alignment with the Green Bond Principles from the ICMA. The framework earned the highest possible rating, Dark Green, reflecting a broad, qualitative review of the climate and environmental risks and ambitions. The rating methodology aims to provide transparency to investors that seek to understand and act upon potential exposure to climate risks and impacts. Under the Green Financing Framework, designated Green Financings will be required to meet internal eligibility criteria that align with the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles. Net proceeds from any Green Financings may be used for the capital investment, research, development, acquisition, manufacturing, distribution, maintenance and operation of solar energy and storage systems and enabling technologies for solar energy storage and optimization. Empowering Puerto Rico: Dayra’s Story Category 5 Hurricane Maria unleashed a devastating display of force across Puerto Rico in 2017. Wind speeds topped 170 mph and the entire island suffered widespread communications and electricity loss. In 2021, four years after Maria, Dayra found herself living with her mother and her daughter in Coamo, thinking about the future. What would the next storm bring and how could she better prepare? That’s when she decided to invest in a system powered by solar, a system she could monitor on her phone 24/7, wherever she was on the island. Solar offered Dayra a practical way to gain energy independence, especially as more significant weather events become more of a regular occurrence. Dayra’s system was partially financed with the net proceeds from Sunnova’s Green High-Yield Bond.  System Activated  July 2021  Lifetime production (MWh)  2.9  through December 2021  CO2  avoided from in-service date  2.1  to December 2021 (metrics tons)  Overview of Green Bond Framework and Issuance For 2021, we issued three Green Financings (2021-B Loan Asset-Backed Securities (ABS), 2021-C Loan ABS and 5.875% Senior unsecured notes) and published reporting on the use of net proceeds per the metrics below: • Number of customers with installed systems • Amount of solar capacity installed • Top locations with allocated funds • Total amount of expected annual solar production • Resulting amount of expected CO2e avoided For further details and calculation methodology, please see the corresponding Attestation Report of Independent Accountants documents, located on our Green Finance webpage. An Industry First Sunnova issued the first of its kind $400 million Green High-Yield Bond in the residential solar industry. Sunnova also went through the first-ever Moody’s and S&P ratings process for a residential solar company and achieved B1/ B- ratings on the 5.875% Senior Unsecured Notes with stable company outlooks. Over a 4+ day roadshow, Sunnova marketed and placed the $400 million bonds with a wide-ranging group of investors. Winter Storm Uri: Kevin’s Story In February 2021, a major winter storm, unofficially named Winter Storm Uri, placed a far-reaching grip on the U.S., including the entire state of Texas. While the state dealt with record low temperatures, ice and snow, it also underscored the need for reliable and resilient energy to help provide families with peace of mind when they need it most. Kevin’s story is just one example of how Sunnova’s range of renewable energy products can help customers solve their current energy needs while preparing for a more sustainable future. Kevin’s system was partially financed with the net proceeds from Sunnova’s Green High-Yield Bond. System Activated October 2021 Lifetime production (MWh) 2.1 through December 2021 CO2 avoided from in-service date 1.5 to December 2021 (metrics tons) Sunnova was founded with the vision to become the world’s first and largest wireless power company — creating social value for all