SOCIAL Sunnova was founded with the vision to become the world’s first and largest wireless power company—creating social value  for our stockholders, customers, and communities. As we move towards that future, our success has been made possible due to strong partnerships. Empowering our employees, dealers, customers, vendors, and communities strengthens our business and speaks to one of our core values: synergy. These partnerships have resulted in engaged and productive employees and dealers, deep-rooted trust with our customers, and a culture of consistent improvement and innovation within our company. In 2020, we focused our efforts on critical and timely issues such as diversity, human rights, and community impact. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Partnering with Sunnova seeks to create an environment where everyone can be themselves—a place where they can feel valued for the OUR EMPLOYEES Our diverse workforce enables an inclusive and innovative culture that drives our long-term growth. To this end, we focus on continuously improving engagement, safety, diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), professional training,  and well-being. Diversity Statistics* 398  27%  EMPLOYEES  (AVG) TURNOVER  IN 2020  GENDER DIVERSITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 78% 22% MALE FEMALE WORKFORCE: 62% 38% MALE FEMALE *As of 12/31/2020 skills that they bring knowing that they will be treated fairly and without discrimination. We are committed to respecting all individuals, regardless of race, gender identification, age, religion, or sexual orientation. We believe that differences must be celebrated, and that a diverse and inclusive culture is essential to innovation, a thriving workplace, a healthy society, and long-term responsible growth. We recognize that, like all organizations, there’s still more we can do to further foster a diverse and inclusive environment. We pursue continuous improvement in DEI by: • Recruiting talent focusing primarily on the skills needed • Providing competitive wages and benefits based on the job and skills, regardless of race, gender identification, age, religion, or sexual orientation • Providing growth opportunities within our ever-developing organization • Celebrating the diversity and cultures represented in our workforce and communities AGE DIVERSITY 10 203040 ALASKA NATIVE 20% HAWAIIAN PAC ISLAND AGE 30 TO AGE 5067% of our workforce identifies as ABOVE AGE 5013% 62% a racial or ethnic minority RACE DIVERSITY WHITE HISPANIC ASIAN BLACK 2+ RACES AM INDIAN “Sunnova has been very supportive in all aspects. I’m a firm believer that knowledge is power. If there is ever a leadership course or skill development class that I want to take, I’m encouraged to enroll. They allow me to try new things and sit in on some meetings that they believe will help me develop a stronger skill set and grow individually. I have a great group of mentors.” —Elizabeth Akinkugbe, Sr. Manager, Fulfillment Operations, Sunnova Employee Engagement We engage with our employees through regular town hall meetings, pulse surveys, and biannual employee engagement surveys. During our monthly town hall meetings—currently held virtually due to the ongoing pandemic—our executive team addresses topics such as key business operations, strategy, and market conditions, and answers employee questions. This helps foster an environment and corporate culture of open dialogue and collaboration. Performance reviews are conducted at least biannually, during which employees and managers address goals and development opportunities, and discuss strengths and weaknesses. These initiatives facilitate productive conversations across our organization and a culture of  open feedback. FEEDBACK CULTURE We always encourage our employees to look for ways to improve our operations and performance. We take employee feedback seriously and work to implement it whenever we can. To help us gauge employee attitudes about their work, the company, our progress, and more, employee engagement surveys are performed biannually and pulse surveys occur throughout the year. Survey feedback provides a basis for the development of action plans for improvement. For example, we have worked to improve visibility of company goals and performance, remained focused on cross-department collaboration, and increased the frequency of internal communication, such as town halls and company newsletters. “Sunnova values diversity in employees regarding demographics and the different backgrounds and experiences  each employee brings.” —Jennifer Yan, Data Analytics and Reporting Manager, Sunnova Employee Benefits Sunnova provides a comprehensive total rewards package to all full-time employees, including medical, dental, vision, short and long-term disability insurance, complimentary access to the onsite fitness center, paid parental leave, and a 401(k) retirement plan with a company match feature. Our Employee Assistance Program provides free access to mental health counseling, parenting support, caregiver/elder care, legal advice, financial well-being seminars, disability services and more. Employee Training, Leadership, and Mentoring Sunnova can only evolve as long as our employees do. That’s why we provide career training and leadership development programs. We are in the process of developing a mentorship program which will launch in 2021. INTERNSHIPS Sunnova offers 8-10 week internships which include projects, Creating Safe and Healthy Work Environments We are committed to the safety of all employees, dealers, customers, and the public at large. Our objective is for all employees and dealers to be free of injury and illnesses brought about by incidents that are costly and preventable. It is our goal that every person goes home each day free from accidents and injuries. To meet this objective, we are committed to: • Developing, implementing, and maintaining an accident, injury, and illness prevention program • Complying with all applicable federal, state, and local government environmental, health, and safety requirements • Providing training to our employees, so they have the awareness, knowledge, and skills to work in a safe and environmentally responsible manner • Continuously improving our safety and health programs, policies, procedures, and training  OSHA Certified Fall Protection Training by Omega Safety Training, Inc. Partnering with OUR DEALERS Through our differentiated dealer model, we work hand-in.hand with established, local dealers who originate, design and install our customers’ solar energy and energy storage systems on our behalf. The model also enables us to leverage our dealers’ specialized knowledge, connections, and experience in local markets and allows us to amplify our positive impact at the local level in communities across the country. Our dealers are an extension of our team and we count on and encourage their entrepreneurial spirit to support our growth and overall success. “Every day, our customers welcome us onto and into their homes, and this initial relationship begins with our trusted dealers. Our dealers are carefully vetted and monitored to verify they conform with our Dealer Code of Conduct and to ensure that they share our commitment to solar expertise, high-quality customer service and ethical business practices.” —John Santo Salvo, Executive Vice President of Channel Operations and Chief Procurement Officer, Sunnova Dealer Code of Conduct We expect our dealers to share our commitment to ethics and compliance. Our Dealer Code of Conduct outlines our expectations for how Sunnova conducts business, and serves as a resource to help ensure that dealers’ actions are representative of our shared values. The Dealer Code of Conduct includes topics such as: • Complying with all applicable benefits, leave, wage and hourly, and other employment laws • Ensuring a work environment free from discrimination, abuse and harassment, force or coercion, illegal employment, or inhumane treatment • Preventing pollution and waste, conserving natural resources, reducing environmental footprint, and identifying methods to minimize packaging and shipping materials Selling Practices, Training, and Expectations We expect dealers to understand the potential customer’s suitability for solar, including the condition, age, and physical integrity of the roof where a solar system is to be installed. No one in the dealer’s organization will harass, threaten, or badger customers, or use high-pressure, abusive, deceptive, or unfair sales practices. Our dealers won’t sell to customers who are not suitable under Sunnova’s guidelines, or to any customer who due to language barriers, health, or other evident conditions, is unable to fully understand the terms of the contract. Partnering with OUR CUSTOMERS Our success as a business starts and ends with the strong relationships we form with our customers. We work to ensure our values are reflected in every customer interaction as we guide their transition to energy independence. We lead with integrity to forge mutually beneficial long-term relationships with our customers, capable of spanning decades. Accountability, trust, and service provide the bedrock of our business. These guiding principles are what have allowed us to grow from a tiny start-up to a significant solar service provider serving our more than 107,000 customers. Our dedication to service is exemplified by our response in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, home to over 15,000 Sunnova customers. With much of the energy infrastructure on the island damaged, Sunnova provided an immediate response and began repairing and replacing customers’ systems. As we undertook one of the largest residential solar fleet restoration efforts in history, we did so at no cost to our customers. Customer Service To ensure we live up to our high standards, we have an in-house, highly trained team of customer care professionals who ensure customers’ questions are answered and problems are rapidly addressed. These efforts have helped us achieve service levels that are among the best in the industry. Consumer Protection Accountability, trust, and service are the bedrock of our business. We have advocated for consumer protection legislation to prevent predatory sales practices in the solar business. Our Dealer Code of Conduct establishes clear policies and expectations of our dealers with respect to marketing and sales practices, and compliance designed to safeguard customer rights. We have advocated for consumer protection legislation to prevent predatory sales practices in the solar business. “It’s a win-win situation. We help reduce energy consumption and pay less for our electricity.” —Kathleen Thomas, Sunnova customer Partnering with OUR VENDORS We believe acting ethically and responsibly is critical to the success of our business. Sunnova is not a manufacturer; what we do is partner with leading manufacturers across the globe. To ensure that our supply chain remains responsible, we developed a Vendor Code of Conduct to clarify our expectations in the areas of business integrity, labor practices, associate health and safety, and environmental management. This Vendor Code is intended to complement Sunnova’s Code of Conduct and our other policies and standards. Sunnova also requires annual vendor certification, which involves our vendor partners reaffirming their commitment to engage in ethical sourcing, to observe and uphold human rights in the supply chain process, and to follow the Vendor Code in all transactions with Sunnova. View our Vendor Code of Conduct. “We can only achieve our mission to power energy independence if we conduct ourselves ethically and transparently. We condemn all human rights abuses and the use of forced labor anywhere in the world, and we stand committed to ensuring that all our vendors engage in ethical sourcing. We require transparency in our supply chain, and we work closely with our vendors to ensure they satisfy our Vendor Code of Conduct.” Partnering with OUR INDUSTRY Sunnova actively engages policymakers at the federal, state, and local levels to advocate for issues that advance our mission to power energy independence. Sometimes we do this through direct lobbying, and other times via trade associations we sponsor. In 2020, one of our top priorities was partnering with the Solar Energy Industry Association (SEIA) to advocate for the extension of the investment tax credit (ITC)—one of the most important federal policy mechanisms to support the growth of solar energy in the United States. SEIA has successfully advocated for multiple extensions of this critical tax credit, including the most recent delay of the credit phasedown in December 2020. NOTABLE ALLIANCES AND AFFILIATIONS “The investment tax credit (ITC) has proven to be one of the most important federal policy mechanisms to incentivize clean energy in the United States. This federal policy has allowed businesses like Sunnova to continue driving down costs. The ITC is a clear policy success story that is helping homeowners across the country achieve energy independence.” —Meghan Nutting, Executive Vice President, Policy and Communications, Sunnova Partnering with OUR COMMUNITIES At Sunnova, we believe we can only be as strong as the communities in which we operate. Our dealer-focused business model means that we are uniquely positioned to positively impact and empower communities across more than 22 states and territories. We support charitable organizations that promote education and social well-being, and we encourage our employees to contribute to organizations that are meaningful to them. We believe that our dedication to being a responsible corporate citizen has a direct and positive impact on the communities in which we operate. robust community engagement strategy to further amplify our impact in the communities we serve.