SOCIAL  / HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT THE CLEAN ENERGY TALENT TIDE In 2021, we identified human capital management as a priority area of ESG strategy after a detailed stakeholder engagement process in our inaugural materiality assessment. Our findings validated that while the opportunities that exist at our company and in our industry are very compelling, this growth also brings challenges for retaining talent. The shift to the green economy is accelerating at a breakneck pace and we observe that one of the best ways we can be prepared for long-term workforce success is building a company where people want to expand their careers. This serves to keep our top talent and drive key outcomes, maintain intellectual property, and lower the cost of talent acquisition. This goal has never been more through an enhanced approach. 2022 SUNNOVA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Introduction Environmental Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL  / HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ATTRACTING THE BEST TALENT We are dedicated to building a dynamic and inclusive workforce that is reflective of the diverse communities we serve. We are continuously striving to attract a wide array of skilled and talented individuals through both traditional and non-traditional recruitment methods, and we remain steadfast in our efforts to engage with communities and groups that have been historically underrepresented in the energy sector. Our unwavering commitment to this vision is reflected in our impressive growth trajectory—in 2022 alone, our team grew by an astounding 59% year-over-year. As the renewable energy industry takes center stage in the modern American economy, we aspire to take the lead in ensuring equal access to these job opportunities for all individuals, and to enable them to establish fulfilling careers in this field. SOCIAL  / DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION WORKPLACE DIVERSITY Last year, we embarked on a strategic process to formalize and improve our enterprise-wide diversity and inclusion approach, aiming to continuously enhance our strategy with confidence. In 2021, over 62% of our employees self identified as minority, and in 2022 over 60% self identified as minority. We are proud of our high level of diversity and recognize it as a key driver of our success. As a result, in 2021, we set a goal to manage our mid-level leadership diversity to ensure those numbers reflect the diversity of our entire workforce. However, we observed a 33% growth in our mid-level leadership group from 2021 to 2022, which led to a 1% decrease in mid-level leadership diversity. As we look forward to 2023, we acknowledge that there is still work to be done to achieve our target by 2025. We remain steadfast in our commitment to creating a more diverse and inclusive workplace and progressing towards our goal. To further this goal, we are considering initiatives such as hiring from within, targeted outreach to underrepresented communities, and a renewed focus on our DEI committee. We are deeply committed to fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion throughout our global workforce. We believe that a diverse team is critical for building a strong and innovative company and creating a more equitable society. We understand that this is an ongoing journey and remain dedicated to promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion at all levels of our organization. By doing so, we are confident that we will create a more successful and impactful company. Recruiting and Outreach As part of our ongoing commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion, we are proud to have expanded our efforts to engage with students and foster a more diverse talent pipeline in 2022. We recognize the importance of building a talent pipeline that includes individuals from various educational backgrounds. Therefore, recruitment efforts included visiting universities such as The University of Texas, Texas A&M, Rice University, University of Houston, and Duke University. We also actively recruited talent from trade schools, such as Pennco Tech in Pennsylvania and the Percy H Sears Applied Technologies Center in North Carolina. At each visit, we had the privilege of meeting with students to share information about the exciting career opportunities available at Sunnova. As we build relationships with various educational institutions and prioritize student engagement, we aim to create a more diverse and inclusive workforce Introduction Environmental Social that reflects the communities we serve. Looking Ahead In 2023, we are launching specific initiatives to ensure that we are recruiting from diverse talent to enhance our talent pipeline development strategy. In 2023, we plan to visit historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and minority serving institutions (MSIs), as well as technical schools across the nation, where we will host coffee chats and information sessions to connect with students and share information about exciting career opportunities at Sunnova. We are particularly excited to provide students with the opportunity to engage with our Senior Leadership team, who will be on hand to answer questions and provide guidance. We recognize the critical role that HBCUs and MSIs play in promoting diversity and equity in higher education, and we are committed to doing our part to support these institutions and their students. Additionally, we will elevate our summer internship program, and ultimately develop a spring, fall, co-op, and rotational program with MBA students. 
Governance MENTORING THROUGH THE WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP NETWORK Sunnova’s Women Leadership Network (WLN) fosters career development and facilitates communication between women within and beyond Sunnova. Open to all genders, the WLN supported and advocated broader inclusion initiatives across the company through various guest speakers and discussions. Guest Speakers and Topics included: Nora Brownell, Sunnova Board Member A Life of Service in Energy Courtney Knapp, Speakers Trainer and Coach Elevate Your Public Speaking and Presentation Skills Nicole Louvar, AIF COO and Wealth Management Advisor Women, Wellness and Wealth 2022 SUNNOVA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TECHNICIAN HIGHLIGHT In addition to the safety training, our technicians receive daily hands-on experience, allowing them to start a career trajectory that paves the way to higher level positions and career pathing at Sunnova. David Schupsky joined Sunnova in 2020 and is now a Solar Technician I. With a background as an electrician, David serves as a mentor for our incoming and current techs in The Garden State, helping them understand best practices, take necessary precautions, and gain more experience. “Being in this line of work, you run into new kinds of issues every day; it’s just the nature of the field. So, the longer you’ve been in it, the easier it becomes. We use our experiences to teach our newer team members and we encourage them not to overthink things and use basic troubleshooting skills.”—David Schupsky SAFETY AT A GLANCE Our technicians are on the front lines of helping our customers achieve energy independence. While these employees are distributed in communities across the country, we bring every new technician to our headquarters in Houston to complete specialized safety training. WORKER PRO SAFETY APP In February 2023, we launched the Worker Pro Safety App for Field Services through a mobile app. Through innovative technology and automation, this mobile app identifies fall detection or a down worker, which enables faster emergency response. It also helps protect our lone workers through detection of missed check-ins, worker heart rates and heat stress awareness. Additionally, it includes a panic button to allow lone workers to manually request help if needed. This solution helps us to further enhance the safety of our growing workforce by improving emergency detection and response times. 2022 2021 2020 Introduction Environmental Social Governance Appendix Safety Policy (Y/N) Y Y -.Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)—Employees 0.8 1.5 1.4 Fatalities—Employees 0 00 Incidents 8 10 6 