ENVIRONMENTAL At Sunnova, our goal is to provide the world with cleaner, more affordable, and more reliable energy by focusing on responsible growth, energy resiliency, and innovation to create lasting value. Rapid technological innovation, shifting consumer preferences for sustainable energy, and the mounting urgency to address the climate crisis shows we are witnessing a paradigm shift marked by a future with energy independence for all. Naturally, our mission complements our commitment to the environment. We understand the importance of protecting the planet for future generations and strive to reduce our environmental impact where possible. In 2020, we focused our efforts on assessing our material impacts, developing a renewed strategy for action, and continuing on our path to deep decarbonization through our energy service offerings. Our Clean ENERGY IMPACT Sunnova is proud to be leading the transition to an affordable and reliable clean energy future. We believe that distributed solar plus energy storage technologies can change the world for the better, and we are proud to be at the forefront of bringing these energy solutions and opportunities to homeowners across the country. Empowered by our partnerships, we are able to help our customers take control of their energy by offering a better energy service at a better price, all while making a positive impact on the environment. OUR IMPACT* 107,500+ CUSTOMERS TRANSITIONED TO RENEWABLE ENERGY 2.4 Billion KWH OF CLEAN ENERGY GENERATED “I definitely would recommend having someone to put in the solar panels and the batteries because it is good for the environment, it’s an easy installation, and it improves the  value of your home as well.” —Julie Shih, Sunnova’s 100,000th Customer, Solar + Storage 1.7 Million METRIC TONS OF CO2e AVOIDED *Based on the accumulative actual production (kWh) for systems as of 12/31/2020. Clean Energy as a Carbon Solution Over their lifetime, our solar systems will help generate nearly 24.7 billion kWh of clean energy, or the equivalent of carbon sequestered from: 1 Calculations based on total production over the lifetime of each system. 2 The Amazon’s 390 billion individual trees absorb 2 billion tons of CO2e a year. Source: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2019/08/28/amazon-rain-forest-what-would-earth-like.without-it/2130430001/. Source: https://wwf.panda.org/discover/knowledge_hub/where_we_work/amazon/about_the_amazon/. 3 U.S. forest acreage and tree planting sourced by entering 24,713,725,268 KWH into the EPA Equivalencies Calculator: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator 4 The U.S. population is 331 million as of 2020, and each tree can offset 0.00512821 metric tons of CO2e. Sources: https://www.worldometers.info/world-population/us-population/#:~:text=the%20 United%20States%202020%20population,(and%20dependencies)%20by%20population. Source: https://wwf.panda.org/discover/knowledge_hub/where_we_work/amazon/about_the_amazon/ Our Operational IMPACT As a clean energy company, positive environmental impact is in our DNA, and so is a perpetual effort to further reduce any negative direct and indirect impacts. Sunnova adheres to a formal environmental policy approved by senior management. For more information, please see our  Formal Environmental Policy. Our Climate Strategy Sunnova recognizes the climate crisis as one of the most pressing challenges of our time, and we are committed to addressing it as part of our business purpose. In the long-term, we aim to align our business with advancing the Paris Climate Accords and the realization of a net-zero economy. We are working to improve our systems for carbon accounting which will enable us to substantiate formal claims of carbon negative and to set climate goals in the future. As part of our efforts to address the climate crisis, we are committed to: • Measuring, monitoring, and reporting our direct emissions each year through a Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas inventory • Using natural resources and energy more efficiently throughout our operations • Purchasing and sourcing renewable energy where possible 2020 Sunnova Emissions Comparison Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) 600,000 Total: 551,234 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 8550 Sunnova Avoided Emissions  Corporate Emissions from Sunnova Systems TOTAL CORPORATE  LEASE/PPA   LOAN  EMISSIONS  SYSTEMS  SYSTEMS  2020 Sunnova GHG Inventory  GHG EMISSIONS  UNIT  2020  GHG Scope 1  Metric Tons COe2 845  GHG Scope 2  Metric Tons COe2 10  GHG Scope 3: Sunnova recognizes the importance of disclosing Scope 3 emissions and will undertake a rigorous assessment to measure our Scope 3 emissions in the future. Waste Reduction Policy Sunnova continues to promote, develop, and implement waste prevention, reduction, reuse, and recycling in a systematic and responsible manner. We will partner with appropriately regulated waste management contractors to ensure safe and environmentally friendly management of both our hazardous and non-hazardous waste in accordance with best environmental practice. Our E-Waste Policy Sunnova is committed to disposing of our e-waste in a responsible way. We are prepared to sustainably dispose of modules, batteries, inverters, and other electronic equipment used in installations through partnerships with third-party recycling and refurbishment vendors. These vendors are compliant under the Responsible Recyclers R2:2013, OHSAS 1800:2007, and ISO 14001:2007 standards, and are expected to abide by our Code of Conduct. We will continue to work to recycle and reuse the e-waste from our operations where possible, and we continue to look for ways to improve on our disposal practices. Read our E-Waste Policy. At this time, the vast majority of systems we have installed have not reached the end of their useful life. As we grow, we are committed to developing systems to track, report, and manage the flow of electronics under our care at the end of their useful life, striving for zero waste to landfill. Fleet Vehicle Electrification Sunnova has committed to adding electric vehicles to our service fleet. These vehicles are expected to be available by 2022 and will be an important part of our strategy for reducing our corporate emissions and setting us on a path towards net-zero. Green Building Policy Sunnova is committed to living out our mission of clean energy and have implemented sustainable and environmentally friendly practices at our corporate headquarters in Houston. We use, for example, motion sensors and energy efficient technologies to reduce our own impact in our buildings where possible, and we continue to consider other building efficiency initiatives as they pertain to energy, water, waste, and air quality. For future locations, we will prioritize buildings that have environmental accreditations and performance, including those with: • Energy Star certifications • Corporate HQ LEED Designations • Zoning for onsite solar + battery storage • Stormwater mitigation elements Our greatest impact is through our products and services. In 2020, our products offset approximately 551,234 metric tons of  CO2e equivalent. Dealer and Vendor ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Our Dealer Code of Conduct outlines our shared goal of ethical and environmental compliance, in addition to our expectations for minimizing our environmental impact. Where possible, we expect our dealers to consider their climate and energy impacts, as well as their efforts to reduce waste, the collection of pertinent environmental data for continuous improvement, and our shared due diligence requirements. Vendor Environmental Policy Our Vendor Code of Conduct outlines our expectations for our suppliers to operate in an ethical and safe manner. We expect our suppliers to mitigate their climate impacts and reduce waste in their operations and to adhere to our standards of quality requirements. Sunnova encourages our suppliers to recycle and reuse their own waste whenever possible. We will continue to search for ways to quantify and track our suppliers’ environmental performance in the hopes of reducing our value chain impact. We expect all of our partners to comply with the requirements outlined in our Vendor Code of Conduct, including stringent requirements for respecting human rights and acknowledging that their operations do not violate human rights protections, Conflict Minerals Statement We recognize that solar energy and storage supply chains have risk exposures to Conflict Minerals, as defined under Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act). These Conflict Minerals are characterized as tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold sourced from the “Conflict Region” of the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring regions. Sunnova condemns violations of human rights related to Conflict Minerals and is committed to ensuring our systems do not contain these materials. We work with our supply chain partners to verify that they provide components that do not contain these materials. We expect suppliers to provide accurate information about their products so that, if necessary, the origin of their materials can be determined with reasonable assurance that these materials are conflict-free. Read our Conflict Minerals Statement. 