stakeholders, customers and communities. As we move toward that future, our continued success is due to our strong partnerships and innovative ways of engaging our employees, customers, vendors and communities. In 2021, we almost doubled our workforce, highlighting the success of our commitment to hiring a wide variety of skilled, diverse talent through both traditional and non-traditional avenues. ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Human Capital Management Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dealer Engagement GOVERNANCE DATA AND APPROACH Human Capital Management Goal: We will work to reduce year-over-year voluntary turnover to 15% by 2025. How we will pursue this goal • Attracting the Best Talent • Helping Our Talent Develop • Fostering Longevity • Celebrating Our Successes We are building a foundation for future energy leaders. Sunnova is proud to be a place where the top talent in the energy business not only wants to be but knows they can build the foundation for a long and rewarding career. We are helping employees find success and growth opportunities at every level within the company. Attracting the Best Talent We are making significant efforts to reach out to communities and groups traditionally underrepresented in the energy sector. As renewable energy jobs become a key part of the modern American economy, we want to be leaders in ensuring everyone has an opportunity to participate in these new opportunities and develop rewarding careers. Helping Our Talent Develop As the company grows, we are also evolving the ways in which we develop talent from within. Our senior leadership takes pride in helping younger and newer employees grow into their next roles and we are making specific efforts to build stepping stones for lower-level employees to help them transition into roles with more responsibility. The Women’s Leadership Network is a great example of our mentorship mindset. Learn more here. Fostering Longevity In 2021, we made great strides towards reducing our turnover by 5% from the previous year. However, our goal is not complete until we can demonstrate our year-over-year maintenance of this threshold through 2025 as part of our commitment to our long-term goal. We look forward to reporting on this crucial indicator and demonstrating our long-term management approach. Celebrating Our Successes We received several awards in 2021 as a testament to our hard work and leadership within the energy industry. Below are highlights of those awards that have a direct impact on our ESG performance. Among the recognitions, we ranked on Inc.com‘s Inaugural Best Led Companies 250, which signifies leadership in governance and risk management. Sunnova is proud that our employees nominate us for awards year after year. We conduct employee surveys annually. We strive to create the most fulfilling and exciting work environment in the energy sector and we are humbled to see that recognition, but know there is still plenty more to do. • Inc Award: Best Led Companies • Grit Awards: Best Energy Workplace • Parks Associates Top Leader in Tech Award: Michael Grasso EVP, Chief Marketing and Growth Officer “Because we’re a small, but growing company, employees here have a voice. We’re making serious efforts to hire and develop talent to keep that voice as diverse and representative as possible.” — La Tasha Bernard, Vice President, Talent Strategy Our Employee Profile: By the Numbers As of December 31, 2021, we had 738 employees across our operations. The following data discloses age and gender information over the past two years for comparison. Employee Profile 2021 2021 21.7%738 2020 2020 Number of Employees Turnover 85% 5% growth in headcount reduced in one year turnover Employee Gender Demographics Male Female 2021 2020 2021 2020 738 total employees “We formed the DEI CommitteeDiversity, Equity to help Sunnova find ways to and Inclusion Goal: We will work to improve estimated year-end 2021 racial/ethnic minority representation for mid-level leadership1 by 20% by 2025. How we will pursue this goal • Step One: Initiate the Strategic Process • Step Two: Formalize a Strategy • Step Three: Governance Step One: Initiate the Strategic Process As part of our strategic process, we are working to formalize and enhance our process for enterprise diversity reporting so that we can confidently assess current performance and build strategy. Reviewing our current systems, we felt it important to begin our strategic work at the senior leadership level. Over time, we commit to formalizing a consistent definition for our banding structures, to publish our diversity metrics across these banding structures, and to build strategy to reflects our baseline performance across our organization. Step Two: Formalize a Strategy We will manage and process input and share relevant information with our leadership. We will identify actionable insights about our employees’ needs to make better decisions. Step Three: Governance Our Chief Human Resources Officer and our Chief of Staff will oversee our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts jointly. In 2021, we established a diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) committee to foster real organizational change, establish a dedicated focus on diversity and inclusion priorities and promote our DEI efforts across the business. In the coming year, the Committee will work to ensure tight alignment with the organization’s overall business strategy and engage employees throughout the company. For more information on our DEI efforts, read our DEI Committee Charter here. 1 Within Sunnova, we define mid-level leadership as senior positions with General Manager, Director, Senior Director, VP and SVP titles. continue building progress in its broader diversity and inclusion efforts. We hope this will help our company family learn from each other and further our efforts in being inclusive and understanding our diverse culture.” — Arthur (Art) L. DuBose, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Diversity and Inclusion Metrics Workforce Diversity Community Engagement White Hispanic Asian African American 2+ Races Hawaiian Pacific Island American Indian Alaska Native 37.8% 38.2% 37.8% 34.4% 11.0% 15.0% 10.5% 9.3% 2.4% 2.3% 0.5% 0.3% 0.0% 2021 0.5% 2020 Independent Ethics Hotline 24/7 We take seriously our commitment to workplace wellness and being able to bring one’s full self to work at Sunnova without fear. We have several workplace policies in place and formal grievance escalation and confidential reporting for all associates. We strive for diverse representation across the global workforce and work hard to maintain an environment where employees feel welcomed, respected, supported and valued to participate and succeed. By the numbers, we have made great strides in our employee diversity as a company, with over 62% of our employees self-identifying as minority and we intend to bring that same momentum to the growing diversity of our leadership levels in the coming years. Mentoring Through the Women’s Leadership Network In 2020, Sunnova’s Women Leadership Network (WLN) was established to promote diversity of gender and inclusivity within the company and to provide a platform for women to foster career development and facilitate communication between women within and beyond the Sunnova community. Membership is open to employees of all genders and has been highly successful in supporting and advocating for broader inclusion initiatives across the company. Community engagement is a priority goal coming out of our 2021 Materiality Assessment. We are actively working to develop an even more robust community engagement strategy to further amplify our impact in the communities we serve. To that end, we have elevated our community engagement efforts and document them in our Government Affairs and Advocacy section of this report. Dealer Engagement Through our differentiated dealer model, we work hand-in-hand with established, local dealers who originate, design and install our customers’ solar energy and energy storage systems on our behalf. The model also enables us to leverage our dealers’ specialized knowledge, connections and experience in local markets and allows us to amplify our positive impact at the local level in communities across the country. Our dealers are an extension of our team and we count on and encourage their entrepreneurial spirit to support our growth and overall success. Dealer Code of Conduct We expect our dealers to share our commitment to ethics and compliance. Our Dealer Code of Conduct outlines our expectations for how Sunnova conducts business and serves as a resource to help ensure that dealers’ actions are representative of our shared values. The Dealer Code of Conduct Includes Topics Such as: • Complying with all applicable benefits, leave, wage and hourly and other employment laws • Ensuring a work environment free from discrimination, abuse and harassment, force or coercion, illegal employment or inhumane treatment • Preventing pollution and waste, conserving natural resources, reducing environmental footprint and identifying methods to minimize packaging and shipping materials Consumer Protection Accountability, trust and service are the bedrock of our business. We have advocated for consumer protection legislation to prevent predatory sales practices in the solar business. Our Dealer Code of Conduct establishes clear policies and expectations of our dealers with respect to marketing and sales practices and compliance designed to safeguard customer rights. Selling Practices, Training and Expectations We expect dealers to understand the potential customer’s suitability for solar, including the condition, age and physical integrity of the roof where a solar system is to be installed. No one in the dealer’s organization will harass, threaten or badger customers, or use high-pressure, abusive, deceptive or unfair sales practices. Our dealers will not sell to customers who are not suitable under Sunnova’s guidelines, or to any customer who due to language barriers, health or other evident conditions, is unable to fully understand the terms of the contract. Dealer Diversity While we view our dealers as an extension of Sunnova, they remain independent entrepreneurs. Our dealer model provides opportunities in diverse communities to pursue the dream of starting a small business. With Sunnova’s brand and backing, these individuals are well equipped to take on the challenges of entrepreneurship with confidence. Health and Safety In 2021, our employees completed 8,734 total training hours. This includes new hire safety training, new hire safety training certification in OSHA 10, OSHA 30, the American Ladder Institute, OSHA Fall Protection Training and Tripod Suspension and Defensive Driving. We also conducted 46 weekly safety meetings and issued 340+ safety training certifications over the course of 2021. Our technicians are on the front lines of helping our customers achieve energy independence. While these employees are distributed in communities across the country, we bring every new technician to our headquarters in Houston to complete a specialized safety training. The increase in incidents correlates with the increase in employee and dealer population. 2021 2020 “On a weekly basis, the Sunnova team goes out of their way to support us. It’s nice that they’re always just a text message away. One of the other major benefits of partnering with Sunnova is that it’s a U.S. based publicly traded company that you know isn’t fly by night. We certainly feel safe putting our business with Sunnova.” — Alex Yackery, Co-founder, Venture Solar At Sunnova, we are committed to leading with integrity, fostering a culture of honesty, maximizing performance and embracing ethical business practices.