GOVERNANCE At Sunnova, we are committed to leading with integrity, fostering a culture of honesty, maximizing performance, and embracing ethical business practices. Because ESG is a top priority, we formalized its oversight at the Board level through our Nominating and Governance Committee in October 2020. The Committee is responsible for overseeing our ESG approach, strategy, and performance, and has adopted these responsibilities as outlined in our Committee Charter. We conduct our business in a responsible manner with oversight by our Board of Directors and executive management in compliance with our ethics and compliance policies and programs. Board of DIRECTORS The Board of Directors provides recommendations and performs unbiased evaluation and oversight of management activities. It maintains an independent majority at all times and consists of nine members—all but one are independent. Our President and CEO, William J. (John) Berger, serves as Chairman. At Sunnova we value diversity, and over the past 18 months we are proud to have welcomed three new directors to our Board to replace those who have rolled off. In October 2019, we recruited Anne Slaughter Andrew, who is now Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. In October 2020, Nora Brownell, an accomplished energy executive and entrepreneur, joined the Board, and in December 2020, Akbar Mohamed, a seasoned telecommunications executive and entrepreneur, joined our board. As Sunnova continues to grow, we look forward to continuing to embrace diverse perspectives on our Board, as we do throughout our company. Board Structure and Responsibilities BOARD OF DIRECTORS 9 directors, 8 independent  | Led by Chairman of the Board AUDIT COMMITTEE Responsibilities: • Oversees the quality and integrity of our financial statements • Ensures compliance with legal and regulatory requirements • Reviews independent registered auditors’ qualifications and independence • Reviews the performance of independent registered auditors and internal audit function • Designs and implements of our internal audit function Risks managed: Financial matters, financial reporting and auditing, and cybersecurity NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE  Responsibilities: • Directs nominations process and procedures • Develops and maintains our corporate governance policies • Oversees our ESG practices and any matters related to the foregoing required by federal securities laws Risks managed: Potential conflicts of interest and independence of directors, corporate governance principles, ESG, and related party transactions Responsibilities: • Oversees compensation of our directors and officers • Evaluates the CEO’s performance based on Sunnova’s goals and objectives • Determines and makes recommendations to the independent directors regarding the CEO’s compensation level based on this evaluation • Manages alignment of compensation practices and philosophy with stakeholder interests • Oversees succession planning and diversity Risks managed: Compensation, compensation policies and practices, attraction and retention, diversity and inclusion Code of CONDUCT AND ETHICS Our Code of Conduct describes the entrepreneurial spirit on which Sunnova was built and the high standards by which we conduct business. These standards reflect our core values and drive us to achieve our mission. We expect all of our business partners, including our Dealers and Vendors, to follow the laws and regulations where they operate and to share our commitment to ethics, sustainability, environmental stewardship, health and safety, human rights, and labor issues. We conduct our business in a responsible manner with oversight by our Board of Directors and executive management in compliance with our ethics and compliance policies and programs. All new hires are required to complete Code of Conduct training on their first day, as well as several other compliance training courses including discrimination and harassment. All employees are expected to complete the online trainings annually. Risk Management Sunnova’s management team keeps the Board informed of the changing risks associated with our business through its Enterprise Risk Management program. The Board oversees the key risk decisions of management, which includes comprehending the appropriate balance between risk and reward. The Board reserves oversight of the major risks Sunnova faces and delegates risk oversight responsibility to the three committees. See the graphic on page 33 to learn more. Stockholder Engagement Sunnova regularly educates and informs our stockholders through various means. We report financials quarterly delivering these updates through presentations, press releases, webcasts, and a supplemental workbook. We communicate ESG through reporting, an ESG page, and more. Data Security and Privacy Sunnova is committed to complying with all applicable laws regarding the collection, protection, and dissemination of personal identification information collected from employees and customers. We limit the personal information we require employees and customers to provide to that which is necessary for us to conduct business in an effective manner. Access to personal employee information, including medical records, is strictly limited by Sunnova’s policies and governmental privacy laws and regulations. To further protect privacy, employees are prohibited from accessing personal data unless authorized in advance and there is a “need to know’’ because of their position or responsibility. Sunnova has a responsibility to protect our customers’ privacy and their confidential information, and access to this information is strictly limited to those employees who need it in order to conduct Sunnova business. Whistleblower and Anti-Retaliation Policy Sunnova is committed to an environment where open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception. Our Whistleblower and Anti-Retaliation Policy prohibits Sunnova or any of our employees from retaliating or taking any adverse action against anyone for raising a concern in good faith. If an employee or other interested person prefers to place an anonymous concern in confidence, they are encouraged to use a special hotline, hosted by a third party provider, EthicsPoint. Here they can submit reports relating 