GOVERNANCE This year, with oversight from the Nominating, Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, we made great strides in refining our ESG approach, strategy and performance as outlined in our Committee Charter. We conduct our business in a responsible manner with oversight by our Board of Directors and executive management in compliance with our ethics and compliance policies and programs. ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE Sustainability Governance and Oversight Risk Management Approach Board Diversity and Independence Supply Chain Management and Sustainability Government Affairs Community Engagement DATA AND APPROACH “The Board and the company Sustainability Governance are united in wanting to put the and Oversight We seek to empower Sunnova employees to be champions of ESG within their roles and responsibilities. Our vision is to embed ESG throughout the organization through continuous education and engagement. Our leadership begins at the top, with the Nominating, Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors overseeing our sustainability strategy and providing reviews and oversight of our sustainability disclosures and engagement. power of energy in people’s hands. Given the breadth and diversity of leadership from the Board, we can offer unique guidance as Sunnova enters this incredible growth phase.” — Anne Slaughter Andrew, Chair, Nominating, Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee and Oversight Nominating, Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee Corporate Sustainability Governance • Oversees the development of Sunnova's sustainability strategy • Reviews and provides oversight of sustainability disclosures and engagement Executive Vice President, Chief of Staff • Head of Sustainability reporting to the CEO • Approves and directs sustainability protocol across the organization • Acts as a liaison between all executive leadership • Serves as ESG Steering Committee Chair Environmental,  •  Includes leaders from across the business and  Social and  subject matter experts in key functions  Governance Steering Committee  •  Active advocates of sustainability, ensuring our key corporate value of “Sustainability” is integrated throughout the company  Environmental, • Dedicated role for coordinating and aligning Social and sustainability communications and projects within the organization Governance Project Manager • Member of the ESG Steering Committee • Reports directly to the EVP, Chief of Staff Ethics and Governance DocumentsRisk Management Approach The Board provides oversight of the major risks facing the company and has delegated risk oversight responsibility as follows: • The Audit Committee oversees risks relating to financial matters, financial reporting, auditing and cybersecurity. • The Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees risks relating to the design and implementation of the company’s compensation and other human capital management policies and procedures. At least annually, the committee reviews and discusses with management human capital management matter relevant to the company’s employees and, where applicable, independent contractors, including recruitment and retention, workplace health and safety, diversity and inclusion, culture and employee engagement, pay equity, the general approach to broadbased compensation, benefits and employee growth and development practices. • The Nominating, Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee evaluates potential conflicts of interest and independence of directors, develops corporate governance principles and has oversight of the company’s ESG program. As stated in the “Aligning with TCFD” section of this report, we are working to further align climate risks and opportunities within our existing corporate ERM program. Our ERM program is designed to ensure that all significant risks to the company, on a consolidated basis, are being managed and monitored appropriately. Meetings are held at least quarterly to discuss risk mitigation efforts to manage identified risks. To learn more about our risk factors and our ERM, read our 10-K At Sunnova, we live and operate by our values, which includes advancing the company and the energy industry through collaboration, integrity, respect and long-trusted relationships. • Sunnova Environmental Policy, Minerals Conflict Statement • Audit Committee Charter • Compensation and Human Capital Committee Charter • Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee Charter • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee Charter • Corporate Governance Guidelines • Vendor Code of Conduct, Ethical Sourcing Policy, and Human Rights Policy • Code of Conduct • Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers • Ethics Employee Hotline Our newest Board Member -Mary Yang Board Diversity With more than 25 years of technology industry experience, Mary brings important strategic and M&A experience to Sunnova’s Board of Directors. Duringand Independence her tenure at Ciena Corporation, she served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer. Mary currently serves on our board’s audit committee. We value diversity and understand the importance Our Board by the Numbers of having an independent board of directors. Directors’ Gender Our Board originally consisted of private equity-backed directors Femaleand as those investors began to divest, we worked to welcome 7 board members with a range of perspectives, backgrounds, Male ethnicities and expertise to build a public company board. We introduced three new board members in total between October 2020 and October 2021. 2 Directors’ Directors’ 2020 Average Age: Average Tenure: Nora Mead Brownell (2020) Akbar Mohamed (2020) Directors’ Independence Nora joined the Sunnova Akbar joined the Sunnova Board Board of Directors in October of Directors in December 2020 and Independent 1 2020 and provides invaluable brings essential knowledge as the Non-independent regulatory expertise as a former President of Prime Communications, Federal Energy Regulatory the largest authorized AT&T dealer Commission Commissioner with in the United States. He will provide8 additional tenure in other public a crucial focus on managing advisory roles. and developing the customer/ dealer relationship as Sunnova’s network grows. 2020 Supply Chain Management and Sustainability Goal: We will plan to institute a supplier engagement system to quantify ESG impacts for all Tier 1 suppliers by 2023. Supplying with Confidence We seek suppliers and vendors whose environmental ambitions and strategies align with our own and aim to quantify and report the environmental impacts of our upstream partners. Continuing Education We are helping our suppliers discover and implement new ways to continually reduce the impact of their manufacturing and production processes. As we do so, we’re also understanding potential immediate issues, including ecological degradation, significant consumption of water, energy and other natural resources, significant greenhouse gas emissions and waste outputs. It is our responsibility to report on each of these while helping our suppliers improve as part of our commitment to environmental responsibility in the supply chain. Waste Management Sunnova is committed to circular waste management practices of reusing and repurposing solar waste. Through our partnership with We Recycle Solar, we repurposed 23 tons and recycled 20 tons of lithium battery materials, comprised of mixed metal, plastic and packaging commodities. Supply Chain Policies Our Vendor Code of Conduct outlines our expectations for our partners to operate in an ethical and safe manner. We expect our suppliers to mitigate their climate impacts and reduce waste in their operations and to adhere to our standards of quality requirements. We expect all our partners to comply with the requirements outlined in our Vendor Code of Conduct, including stringent requirements for respecting human rights and acknowledging that their operations do not violate human rights protections, as outlined in the Code. Sunnova’s supplier due diligence process includes provisions specific to the polysilicon supply chain. We are currently in the process of collecting this type of data within our supplier engagement system. • Vendor Code of Conduct, Ethical Sourcing Policy and Human Rights Policy • Sunnova Environmental Policy, Minerals Conflict Statement “Over the last year, it’s been encouraging to see how some of our approved module manufacturers are quickly pivoting their entire supply chains to ensure complete ethical and tracing transparency. We’re able to point our dealer network to these manufacturers with confidence.” — Laura Fernandez, Vice President, Director of Supply Chain Government Affairs Legislative and Regulatory Advocacy Aligning with Our Mission Sunnova actively engages policymakers at the federal, state and local levels to advocate for issues that advance our mission to power energy independence. Sometimes we do this through direct lobbying and other times via trade associations we support. National and International Policies Among our big wins in 2021, the most important was our work on the Build Back Better bill. We helped to ensure that the bill included a 30% investment tax credit (ITC) extension, standalone storage ITC and direct pay option, as well as solar manufacturing tax credits. Although the bill ultimately did not pass, it is the most substantial piece of climate legislation ever considered by Congress. We also advocated against tariffs on solar panels, which increase costs for consumers by up to 30% according to Wood Mackenzie. As part of that advocacy, we submitted comments to the International Trade Commission during their consideration of the Section 201 tariff extension and asked them to eliminate the tariffs. Additionally, we participated in industry efforts to ensure best practices and compliance with the Withhold Release Order (WRO) on polysilicon from China’s Xinjiang province. Local and State-level Efforts Sunnova also engaged in state-level advocacy. For example, in 2021, we helped get property tax exemptions passed in Texas, Connecticut and South Carolina. We also worked with a broad coalition of companies and non-profit groups to push for a fair outcome in the California net-metering decision, which is still ongoing. In addition to these efforts, we: • pushed back against interconnection fees and demand charges in the Pedernales Electric Cooperative in Texas • supported legislation that clarified a property tax exemption for California solar energy projects that employ partnership flips for financing • opposed changes to net energy metering in Sacramento Municipal Utility District in California and Florida • fought solar customer charges in Arizona, New York, Texas and Puerto Rico • supported solar incentives in Illinois, New Jersey, Massachusetts and Puerto Rico • promoted adoption of SolarAPP+ in collaboration with a coalition of other companies, non-profits and the government. SolarAPP+ facilitates rooftop solar adoption by making it easier for local governments to approve project permits quickly and safely 2021 U.S. C3E Award -Meghan Nutting In November 2021, our Executive Vice President of Government and Regulatory Affairs, Meghan Nutting, won the 2021 U.S. C3E Award for her collaborative work advancing the goals of the clean energy industry. The annual award highlights female leadership in energy and she was specifically recognized for working with stakeholders to move critical pieces of policy and legislation forward in more than 20 states, including Arizona, California, Connecticut and Puerto Rico. “ We manage relationships with over twenty trade associations, and we serve on the Board and executive committee of the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA). We are committed to being industry leaders, advocating for strong solar policies and ensuring that consumers have the right to put solar on their homes without having to pay unfair taxes or fees.” — Meghan Nutting, Executive Vice President, Government and Regulatory Affairs Community Engagement Goal: We will work to contribute 2,500 total employee volunteer hours to organizations whose causes align with our mission and ESG goals by year-end 2025. How we will pursue this goal • Step One: Consulting our Workforce • Step Two: Formalizing a Strategy • Step Three: Governance • Sunnova’s Charitable Donations Offering a helping hand to those in need and creating change together with the community are two ways we implement and achieve our social investment strategy. Currently, we invest in community-based projects and initiatives that align with our core values. We are actively working to develop an even more robust community engagement strategy to further our impact in the communities we serve. Step One: Consulting Our Workforce We will survey our workforce and collect innovative ideas, allowing our workforce community to express priorities for budget allocation and organize our findings. We will then manage and process community members’ input and share relevant information with our leadership. Lastly, we will identify actionable insights about our community’s needs to make better decisions. Step Two: Formalizing a Strategy Our community engagement strategy will be driven by our three focus areas of giving: education and employee development, the environment and community. The committee will review an annual social investment budget and provide feedback on our social investment and engagement strategies. Building Better Culture In 2021, we added Diversity and Inclusion as an emerging employee resource group to consult and ensure we are furthering diversity and inclusion in the areas where we operate. Step Three: Governance Our Chief of Staff will oversee our social investment and community engagement efforts with our executive leadership team. We will govern these efforts at the board level through our Nominating, Governing and Sustainability Committee. Sunnova’s Charitable Donations Sunnova has made charitable donations to VoteSolar, WRISE and IREC. In Houston, we have been active with a number of community efforts, including volunteering with and contributing to the Houston Area Women’s Center, Child Advocates, the Houston Food Bank and other community-focused groups. We support employee volunteer activities, and encourage employees to volunteer their time and to participate in charitable work within their local communities. 