A Letter from Our CEO WILLIAM J. (JOHN) BERGER At Sunnova, our mission — To Power Energy Independence — has allowed us to make a critical difference in the way our customers energize their lives, ensuring we create lasting value in the communities we serve. Currently, the energy industry is at an inflection point; and the changes in consumer demand, the need for energy reliability, the reality of climate change and the threat to our national security will accelerate the energy transition faster than we imagined. Our team at Sunnova is aggressively embracing an equitable and balanced energy future and is working with others in the global energy industry to ensure this transition is successful in the near term. Our corporate strategy is aligned to support this transformation and we are continuing to do our part to accelerate energy resiliency across the globe. Our customer and employee growth over the last year is evidence of this strategy at work, spurred by our ability to provide energy services that can help mitigate climate change and shape our energy security and independence. Despite current and anticipated macro-economic headwinds, we remain confident in our ability to accomplish the financial, operational, environmental, social and governance (ESG) targets we’ve laid out for ourselves. Rapidly improving and changing technology, coupled with our software platform and fundamentally differentiated customer service strategy means we are closer than ever before to building the home of the future – the Sunnova Adaptive Home™. As centralized utilities rapidly increase their rates, we will be able to provide homeowners significant savings while providing an energy service that is more clean, affordable and reliable. We will continue to seek synergies by developing more strategic partnerships, building a best-in-class software platform and by engaging with policymakers and industry partners to expand clean, affordable energy markets across the United States. We will continue to act with the highest levels of collaboration, respect and service and do right by our customers, coworkers, communities and partners. By staying true to our core values of Service, Synergy and Sustainability, we believe we will have a powerful impact on our customers, communities and society for generations to come. As we continue charging ahead, we look forward to continuing this important ESG journey with you. Founder, Chairman, President and CEO, Sunnova A Letter from Our ESG Committee Chair KELSEY HULTBERG The last year has been pivotal for the evolution of sustainability, with the awareness of and interest in ESG issues rising in prominence. In our second year of ESG reporting, we built on the foundation we established in 2020 and strive to continue providing rigorous and transparent reporting of our sustainability performance. I am excited to share the continued progress we’ve made on our ESG strategy over the last 12 months. Our focus in 2021 was on strengthening the foundation we built in our first year of reporting while continuing to strategically integrate ESG into our business with a look towards the future. Our ESG strategy reflects the ways in which we are putting our mission into action. Every day, our team seeks new and innovative ways to transform the energy space, while also making us stronger and more resilient. After all, we cannot thrive as a business if our customers, colleagues, communities and planet do not thrive. This year, we accomplished three main goals: • We conducted our inaugural materiality assessment to align on a multitude of ESG topics with our employees, vendors, investors, community partners and other stakeholders. • We developed multi-year ESG goals to commit ourselves to continuous improvement in areas of strategic importance. • We conducted our first climate risk assessment in alignment with the Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations and integrated it with our annual Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process. As the chair of our ESG Steering Committee, I am encouraged to see how far we have come in just one year by meeting regularly with our ESG leads, working to meet the data needs of our stakeholders and reporting transparently in alignment with leading frameworks. Now, our team is turning our focus to what lies ahead and executing our long-term approach to ESG management. With our strategy set, our goals in place and another year of sustainability performance behind us, I am immensely proud to share our ESG progress with you through this report and I welcome your engagement and feedback in the year ahead. ESG Committee Chair, Executive Vice President, Chief of Staff, Sunnova ABOUT The energy landscape is accelerating faster than ever before, and Sunnova is pioneering this evolution with a business strategy centered around helping customers electrify all aspects of their lives through solar. We are dedicated to supporting customers with integrated energy solutions that meet modern convenience and environmental needs centered around our Sunnova Adaptive HomeTM approach. Alongside an emphasis on service and the power of partnerships, we are further accelerating our ESG impact and creating shared value not only for our investors but our customers, employees, communities and partners. ABOUT Sunnova Overview Financial and Operational Performance 2021 Impact Metrics Materiality Our Strategy Our ESG Goals Sustainability Frameworks and Standards ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE DATA AND APPROACH Financial and Operational Performance 2021 was another landmark year for Sunnova, marked by significant improvement in the financial performance of the company. We aim to continue this track record of exceptional financial results and continue delivering value to all stakeholders. Financial ($ millions)1 Operational2021 2020 Adjusted EBITDA2 $60 Estimated Gross Contracted Customer Value at year-end Principal3 and Interest Payments Received $56 Estimated Net Contracted Customer Value at year-end on Solar Loans Cumulative Number of Customers, Net4 Adjusted Operating Cash Flow2 $11 Cumulative Megawatts (MW) Deployed5 Recurring Operating Cash Flow2 $(10) Metric Tons of CO2e Avoided5 Kilowatt (kWh) of Clean Energy6 States and Territories Where We Operate Dealers and Sub-Dealers Battery Penetration Rate7 2021 2020 1  See accompanying reconciliation.  4  See Cumulative Number of Customers in Financial and Operational Definitions.  2  Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Operating Cash Flow and Recurring Operating Cash Flow are non-GAAP financial measures.  5  Based on the accumulative actual production (kWh) for systems as of year-end.  3  Net of amounts recorded in revenue.  6  The kWh estimated lifetime PV production value corresponds to lifetime accumulative billed production through 12/31/2021 for systems  placed in service on or before 12/31/2021.  7  For definition, see Financial and Operational Definitions  2021 Impact Metrics Our ESG strategy revolves around leadership and moving beyond the initial standards of being a renewable energy company, and 2021 was a year of exciting developments for our sustainability strategy. Human Capital • Workforce Growth: our total employee count grew by 85% • Reduced turnover by 5% Board Diversity • Female representation rose from 22% to 33% Climate Risks and Opportunities • Greenhouse Gas Reduction (GHG): 2.6 million metric tons of CO2e avoided this year Inaugural Materiality Assessment Summary • 60+ internal leaders and external stakeholders surveyed • 9 “tier one” topics: our key ESG focus points for the next three years • 21 material topics identified overall • 6 key ESG goals Sustainable Finance • Launched first Green Bond and our Green Financing Framework, rated the highest rating by Cicero — Certified Dark Green MSCI ESG Rating • Received a rating of AA (on a scale of AAA-CCC) from MSCI in 2021 First TCFD Analysis • Incorporating our TCFD top risks into our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) • Reporting GHG Accounting Disclosures across Scope 1, 2 and 3 Awards • Inaugural Best Led List by Inc. • U.S. Clean Energy Education and Empowerment Award for Meghan Nutting, Executive Vice President of Government and Regulatory Affairs • Best CEOs for Diversity 2021 from Comparably Materiality At Sunnova, we define material ESG issues as those that have Our Tier One and Tier Two Topicsa significant impact to both our business success and that our stakeholders expect us to manage. For business success, this includes strategy and growth, financial performance, risk management and brand reputation. Tier One: Prioritize ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE Through this assessment, we engaged key internal and external ESG topics that have significant • Climate Change Risks • Diversity and Inclusion • Board Diversitystakeholders to share insights on several ESG topics. We asked our impact to both Sunnova’s and Opportunities of Employees and Independencestakeholders to evaluate the opportunities and risks these topics business and society. Thesepose to our business, our industry and to society. • Opportunities in • Human Capital Management • ESG Governance topics are the key focus of Clean Energy • Solar Equity and Justice • Lobbying and AdvocacyThese topics were identified from a number of sources, including Sunnova’s ESG strategy. • Supply Chain SustainabilityESG ratings (e.g., MSCI and Sustainalytics), ESG reporting frameworks (e.g., SASB and TCFD) and desktop research of peers and industry trends. Our stakeholder groups included employees across our organization as well as investors, suppliers, dealers, industry associations and community organizations. Tier Two: Manage ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCEThrough this process, we identified 21 material ESG topics overall and 9 priority ESG topics, which comprise the core of our ESG ESG topics that have a material • Energy Management • Community Engagement • Data Security and Privacy strategy. Please see details about these topics in the table. impact to Sunnova’s business • Greenhouse Gas Emissions • Consumer Protection • Ethical Business Practices and society but were not rated and Compliance• Product Circularity and • Dealer Sustainabilityas the highest priority. These End-of-Life Management • Technology and Innovation• Health and Safetytopics will be managed and monitored with appropriate steps • Pay Equity taken for continuous improvement. • Supplier and Dealer Diversity Our Strategy ESG Strategy and Our 2025 Goals Our broader ESG strategy evolved with the completion of our first materiality assessment. Our main focus is on a range of goals to support each of the Tier 1 priority topics. We plan to make significant steps towards achieving these goals or realizing them to completion by 2025. Additionally, these efforts are an integral piece of the company’s larger corporate strategy as we work towards improving the impact of Sunnova as a whole through expected significant growth. The goals follow a “Triple – Double, Triple” roadmap, in which we’re building plans to double or triple specific customer and earnings metrics. Setting these goals helps us plan across the company to meet the future projected high demand in the areas while still operating as leaders in creating scalable opportunities for renewable energy. Our Mission Powering Energy Independence™ We expect to double  We expect to double  We expect to double  We expect to triple  year-end 2021  year-end 2021  year-end 2021  year-end 2021  customer count by  NCCV per share by  services sold  Adjusted EBITDA with  year-end 2023  year-end 2023  per customer  principal and interest  by year-end 2025 collection on solar  loans in fiscal year 2023  Our ESG Goals These inaugural goals are only a starting point to demonstrate our current commitment and performance on ESG. ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE We plan to build a customer base by year-end 2023 whose systems will offset 52 million MTCO2e over their useful life. We will quantify and disclose a complete Scope 3 inventory for all material categories and set a climate target that includes all scope emissions by year-end 2023. We will work to reduce year-over-year voluntary turnover to 15% by 2025. We will work to improve estimated year-end 2021 racial/ethnic minority representation for mid-level leadership (General Manager, Director, VP and SVP titles) by 20% by 2025. We will plan to institute a supplier engagement system to quantify ESG impacts for all Tier 1 suppliers by 2023. We will work to contribute 2,500 total employee volunteer hours to organizations whose causes align with our mission and ESG goals by year-end 2025. Sustainability Frameworks and Standards SASB, TCFD and UN SDGs We believe in aligning our ESG strategy and reporting with leading reporting frameworks and standards. Our ESG reporting and Strategy is guided by three frameworks: SASB, TCFD and UN SDGs. SASB We believe in reporting ESG data that is financially material and can yield powerful insights for our business, our investors and other stakeholders. We report in alignment with the Solar and Battery Industry Standards and have further clarified metrics that are material to our business through our inaugural materiality assessment (see Data and Approach). TCFD As a leading residential solar and energy storage service provider with customers across the U.S. and its territories, we believe our long-term business success is tied to our identification and management of climate-related risks and opportunities. In our first year of TCFD reporting, we conducted an initial Scope 3 Emissions Assessment to better understand our emissions and determine how we will reach our 2025 environmental goals. UN SDGs We believe that our business can make a meaningful difference to our customers and society. We believe we can make the most meaningful contributions by focusing on six of the seventeen SDGs. Our goal is to provide the world with cleaner, more affordable and more reliable energy by focusing on responsible growth, energy resiliency and innovation