CHAPTER IV. OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Ormat staunchly believes that as a provider of energy solutions, and namely renewable energy solutions, we have a central role in the global economy and in ensuring the sustain.able development of communities. The energy market is one of the most signif.icant factors within the global economy as it enables economic growth and development, creates jobs, develops critical infrastructure, generates long-term value and enables the very nature of our modern society. As a leading vertically integrated company primarily engaged in the geothermal and recovered energy business, Ormat plays a significant role within the global renewable energy market generally, and the geothermal energy market particularly. Renewable energy is sustainable and, clean, leading major countries to focus their efforts on the development of renewable energy sources, and geothermal energy, specif.ically. As such, Ormat has and continues to see significant economic benefits from its business activities, allowing the Company to become a publicly traded Company on leading stock exchanges, such as the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).33 In addition, Ormat is part of the following indices: CRSP, Dow Jones, FTSE, Morningstar, MSCI, NASDAQ, Russell 2000, 2500 and 3000, S&P, TASE, Wilshire 5000, WisdomTree and WisdomTree U.S. Our electricity segment is the core of our business, accounting for 72.4% of our total revenues for the year 2019. The vast majority of revenue from this segment originates in the United States – 61.8%, with the remaining 38.2% coming from the rest of the world. Having realized the importance of renewable energy, including geother.mal alternatives, various governments have been preparing regulatory frame.33 Under the ticker “ORA”. 46 works and policies, and providing incentives to develop the sector, which Ormat views as a positive opportunity for its business. In addition, and partic.ularly in the United States, a number of states and territories have renewable portfolio goals or laws that encourage or require utilities to generate or buy a percentage of their electricity from renewable energy or recovered energy sources. In addition to our geothermal power generation activities, we pursue relevant recovered energy-based power generation opportunities in North America and other locations. We believe recovered energy-based power generation (known as “REG” in other Company publications) will ultimately benefit from the efforts to reduce GHG emissions. We have built over 20 power plants that generate electricity utilizing “waste heat” from gas turbine-driven compressor stations along interstate natural gas pipelines, from midstream and gas processing facilities, and from other applications. Several U.S. states, and to a certain extent the federal government, have recognized the environmental benefits of recovered energy-based power generation, with a number of states allowing utilities to include recovered energy-based power generation in calculating their compli.ance with renewable portfolio goals and incentives. Generally, there is an increase in the use of renewable energy solutions due to various tax incentives for utilities, as well as the decline in the price of renewable solutions, such as for Solar PV. However, one of the biggest chal.lenges in the deployment of effective renewable energy solutions is that the supply can be unstable (due to envi.ronmental or atmospheric conditions). As a result, energy management, and especially energy storage, is becoming a key component in the future elec.trical grid, which one of the main reasons Ormat is actively investing in the deployment and development of energy storage and management solutions. The Company’s first real step into the energy storage and manage.ment market was the acquisition of Viridity Energy Inc. As a central player in the geothermal and renewable energy markets through our diverse global presence, we plan to continue to develop our business and seek out relevant opportunities to improve our economic performance for shareholders, while also making meaningful and effective contributions to the renewable energy market. Our business strategy is outlined below. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy is to continue building a geographically balanced portfolio of geothermal and recovered energy assets, and to continue to be a leader in the geothermal energy market with the objective of becoming a leading global provider of renewable energy. Since 2015, we have implemented a number of the elements of a new multi-year strategic plan. The strategic plan was approved and is consistently reviewed in consul.tation with Ormat’s senior management team. The strategic plan is developed based on an understanding of our risks and opportunities – an assessment that is conducted with assistance from external consultants – and our profes.sional expertise and knowledge about the renewable energy market. We expect the plan to evolve over time in response to market conditions and other factors. MANAGEMENT OF ECONOMICS AND FINANCE AT ORMAT The topics of economics and finance at Ormat are managed by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and the Finance Depart.ment’s managers and employees. These individuals are responsible for reporting to the Board of Directors and shareholders, through our filings, reports and press releases and by our Investor Relations department, regarding Ormat’s economic perfor.mance and regarding any relevant financial issues. Furthermore, and together with management, these indi.viduals are responsible for preparing Ormat’s annual, quarterly and periodic financial and annual reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All of our SEC filings, including the Company’s 10K, 10Q and other relevant documents are available to the public both on the SEC website34 and on our Investor 35Relations page. Our shareholders are consistently provided with current and exact information on our economic and financial performance. We regularly hold earnings calls that all our global shareholders can access online along with the Company’s earnings call presentation. In addition, our Investor Relations team issues email notifi.cations, alerts and news regarding Ormat’s financial performance or any major Company events on a regular basis through a list of registered subscribers. In all our communication and interaction with shareholders, we aim to provide top-of-the-line service while adequately and appropriately addressing their requests. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 2019 In 2019, Ormat continued to experi.ence strong revenues and operational growth. Overall, total revenues from all segments increased by approximately US$27 million. Pursuant to our dividend policy we expect to distribute at least 20% of our annual profits available for distribution by way of quarterly dividends Conse.quently, in 2019 Ormat paid a total of $22.38 million USD ($.44 per share) in dividends to its shareholders. During 2018 and 2019, our electrical generating capacity of our operating portfolio expanded by approximately 119 MW from 795 MW at YE 2017 to 914 MW at year-end 2019, represent.ing a CAGR of 7.2% in our generating capacity. The growth in the electricity segment is due to a number of factors, namely the completion of a number of expansion projects in our existing geothermal power plants, such as a major expansion of the third phase at our McGinness Hills complex, increas.ing the complex capacity by 48 MW to a total of 140 MW; expansion at our Olkaria III complex in Kenya that increased the generating capacity by 11 MW to a total of 150 MW; and the completion of the third phase at the Sarulla complex in Indonesia that allowed the plant to reach a gener.ating capacity of 330 MW. Also, in 2019 we added the first hybrid solar and geothermal power plant, in the Tungsten project in Nevada. The expansion and improvement of our existing power plants contributes to helping us achieve our strategic goals, but also significantly contributes to our revenues and economic success over time. The data presented in the table below details the direct economic value generated, distributed and retained by theCompany in 2017-2019. More information and data regarding our financial performance can be found in our 2019 Annual Report, which can be accessed at the following link.36 Direct economic value generated, distributed and retained (US$ thousands)  2019 (US$)  2018 (US$)  2017 (US$)  Revenue37 (sales and other income)  746,044  719,267  692,812  Operating costs38 (excluding employee–related expenses)  271,493  269,323  260,383  Employee wages and benefits39  137,513  113,343  108,043  Payments  to providers of capital40  84,014  80,698  60,995  Payments to governments, by country41  1,649  18,023  21,878  Community investments  929  726  236  Economic Value Distributed  495,598  482,118  451,535  Economic Value Retained  250,446  237,149  241,277  34 https://www.sec.gov/ 35 https://investor.ormat.com/Docs 36 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 37  “Revenue” is defined as net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets. For Ormat, revenues are generated from our electricity, product and other segments. Net sales is calculated as gross sales from products and services minus returns, discounts and allowances. 38 “Operating costs” refers to operating expenses including cost of revenues, research and development (R&D), selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. 39  “Employee wages and benefits” refers to total payroll and social benefits less non-operating expenses such as the amortization of employees’ stock options. 40 “Payments to providers of capital” refers to interest net of interest capitalized and cash dividends paid. 41  “Payments to governments, by country” refers to income taxes, net paid by Ormat. Ormat has not reported this data according to country in the current report, but plans to do so in forthcoming reports. Ormat did not pay any penalties in 2018 or 2017. The following presents our net revenues for 2017-2019, comparatively, according to geographical location. Location (US$ thousands)  2019 (US$ thousand)  2018 (US$ thousands)  2017 (US$ thousands)  United States  377,956  328,606  301,132  Kenya  121,661  119,094  110,243  Turkey  88,938  168,699  125,166  Guatemala  28,624  27,975  27,991  Other foreign countries  128,865  74,893  128,280  Consolidated Total  746,044  719,267  692,812  LOANS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT BANKS Ormat interacts directly with governments, their agencies and development banks in the context of constructing and operating our power plants around the world.  Our methods and types of communication and engagement with government entities vary based on the legal and regulatory framework in the relevant country, as well as the economic structure of the electricity generation market in that country. There are several governmental incen.tives, such as tax benefits or subsidies for renewable energy generation, that contribute to the attractiveness of our solutions. More information and assessment of relevant tax benefits is available in our 2019 Annual Report at the following link.42 Details on selected projects and loans: Aside from tax benefits, a number of Ormat’s projects are funded with financial incentives and loans from prominent government and multilateral backed development financial institu.tions, such as the Development Finance Corporation (”DFC”), the German Invest.ment Corporation (DEG)43, the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”), Japan Bank of International Cooperation (“JBIC”) and the Asian Development Bank. Details on the projects and the loans received are detailed in the following table. Name of Entity  Type of Financing  Project  DFC  Project finance loan  Platanares, Honduras  DFC  Senior secured project finance loan  Olkaria III, Kenya  DEG  Credit agreement Credit agreement  Olkaria III, Kenya  U.S. DOE  Project finance loan .ARRA Section 1603  Neal Hot Springs, Oregon, U.S.  U.S. DOE and John Hancock  Project finance loan .ARRA Section 1705  OFC-2 Geothermal Portfolio, Nevada, U.S.  42 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 43 Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft. 48 Ormat does not directly receive govern.ment grants and benefits from govern.ments, but the subsidiary companies established in order to operate our power plants are eligible in certain cases to receive governmental incen.tives.  More information on the relevant incentives received by our subsidiary companies can be found in the 2019 Annual Report at the following link.44 Overall, governments and governmental entities are not part of Ormat’s share.holding structure. As of 2019, there was one exceptional case: the national electric company of Guatemala, Instituto Nacional de Electrificación (INDE), owned 3% of our Zunil power plant. Developing Renewable Energy and Critical Infrastructure The presence of Ormat’s operations around the world, including in various developing countries, has an inherently positive impact on environmental, economic and social levels. This is due to the fact that the projects provide a valuable source of renewable energy to support a country’s infrastructure devel.opment, create jobs and strengthen its energy sector by helping to diversify its energy sources and move away from fossil-fuel to renewable energy and non-renewable domestic sources. Furthermore, and as outlined in the “Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures” Chapter of this report, in every location where Ormat operates, our presence has generated positive impacts through the creation of economic opportunities, development and employment benefits. For instance, geothermal energy provides numerous benefits to the U.S. economy, as was outlined in a report by the Geothermal Energy Association (GEA).45 According to such report, the economic benefits of a typical 30 MW geothermal plant can provide about US$150-225 million in inbound capital investment, create about 50 long-term jobs in order to operate the plant, resulting in surpluses in property taxes and royalties to the land owners as well as other social and economic benefits for the local community. Furthermore, and starting from the exploration phase for geothermal resources, Ormat attempts to assess the level of critical infrastructure – including roads and electricity transmission lines – needed in order to implement the project. This infrastructure remains a valuable resource for local communi.ties regardless of the existence of the project, such as is the case with the development of local roads, water and electricity distribution systems. In addition to these significant indirect economic impacts, we play an active role in communities local to all our operations, including through phil.anthropic contributions and various community development activities as detailed above in the “Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures” Chapter. Environmental Regulations Supporting Our Business As a renewable energy company, Ormat adheres to and benefits from a number of regulations that promote renewable energy through different incentive models, and increasingly, by requiring the use of renewable energy in countries’ energy mixes. Some of the relevant environmental laws, regulations and incentives in our countries of operation are outlined in the below table.46 Location  Relevant Environmental Regulations and/or Incentives  United States  • National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) • Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA) • Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA) • Federal Power Act (FPA) • California Environmental Quality Act  Guatemala  • General Electricity Law of 1996, Decree 93-96 • Technical Norms for the Connection, Operation, Control and Commercial.ization of the Renewable Distributed Generation and Self-producers Users with Exceeding Amounts of Energy  Kenya  • Kenyan Energy Act  Honduras  • Law of Electrical Industry (Decree 404-2013) • Law of Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects  44  https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 45 Source: http://www.geo-energy.org/reports/2017/GEOTHERMAL%20IS%20GOOD%20FOR%20AMERICA.pdf 46 More information on the environmental regulations that Ormat adheres to are outlined in our Annual Report (Form 10-K). ORMAT’S  are inherent in the construction of  Rule, i.e. tin, tantalum, tungsten  in our power plants. We acquire any  to maintain ongoing dialog.  DATA PRIVACY AND  SUPPLY CHAIN & PROCUREMENT  complex geothermal and Recovered Energy power plants, we are often required to import materials, parts  and gold, in the components and materials supplied to us and which are necessary to the production or  equipment we do not build ourselves from selected, top-quality, trusted suppliers. Ormat is ISO 9001 and  • Newsletters – we publish newslet.ters in which we suggest recommen- CYBERSECURITY FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS  PRACTICES  and supplies that are not typically manufactured locally.  functionality of our products. Our policy supports the intention of the  ISO14001 certified, with our manu.facturing facilities also meeting the  dations for different types of improve.ments to products and services (for  Conflict Minerals Rule, which is not to  standards of the American Society  example, for increasing the effi- We categorize our work with suppliers  economically disadvantage areas of  of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and  ciency and generating capacity of  Ormat is committed to ensuring the  As a global Company with operations  according to the level of spend with  conflict in the Democratic Republic  the European Pressure Equipment  our plants).  data privacy of its directors, officers,  in a number of different countries,  the supplier over the fiscal year. As  of Congo and surrounding countries,  Directive (PED). Many electric utilities  employees, customers and other  Ormat has a diverse and dispersed  such, Ormat encourages work with  but rather to significantly reduce or  around the world have also recog. • Workshops – Ormat organizes  relevant stakeholders. We have an  supply chain that we responsibly  smaller suppliers that are categorized  eliminate funding of armed groups  nized Ormat as an approved supplier.  and hosts several different client  “Electronic Communication Policy”  manage through our Procurement  by the Procurement Department  that have a record of human rights  Ormat’s design and manufacturing  workshops in different countries  that sets security procedures for  Department. The Procurement  according to the level of spend and  abuses in the region. As such, we  standard meets the requirements of  periodically. The workshop aims  Ormat’s internal stakeholders. The  Department  is  responsible  for  volume of business.  have an expressed commitment to  the applicable European Commis. to address different issues such as  referred to policy includes our expec. selecting, managing and assessing  human rights and our understand. sion directives and therefore we are  improvements in operations, project  tations of employees regarding use  our supply chain as well as determin- Our “Code of Business Conduct and  ing of the impact of our activities  entitled to carry the CE marking  management, construction and  of Company equipment, authorized  ing the conditions for working with  Ethics” outlines our guidelines for  is realized in our continued efforts  that denotes conformity with health,  trends and innovations in Ormat’s  use of identification information,  various suppliers.  directors, officers and employees that  to perform effective due diligence  safety and environmental protection  technology.  password policies, and how elec. deal with or come into direct contact  on the sourcing practices within  standards for products sold within  tronic messaging and documents  Ormat engages with suppliers  with suppliers. Some of the condi. our supply chain. Our due diligence  the European Economic Area.Due to  • General customer service requests  should be properly handled. The  and subcontractors for two main  tions that we outline include avoiding  processes are materially based on the  Ormat’s nature as a vertically-inte. – we  answer  general  requests  policy is managed by our Informa. purposes: for provision of materials,  conflicts of interest in dealing with  internationally-recognized Conflict  grated Company, we have a number  submitted through other channels  tion Technology department and all  parts and services in manufacturing  suppliers, relevant anti-trust consid- Minerals due diligence framework  of points of contact with our various  such as ones directed to our interna. internal stakeholders are requested to  through our Procurement Department  erations and maintaining the confi. introduced by the Organization for  customers and we work to provide  tional Customer Service department  acknowledge the policy in the context  and for the construction, operation  dentiality of our terms and conditions  Economic Cooperation and Devel. them at all times with excellent and  through our website on the “Contact  of their employment with Ormat.  and maintenance of our power plants  with suppliers and our expectation  opment (OECD). A full description  reliable customer service.  Us” page which offers an online form  around the world. In addition, Ormat  of directors, officers and employees  of our Conflict Minerals due diligence  and other forms of contact::  In addition, we work to ensure that  engages a small amount of service  to deal fairly with suppliers. Further- activities can be found at our website  Customer service at the Company is  all our information technology  providers – such as lawyers, consul- more, in our “Integrated Quality,  at the following link48.  managed by our Customer Service  Address: Ormat Technologies Inc.,  systems are secured in terms of their  tants and accountants – who advise  Environment, Health & Safety System  Group, which is part of the Business  6140  Plumas  Street, Reno,  NV  cybersecurity aspects. Ormat has an  Company management and the  Policy”, we outline our commitment  PROVIDING  Development  and  Sales  Group.  89519-6075, U.S.  advanced policy for managing cyber- Board of Directors on certain issues.  to treating our suppliers, subcontrac.tors and business partners with the  EXCELLENT AND  Our Customer Service department collects, addresses and manages  Tel: +1-775-356-9029  security risks that is overseen by the Company’s Information Technology  As such, Ormat’s supply chain consists of four different types of suppliers: electrical parts suppliers, suppliers  utmost respect, while also assessing, in general, that those suppliers, subcontractors and business partners  RELIABLE CUSTOMER SERVICE  relevant requests from our various customers around the world. It is important to note that Ormat prides  Fax: +1-775-356-9039  department. In our risk management processes, we consider threats and vulnerabilities in information, informa. of materials, suppliers of parts and  uphold relevant social, environmental   itself on its strong base of repeat  Email: info@ormat.com  tion technology and communications  service providers. As of 2019, Ormat  and health and safety standards for  customers, which is due to the  systems that we use on a regular basis  worked with approximately 5,000  their employees.  strength of our energy solutions and  Ormat’s policy is to address all our  to deliver our products and services,  different suppliers. Ormat did not  Ormat is the world’s only vertically-in. technology and the quality of our  customer service requests in a timely  facilities or other assets that are a part  experience any significant changes  Ormat has adopted a Conflict Minerals  tegrated geothermal company, and  customer service relations that is  and suitable manner in order to  of our cyber-infrastructure. Ormat did  to the organization that affected its  Policy, in compliance with the SEC’s  we usually are responsible for explo. characterized by regular and produc. ensure the continued satisfaction of  not experience any material breaches  supply chain in 2019. There were no  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and  ration, development, drilling, design,  tive communications with customers.  our global customer base.  or cybersecurity events, nor did the  significant changes to Ormat’s supply  Consumer Protection Act (known  manufacturing, construction, and  organization receive any substanti. chain in 2019.  as “the Conflict Minerals Rule”). Our  operation of our geothermal power  Some of these methods of  ated complaints regarding breaches  Conflict Minerals Policy, available  plants. Our customers benefit from  communication include:  of customer data or privacy, in 2019.  Furthermore, our Company has  at the following on our website,47  our modular, flexible approach and  operations in over ten different  defines principles, commitments  our extensive experience in applying  • Continuous contact with direct  countries, and as a result, we work  and expectations that extend to  a variety of different products and  customer service representatives  with suppliers from around the world.  Ormat’s partners, subcontractors and  solutions – all designed for simple  - each customer has direct contact  Where possible, Ormat encourages  suppliers, with the intention of iden. transportation, installation, operation  to the team which they can contact  and seeks out opportunities to work  tifying, to the best of our ability and  and ongoing maintenance. We manu. for any issue that might arise. Also,  with local suppliers. However, due  knowledge, sources of the relevant  facture most of the power generating  team members periodically initiate  to the technical specifications that  minerals under the Conflict Minerals  unit equipment componentry used  contact with each of their customers  