‘Mitigating Climate Change Risks and Working to Realize’ ENVIRONMENT 24-40 › Ormat has been sustainably generating power since 1965 and we remain committed to providing renewable energy in an environmentally responsible manner. We recognize the importance of fightingagainst climate change promoting a transition to more sustainable energy and committing to reduce our greenhouse gasses emissions. Our activities have an inherent positive impact not only on our own operations, but also through the indirect GHG emissions of the downstream value chain. We have developed and manufactured geothermal and recovered energy power plants with a cumulative collective capacity of more than 3,200 MW8 since inception and we are proud to note that all our power plants primarily operate without fossil fuel consumption. At Ormat, we are motivated to mitigate climate change risks, reduce our GHG emissions, advance energy efficiency and promotethe use of renewable energy sources. The topic of the environment in the U.S. and internationally is managed by our VP of EHS, who reports to the EVP Electricity Segment. In our manufacturing facility in Israel, environmental matters are managed by the VP QEHS, who reports to the President and the Head of Operations and Products. Each factory, workshop and power plant manager is responsible for assessing and mapping areas for potential energy efficiency improvementsand then implementing the identified projects attheir operational location. These improvements also encompass our Company-wide commitment to encourage the responsible use of energy resources at all levels of the company and engage our employees in various energy saving practices. 9% increase in the production of renewable energy in 2021 compared to 2020 11% reduction in our annual average Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions compared to our 2019 baseline 19% reduction of our Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2021 compared to 2020 98% of electricity consumption in 2021 was from self-generated sustainable energy 8 As of the publication of this report. EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS Our geothermal and recovered energy power plants have significantly less emissions related to thegeneration of energy, due to the renewable sourcing, compared to other electricity generating sectors, such as coal and fossil fuels. The main source of emissions that is related to our operations occurs naturally from the release of gasses from some of the geothermal sources, and not as a result of energy generation. There are, however, small traces of emissions that we seek to counteract through the generation of sustainable energy. We actively work towards reducing of GHG emissions generated through our operations and business practices, which includes commitments to mitigate climate change effects. To improve the internal measurement of our GHG emissions, we have expanded our methods for data collection from our relevant operational sites in recent years. We make concerted efforts to both track and minimize all of our emissions from our power plants and operations, and to regularly report on our progress to the CDP and the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection. We selected 2019 as the year for calculating Ormat’s baseline carbon footprint, as well as the first year thatOrmat calculated certain Scope 3 emissions generated from employee personal and business travel. We have established a target of 5% annual average absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions measured against the 2019 base levels. In 2021, we exceeded our goal, and reduced our annual average by over 11% in comparison to our 2019 baseline. Our progress towards this goal will be reviewed annually and will be reported in our Sustainability Reports. Our Carbon Footprint and GHG Emissions Mitigated The main emissions that were calculated for Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions) include activities from Ormat’s operating sites, owned facilities and purchased electricity. These activities include manufacturing facilities and machinery, offices,power plants, corporate automobile fleets, drilling rigs,and electricity consumption at our facilities, among other sources. This year, we continue to evaluate additional opportunities for tracking and disclosing certain Scope 3 emissions (indirect emissions that occur in the value chain of the company). More information on the breakdown of our carbon footprint calculations for 2021 is provided in the graphs and charts on pages 29-31.9 Our Scope 1 GHG emissions for 2021 totaled 111,219 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This represents an increase in the Scope 1 emissions of 16% compared to 2020. This increase originates from augmented geothermal wells drilling completed this year, which increases the amount of fuels used. Although there is an increase in fuel usage, this benefits the sustainable energy generation through the ability to increase our operations and the amount of geothermal energy we produce per year. The completion of the drilling activity will allow us to add geothermal generating capacity of about 55 MW, which saves about 183,084 tonnes of CO2e emissions per year.10 In addition, there was an increase in the emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) due to our purchasing new operating plants that use different technology than Ormat’s technology. After purchasing these plants, we installed FLIR (Forward Looking Infra-Red) cameras in 2021 to locate and address the sources of emission leaks that were existent before our purchasing. Through the use of our FLIR cameras, we have been able to mitigate these emissions, and we are actively working to find solutions to reduce themthrough actions such as daily checks, aggressive leak protection programs, and evaluating alternatives to the current used technology. As an example, within the next two years, we plan to replace the Beowawe plant with Ormat’s binary technology system, thus reducing the emissions related to the use of ODS. Majority of our geothermal power plants operate with 100% reinjection of the geothermal resource and therefore do not generate emissions. A small number of our steam and binary plants, that use artesian wells, are unable to conduct 100% reinjection of the geothermal resource (due to the non-condensed gases coming to the surface from the geothermal reservoir). Although there was an overall increase in Scope 1 emissions, yet we were able to reduce these emissions in some areas of operations. One such area is the decrease in electricity production at one of our emitting sites. Another area was by actively implementing technological advancements of converting artesian wells to pumped wells, with 100% reinjection. These led to a reduction of about 8,500 tonnes CO2e, while increasing the production of renewable energy by 9%. 9 All calculations include storage facilities data. 10 Based on “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights2019” International Energy Agency (IEA), 2019. 27 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 ENVIRONMENT . EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS › We calculate Scope 1 emissions either through actually monitored emissions levels, or by computing emissions based on established US Department of Energy guidelines for steam power plants.11 Additional emissions under Scope 1 are from the operation of drilling rigs used in the geothermal exploration and power plant construction phases, including our use of vehicles at our various facilities, which are employed for travel, maintenance, and logistics at our various sites, the use of diesel backup generators to provide power for ongoing operations in the event of planned or unplanned outages or maintenance shutdowns, and from air conditioning units used in our factories and offices.12 Our Scope 2 GHG emissions13 for 2021 totaled 11,919 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This is a decrease of 19% compared to 2020. This reduction is mainly due to our Puna plant, which was brought back online in 2021 and thus was able to return to activity and self-generate the electricity for internal consumption. In addition, at our manufacturing facility in Yavne, Israel, 52% of our electricity consumption is self-generated by solar energy using rooftop solar PV panels. The relevant emissions are calculated according to an emissions factor of zero. In 2021, 98% of the electricity we consumed was from self-generated sustainable geothermal energy. We calculated our Scope 3 GHG emissions for 2021 at 8,985 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, showing a 18% increase compared to 2020. Scope 3, indirect emissions, can represent the largest source of emissions for companies. As a renewable energy company, the indirect impact of Ormat through the downstream activity is mainly positive, as we replace the conventional electricity on the grid and this helps communities to consume sustainably energy. However, we understand that there are other indirect emissions that are related to our operations throughout the supply chain. For our scope 3 emissions, we have currently included in our calculations freight by sea, employee commuting, and business travel.14 In 2021, we further expanded our Scope 3 data collection and calculations by including business air travel for Guadeloupe and Honduras. We also included business travel by land for our US operations. These updates represent a significantincrease in data collection and transparency. We understand our responsibility, and despite the complexity of collecting and calculating the data, we plan to continue exploring the expansion and improvements of our disclosures in order to enhance transparency. In 2021, Ormat completed drilling operations that we expect will allow us to add geothermal generating capacity of about 55 MW. These geothermal power plants are zero emitting, and we estimate they will save about 183,084 tonnes of CO2e emissions annually for 30 years of power plant activity. 11As published by the Office of Energy Efficiency andRenewable Energy. 12 This data was obtained from the majority of Ormat’s relevantsites; our Yavne (Israel) manufacturing facility is the primaryproducer of Ormat’s worldwide air conditioner relatedemissions. 13 Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the "market" basedapproach where possible by using the coefficient of utilityused. When not possible, The "location" based calculation wasdone by using the coefficient based on the EPA's 'EmissionFactors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories' (March 2021)document. 14 This is the current list of scope 3 inclusions. For the full list ofscope 3 emissions categories, please refer to the GHG protocol. 8,985 156,962 7,599 tonnes CO2e 123,138 110,504 3,802 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 29 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 ENVIRONMENT . EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS › Israel | 1.4% ODS | 11.2% Guatemala | 6.8% Electricity purchased | 9.6% Fuels for drilling operation | 9.4% Kenya | 31.6% Fuels (excluding drilling) | 7.1% USA | 60.2% Electricity generation | 62.7% 15 Countries where emissions make up less than 1% of totalemissions are not shown in the chart. 16 Categories where emissions make up less than 1% oftotal emissions are not shown in the chart. 22,928 (15,824) 2,064 123,138 tonnes CO2e 2020 Emissions Implementing new technologies New exploration and development drilling Transition to consumption of self-generated renewable energy New acquired geothermal assets Lower generation from plantsthat have emissions Other 2021 Emissions The graph here quantifies and illustrates all of the increasing and decreasing activities that result in the change of Ormat's emissions from 2020 to 2021. 31 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 Emission Intensity 0.30 Emissions intensity measures the volume of emissions produced against a relevant 0.20unit of measure, which allows to measure theefficiency ofan organizations useofresources. At Ormat, we use both absolute emissions and emissions intensity to 0.10allow us to accurately compare, track and account for our environmental impacts and improvements. We evaluate and calculate our GHG emissions 0 2019 2020 2021 intensity by using 2019 as our base year and point of comparison. In order to present 1| Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG our GHG efficiency in a way that matches emissions (CO2e kg) divided by ourOrmat's activity in the best way, we use two revenues (thousands of dollars)different calculations: 15.00 10.00 5.00 0 2019 2020 2021 2| The amount of GHG emissions derived directly from our power plants operation (CO2e kg) , which accounts for 69% of Scope 1 emissions, divided by total MWh of geothermal energy produced by our power plants a year (gross)In 2021, when looking at the intensity by segment that generates relatively constant generation of renewable energy, we can GHG emissions. We expect that revenues see a decreasing trend from 2019, including from this segment will improve and as a a decrease of 16.5% from 2020, due to result the intensity measure will be improved. technological improvements that were In addition, in 2021 we acquired two new implemented in recent years and turned geothermal power plants with different three of the power plants to not generating technology than ours that generate, at some emissions. Our emissions intensity by revenue extent, GHG emissions. We are planning to shows decrease of 9.5% compared to 2019, replace part of the equipment and expect and an increase of 18.75% compared to 2020 that it will reduce the GHG emissions and due to significant reduction in our Productsthe intensity measure. Emission intensity by MWh demonstrates our strategy to grow our business through adding zero emission renewable energy. With the new power plants that we plan to add in the next few years, we anticipate that this measure will continue to improve over time. 32 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 ENVIRONMENT . EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS › Emissions from Operations In 2021, Ormat owned power plant facilities generated 8,590,187 MWh (gross) of electricity, out of whicl, we sold 76%. The rest was used for power plants auxiliary needs. Our power plants, which include geothermal, REG and solar PV, have an incredible ability to generate and supply energy with minimal emissions and an extremely low carbon footprint. The table below compares the CO2 emissions derived directly from our power plants operation to the CO2 amount generated by other technologies for an equivalent amount of power. The chart demonstrates the amount of emissions that are saved by the creation and use of geothermal, REG and solar PV source of energy in comparison to more traditional energy generating sources.17 6.16 OrmatPlantsNatural Fuel Oil PlantsCoal PlantsGas Plants17 The emissions from Ormat’s power plants andthe relevant calculation are explained above.The other electricity sources are from “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2019”International Energy Agency (IEA), 2019. MANAGEMENT OF WATER RESOURCES We have set a goal to reach optimal water recycling in all locations by 2025 The management of water resources is of key importance to Ormat and its stakeholders. This includes both the water needed for cooling that is required for geothermal energy generation and the water resources that are used in other processes. We work to manage our impacts on both the local hydrology and natural environment through our commitments to various regulatory requirements and in our environmental action plans. Geothermal by-products and water impacts are managed by the power plant managers at our operational sites, and remain inline with our commitment to minimizing environmental and health-related impacts as detailed in our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy. Ormat’s water sustainability vision seeks to use water resources in the most environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. We utilize water resources from diverse sources to operate our power plants, manufacturing facilities and offices,and as such have established ambitious objectives to guide our water use and aim to maximize recycling by 2025 in all locations. We actively work to control our environmental impact, which includes water use and management. As such, we have developed a Water Management Policy, which is published on our site, to support and uphold our water sustainability vision of proactively seeking to use water resources in the most environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. The objectives of the policy are to be a leader in the sector and actively manage our water resources, track and control data to ensure transparency, analyze and monitor water usage and performance, and minimize the use of water. The policy will accompany the various purposes for use of water resources, such as the following aims: ..Operation of our power plants: In our air-cooled plants, water resources are used only for maintenance activities and for administrative and domestic purposes (cleaning, toilets, etc.). This provides a significant advantage in ourplants that are located in areas of water scarcity, such as Nevada and Kenya. Our water-cooled plants are mostly in locations where that is the only option, mostly due to local weather and atmospheric conditions. In these locations, air cooling systems are less efficient in thesummer months and water-cooling systems are used for the cooling and condensing of the motive fluid. In our Solar PV plants, water consumption is for washing the panels. ..Manufacturing and office facility: Water resources are used for various applications by the factory staff and to facilitate the manufacturing process. The main use of water in our manufacturing facility is for testing the viability of our power plant equipment in the factory setting, wherein we use recycled water. Water reservoir near CD4, CA, U.S. Impacts of Our Operations on the Local Hydrology and Aquifers We strive to conduct the necessary studies - including environmental impact assessments - to uncover and mitigate any potentially negative impacts on local hydrology and groundwater systems. Ormat has entered into geothermal resources leases with government entities, such as the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in the U.S., entailing the right to conduct geothermal development and operations on government-owned or naturally protected lands. These leases legally require us to conduct operations in a manner that minimizes the impacts on water and geothermal resources. In addition, and as part of our environmental monitoring efforts, we track the sources of withdrawal for the water resources that we consume. Most of the water we consume at our operational sites is sourced from local water suppliers. In addition, there are places where we consume groundwater, and sometimes also surface water. In these cases, the process is conducted in collaboration with the local water suppliers. As of 2021, we did not discover any material negative impacts on the local hydrology in the vicinity of our power plants and manufacturing facilities as a direct result of our operations. In 2021, our water consumption was 18,184,285 M3. The increase of 1,096,465 M3 compared to 2020, which reflects an increase of 6%, is mainly due to purchasing two additional plants, Beowawe and Dixie, in which we use water-cooling systems. 98% of the water used by Ormat in its operations is for use in the the water-cooled plants. This water, except the amount that is lost due to evaporation, is injected into the ground through reinjection wells. This process is done in accordance in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations to preserve the underground water reservoirs. In Honduras, we first attempt to treat all of the water that is then discharged back to its natural habitat. The local wastewater regulations also indicate that 80% of the drinking water must be sent to the sanitary sewer network to be handled at the appropriate treatment plant. WASTE AND MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS We actively work to improve our relationship with the natural environment in the process of our business activities and beyond. We work towards responsible waste and material management at all our global facilities and have put in place ambitious programs, based on the results of environmental impact assessments and feedback from stakeholders to better control the impact of our activities on local biodiversity. We strive to continuously improve our environmental performance, focusing on waste management and biodiversity impacts. We actively monitor our facility performance and encourage our employees and other stakeholders to report on any incidents as they occur. In the context of the plan, we aim to take into consideration relevant legal and regulatory requirements governing the topics of waste management and biodiversity, and these standards are continually mapped and monitored at local and international levels. We uphold ISO 14001 at our main manufacturing facility and the standard is used as a guideline for other activities worldwide. In addition, we engage in dialogue with stakeholders, environmental NGOs and local communities to understand their concerns regarding the natural environment and biodiversity surrounding our facilities. We have established grievance mechanisms in most of the communities in our areas of operation, enabling the local population to directly submit any concerns regarding waste management or biodiversity impacts directly to the responsible individuals or to the Company at large. We attempt to address any such relevant concerns in a timely and thorough manner. Waste, Material Management and Recycling We seek to responsibly manage our waste and material streams and to reuse and reclaim materials in order to minimize our impact on the natural environment and ensure the sustainability of our business over time. We seek to constantly improve our waste management efforts, as the topic is managed at a global scale in our Company through the Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety System Policy that outlines our commitments to standards such as ISO 14001 and relevant environmental and health and safety standards for the management of hazardous waste. Our VP of Quality, Health, Environment and Safety oversees corporate-level policies for the management of waste, materials and recycling. At the local level, safe management of waste, including hazardous waste, materials, and recycling efforts are managed on an ongoing basis by the plant managers, who establish the relevant procedures for waste and material management to comply with local regulations. Waste management at our manufacturing facilities and geothermal power plants is managed through our material compliance with ISO 14001 and through the establishment of an Environmental Management System. Every aspect of the waste management process must be planned, implemented, measured, monitored and continuously improved through strategic objectives. This includes properly handling, storing, labelling, transporting, and disposing of waste – mostly hazardous waste products or materials – through our health and safety guidelines and Emergency Action plans, training of our personnel and employees on issues related to waste and the handling of materials, and by keeping records of our waste management efforts. We also expect our subcontractors to abide by principles of sustainable management of waste generated through their activities. These principles are set out in our contractual agreements and are outlined in our list of Environmental Compliance Responsibilities. At our various geothermal power plants, there are relevant local regulations and requirements governing the management, disposal, and storage of waste. Part of our commitment in providing renewable energy solutions is to ensure that material and waste management at our projects adheres to our values, which means having zero tolerance for leakages and other potentially harmful environmental events. To fulfill theseobjectives, weupholdenvironmental action plans at nearly all our power plants, and work to meet stringent local and international standards and regulations – a process that is managed by our plant managers. The following graphs show the various treatment methods of the hazardous and non-hazardous wastes produced at our various operations and facilities. We have three main treatment methods for our waste; incineration, recycling and landfill.HazardousWasteNon-HazardousWaste16.9% The operation of geothermal power plants requires the use of some sensitive and hazardous materials, including flammable materials such as industrial lubricants and organic motive fluids. The lubricantshandled according to regulations governing the storage and disposal of these materials in the relevant country of operation. Motive fluids are used in a closed loop system and are not disposed of but replaced when losses occur. All emissions are tracked and reported as per local operating permit conditions. A by-product of the utilization of geothermal resources is scale, after determining if it is hazardous or non-hazardous, it is disposed per local, state and federal regulations. We actively monitor the level of scale in our systems and if we are not able to prevent the scale build-up, we must remove and dispose of it. This disposal is in alignment with regulatory requirements and our expectations for sound environmental management. BIODIVERSITY Our renewable energy solutions are derived from nature itself, and as a result, we place the utmost significance on assessing the potential impacts on the local biodiversity and the natural and cultural environments surrounding our power plants. Maintaining the natural biodiversity around our plants is important to several of key stakeholder groups, such as local communities, environmental NGOs and financing bodies, among others. Accordingly, we strive todesign our power generation facilities to blend into the surrounding landscape, taking into consideration the actual physical location of each facility, the configuration of units that are used to build it, landscaping, and the surrounding natural habitat, among other elements. Maintaining the Natural Environment in the Construction and Operation of Our Power Plants Before we develop a new geothermal facility, we create a detailed environmental plan designed to minimize impacts on the surrounding natural lands and wildlife ecosystems. Our aim is to control and reduce the level of disruption to the surrounding natural environment in the development of the plant. Our care for the environment around our plants extends to both the operation and maintenance phases of their lifecycle, while keeping in mind our commitment to minimizing operational costs without compromising on meeting the highest safety and environmental standards. Furthermore, we seek to maintain the sustainable characteristics of geothermal resources through the intensive geologic and hydrologic studies that we conduct during the exploration and drilling phases. In some cases, Ormat is required to conduct additional studies regarding potential impacts on the natural environment as part of its land and mineral rights lease agreements. 38 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 During the construction of our geothermal power plants phase, we require the site manager and construction teamtofulfillalistofspecifiedenvironmentalcompliance responsibilities regarding biodiversity preservation at various stages of the construction process. These responsibilities vary from site to site, but in general include: attending pre-construction meetings to review environmental management expectations; preparation of emergency response plans with contingencies for hazardous material spills and disposal; monitoring of dust conditions on site during construction; ensuring the proper storage of waste; recontouring of impacted areas to match the surrounding terrain; revegetation and noxious weed control as part of our monitoring and treating activity in disturbed areas; providing a buffer around eligible and unevaluated cultural sites that are close to project activities; salvaging and stockpiling soils for use later in the construction process; and ensuring that there is no use of construction paint on the natural surface. In addition, we conduct ongoing research into new equipment for use in our operations to help minimize the environmental impacts of the operation of our facilities. For example, several facilities have been reconfigured to accommodate larger pumps thatcan more efficiently extract and process fluids from geothermal reservoirs. This, in turn, may reduce the number of wells that are required to properly exploit a geothermal reservoir, thereby reducing our overall land use while simultaneously enhancing overall facility operational capacity. The installation of more efficient,air-coolingequipmentinangledpositionsisanother improvement that has significantly reducedenergy consumption and the impact on the natural environment surrounding our facilities. 39 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS At each of the sites where Ormat decides to construct a new power plant, we conduct environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) or regular environmental audits of our activities as mandated by relevant and local regulatory requirements. Impacts analyzed in the context of the environmental and social impact assessments are classified asthose related to ecology and nature conservation, landscape and visual impacts, traffic and transport,noise, socio-economic impacts, health, safety and public nuisance, ground, water and air emissions, archaeological and cultural heritage, electric and magnetic fields, and electromagnetic interference.Identified impacts are managed and mitigatedby Ormat in accordance with what we believe to be the best commercial practices. The measures adopted include informing the local population in a timely manner about construction activities and repairing any damage to local access roads, as well as restoring any disturbed lands. Our local site management team is usually tasked with developing and implementing an environmental action or management plan that addresses the actual and potential impacts on an ongoing basis for regulators and/or the local community. We conduct ESIAs for each of the power plants that we construct and own. For those for which we have turn-key contracts, the assessment are typically conducted by the owner, though we are available to provide support. Dixie Meadows project On December 15, 2021, the Center for Biological Diversity and the Fallon Paiute-Shoshone Tribe (the “Plaintiffs”) filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court forthe State of Nevada against the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Land Management (“the BLM”) and Jake Vialpando, in his official capacity as a field manager of the BLM, alleging that the defendants violated the National Environmental Protection Act and other federal laws by approving Ormat’s Dixie Meadows project and the associated environmental assessment andFinding of No Significant Impact(“FONSI”). Plaintiffs additionally alleged that the project threatens the Dixie Valley Toad and infringes on the tribe’s enjoyment of a religious sacred site. On April 4, 2022, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services emergency listed the Dixie Valley Toad under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (the “ESA”).18 Prior to beginning any project Ormat works with the relevant agencies on an environmental review. In the case of Dixie Meadows, the BLM in coordination with the Nevada Department of Wildlife (NDOW), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the US Navy, Naval Air Station Fallon conducted a comprehensive environmental review of the project over a six-year period. This review included concerns raised by the Tribe and the Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) with respect to the cultural and ecological impacts of the project. As a result of this comprehensive review, an Aquatic Resources Monitoring and Mitigation Plan was developed, which provides a clear commitment for no disturbance from project activities within riparian and wetland habitat areas. In addition, and through BLM consultation with the Plaintiffs, Ormat has put in place measures designed to ensure protection of cultural resources in the project area. Ormat has deep roots in the western region, and a strong commitment to clean, renewable economic development in Nevada and California, and takes its environmental commitments seriously. As of the date of publication of the report, Ormat is working cooperatively with the relevant agencies through the consultation process required by the ESA. The legal proceedings are still open and the court has not yet ruled on the matter. 