MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO ISAAC ANGEL “Ormat was founded and has flourished as a company that develops renewable energy in an environmentally responsible manner. Sustainability has been part of our corporate “DNA” from our inception and continues to be the inspiration ” TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS, ABOUT THIS UPDATE Our commitment to you, our customers, employees, community members, shareholders, regulatory and government representatives, and others in the renewable energy sector, is to report openly and continuously on our sustainability progress. Since 2011, we have produced a series of sustainability reports that materially reference the Global Reporting Index’s (GRI) guidelines. Our next full sustainability report will be published in 2019, in closer alignment with the GRI guidelines, as well as the United Nations Development Program’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as we are currently in the process of redefining our long-term sustainability goals. In the interim, this update captures key progress we’ve made since 2015, the date of Ormat’s most recent sustainability report. Ormat was founded and has flourished as a company that develops renewable energy in an environmentally responsible manner. Sustainability has been part of our corporate “DNA” from our inception and continues to be the inspiration for the growing number of renewable energy sectors in which we are participating and the diverse array of products and services we offer. This can be seen in our core values, which we refined through a strategy and rebranding process in 2017. OUR FIVE CORE VALUES • Constant renewal has kept Ormat at the forefront of renewable energy development since our first turbine design back in 1965. It’s a promise that we fulfill by continuing to seek new challenges, advance new technologies, enter new fields and test new business models. • Stability is a core value that has helped build and sustain our company, since our beginning. We’ve always advocated thoughtful, well-planned renewable energy developments supported by a firm financial foundation. In addition, we believe that a stable workforce, technologies, products and operations are the bedrock on which companies flourish. • Full commitment to our stakeholders and a sustainable future is a value central to our brand promise. It means that wherever we operate, we are fully committed to delivering safe, reliable, clean, renewable energy products and services that minimize environmental impacts and promote a clean energy future for generations to come. It also means every Ormat employee is dedicated to delivering exceptional products, services and value to all of our stakeholders. • Courage comes from leveraging our collective knowledge, experience, prudent risk management and unwavering focus to deliver the very best results for our clients. • Finally, creativity is our core value reflecting our understanding and appreciation for the uniqueness of our stakeholders and how vital creativity is to delivering solutions specific to their needs. Together, these five values are what will propel Ormat forward as we seek an even larger platform and position in the renewable energy sector of tomorrow. RECORD REVENUE AND OPERATIONAL GROWTH Ormat has continued to experience strong revenue and operational growth in 2016 and 2017. In 2016, total revenues increased to $662.6 million, an increase of 11.4% over 2015. In 2017, Ormat revenues for the full year were $692.8 million, another 4.6% increase over 2016’s record. These advances are built on our well-established energy assets and the long-term Power Purchase Agreements through which we sell electricity output, primarily to large utility clients. During that same time frame, the electrical generating capacity of facilities under our ownership and operation expanded to approx. 800 MW in owned power plants from approx. 670 MW in YE 2015, representing a growth rate of 19%. Increases in employees from organic growth and acquisitions enlarged our global team of employees to 1,300 people. Our company has also grown in geographic range, and added new power plants in Honduras and Indonesia and acquired a plant in French island of Guadeloupe, in the south Caribbean. All of these initiatives demonstrate Ormat’s commitment to continue enlarging the world’s renewable energy platform, both in high-demand, highly developed countries and geographies where energy development and infrastructure is less advanced. “ For a company developing renewable energy projects and solutions, incorporating innovative  storage strategies is a way to complement and reinforce its long-term strategy ” OPENING NEW VALUE STREAMS Energy storage is one of the most promising horizons in the renewable energy sector and in 2017, Ormat strategically reinforced its position by successfully acquiring Philadelphia-based Viridity Energy Solutions, Inc. (Viridity). Viridity has unparalleled expertise in demand response, energy management and storage, and a suite of proprietary software and solutions that serve a growing number of retail energy providers, utilities and large industrial and commercial clients. ENERGY STORAGE IS TRANSFORMATIVE Advances in energy storage technology are delivering more resiliency and reassurance that energy is always available.  For a company developing renewable energy projects and solutions, incorporating innovative storage strategies is a way to complement and reinforce its long-term strategy. Ormat’s strengthened position in energy storage, is designed to give us a strong advantage as power grids continue to evolve and change. Increasing flexibility, balancing opportunities and greater cost savings potential are a few of the attractive incentives transformative energy storage technologies are delivering. As energy storage becomes more mainstream, the tools, facilities, software and ability to effectively manage grid stability, balance fluctuations between generation and load, and optimize savings will become increasingly vital and valuable. To that end, Ormat has established engineering and project management teams specializing in energy storage and is actively evaluating other markets where the company’s deep engineering expertise can be applied to generating facilities, in front of the meter, for large electricity grids, and behind the retail electricity meters of industrial or commercial facilities. “ We go beyond the basics and aim to ensure that the communities in which we operate are better because of our presence there ” OUR BRAND NEW BRAND Renewing Ormat’s brand is one of the most visible steps forward we’ve taken throughout 2016 and 2017 and is the actual manifestation of our core values. The brand revitalization process was and continues to be of prime importance to our firm, as we embrace a sustainable future as a global renewable energy leader. Our new branding platform and refreshed look and voice tells the Ormat story with a contemporary new look to clearly articulate our core values, defining who we are and where we are headed. COURAGE, CREATIVITY AND COMMUNITY Ormat’s core values are also reflected in our community interactions. Our company has long maintained active community outreach programs. The multiple avenues for information exchange and engagement include regular meetings, open houses, comprehensive stakeholder consultation programs and transparent, and timely sharing of all facility monitoring data. We go beyond the basics and aim to ensure that the communities in which we operate are better because of our presence there. That’s why we also encourage the employment of a local workforce, vendors and contractors. It’s also why we work to address pressing community needs – healthcare, education and social services – as a means to improve opportunities and outcomes for the people. We invite you to read about specific community development and support projects Ormat furthers around the world, later on in this report. In closing, I’d like to thank you for your interest in our company and our record of creating a sustainable future. Our success today and tomorrow is a testament to the hard work, ingenuity and dedication of our people and I’m extremely proud of their contributions and commitment. We’re always interested in hearing what you think about our reporting and outreach and welcome any comments, questions or feedback you may have. Please email us at: info@ormat.com or visit our website at www.ormat.com. We look forward to continuing to chart new pathways as one of the world’s leading innovators in the renewable energy sector. Sincerely, Chief Executive Officer Ormat Technologies, Inc. 