Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy outline our corporate governance practices and the expectations our company has for good governance and business practices. All of our corporate governance policies can be found here www.ormat.com/governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 100% COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE All new Ormat employees and senior officers of the company must sign a compliance certificate stating their intention to uphold these standards, as a condition of employment. Employees periodically confirm their compliance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti Corruption Policy. A FULLY INDEPENDENT NINE.MEMBER BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ormat is a publicly traded company managed by a fully independent Board of Directors made up of nine members. BOARD COMMITTEE MANDATES Audit, Compensation and Nominating, and Corporate Governance are three key Board committees. See our website www.ormat.com/governance for our corporate documents and charters for each committee of the Board. PROFITS ALLOCATED TO DIVIDENDS Ormat has a dividend policy designed to distribute at least 20% of annual profits (available for distribution, if approved by our Board of Directors) by way of quarterly dividends to registered shareholders. ETHICS SUPPORT FOR EMPLOYEES Ormat has a dedicated telephone line and website, where employees may confidentially report concerns about unethical behaviour. In addition, Ormat has an Anti Corruption Committee composed of senior management representatives from various disciplines, who oversee implementation of such principles. Ormat also has a Chief Compliance Officer who reports directly to the Audit committee of the Board of Directors for certain matters. PWC-VERIFIED FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP, a registered global professional services firm, is tasked to independently verify the effectiveness of Ormat’s internal financial control systems. RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES BY ORMAT GEOTHERMAL ENERGY HARNESSING THE EARTH’S HEAT Geothermal energy is heat energy derived from the earth’s molten core and transported to the surface by movements of crustal plates, to intrusion of molten magma and deep circulation of groundwater. Reservoirs of hot water under pressure are the result of these forces – and it is these underground reservoirs that Ormat harnesses, targets and develops. Drilling wells into geothermal reservoirs enables the steam and high-pressure hot water to be captured and directed to drive turbines in power plants, converting earth-bound energy into electrical energy. Geothermal energy offers numerous benefits for a world seeking alternatives to polluting and high emission fossil fuels. Geothermal energy is a naturally occruing and locally available resource. It provides firm, flexible and reliable base-load electricity. Equally vital, geothermal is a low carbon alternative that consumes fewer resources such as land capacity and water and it has a much lower impact on the environment, compared with conventional fossil fuel combustion. ORMAT TECHNOLOGY To date Ormat has developed and manufactured over 2600 MW * of geothermal and recovered energy power plants since our company was established over 50 years ago. All these power plants operate without fossil fuel consumption and create virtually no air emissions. We are proud of the sustainable focus we’ve achieved across our entire suite of renewable energy generation technologies and the advances we have helped pioneer in the geothermal industry. Ormat’s vertically integrated structure enables our company to supply complete renewable energy solutions  from project start to start-up, from the location identification, permitting, exploration, to equipment design, manufacturing, construction, commissioning and operating. The ability to leverage our experience, knowledge and know-how, gained through years of owning and operating our own geothermal and renewable energy power plants heightens the overall rigor and precision of the solutions we offer. * As of August 2018 RECOVERED ENERGY ADDED ENERGY VALUE SOLAR ENERGY HARNESSING THE SUN Ormat has also developed unique expertise in the production of electricity from recovered energy – waste heat sources that result as a by.product of many common industrial processes. Cement manufacturing and gas pipeline compression stations are two examples of processes and equipment that Solar power is a part of Ormat’s renewable energy history. One of Ormat’s first units ever manufactured back in 1966 was entirely solar-powered. In the 1970s, Ormat advanced the development of solar pond technology, in which saltwater pools collect and store solar thermal energy. generate residual heat that has value and can be reused as an energy source. When captured, it can be used to generate electricity without burning additional fuel or generating emissions. ENERGY STORAGE AND DEMAND RESPONSE SERVICES Ormat recognizes the importance of being attuned to the constantly evolving needs of today’s modern power markets and is focused on meeting customer and market needs in innovative ways. Early on, we saw how procurement changes and the impacts of intermittent renewable resources would impact the market. Ormat expanded from marketing our renewable power services to investor-owned utilities (IOUs) to creating portfolio Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) to meet the needs of publicly owned utilities (POUs) as well. In addition, Ormat is developing the next generation of clean energy solutions, including the expansion of our renewables, demand response and energy storage to meet the market needs of consumer choice aggregators. Ormat sees a bright future ahead with the fast-developing energy storage, demand response, energy management and micro grid services for electricity, especially in the well-developed, high-demand regions of the United States. In 2017, Ormat secured a strategic foothold in this sector, with the successful acquisition of Viridity Energy Solutions, Inc. This privately held, Philadelphia-based company has nearly a decade of expertise and leadership in demand response, energy management and storage and an array of proprietary software and solutions for primarily retail energy providers, utilities and large commercial and industrial (C&I) clients. Viridity manages curtailable customer loads under contracts with leading US retail energy providers (in front of the meter) and directly (behind the meter) with large C&I clients. This unique and valuable experience initiating, analyzing, designing and operating energy storage projects, with state-of-the-art grid technologies enable Viridity’s customers to optimize their electricity assets. This contributes to a more stable electricity grid for all users, while providing substantial opportunities for customers to monetize savings from smarter electricity management. 