CHAPTER V. OUR HOLISTIC APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAKING SOUND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A PRIORITY Sound corporate governance is a top priority for Ormat, in light of our nature as a publicly traded and global company with operations and activities across the globe. At Ormat, not only do we believe that transparent corporate governance practices contribute to the financial success of our business, they ensure that our Company remains resilient and strong in the face of challenges, while also creating space for new business opportunities and engagement. Further.more, corporate governance has been identified as one of our key sustainability issues by our stakeholders, and therefore, weremainsteadfastinourcommitment to devoting resources to and improving our governance performance and our level of disclosure on related topics, such as anti-corruption, executive remunera.tion and regulatory compliance. In terms of our corporate values, our corporate governance practice is defined by honesty, openness and fairness, and we expect all our employees, and especially our leaders to exhibit these qualities at all times. By integrating these values and more into our corporate governance practices, we work towards ensuring the stability of our company as well as expressing our full commitment towards transparency, fairness and good business practices with our stakeholders. Furthermore, and as outlined below, we have several corporate governance mechanisms for management and oversight that ensure that these values and our integrity are upheld on an on-going basis. ORMAT’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Ormat’s Board of Directors Ormat is a publicly traded company. The Board of Directors’ main responsibil.ity is to provide direction and oversight. The Board establishes Ormat’s strategic direction and oversees the performance of its business and management of any relevant economic, environmental and social impacts.49 50  The Chairman of the Board of Directors does not hold any additional executive roles in the company. We strive to promote diversity of repre.sentation at all levels of our company. At present, our Board has two Director members who are female, while three Director members are of racially diverse backgrounds. As an American company with significant business operations based in Israel, most of our Board of Directors’ members are of American or Israeli nationality. Additionally, the Board of Directors has members of Japanese and Dutch nationality. Presented below is the list of our Board of Directors’ members, as of the date of this report, and the committees in which they are members: Director member  Position on Ormat's Board of Directors  Committee membership  Nationality  Gender  Date Joined  Isaac Angel  Chairman of the Board of Directors  Israeli  Male  June 2020  Ravit Barniv  Independent Director  Audit, Compensation (Chair), Nominating and Corporate Governance  Israeli  Female  November 2015  Bert Bruggink  Independent Director  Investment  Dutch  Male  June 2020  Dan Falk  Independent Director  Audit (Chair), Compensation  Israeli  Male  November 2004  49  As of our Annual Meeting of Stockholders in June 2020, and at the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors considered and nominated (based on the proxy vote of stockholders) an additional Board of Directors member, resulting in ten Director members in total. The decision to expand the size of the Board of Directors was made subsequent to the Chief Executive Officer Isaac Angel’s announcement in February 2020 that he will be retiring from the company, effective as of July 1, 2020. The Board determined that it is in the best interest of the company to nominate Mr. Angel to be a nominee and to expand the size of the Board of Directors accordingly, if he is elected by the company’s stockholders. 50 On July 26, 2017, ORIX purchased approximately 22% of our shares of common stock outstanding. Pursuant to the Governance Agreement between us and ORIX entered into in connection with this stock purchase transaction, ORIX has the right to designate three directors to our Board for as long as ORIX and its affiliates collectively hold at least 18% of the voting power of all of our outstanding voting securities, the right to representation on certain committees of our Board as well as  preemptive rights pursuant to the Governance Agreement. 54 Director member  Position on Ormat's Board of Directors  Committee membership  Nationality  Gender  Date Joined  David Granot  Independent Director  Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Investment (Chair)  Israeli  Male  May 2012  Stan H. Koyanagi  Independent Director  Compensation  American  Male  July 2017  Dafna Shafrir  Independent Director  Compensation, Investment  Israeli  Female  May 2018  Stanley B. Stern  Independent Director  Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance (Chair)  American  Male  November 2015  Hidatake Takahashi  Independent Director  Nominating and Corporate Governance  Japanese  Male  June 2020  Byron G. Wong  Independent Director  Audit  American  Male  July 2017  Ormat’s Board of Directors’ Committees Our Board of Directors conducts its business and affairs through meetings of the Board and through the four standing committees:  Audit, Compensation, Investment, and Nominating and Corporate Gover.nance. As of the publication of this report, Ormat did not have a desig.nated Corporate Social Responsibility or Sustainability Committee on the Board of Directors. 51 52 The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to: the integrity of Ormat’s financial statements; the effective.ness of internal controls over financial reporting; Ormat’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; the independence and qualifications of Ormat’s independent auditor; and performance of the internal audit functions. Each committee is made up of at least three directors who meet the appropriate independence and experience considerations as outlined by the standards of the NYSE and the SEC.53 The Compensation Committee’s purpose is to be responsible for our overall compensation philosophy and assists the Board of Directors in its oversight responsibilities with respect to the compensation of Ormat’s Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers and directors, including all compensation plans, policies and programs that are subject to Board approval. The Compensation Committee is also responsible for annually reviewing and approving corporate goals and objectives relevant to the CEO and executive officers, for making recommendations to the Board with respect to the adoption, amendment, termination or replacement of incentive-compensation plans, equi.ty-based plans, revenue sharing plans or other relevant plans maintained by the Company, and for overseeing the company’s compliance with SEC rules and regulations regarding share.holder approval of certain executive compensation matters, among other topics. The committee is made up of at least three directors who meet the relevant independence consider.ations, as outlined per the NYSE and SEC regulations mentioned above.54 The purpose of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in identifying qualified individuals to become members of the Board, for selecting or recommending the Board director nominees, developing and recommending to the Board’s corporate governance guidelines and for overseeing the evaluation of the Board and management. The Nominating committee provides the Board with guidance reviewing the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and monitoring compli.51 More information on the committees that make up Ormat’s Board of Directors can be found in our Annual Report at the following link: https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792. PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 52  On May 4, 2017, the Company entered into a governance agreement with ORIX in connection with an agreement between ORIX. More details are provided on the Governance Agreement below. 53  More information on the Audit Committee is available in the Company’s Audit Committee Charter at the following link: https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/ Audit%20Committee%20Charter_February%202020.pdf: 54 More information on the Compensation Committee is available in the Company’s Compensation Committee Charter at the following link: https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/ userUploadFiles/Image/ORA%20--%20Compensation%20Committee%20Charter.pdf ance with the guidelines, among other responsibilities. The committee is made up of at least three directors who meet the relevant indepen.dence considerations, as outlined per the NYSE and SEC regulations detailed above. 55 The Board is responsible for periodi.cally, and at least annually, conducting a self-evaluation. The Board and the Nominating and Corporate Gover.nance Committee are responsible for establishing the evaluation criteria and overseeing the implementation of the process for such evaluation. If needed, actions are periodically taken in response to evaluation of the Board of Director’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. According to the aforementioned Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the NYSE rules, we have estab.lished guidelines for director indepen.dence, according to which the Board of Directors considers all relevant facts and circumstances in making an independence determination regarding a current or future director member. The Board of Directors reviews the independence status of each of the directors annually.56 The Board maintains the flexibility to determine whether the roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO should be combined or separated, based on what it believes is in the best interests of the Company at a given point in time.  The Board believes that this flexibility is in the best interest of the Company and that a one-size-fits.all approach  to  corporate  gover.nance,  with a mandated  indepen.dent Chairman, would  not result in better  governance  or oversight. Currently, the CEO position is separate from the Chairman  of the Board  position. We  believe  that the separation  of the Chairman and CEO positions is appropriate corporate  governance  for  us at  this time. Our Board believes that, at this time, this structure best encourages the  free  and open dialogue of competing  views  and provides  for strong  checks and balances.  Addi.tionally,  the Chairman’s  attention  to Board  and committee matters allows the CEO to focus more specifically on overseeing the Company’s day-to.day operations as well as strategic opportunities and planning.57 Ormat’s Board of Directors members have relevant education and profes.sional experience in the following areas and regarding the following topics: economics, business, banking, construction, infrastructure, renewable energy, telecommuni.cations, international law, regula.tory compliance, and governance matters.58 As Ormat’s delegating authority, the Board of Directors assigns responsi.bilities for economic, environmental and social topics to various senior executives according to the relevance of the topic to the nature of their role. For instance, our Executive Vice President of Business Development is responsible for assessing related risks and opportunities arising from Ormat’s engagement with economic, environmental and social topics while developing projects. In addition, some senior roles are mainly devoted to relevant risk manage.ment issues, such as our Global VP Quality, Health, Environment & Safety, who is responsible for shaping our global health, safety and emergency preparedness processes, and our Sustainability Manager, who reports directly to our General Counsel and Chief Compliance  Officer on issues of environmental, social and gover.nance performance. These senior executives and relevant managers report to the management and/or the Board of Directors and its committees on a periodic basis and as needed, based on their determination on the necessity of such updates regarding economic, environmental or social matters. Furthermore, relevant employees are involved and consulted in strategic thinking on the manage.ment of economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities that we identify as key focus areas. We consult with relevant stakeholders regarding the proper management of key economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities, including: our financial auditors, corporate sustainability consultants, legal advisors, employees and others. Ormat is committed to upholding our Stakeholder Engagement Policy expressing our commitment to main.taining systematic and proactive channels of dialogue in order to take key interests, concerns and needs into account. In 2019, no material actions were taken in response to evaluations of the Board of Director’s performance, nor those pertaining to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. COVID-19 Outbreak While this report covers our activities during 2019, we nevertheless believe it is relevant to address our strategy in coping with the COVID-19 crisis of 2020, a worldwide pandemic of a scope not seen in over a century.  In order to address the business and operational impacts of COVID-19 on the Company, the management worked to maintain and enhance business activity during this global crisis. Our Board of Directors worked to support key management decisions – in areas of supply chain, human capital and financial manage.ment –with the goal of ensuring that, as a company, we emerge from the crisis stronger and more resilient. The Board of Directors transitioned to virtual meetings for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, as well as for the Board of Directors and committee meetings 55 More information on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is available in the Company’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter at the following link: https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/ORA%20--%20Nominating%20and%20Corporate%20Governance%20Committee%20Charter.pdf 56 More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf 57  More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf 56 58 a complete description of director member experience can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf 59  More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf if and to the extent needed.59  The goal of making the Annual Meeting accessi.ble to all stockholders via the Internet is to enable full and equal participation by all stockholders at all locations in the world at little to no cost.60 We worked to enhance stockholder access, partic.ipation and communication through online tools, so that our stockholders did not have to compensate the rights and opportunities afforded to them in in-person meetings. 61 In addition, the Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing strategies and material goals relating to corporate governance, economic, environmental and social issues and for setting the level of expectation from the Company and its employees regarding these issues. Ormat’s Management As of the date of this report, Ormat prides itself on assembling a highly qualified and experienced senior management team of nine members, four of whom joined our team during 2020.  Each position on the manage.ment team is designed to serve a designated function that addresses Ormat’s business needs and the needs of our key stakeholders. The following table shows the members of our current senior management team, as of the writing of this report. Senior Manager  Position  Date Current Assumed Position  Doron Blachar  Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  June 2020  Assi Ginsburg  Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  May 2020  Zvi Krieger  Executive Vice President – Electricity Segment  July 2014  Bob Sullivan  Executive Vice President – Business Development  July 2015  Shlomi Argas  Executive Vice President – Product Segment and Operations  January 2018  Hezi Kattan  General Counsel & Chief Compliance Officer  February 2018  Ofer Ben Yosef  Executive Vice President - Business Development, Sales and Marketing  April 2020  Shimon Hatzir  General Manager of Energy Storage and Solution  October 2018  Liat Inbar Arad  Senior Vice President – Human Resources  July 2020  Ormat’s management team is led by the Chief Executive Officer.  Together with the Board of Directors, the management team is responsible for setting Ormat’s business strategy and direction, for setting the Company’s performance goals and KPIs, and for the general management of the Company’s employees, stakeholder matters and other business affairs. Each member of the management team is screened for the relevant experience and knowledge that is needed to fully perform their role. Similarly, all executive managers undergo performance reviews and are provided with training or access to educational opportunities on topics that are most relevant to their profes.sional role. Ormat is committed to achieving a diverse management team that is representative of our workforce and of the communities that we serve. To that end, we are committed to ensuring that all employees at our worldwide locations  including the senior management of those locations, are hired locally.  Our commitment to diverse hiring and employment practices are discussed in greater detail in Section VI:  Our Impact and Engagement with Our Employees. Ormat’s senior management is responsible, among others, for the development, approval, and updating of Ormat’s purpose, policies, and goals related to economic, envi.ronmental, and social topics. For instance, management is responsible for approving Ormat’s corporate-level policies and periodically reviews environmental and social impact assessments and action plans for our power plants. 59  More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf  60  More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf  61   More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf.  57  Management Transition In February 2020, we announced a transition of its senior management. Mr. Isaac Angel has decided to retire from his position as Chief Executive Officer, effective July 1, 2020, after six years of successful service to the Company, its employees and its share.holders. Mr. Angel became a member of Ormat’s Board of Directors before his retirement as Chief Executive Officer and continues to be employed by the Company through December 31, 2020 in order to assist with the management transition. Ormat’s Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Blachar, the Company’s President and Chief Financial Officer, to succeed Mr. Angel. Mr. Blachar assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer on July 1, 2020 upon Mr. Angel’s retirement from the position. Mr. Blachar was succeeded in his role as Chief Financial Officer by Assaf Ginzburg, effective May 10, 2020. Remuneration Policies he responsibility of reviewing and recommending to the full Board of Directors the form and amounts of compensation and benefits for board of director’s members (which may include equity-based rewards62, retainers, committee chair fees, stock options and similar items), lies with Ormat’s Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee is comprised of at least three directors, each of whom meets the indepen.dence requirements under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. At least two members of the Compensation Committee will also qualify as “non-employee directors” within under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Members of the Compensation Committee, including its Chair, are appointed by the Board based upon the recommendations of the Nomi.nating and Corporate Governance Committee. In making its recommendations, the Compensation Committee seeks to fairly compensate directors at levels that are competitive with other companies in the industries in which Ormat competes and to align directors’ interests with the long-term interests of our stockholders. In its deliberations, the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors consider whether the levels of director compensation could impair independence and critically evaluate any consulting, charitable contri.bution or other potentially indirect compensation arrangements. In addition, the Compensation Committee is responsible for setting corporate goals and objectives relevant to the CEO’s and executive managers’ compensation, including the responsibility of assessing their performance considering the set goals and objectives. In determining their level of compensation, the Compen.sation Committee considers a number of factors such as the Company’s performance and relative shareholder return, the value of similar incentive awards to the CEO and executive officers at comparable companies and the awards bestowed by the Company to the CEO and executive offices in past years. In addition, the Compensation Committee is respon.sible for periodically reviewing and approving aspects of the CEO and executive officers’ compensation based on incentive awards and opportunities, including cash-based and equity-based awards and oppor.tunities, any employment agreements 62 Including pursuant to the Company’s equity-based plans. 63 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 58 and severance agreements, change.in-control agreements, severance protection plans and change-in-con.trol provisions affecting the level of compensation and benefits, and any special supplementary compensa.tion and benefits for the CEO and executive officers. Furthermore, the Compensation Committee reviews and discusses the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) that is included in the Company’s annual proxy statement and 2019 Annual Report at the following link.63 Finally, Ormat strives to provide a competitive compensation and benefits package to all our employees, including our executive managers. Benefits are tailored to the needs of our employees and their families at our global locations and may vary from country to country, but may include: • Health, Dental and Vision Insurance • Retirement • Short-Term and Long-Term Disability • Life Insurance • Wellness programs More information on employee benefits is outlined in the “ Our People: Employment and Skill Development at Ormat” chapter of this report. Stock-based Awards Ormat offers some employees stock-based awards according to its Incentive Compensation Plan. In May 2018, Ormat’s shareholders adopted the 2018 Incentive Plan, which provides for grants of certain kinds of awards including incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock units, performance awards, phantom stock, incentive bonuses and other possible related dividend payments to employees of the Company, directors and inde.pendent contractors. Under the 2018 Incentive Plan, a total of 5,000,000 shares of Ormat’s common stock were authorized and reserved for issuance, all of which could be issued as options or as other forms of awards. Our Corporate Governance Policies and Guidelines Our Corporate Governance Guide.lines, which are publicly available on our website at the following link64, outline the expectations from senior management and the Board of Directors to monitor and measure the effectiveness of policy and deci.sion-making in order to enhance stockholder value for the long-term. The Guidelines are periodically reviewed by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and by the Board of Directors. The Guidelines manage and outline Ormat’s procedures on the following topics: board composition including guidelines for the selection, respon.sibilities and remuneration deter.mination for the board members; guidelines for board meetings; management of committee matters; board responsibilities; and expec.tations from directors. The policy outlines Ormat’s criteria for deter.mining director independence and the Company’s commitment to, at minimum, a majority of independent directors on the Board. The policy describes the responsibilities of the various Board of Directors’ commit.tees: Audit Committees, the Compen.sation Committee and the Nomi.nating and Corporate Governance Committee. Each of these committees has their own separate charter that governs the topics and procedures of each of the committees as well as our Investment Committee, and which are publicly available on the “Gover.nance” page65 of our website. Finally, the policy describes certain respon.sibilities of the Board of Directors, which include: evaluation of the CEO, succession planning, reviewing and approving significant transactions and analysis of shareholder proposals, among other responsibilities. In addition, Ormat’s Board of Directors adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to Senior Executives, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and out of the belief that proper, honest and ethical employee conduct is essential to the success of our Company. The Code can be accessed on our website at the following link.66 The Code applies to all of Ormat’s senior executives including the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Controller, the Company’s Secretary and the Chief Operating Officer. The Code outlines our expectations of senior executives including a commit.ment to honest and ethical conduct and handling of affairs, to advance the Company’s business by legitimate means, to refrain from fraudulent or corrupt activities and to provide full disclosure regarding any of the Company’s reports or documents. Senior executives are requested to report any violations of the Code to the Secretary, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors, and violations of the Code are subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of service. Any revisions, changes or waivers to the Code must be approved by the Board of Directors or the Nominating Corporate Governance Committee. Senior executives are required to sign and formally acknowledge the Code as part of their employment contract. Senior executives are also expected to follow Ormat’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applica.ble to all employees. ENSURING A CORRUPTION.FREE WORK ENVIRONMENT As part of Ormat’s commitments to sound corporate governance and its values of Stability and Full Commit.ment, which are a central part of our mission, we work to ensure that all of our activities are free from corrupt practices and that our employees are well-informed of our expectations regarding ethical behavior. Ormat’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Executives, and Anti-Corrup.tion and Anti-Bribery Policy outline our relevant corporate governance practices regarding anti-corruption and the expectations our Company has for good governance and business practices. All of Ormat’s corporate governance policy documents can be found on our website on the “Governance” page.67 Relevant new Ormat employees and officers must sign a compliance certificate stating their intention to uphold these standards. Ormat conducts business around the world.  To that end, Ormat is obligated to comply with all applicable anti-cor.ruption and anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Beyond this, we have instituted a corporate Anti-Corruption and Anti Bribery Policy68 which seeks to ensure that our Company will uphold not only the letter, but also the spirit, of all relevant legal and ethical standards in place for the conduct of transnational business activities. The standard that we set is clear: Ormat persons (and associated third-par.ties conducting business on Ormat’s behalf) are forbidden to promise, provide, or authorize provision of anything of value to anyone at any time for the purpose of retaining business, obtaining business, or gaining business advantage.  The supposed cultural prevalence of such corrupt practices in a location is never a valid excuse or defense.  Our policy clearly defines key terms so that they are easily under.standable to employees, `and provides guidelines for the reporting of relevant concerns and for coping with potential hazards. 64  https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines.pdf  65   https://www.ormat.com/en/company/welcome/governance/  66  www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/CODE%20OF%20ETHICS%20APPLICABLE%20TO%20SENIOR%20EXECUTIVES.pdf  59  67  https://www.ormat.com/en/company/welcome/governance/  68  https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/ABAC%20Revised%20Policy%20-%20final%20July%2021%202020%20-%20English.pdf  The policy also describes Ormat’s procedures for providing training to employees on topics of anti-corruption, the ways that Ormat employees and leaders can be certified for anti-cor.ruption compliance, and relevant methods for conducting due diligence on anti-corruption measures with third parties. Ormat has an Anti-Corruption Committee composed of senior management representatives from various disciplines who oversee imple.mentation of the Anti-Corruption Policy including the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Executive Vice President of Business Development and Sales and other members that are designated by Company manage.ment from time to time. Ormat’s Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the CEO and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for certain matters, including those that pertain to anti-cor.ruption. Ormat’s Anti-Corruption Policy was initially adopted by the Board of Directors in 2016 and was last updated in 2020 and executive officers hold responsibility for daily implementation of the policy. Directors, executive managers, employees, contractors or other stake.holders are requested to report any suspected violations of the Anti-Cor.ruption Policy and failure to do so could result in termination of employment or of other contractual relationships. Retaliation is not taken against any actor who, in good faith, reports suspected policy violations. Ormat is committed to investigating and reporting all concerns according to the outlined grievance management mechanism. In addition, we offer a range of reporting tools for employees including escalating issues through management, whistleblowing mechanisms, and a dedicated telephone line and website for confidential reporting of concerns about unethical behavior (see below). COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMITMENTS Ormat communicates its Anti-Corrup.tion Policy clearly to its employees as part of their employment contract and in dealings with the organization, and the policy is publicly communicated on Ormat’s website at the following link.69 Ormat’s relevant employees are required to undergo periodic ethics and corporate governance training sessions that are targeted at iden.tifying and dealing with potential bribery. The goal is to ensure that all Ormat’s employees fully understand what constitutes a corrupt practice or a bribe and to become aware of how they are expected to behave or handle ethical dilemmas according to the Company’s guidelines and policies. INSIDER TRADING POLICY Ormat’s Insider Trading Policy, publicly available on our website,70 was estab.lished in order to promote compliance with laws that prohibit a company’s securities from being traded on the basis of material, non-public information. Our Policy is applicable to all Ormat employees, officers, directors, family members and their controlled entities, as well as consultants, advisors, agents, contractors, temporary, loaned, contracted or seconded employees or other persons who enter into a contractual agreement with Ormat.  It clearly defines what kinds of informa.tion can be considered material and non-public, as well as the activities that are prohibited to those that have been potentially exposed to such information. Employees, directors and officers are required to sign and acknowledge the policy as a condition of their employ.ment with Ormat, alongside other types of confidentiality agreements in use by the Company. Nearly all of our employees and managers, and all of our new hires, have received focused training on relevant corporate governance practices, such as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,71 Anti-bribery and Anti-corrup.tion Policy72 and more. Ormat intends for 100% of our employees to receive training on relevant corporate gover.nance practices. MAJOR ONGOING LITIGATION The Company is involved in several ongoing legal proceedings both in and out of court, which relate to corporate governance matters.  The material legal proceedings are described in our 2019 Annual Report and other reports. ETHICAL CONDUCT AT ORMAT Ormat upholds a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that was last amended in January 2013.73  The purpose of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is to promote and encourage honest and ethical conduct, to promote the protection and proper use of Ormat’s assets, to maintain the confidentiality of information that is acquired in the course of business, to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to encourage timely reporting of any illegal or ethical behavior. All Ormat employees, directors and officers are subject to the Code, and are expected to adhere and comply with the Code and are required to sign a compliance certifi.cate confirming they have understood all of Ormat’s expectations. 69 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Anti-Corruption%20Policy.pdf 70 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Insider%20Trading%20Policy.pdf 71     https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/CODE%20OF%20BUSINESS%20CONDUCT%20AND%20ETHICS.pdf 72 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Anti-Bribery%20and%20Anti-Corruption%20Policy.pdf 73 The guidelines for ethical conduct were originally set when Ormat was established in 1965 as Ormat Turbines Ltd. (later renamed Ormat Industries). They were formalized in 2004 when Ormat was officially listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 60 In the Code, Ormat outlines its expec- WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY  serious disciplinary action or sanctions.  tations regarding honest and candid  However, Ormat does seek to ensure  conduct, which are cornerstones of the  The contact person for ethical  that all reports are made in good faith.  way that Ormat conducts its business  concerns varies for different employees  We also maintain an anonymous whis. around the world. The Code outlines  according to their position within the  tleblower ethics hotline for reporting  guidelines for handling of conflicts  Company. The contact person for  concerns or real breaches of the Code  of interest in the context of loans or  directors and senior executives is the  at a toll-free number (in the U.S.):  corporate opportunities, compliance  Chairman of the Audit Committee of the  1-866-294-5535 and at the Company’s  with the law, as well as regulations  Board of Directors. For all other officers  third-party whistleblower website at  and laws that govern Ormat’s internal  and employees, the Code of Ethics  www.ethicspoint.com.  business practices, such as details on  Contact person is Ormat’s Secretary,  the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The  except in cases when it is deemed  Based on the information collected  Code also outlines how Ormat expects  inappropriate to involve the Secretary,  through these communications  its employees, directors and officers  at which time employees may file their  channels, we received only a few griev. to handle the disclosure of sensitive  requests with the Chairman of the Audit  ances during 2019. However, following  Company information, engage in  Committee. Employees and officers are  internal investigation into the nature  record-keeping and maintain an internal  encouraged to consult with their direct  of these grievances, it was deter- control structure, uphold restrictions on  manager regarding the appropriate  mined that they were nonmaterial and  the receipt of gifts, gratuities and enter- course of action to address an ethical  required no further action.  tainment, as well as relevant aspects  dilemma or in addressing an instance  relating to ethical conduct that are  of potential misconduct. Employees,  considered during the employment and  directors and officers who fail to report  hiring processes.  unethical conduct are in violation of the  Code and consequences may be taken  Ormat’s full Code of Business Conduct  by Ormat as a result, depending on the  and Ethics and the requirements and  severity of the incident.  expectations of employees and senior  management outlined therein can be  Ormat upholds a policy of no retaliation  found at the following link.74  on any director, officer, or employee  by any other actor at the Company  for reporting existing or potential  violations of the Code. Any director,  officer or employee who is involved  in retaliation or who makes deliberately false reports may be subject to  