CHAPTER IV. GENERATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE AND MEASURING OUR IMPACTS MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS WHILE ENCOURAGING RENEWABLE ENERGY SOLUTIONS Ormat is a global leader in renewable energy solutions: geothermal energy, recovered energy and energy storage and management. We have developed and manufactured over 2900 MW16 of geothermal and recovered energy power plants since our Company was established over 50 years ago. All of these power plants operate without fossil fuel consumption. At Ormat, our motivation to mitigate climate change, reduce GHG emissions, advance energy efficiency and promote the use of renewable energy sources. These aims lie at the heart of our business and represent our key value proposition for our customers. They also have been identified as highest priority by the stakeholders who participated in our materiality assessment. The following chapter provides an overview of our renewable energy solutions and their key environmental benefits, mainly their significantly low GHG emission  and energy  impacts  for  both  our  Company  and  our  stakeholders.  We  do  this  by  providing details of the emissions and energy used in our drilling and manufacturing operations, offices and owned and operated power plants. In addition, the chapter details how we work to manage both the geothermal resources, waste and water resources associated with our operations, as well as relevant biodiversity impacts that are measured and assessed through environmental impact assessments. ABOUT OUR GEOTHERMAL SOLUTIONS Geothermal energy is produced by heat energy derived from the earth’s molten core and transported to the surface by movements of crustal plates, intrusion of molten magma and deep circulation of groundwater. Reservoirs of hot water under pressure result from these forces, and it is these underground reservoirs that Ormat identifies, develops and harnesses energy from. Drilling wells into geothermal reservoirs enables the steam and high-pressure hot water to be captured and directed to drive turbines in power plants. This converts earth-bound energy into electrical energy. (figure a) Geothermal energy offers numerous benefits for a world seeking alternatives to polluting and emissions-ridden fossil fuels. Geothermal energy is a naturally occurring and locally available resource in a number of locations worldwide. It provides firm, flexible and reliable base-load electricity. Equally vital, geothermal is a low carbon alternative that consumes fewer resources such as land and water and has a much lower impact on the environment compared with conventional fossil fuel combustion. There are two main types of geothermal power plants – binary and flash systems: Binary systems -Geothermal fluid is extracted from the underground reservoir and flows from the wellhead through a gathering system to a vaporizer that heats a secondary working fluid (typically an organic fluid, such as pentane or butane) that is vaporized and is used to power the turbine. The organic fluid is then condensed in a condenser, which may be cooled directly by air or by water from a cooling tower, and sent back to the vaporizer through a pump. The cooled geothermal fluid is then reinjected back into the reservoir. Binary technology can be utilized on a wide range of resources from low enthalpy to high. Multiple high enthalpy binary facilities are in service around the world. (figure b) Flash systems – Geothermal fluid is extracted from the underground reservoir and flows from the wellhead through a gathering system to flash tanks and/or separators. There, the steam is separated from the brine and sent to a demister, where any remaining water droplets are removed. This produces a stream of dry saturated steam, which powers a steam turbine coupled to a generator to produce electricity. In some cases, the brine at the outlet of the separator is flashed a second time (dual flash), providing additional steam at lower pressure used in the low-pressure section of the steam turbine to produce additional power. Steam exhausted from the steam turbine is condensed in a surface or direct contact condenser cooled by cold water from a cooling tower. The non-condensable gases (such as carbon dioxide) are removed by means of a vacuum system in order to maintain the performance of the steam condenser. The resulting condensate is used to provide make-up water for the cooling tower. The hot brine remaining after separation of steam is injected (either directly or after passing through a binary plant to produce additional power from the residual heat remaining in the brine) back into the geothermal resource through a series of injection wells. (figure c) There are a number of environmental advantages to binary geothermal power plants as compared to flash geothermal steam turbine plants: Firstly, reinjection of all of the geothermal resources exploited-promotes superior efficiency. By continuously recharging geothermal systems and reducing production-related pressure drawdowns, binary geothermal power plants help maintain the overall geothermal reservoir pressure. In addition, air-cooled binary plants do not consume water for cooling (for additional details on amount of water used in different geothermal plants see the water use table presented below). Finally, air-cooled binary power plants have a low profile with minimal visual impact, as they do not emit a plume. Geothermal Power (figure a) Binary Systems (figure b) Steam Systems (figure c) 16 As of December 2018. Exploration and Evaluation of Geothermal Resources Ormat’s structure as a vertically-integrated Company enables us to engage in every element of the geothermal energy process, from start to finish. As such, and before we are able to engage in a geothermal power project, we carry out exploratory and evaluation activities to ensure that the geothermal resource is significant and sustainable for the generation of renewable power over time. Starting from the initial evaluation phase in the exploration of geothermal resources, we map the natural features of the potential geothermal site, such as springs or lakes in close proximity, as well as other relevant elements of the natural habitat. We also conduct surveys of the surrounding area including geological, geochemical and geophysical surveys, surface water analyses, soil surveys and geologic mapping. We begin design and construction of the plant once the exploration and drilling phases are completed, and it is determined that the geothermal resource is worth pursuing in terms of resource accessibility and cost. ABOUT OUR RECOVERED ENERGY SOLUTIONS Recovered energy is a green energy solution whereby electricity is generated from recovered energy or “waste heat”. Recovered energy comes from residual heat generated as a by-product of many heat- producing processes. These include gas turbine-driven compressor stations and a variety of industrial processes, such as cement manufacturing. Residual Ormat’s Geothermal and Recovered Energy Power Plants in Operation as of 201817 The table below summarizes the portfolio of power plants and complexes that Ormat owns and operates, whether developed by Ormat or acquired: heat may be captured in the recovery process using a similar power plant to Ormat’s OEC geothermal power plant, which is used by recovered energy power plants to generate electricity without burning additional fuel. As such, recovered energy power plants present high-functioning solutions in the context of circular economy and circularity, or economic systems aimed at minimizing waste generation and making the most of existing resources. Recovered energy generation is therefore another critical part of our sustainable energy portfolio, generating electricity with practically no emissions. The market for the recovery of waste heat is present in locations where available electricity resources are expensive or where the regulatory environment facilitates construction and marketing of power generated from these sources. However, typical recovered energy projects tend to be smaller than 9 MW. Olkaria III Complex  Kenya  Geothermal  2000, 2009, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2018  150  OREG I – CS7, CS9, CS10, CS1123  North Dakota and South Dakota, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbine  2006  22  OREG II – CS3, CS5, CS8, CS1224  North Dakota, Minnesota and Montana, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbine  2009  22  OREG III – GRE - CS1325  Minnesota, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbine  2010  5.5  OREG IV – Peetz  Colorado, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbines  2009  3.5  Ormesa Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  1987-1989, 2005-2007  39  Platanares26  Honduras  Geothermal  2017  38  Puna Complex27  Hawaii, U.S.  Geothermal  1993, 2011, 2012  38  Raft River  Idaho, U.S.  Geothermal  200828  11  San Emidio  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  201229  11  Sarulla  Indonesia  Geothermal  2017, 2018  330 (Ormat’s share represents 42 MW)  Steamboat Complex  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  1992, 2005, 2007-2008  65  Tungsten Mountain  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2017  27  Tuscarora  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2012  18  Zunil  Guatemala  Geothermal  1999  23  TOTAL  910  Project  Location  Application  Operational Since18  Capacity (MW)19  Amatitlan  Guatemala  Geothermal  2007  20  Bouillante  Guadeloupe Island  Geothermal  1995, 200420  15  Brady  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  1992, 2004, 2007  26  Brawley Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  2011  13  Don A. Campbell Complex21  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2014, 2015  39  Heber Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  1985, 1993, 2005, 2006, 2008  81  Jersey Valley  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2011  10  Mammoth Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  1984, 1990  29  McGinness Hills Complex  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2012, 2015, 2018  140  Neal Hot Springs  Oregon, U.S.  Geothermal  201222  22  17 We indirectly own and operate all of our power plants, although financial institutions hold equity interests in one of our Opal Geo subsidiaries, which owns the McGinness Hills Phases 1 and 2 geothermal power plants, the Tuscarora and Jersey Valley power plants and the second phase of the Don A. Campbell power plant, all located in Nevada. In the table above, we list these power plants as being 100 percent owned because all of the generating capacity is owned by Opal and we control the operation of the power plants. 18 In power plants that were built in phases, the year of each new phase is indicated. 19 In power plant owned by Ormat the capacity figure given is the net to the grid generating capacity, which is defined in Ormat’s 10K reports. In solar power plants the MWdc is indicated. 20 Acquired by Ormat in July 2016. Ormat owns a 60 percent stake in the project company Geothermie Bouillante SA. 21 Ormat owns a 63.3 percent stake in Don A. Campbell complex. 22 The Neal Hot Springs power plant was acquired by Ormat in April 24, 2018 and 40 percent interest is held by Enbridge. 23 Ormat owns a 63.3 percent stake in the OREG I facilities. 24 Ormat owns a 63.3 percent stake in the OREG II facilities. 25 Ormat owns a 63.3 percent stake the OREG III facilities. 26 Ormat holds the assets under a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) structure for approximately 15 years. 27 Ormat owns a 63.3 percent stake in the Puna Complex. 28 The Raft River power plant was acquired by Ormat in April 24, 2018. Ormat provided EPC services and installed its proprietary technology in Raft River to its former owner U.S. Geothermal in 2007. 29 The San Emidio power plant was acquired by Ormat in April 24, 2018. ABOUT OUR ENERGY STORAGE AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS We continually look for ways to advance and stay at the forefront of new thinking and approaches in the renewable energy market. Energy storage is one such sector. Energy battery storage systems utilize surplus, or available electricity, that enables utilities to optimize the operation of the grid, run generators closer to full capacity for longer periods, and to operate the grid more efficiently and effectively. Many renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar are characterized by fluctuation in the production of power. As the penetration of renewable energy generation increases, so too does the need for services, such energy storage systems, that can “balance the grid”. Common applications for energy storage systems include ancillary services, wind/solar smoothing, Peaker replacement, and transmission and distribution deferral. More information on the aspects and benefits of energy storage solutions can be found on the Storage & Energy Management section of our website at the following link.30 In March 2017, we entered the energy storage, demand response and energy management markets following the acquisition of substantially all of the business and assets of Viridity Energy, Inc., a Philadelphia-based Company. The acquired business and assets comprise our Other segment. We are using our Viridity business to accelerate long-term growth, expand our market presence in a growing market and further develop our energy storage, demand response and energy management services, including the VPower™ software platform. We plan to continue providing services and products to existing Viridity customers, while expanding our service offerings to include development and EPC into new regions and targeting a broader potential customer base. Ormat believes energy storage and advanced energy management solutions will play an increasingly important role in the renewable energy sector in the coming decade and our Company plans to accelerate further growth in this area. 30 https://www.ormat.com/en/renewables/storage/main/ 31 “Greenhouse gases” are defined by the U.S. EPA as “gases that trap heat in the atmosphere.” These gases include: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and fluorinated gases, or high global warming potential gases. EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS Our  geothermal  and  recovered  energy  power  plants  have  negligible  levels  of  emissions.  That  said,  we  actively  work  towards the reduction of the GHG emissions31 generated through our operations and business practices, which includes commitments to reducing any subsequent climate change effects. The consolidation approach for the calculation of our carbon footprint is operational control. In order to improve the internal measurement of our GHG emissions, we have expanded our methods for data collection from our relevant operational sites with the goal of estimating our level of impact and generated emissions. and have set 2018 is the base year for our calculations. We make concerted efforts to both track and minimize our direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from our power plants and operations and to regularly report on our progress to the CDP and the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection.32 Scope 2 8,317 39% The GHG reduction target we set in 2018 is for the total avoidance of carbon dioxide emissions achieved through our power plants and our activities: total production of renewable energy (GWh) in addition to the total carbon dioxide emissions avoided (tons CO2 equivalents) arising from Ormat s activities and subsequent renewable energy generation. Ormat consistently considers GHG KPIs as part of our general efforts to improve our business practices and will consider setting additional GHG KPIs moving forward. Our renewable energy power plants emit practically no GHG emissions and thus we enable our customers to control their own levels of emissions and the resulting climate change effects. As such, these issues were identified as material by our key Scope 1+2 groups of internal and external stakeholders. OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT AND GHG EMISSIONS AVOIDED Ormat’s operating activities from owned facilities and purchased electricity (Scope and 2)33 emissions, which include manufacturing facilities and machinery, offices, power plants, corporate automobile fleet, drilling rigs and electricity consumption at our facilities, among other sources, generated 21,104 tons CO2 equivalents in 2018.34 More information on the breakdown of our carbon footprint calculations for 2018 is provided in the graphs and charts below. The majority of our direct Scope 1 emissions arise from use of vehicles at our various facilities, which are used for travel and maintenance at our sites, including at our power plants and drilling locations and to transport materials and parts at our factories and workshops. Following the emissions from vehicles, the second most significant source of direct emissions is from the drilling rigs used in the geothermal exploration and power Scope 1 12,787 61% 32 Through the voluntary GHG reporting framework. 33 Scope 1 GHG emissions are direct emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Company. Scope 2 emissions are indirect and Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. 34 The source of the emission factors and global warming potential is the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA). As such, the gases included in our carbon footprint calculation are CO2, CH4, and NH4. Scope 1 by Country Guadeloupe Turkey (France) ~0.1% 1% Kenya Guatemala 1% 6% Israel 2% Honduras 1% USA 89% Scope 2 by Country GuadeloupeTurkey (France)3% ~0.1%Kenya ~0.1% ~0.1% Guatemala Israel 23% USA 74% Honduras 0% plant construction phases. Other less significant sources of direct emissions include diesel generators, which are used for emergencies or, at some of our power plants, in the event of outages or maintenance shut downs (planned or unplanned), to power on-going operations at our on-site offices, as well as from air conditioning units used in our factories at our offices,35 heavy-duty trucks used to transport materials and machinery and from machinery that is owned by the Company and used in our factories and workshops (such as forklifts, cranes and welding machines, among others). The majority of our binary geothermal power plants with 100 percent geothermal fluid reinjection and all of our recovered energy power plants do not generate emissions and therefore were not included our Scope 1 emissions calculations. However, some of our steam and binary plants that are unable to engage in 100 percent geothermal fluid reinjection due to constraints tied to the nature of the local geothermal resource do generate GHG emissions to a certain extent.36 As such, another source of direct emissions that was included in our calculations is derived from the auxiliary power consumed by those geothermal power plants, which was calculated according to the relevant emission factors for steam plants. The Scope 1 emissions for 2018 from the above-mentioned sources totaled 12,787 tons CO2 equivalents. We also measure the emissions from electrical energy consumption from the grid – i.e. Scope 2 or indirect emissions -at our offices, manufacturing facilities and power plants. At our manufacturing facility in Yavne, Israel, we generate solar electricity through the use of rooftop Photovoltaic (PV) panels. The relevant emissions are calculated according to an emissions factor of zero. The electricity that we generate through the solar panels in used for self-consumption and is sold back to the local electrical utility. In 2018, self-consumption of solar energy at our manufacturing facility totaled 1,603,480 kWh. The energy generated sold to the local electrical utility was 457,960 kWh and resulted in the avoidance of emissions totaling 260 tons CO2 equivalents in 2018.37 We continue to make efforts to improve the energy efficiency of our facilities and to encourage a transition to renewable energy sources in our manufacturing facilities, in line with our overarching mission and commitment to renewable energy. The total Scope 2 emissions for 2018 from electricity consumption at our operational sites was 8,317 tons CO2 equivalents. Our GHG emissions intensity calculation, i.e. the relative intensity of our emissions compared to revenues in FY201838 was 0.0000294 CO2 equivalents/FY2018 revenues. This calculation, which marks 2018 as the base year for comparison in future calculations, acts as a point of comparison for us to track the intensity of our emissions over time, assisting us in accurately accounting for the extent of our environmental impacts. Scope 1+2 by Source 1% 2% ~0.1% Generators Gas Used in Company Kitchen (LPG) Residencial and Comercial Air Conditioning (AC) Drilling Rigs 40% Machinery owned & Leased by the Company Vehicles Owned & Leased by Company - Heavy Duty Trucks Vehicles Owned & Leased by Company - Cars Geothermal energy consumption at plant site (auxiliary) Solar Energy Comsuption 36% 1% Electrical Energy Consumption ~0.1% 13% ~0.1% 7% 35 The air conditioning unit data that was included in the calculations included data for the majority of Ormat's relevant sites, but the main source of emissions from A/C units arises from our manufacturing facilities in Yavne, Israel. 36 These geothermal power plants include: Ormesa, Herber 1, Brawley Complex, Amatitlan, Zunil, Olkaria III, Steamboat Hills and Desert Peak. 37The presented data was not taken into account in the calculations of Ormat’s total Scope 2 CO2 emissions, i.e. deduction of the solar offset of 260 tons CO2 equivalents. 38 Ormat’s revenues in RY2018 total approximately US$719,000,000, which was used as the basis for the energy intensity calculation. EMISSIONS FROM The chart shows the renewable power producers and utilities over the ENERGY USE, The table below reflects our internal energy consumption 2018, which includes electricity offset recorded by Ormat years, which have an installed base of the energy resources used in our global operations:OPERATIONS EFFICIENCY ANDin 2018 compared with other base more than 1,700 MW. load electricity generation methods, FUEL RESOURCE such as conventional fossil fuel-based In 2018, Ormat-owned power plant methods.39 These figures present MANAGEMENT AT facilities generated 5,857,963 MWh only the emissions that were avoided Fuel Consumption in the Organization40ORMAT of electricity. Note that the reported through the generation of renewable MWh is not counted as part of our power at Ormat s owned power plants calculation of direct (Scope 1) and in 2018. Ormat s contribution to global Ormat strives to ensure optimization indirect (Scope 2) emissions as GHG mitigation is strengthened and ultimate efficiency in its use the electricity generated is sold to through the avoidance of emissions in of energy resources throughout utilities and is counted as part of the geothermal and recovered energy our value chain and in our internal their own emissions reporting. power plants that Ormat has sold to operations. As an energy generator, we seek to improve our efficiency by using advanced technologies and equipment in order to optimize the energy generated by our power Gasoline  119,784  Diesel  29,333  Red Diesel  35,419  Kerosene  477  FOD  484  LPG  461  Electricity Consumption in the Organization41 plants. As an energy consumer, we5.53 million work to improve our performance through designated action planstons of CO2 and by raising employee awareness Total Energy Consumption in the Organization (GJ) 274,793 regarding the use of energy in our operations, offices, buildings, facilities and transportation. The table below reflects the electricity generated and sold by the organization:3.96 million ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE tons of CO2 ORGANIZATION The fuel consumption figure in terms Electricity Sold by the Organization 21,090,315of energy (GJ) is obtained from direct measurement of the fuel used at each facility based on its calorific value (NCV), and applying the accepted2.35 million units of fuel conversion from the “UK tons of CO2 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting”. The internal electricity consumption within the organization and the total amount of electricity generated and sold by the organization was calculated using inputs on energy purchased or generated, and using the following formula: electricity (GJ) = electricity (MWh) x 3.6 GJ/MWh 0.06 million tons of CO2 ORMAT PLANTS NATURAL GAS PLANTS OIL PLANTS COAL PLANTS 39 The emissions from Ormat’s power plants and the relevant calculation are explained above. The other electricity sources are from “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2018” International Energy Agency (IEA), 2018. 40 As of 2018, Ormat did not consume any renewable fuel, and therefore this metric is not reported. 41 As of 2018, we did not separately measure our heating, cooling and steam consumption as these are not material energy uses and of our heating, cooling and steam energy needs are generated through electrical energy. 42 Ormat does not sell heating, cooling or steam energy resources, and therefore only date on the electricity sold by the organization through generation in our power plants is reported. ENERGY INTENSITY We calculated the energy intensity for our organization, or the measure of the efficiency or inefficiency in the use of energy resources in the organization, by dividing the absolute energy consumption by our organization as presented above -274,793 GJ by our revenues for 2018, i.e. US$719,000,000, to reach an energy intensity ratio of 0.000382 GJ/US$. This is our organization-specific metric that we plan to report on in a comparative fashion in forthcoming reports. EFFORTS TO IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY We make concerted efforts to monitor and reduce our energy consumption. Most of these efforts are implemented at our manufacturing facilities through measures such as switching outdated equipment and machinery for newer models with better energy efficiency and fuel consumption, among other initiatives. Each factory or workshop manager is responsible for assessing and mapping potential areas for energy efficiency improvements and then implementing the identified projects at their operational location. This is added to our Company-wide commitment to encouraging the responsible use of energy resources at all levels of the Company. Some of the Company-wide initiatives we have implemented in recent years include refurbishing our manufacturing facilities with LED lighting, installing more efficient air conditioning and cooling units and setting goals for improving the energy efficiency of our manufacturing facilities. At our manufacturing facility in Israel, we have initiated a system for measuring energy consumption in different parts of the factory. Findings are analyzed to identify opportunities for increasing energy efficiency. This analysis led to an initiative to reorganize working shifts so that the daylight hours are maximized, resulting in reduced electricity consumption during the evening surge hours. Our largest vehicle fleet is in the United States, where most of our power plants are located. Our operational locations there are taking strides to reduce the carbon footprint from vehicle use, while also decreasing our fleet expenses. To achieve this goal, Ormat has partnered with a third party fleet management Company to not only manage the purchase and sale of vehicles, but to manage vehicle maintenance and fuel expenses by creating a system of “Green Scores” that rate the drivers in each group according to their average mileage per gallon and the number of “unfavorable” events on the road such as hard braking, hard acceleration, or speeding. In addition, Ormat’s drilling department works to improve optimization and increase energy efficiency by replacing aging semi-trucks with more efficient and safer vehicles. MANAGEMENT OF GEOTHERMAL BY.PRODUCTS AND WATER RESOURCES The management of the geothermal resources required for geothermal energy generation and non-geothermal water resources are of key importance to Ormat and our stakeholders. We work to manage our impacts on the local hydrology and natural environment both through our commitments to various regulatory requirements and in our environmental action plans. Geothermal by-products and water impacts are managed by the power plant managers at our operational sites, while the nature of their activities and initiatives is inspired by our commitment to minimizing environmental and health-related impacts as detailed in our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy. MANAGEMENT OF THE GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE AND ITS BY-PRODUCTS A key sustainability driver for geothermal power generation is the conservation and recycling of the geothermal resources -steam and brine – which are composed of water, salts and other minerals that carry the heat from deep underground to the geothermal power plant on the earth’s surface. We develop geothermal power plants that involve reinjection and recirculation of the geothermal resource in what are known as “closed loop” systems. This method continuously recharges geothermal systems by maintaining consistent geothermal fluid flow and pressures. Reinjection of brine and condensate help reduce production-related pressure drawdown and promote enhanced thermal energy extraction from the heated rocks within the reservoir. Importantly, reinjection also avoids by-products from emitted geothermal steam and the need for disposal of wastewater as well as visual impacts in the form of an emitted plumes from the cooling process (as discussed above). MANAGEMENT OF WATER RESOURCES IN OUR OPERATIONS We engage with water resources from diverse sources to operate our power plants, manufacturing facilities and offices. We use water resources for various purposes, such as: • Operation of our power plants: In our air-cooled plants, water resources are used only for maintenance activities and for administrative and domestic purposes (gardening, toilets, etc.). In our plants that are located in areas of water scarcity, such as Nevada and Kenya this provides a significant advantage. In our water cooled plants water is used for cooling, mostly due to local weather and atmospheric conditions. • Manufacturing facility: Water resources are used for various applications by the factory staff and to facilitate the manufacturing process. The main use for water in our manufacturing facility is for testing the viability of our plants in the factory setting, wherein we use recycled water. • Exploration and drilling: Water is used in drilling activities to generate the mud that is necessary for drilling a geothermal well, for environmental dust control and to maintain fluid for well control. The source of water used for drilling is different at each location and tanks are usually brought onto the drilling site. The water used meets relevant regulatory and environmental requirements that are enforced as conditions of our drilling permits. As of 2018, we did not discover any negative impacts on the local hydrology in the vicinity of our power plants and manufacturing facilities as a direct result from our operations. The following table details the volume of water consumption according to its role in various aspects of our operations. Use of Water Resource  Total Volume (m3) in 2018  Operation of power plant  Air cooled power plant  2,397,553  Water cooled power plant  12,234,145  Manufacturing facilities  17,379  Drilling activities  43,527  Total water consumed  14,692,604  The following details the sources for various water resources used at our power plants and at our manufacturing sites in 2018. Impacts of Our Operations on the Local Hydrology and Aquifers We conduct the necessary studies -including environmental impact assessments -to uncover and mitigate any potentially negative impacts on local hydrology and groundwater systems. Ormat has entered into geothermal resources leases with government entities, such as the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in the U.S., entailing the right to conduct geothermal Country  Plant or Location  Source  Total Volume Withdrawn (m3)  United States  Brady43  City of Reno  79  Don A. Campbell Complex  Gabbs, Nevada  191  Heber Complex44  Colorado River through the Imperial Irrigation District  6,618,908  Jersey Valley  Battle Mountain  77  Mammoth Complex  Mammoth Community Water District  64  McGinness Hills Complex  Callahan Pond  761  Neal Hot Springs  Groundwater and on-site water well  693  Brawly Complex45  Colorado River through the Imperial Irrigation District  1,486,628  Ormesa Complex46  Colorado River through the Imperial Irrigation District  4,128,610  Raft River47  Groundwater and on-site water well  935,896  REG Power Plants  Different sources48  0.076  Reno Offices  City of Reno  3,649  San Emidio49  Groundwater and on-site water well  1,423,077  Steamboat Complex  City of Reno  202  Tungsten Moutain  Well water  58  Tuscarora50  Spanish Springs Ranch  1,136  48 Each REG plant uses a small amount of water, none for plant operation, each plant purchases from its own local utility 43,44,45,46,47,49,50 Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 51 The drilling work frequently changes locations and we did not record the different water sources that were used. If there is drilling in an existing plant then typically the water comes from the local utility from which the plant purchases water but in new locations water is usually trucked in containers and brought to the drilling site. development and operations on government-owned or naturally protected lands. These leases legally require us to conduct operations in a manner that minimizes impacts on water and the geothermal resources. As of 2018, our stakeholders did not submit any material grievances or concerns regarding the management of water resources in the vicinity of our power plants. In addition, and as part of our environmental monitoring efforts, we track the sources of withdrawal for the water resources that we consume. We consume water resources at our operational sites mainly through the local water utility, but in other cases we consume groundwater and well water resources. In very rare circumstances, we consume water resources directly from local water sources. However, our interaction with such water sources is managed directly through our engagement with a local water utility. Country  Plant or Location  Source  Total Volume Withdrawn (m3)  Guatemala  Amatitlan  Well water  2,074  Zunil  Water purchased from a third party  464  Guadeloupe  Bouillante  Bay of Bouillante  2,128  Honduras  Planatares  Bufa River  2,642  Israel Kenya  Israel manufacturing facility and offices Olkaria III Complex  Israel Water Authority Lake Naivasha through the Lake Laivasha Water Resource Authority  17,378 26,035  Turkey  Turkey manufacturing facility and offices  Izmir Water Company (IZSU)  0.3  Drilling operations worldwide  Different locations worldwide  Various sources51  43,527  MEASURING AND CONTROLLING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS: WASTE, MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION Ormat makes extensive efforts to minimize and mitigate our impacts on biodiversity and to manage our use of materials and resulting waste generation responsibly. Ormat maintains a multi-year plan for the continuous improvement of our environmental performance while constantly monitoring facility performance and reporting any incidents that may occur. In the context of the plan, we take into consideration relevant legal and regulatory requirements, which are continually mapped and monitored together with the standards set by various international operating guidelines and frameworks, As such we have implemented ISO 14001 at our main manufacturing facility and the standard is used as a guideline for our activities worldwide. In addition, we engage in thorough dialogue with stakeholders, environmental NGOs and local communities to understand their concerns regarding the natural environment and biodiversity surrounding our facilities. We have established grievance mechanisms in most of the communities in our areas of operation, enabling the local population to directly submit any issues of concern regarding waste management or biodiversity impacts directly to responsible individuals. We attempt to address any relevant such concerns in a timely and thorough manner. WASTE, MATERIAL MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING We seek to responsibly manage our waste and material streams and to reuse and reclaim as many materials as possible in order to minimize our impact on the natural environment and ensure the sustainability of our business over time. Waste and material management is managed through our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety System Policy that outlines our commitments to standards such as ISO 14001 and relevant environmental and health and safety standards for the management of hazardous waste. Our VP of Quality, Health, Environment and Safety oversees corporate-level policies for the management of waste, materials and recycling. At the local level, safe management of waste, including hazardous waste, materials and recycling efforts are managed on an ongoing basis by the plant managers, who establish the relevant procedures for waste and material management in order to comply with local regulations. WASTE, MATERIAL MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING AT OUR FACILITIES AND POWER PLANTS Waste management at our manufacturing facilities and power plants is managed through our material compliance with ISO 14001 and through the establishment of an Environmental Management System. In line with our commitments and expectations that are outlined in our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety System Policy, every aspect of the waste management process must be planned, implemented, measured, monitored and continuously improved through strategic objectives. This includes properly handling, storing, labelling, transporting and disposing of waste – namely hazardous waste products or materials -through our health and safety guidelines and Emergency Action plans, training of our personnel and employees on issues related to waste and the handling of materials and by keeping records of our waste management efforts. We also have expectations of our subcontractors for the sound management of waste generated through their activities, which are set out in our contractual agreements and are outlined in our list of Environmental Compliance Responsibilities. For instance, we require subcontractors that perform work at our power plants to participate in pre-work Safety Briefings that detail the environmental and cultural resources to be protected in the context of the project, as well as expectations, such as the preparation of a Storm Water Pollution Plan for the compliance of construction-related disturbances in response to storm events. WASTE AND MATERIAL MANAGEMENT AT OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES, OFFICES AND WORKSHOPS Our manufacturing facilities, offices and workshops generate different types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. When it comes to relevant types of hazardous waste, we dispose of the waste according to applicable local regulations. In terms of non-hazardous waste, we work to recycle, reuse and repurpose as much of the waste and materials as possible in order to increase our level of efficiency and minimize our impact on the environment. We provide our employees and subcontractors with access to recycling receptacles across our operational locations, and actively encourage the preservation of resources by promoting recycling and the responsible use of materials. Our manufacturing facilities, offices and workshops generate different types of waste, we aim to recycle as much as possible. Some waste generated at our manufacturing facilities – such as wood, metal and  Ormat’s  power  plants  are  often  waste that is disposed of through a  aluminum -is entirely sold to these  made  from  reused  or  repurposed  third-party contractor who transports  third parties for recycling, over 160  shipping containers that we purchase  the waste to an authorized landfill.  tons in 2018. Furthermore,  we  aim  from  a  variety  of  suppliers.  Our  to  reuse  materials  and  equipment  manufacturing facilities also generate  ourselves.  The  control  rooms  in  a  certain  degree  of  construction  The following table details the major categories of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that were generated at our manufacturing facilities, offices and workshops in 2018, including details on how the waste products were disposed of or treated. Category of Waste  Waste Classification (Hazardous or Non-Hazardous)  Disposal Method  Weight (kilograms)  General Waste Streams  Non-Hazardous  Landfill  500,240  Metal Scrap (aluminum, chips, etc)  Non-Hazardous  Recycling  942,290  Nylon/Plastic Waste  Non-Hazardous  Recycling  829,920  Wood  Non-Hazardous  Recycling  720,359  Dichlorbenzene  Hazardous  Recycling  16,000  Used Paint Containers and Paint Thinners  Hazardous  Authorized Disposal Methods  26,400  Used Oils  Hazardous  Authorized Disposal Methods  5,700  Lacquer  Hazardous  Authorized Disposal Methods52  1,000  Radiographic films  Non-Hazardous  Recycling  250  Paper and Cardboard  Non-Hazardous  Recycling  501,712  52 “Authorized Disposal Methods” refers to authorized third parties that assist Ormat in disposing of certain types of hazardous waste according to relevant local regulations. WASTE AND MATERIAL These are treated according to local Additional categories of waste MANAGEMENT AT OUR POWER regulations governing storage and we dispose of and treat at these PLANTS disposal of these materials in the facilities include cardboard, relevant country of operation. fluorescent bulbs and batteries At our various power plants, there that are recycled by third party are relevant local regulations A by-product of the utilization of contractors, as well as plastic and requirements governing the geothermal resource is scale, which waste, which is collected and management, disposal and storage of we are responsible for treating properly disposed of through waste,. In order to fulfill the objectives and disposing. Scale is commonly recycling, where possible. In set out in our environmental action found to include calcium carbonate, general, our power plant managers plans and to fulfil relevant standards amorphous silica and silicates, and are encouraged to improve their and regulations, we strictly adhere to mixed metal oxides and sulfides. waste management and treatment and enforce these requirements at Ormat monitors the level of scale efforts based on the findings of our sites under the supervision of the in our systems and if we are not the various environmental impact power plant manager. able to prevent the scale build-up assessments and according to the we have to remove and dispose of relevant regulations managing In order to effectively operate our it. This disposal is in alignment with the disposal of hazardous and power plants, Ormat uses flammable regulatory requirements and our non-hazardous waste in their materials, including industrial Company-wide expectations for country of operation. lubricants and organic motive fluids. sound environmental management. The following table details the types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that were generated at our power plants in 2018 and how the waste products and materials were disposed of or treated: Type of Waste  Waste Classification (Hazardous or Non-Hazardous)  Disposal Method  Weight (kilograms)53  Used Oils, Petroleum Solids, Oily Rags, Pads, Used Filters and Other Oil Contaminated Products  Hazardous54  Landfill, Recycling, Recovery & Reuse55  3,284,469  Motive Fluid56  Hazardous & Non-Hazardous  Authorized disposal methods  984,744  Metal, Scrap Metal, Aluminum, Carbon Steel  Non-Hazardous  Landfill & Recycling  119,550  General Waste Streams  Non-Hazardous  Landfill  81,000  Wood  Non-Hazardous  Landfill, Recycling, Reuse  5,700  Paper and Cardboard  Non-Hazardous  Landfill & Recycling57  569  53 Some of the weights of the waste provided are estimated based on data received from our operational sites. 54 The classification of hazardous waste depends on the location of the operations and the legal or environmental regulations that govern the topic in that country and/or locality. Therefore, waste is indicated as ‘Hazardous’ when it is considered as such in at least one of the locations of operation included in the scope of this report. 55 The disposal methods for the oils and solids varies depending on the country of operation. For instance, in Kenya, the oil is reused and repurposed after it is collected by government licensed professionals that collect the oil and treat it accordingly. In Guatemala, the oil is recycled for reuse in the power plant maintenance facilities. 56 The categorization of ‘hazardous’ and ‘non-hazardous’ in the context of motive fluids depends on the nature of local regulations that govern the topic. The majority of the hazardous waste classifications pertain to state-level waste and by product regulations that govern the nature of our operations in the state of California. 57 The waste is disposed of by different methods in different locations, either landfill or recycling. However, Ormat works to encourage the sites to dispose of paper and cardboard materials through recycling programs, where available. Indeed, in 2018, the majority of paper and cardboard waste was recycled, approximately 70 percent. Below are two examples of how the topics of waste and material management were addressed at two major construction sites in 2018: At our Olkaria III power plant in Kenya, we follow the Environmental Management and Coordination (Waste Management) Regulations that outline the legal requirements for the segregation, transportation, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous, non-hazardous and radioactive waste in the country. Most waste generated at the power plant is solid waste from the offices, kitchens and maintenance workshops and from infrastructure maintenance activities in the geothermal field. During 2018, we refurbished one of the plants in the complex, which included the decommissioning of old units – the final stage of a plant’s lifecycle. This created a significant amount of scrap metal and waste compared to previous years, but all scrap metal was removed from the site by government licensed specialists for reuse and/ or recycling. Furthermore, as the power plant is located at a national park, regulations require Ormat to clearly communicate and provide waste receptacles for visitors in the vicinity of the power plant. Solid waste is collected in accessible waste receptacles and there is clear separation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste types. As of 2018, a number of corrective action recommendations were provided for improving waste management at the power plant. These recommendations are currently being implemented by developing a waste management plan that incorporates enhancement of waste segregation at the source, collection and treatment of waste and provision of more advanced collection methods that suit the needs of the plant. At our McGinness Hills power plant in Nevada, the hazardous and non-hazardous waste streams generated in the operation of the plant and in drilling activities (as part of expansion of the project) are closely monitored through the site’s environmental impact auditing. The types of materials that are used in drilling activities include, among others, diesel fuel, lubricants, hydraulic fluids, anti-freeze and drilling chemicals (drilling mud, caustic soda, barite, etc.), all of which are closely monitored and carefully transported in order to avoid the risk of spills or leakages. As such (and as noted in the “Ensuring a Safe & Healthy Work Environment – Occupational Health and Safety at Ormat” chapter of this report), the site has an Emergency Action Plan that describes relevant emergency action events, how to detect them and what the appropriate actions are to address the event. In the event of a major spill or release of hazardous chemicals, Ormat personnel are trained to identify a spill and to contact the appropriate contractor to clean and treat the spill. Furthermore, Ormat must implement certain measures regarding the storage of necessary hazardous materials onsite, such as secondary containment and classifying the level of anticipated risk from each type of waste. BIODIVERSITY Our renewable energy solutions are derived from nature itself, and as a result we place utmost significance on assessing the potential impacts on the local biodiversity and the natural and cultural environments surrounding  our  power  plants.  Maintaining  the  natural  biodiversity  around  our  plants  is important to a number of our key stakeholder groups, such as local communities, environmental NGOs and financing bodies, among others. Accordingly, we strive to design our power generation facilities to blend into the surrounding landscape, taking into consideration the actual physical location of each facility, the configuration of units that are used to build it, landscaping, and the surrounding natural habitat, among other elements. MAINTAINING THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN THE CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF OUR POWER PLANTS Before we develop a new facility, we create a detailed environmental plan to minimize impacts to the surrounding natural lands and wildlife ecosystems. Our aim is to control and reduce the level of disruption to the surrounding natural environment in the development of the plant. Our care for the environment around our plants extends to the operation and maintenance phases of their lifecycle, keeping in mind our commitment to minimizing operational costs without compromising on meeting the highest safety and environmental standards. Furthermore, we seek to maintain the sustainable characteristics of geothermal resources through the intensive geologic and hydrologic studies that we conduct during the exploration and drilling phases. In some cases, Ormat is required to conduct additional studies regarding potential impacts on the natural environment as part of its land and mineral rights lease agreements. During the construction phase, we require the site manager and construction team to fulfil a list of specified environmental compliance responsibilities regarding biodiversity preservation at various stages of the construction process. These responsibilities vary from site to site, but in general include: attending a pre.construction meeting with Ormat to review the environmental management expectations; preparation of emergency response plans with contingencies for hazardous material spills and disposal; monitoring of dust conditions on site during construction; ensuring the proper storage of waste; recontouring of impacted areas to match the surrounding terrain; providing a buffer around eligible and unevaluated cultural sites that are close to project activities; salvaging and stockpiling soils for use later in the construction process; and ensuring that there is no use of construction paint on the natural surface. In addition, ongoing research into new equipment helps minimize the environmental impacts from the operation of our facilities. For example, several facilities have been reconfigured to accommodate larger pumps that can more efficiently extract and process fluids from geothermal reservoirs. This, in turn, may reduce the number of wells that are required to properly exploit a geothermal reservoir, thereby reducing our overall land use while simultaneously enhancing overall facility operational capacity. The installation of more efficient, air-cooling equipment in angled positions is another compelling improvement that has significantly reduced energy consumption and the level of impact on the natural environment surrounding our facilities. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS At each of the sites where Ormat decides to construct a power plant, we conduct environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) or regular environmental audits of our activities as required by relevant and local regulatory requirements. Impacts analyzed in the context of the environmental and social impact assessments are classified as those related to ecology and nature conservation, landscape and visual impacts, traffic and transport, noise, socio-economic impacts, health, safety and public nuisance, ground, water and air emissions, archaeology and cultural heritage, electric and magnetic fields and electromagnetic interference. Identified impacts are managed and mitigated by Ormat in accordance with best practices. The measures adopted include informing the local population in a timely manner about construction activities and repairing any damage to local access roads, as well as restoring any disturbed lands. Our local site management team is usually tasked with developing and implementing an environmental action or management plan that addresses the actual and potential impacts on an ongoing basis for regulators and/ or the local community. 58 International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Category II national park refers to large protected areas that play a role in the connectivity of the landscape or seascape in that they are the home to large ecological processes and are complemented with species and ecosystems that are characteristic of the natural area. 59 Relevant local Kenyan government regulations include: the Environmental Management and Coordination Act (EMCA) (1999), Regulation 31 of the Environmental (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations (2003) and the Kenyan National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (2000). Though we conduct ESIAs for each of the power plants that we construct, own and those for which we have turn-key contracts, below we present a detailed description of the impact assessments and action plans that we generated for our fully-owned plants in 2018. Kenya – Olkaria III Power Plant Our Olkaria III power plant was built in stages, starting with a 13 MW plant in 2000 and has grown every few years since then, adding 11 MW in the refurbishment of the first unit in 2018. The plant has now reached a total generation capacity of 150 MW. The plant is located in Hells Gate National Park, a national park managed by the Kenya Wildlife Service and categorized as an International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Category II national park58 and a tentative UNESCO World Heritage site. Furthermore, the geothermal field is located in close proximity to Lake Naivasha and local flower-growing farms, all of which raised concerns regarding the environmental impact of our operations. An environmental impact assessment was conducted in order to answer requests from stakeholders such as funding bodies and in order to comply with local Kenyan regulations.59 The ESIAs were initiated beginning with the first plant, and have been updated with the addition of each additional stage, following the relevant environmental guidelines. These assessments analyze the following aspects: ecology; geology and soils; hydrology, hydrogeology and water resources; flora and fauna; and social aspects. Hells Gate National Park is home to a variety of wildlife and many species of birds and insects, such as the rare Lammergeyer,60 Griffon vulture,61 and the magnificent Verreaux’s Black Eagle,62 among others. Extensive wildlife censuses are conducted biennially in the area around the plant in order to properly observe and manage any changes to the local biodiversity. Each of the species are mapped, counted and categorized according to their proximity to the site and the probability of their natural habitats being affected. The majority of the changes identified in wildlife and mammalian behavior in the environmental audit, which was conducted in 2018, were found to be due to changes in breeding behavior due to climatic factors, and not due to Ormat’s own activities. Ormat entered into an environmental management agreement with the Kenyan Wildlife Service (KWS) to effectively manage environmental resources in the Park and to enhance conversation activities. The agreement, requires that all installed infrastructure will not obstruct wildlife movements, breeding or migratory patterns, that no exotic animals or plants will be introduced, that all rules and regulations of the Park will be followed and that local trees will be planted (with preference for the Tarchonanthus camphoratus species) in order to enhance the natural features of the Park. In 2018 an agroforestry tree nursery was established within the plant to provide seedlings to the locals for planting during the rainy seasons. The nursey is managed by employees from the local community. The environmental audit also examines aspects of noise pollution that may arise from construction activities and in the operation of the power plant. Noise pollution may impact various stakeholders in the local community, such as the workforce, Olkaria III and Hells Gate National Park visitors, wildlife and members of the local community. The results of the study found that there is some noise from arising from Ormat’s activities that is audible to the surrounding communities and, as a result, Olkaria III implements proactive noise monitoring measures. 60 The Lammergeyer is listed as an IUCN “Near Threatened” species. 61 The Griffon vulture is listed as an IUCN “Least Concern” species. 62 The Verreaux’s Black Eagle is listed as an IUCN “Least Concern” species. United States - McGinness Hills Power Plant Our McGinness Hills geothermal power plant site is located in Nevada and is leased through the U.S. BLM. As such, Ormat is required to conduct environmental impact assessments, which are submitted for public comment from relevant stakeholders. As part of the approval process for geothermal resource development permits, Ormat has committed to a number of environmental protection measures to prevent unnecessary or undue degradation of the natural environment during the construction, operation and reclamation phases. Requirements that Ormat must fulfill include: coordination of Wildlife Working Group meetings that examine how impacts on wildlife and their habitat are mitigated in the area around the plant; development of a Bird and Bat Conservation Strategy (BBCS); development of an Integrated Weed Management Plan for the entire project area, which includes ensuring the use of materials that are free of intrusive weed species; controlling surface-disturbance activities that could affect the local sage grouse breeding grounds; measurement and control of project noise levels including installation of sound dampening barriers to reduce noise emissions; installation of anti-perch devices and construction of transmission lines in accordance with Avian Power Line Interaction Committee (APLIC)63 guidelines (2006 and 2012); instruction for contractors and employees to avoid the harassment and disturbance of wildlife, namely during the greater sage grouse breeding season; power washing of various equipment to prevent the introduction of invasive species; revegetation of various species according to the BLM’s guidelines; and painting of the power plant equipment to blend in with the natural landscape. One of the main biodiversity factors  we  identified  at  the  McGinness  Hills  site  is  the  existence  of  native  greater  sage-grouse populations. The greater sage-grouse inhabits a limited geographic range in the American Northwest and Canada and has been characterized as a “Near Threatened” species by the IUCN. As such, Ormat developed an Adaptive Management Plan for the McGinness Hills project, which provides a framework for evaluating and addressing specific impacts regarding the greater sage-grouse. The Plan includes triggers and thresholds for determining when management changes are needed and stipulations regarding activities during the greater sage-grouse breeding times. In addition, and as part of the Adaptive Management Plan, Ormat must implement a common raven monitoring plan to assess changes in raven numbers due to development and human activities associated with the power plant. 63 “Avian Power Line Interaction Committee” leads the electric utility industry in protecting avian resources while enhancing reliable energy delivery. EIAS AT OUR EXISTING POWER PLANTS IN GUATEMALA Requests for environmental impact assessments and audits at our Zunil and Amatitlan power plants in Guatemala arise from requirements from relevant departments in the national government, such as the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARN), but also from the requests from the local community and Ormat’s policy of high environmental standards.64 Therefore, Ormat reports on an annual basis on the environmental performance and impact of our Zunil and Amatitlan power plants through detailed environmental reports, which are paired with action plans, to ensure that any potential negative impacts are addressed. Every year, the plant’s level of compliance with certain environmental requirements is measured and reported addressing factors such as: monitoring of noise pollution and acoustic levels, monitoring of air quality for particulate matter, combustion gases and water quality. In the on-going operations of our power plants in Zunil and Amatitlan in 2018, no noise pollution complaints were received from the local community. However, some members of the local community filed complaints regarding noise in the case of an emergency or an outage due to the use of generators to repower or sustain operation of the plants. Furthermore, no impacts on local wildlife or vegetation were identified in the context of the impact assessments. At Ormat’s power plant in Amatitlan, the staff hosts an annual reforestation program for local school children. In 2018, the school children planted a total of 16,000 trees in the Parque Nacional Volcán de Pacaya y Laguna de Calderas. Nearly fourteen local schools participated in the effort that helped raise awareness for the importance of environmental conservation and cultivation in the local community. 