CHAPTER I. A MESSAGE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS STEERING A SUSTAINABLE PATH FORWARD To our Stakeholders, I’m honored to be leading Ormat as its new Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and to have the pleasure of reporting to you, our valued stakeholders, on Ormat’s sustainable activities, achieve.ments and challenges. This report highlights our efforts and initiatives in supporting sound environmental, social and governance activities and the progress in our global company. Ormat’s more than 1,400 employees worldwide1 see a shared path forward as we continue our mission of leading the geothermal energy market and becoming provider of scalable renewable energy solutions around the world. Renewable energy resides at the core of our business model, and developing reliable, environmentally and socially responsible solutions has been a central tenant of our value proposition since Ormat was estab.lished in 1965. At Ormat, we not only believe, but act on our belief, that renewable energy is the most reliable and resilient way to secure the world’s energy future. Every person, community, country and geography can be positively impacted when renewable energy options are introduced into the energy mix. In addition to reducing environmen.tal impacts and mitigating climate change, renewable energy is proven to exert a positive and often profound influence on economic and societal well-being. As we publish Ormat’s 2019 Sustain.ability Report, we remain committed to the pivotal role we play in building a safe and secure energy future for all. In the seven years I’ve served the Company, I have seen firsthand how Ormat’s executive leadership and employees across the globe bring creativity, breakthrough thinking, stability, technological knowledge, talent and commitment to work with them every day. Inside this report, we provide a detailed overview of how this collective effort is improving and empowering our world in achieving a sustainable energy future. EXPANDING OUR MARKET REACH The growing global demand for renewable energy is a significant cornerstone of Ormat’s continued expansion and success to date. It has enabled us to serve additional markets, notably in the Americas, Eurasia, and Southeast Asia, and is the basis upon which we plan our future growth. This increased demand is also a major driver of our continuous technological and operational innova.tions that are implemented in our own power plants and which we deliver to our worldwide customers. In the past five years we’ve supplied almost 50 new power plants, totaling approximately 1,200 MW. These additions push our Ormat-manufac.tured renewable facilities to include more than 190 plants that have a combined generating capacity of 3,200 MW. In 2019, Ormat earned record total revenues of $746 million, a 3.7% increase over 2018 total revenues. Our Electricity segment and our Energy Storage & Management segment are key drivers of these year-over-year gains. Looking ahead, our business model emphasizes expanding our Electric.ity segment and becoming a signif.icant player in the Storage market. Our focus will be on the addition of capacity to existing power plants, building new power plants, and making acquisitions while devel.oping new renewable power plants and infrastructure and establishing a strong market position in the Storage market. We believe this expansive approach broadens the access to renewable energy for our customers and is a vital economic and social enabler. Increased access to clean, reliable renewable power enhances living standards, fuels local enterprise and offers a myriad of possibilities to developing economies. In 2019 Ormat’s portfolio of renewable energy assets, which include geother.mal, recovered energy generation and solar, generated an aggregate 6,238,272 MWh (net) of electricity, while producing 7.1 million tons less2 of greenhouse gases in comparison to non-renewable technologies, such as coal. In this way, Ormat can minimize the harmful environmental impacts associated with carbon combustion for ourselves, our customers, and their end users. TRANSITIONING SENIOR LEADERSHIP I am delighted to serve Ormat as CEO, an appointment that took effect on July 1, 2020. Prior to joining Ormat in 2013 as Chief Financial Officer, I held executive financial roles in several leading infrastructure, real estate and software development firms. This recent management transition was the result of long-term planning and collaboration with Ormat’s Senior Management Team and Board of Directors. We worked to ensure that the process was transparently communicated to our stakeholders. 1 Refers to the number of employees noted in Ormat’s 2019 10K statement. For coverage of the GRI Disclosures, we present data for those locations included in the scope of the information boundaries of this report, as noted in the context of Disclosures 102-46 in the “Information Boundaries of this Report” section, located on page 42. Employees located in Indonesia, the Philippines, Chile and New Zealand are outside the scope of this report.6 2 This figure is calculated in comparison to an equivalent amount of electricity generated using coal-burning technologies. I’d like to extend our deep gratitude to Mr. Isaac Angel, who exhibited extraordinary commitment to Ormat during his six years as the Company’s CEO. His energetic vision steered our path wisely, leading to consistent growth and profitability. We are very pleased Mr. Angel will continue to support our efforts as the appointed Chairman of Ormat’s Board of Directors. Another important appointment that took place on May 10, 2020 is that of Mr. Assaf Ginzburg, who now serves as Ormat’s Chief Financial Officer. We welcome him to this vital role and look forward to his strategic stewardship and financial guidance. I’m extremely enthused about what Ormat will continue to contribute to the renewable energy sector. Our sustainability track record is strong, as is our commitment to pioneering research, collaborating to develop new technologies, and promoting industry expansion. RESPONDING TO COVID-19 I must acknowledge the unprece.dented challenges brought by the COVID-19 virus, which arrived late in 2019 and has impacted our society on both a personal and professional level. The health and safety of Ormat employees, our contractors, constit.uents and the communities in which we live, work and do business, are of utmost importance to us. You’ll find more on how our team has risen to this challenge and persevered in the content of this report. Throughout this global pandemic, Ormat will continue following stringent protective measures necessary to safeguard the health, and safety of every stakeholder. This includes adhering to all govern.ment regulations and maintaining clear, comprehensive plans and protective measures for employees who work in our energy plants, manufacturing facil.ities, offices and elsewhere. ADVANCING OUR ESG FRAMEWORKS & COMMITMENTS Ormat is committed to continuous, transparent communication. This 2019 Sustainability Report is our second published in alignment with the GRI’s reporting standards CORE option. This enables us to expand coverage on sector-relevant envi.ronmental, social and economic impacts across our value chain. In addition to this comprehensive reporting effort, Ormat is actively engaged in adopting and reporting on other recognized sustainability disclosure initiatives. These include the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and initial adoption of certain aspects of risk management frame.works such as the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclo.sures (TCFD). We also continue to report on the direct and indirect contributions of our business activ.ities and community engagement on achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as we now enter the decade of action for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We recognize the value these efforts offer for our stakeholders, and Ormat’s business itself, as well as the importance of being open and honest about our successes, as well as our challenges. In our view, transparency supports learning and continuous improvement. Further important advances that fit into Ormat’s sustainability reporting framework includes our new Envi.ronmental and Climate Change Policy, which, as of the publication of this report, is available on Ormat’s website at the following link.3 Ormat has also taken actions to implement a new Human Rights and Labor Policy, Stakeholder Engagement Policy, as well as to adopt measures to improve the diversity of our management team. Thank you for your continued interest in Ormat and our sustainability performance. Despite the climate change and human health challenges we face today, I’m confident that our employees and key stakeholders will continue to deliver breakthrough renewable energy solutions at a global scale. At Ormat, we envision a vibrant renewable energy future and we invite you to learn more about how we are making it happen by reading this report. Doron Blachar Chief Executive Officer 3 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat_Environment%20and%20Climate%20Change%20Policy-August%20%2020.pdf CHAPTER II. HOW ORMAT POWERS A RENEWABLE ENERGY FUTURE ORMAT AT A GLANCE IN 2019 +US$3.3B US$746M US$384M Total Assets FY 2019 FY 2019 Electricity, Revenues Adjusted EBITDA3 Product & Other Confirmed US$3.2B in total assets +1,400 Employees Largest worldwide 4 Geothermal power producer in the U.S. 914 MW Generating Capacity owned & operated 6 ORA traded on NYSE since 2004 4 For Reconciliation to U.S. GAAP Financial Information see page 138. 5 Coverage for GRI Disclosures 102-8 is provided only for the employees that are included in the locations noted in the “Information Boundaries of This Report,” and does not include employees based in Indonesia, the Philippines, Chile and New Zealand. 10 11 6 As of year end 2019. The current portfolio, as of the publication of this report, is 933 MW and as of the date of the report we supplied 3200 MW and 190 power plants ORMAT PRESENCE Ormat power plants Capacity (MW) Ormat manufactoring facilities Countries in which Ormat supplied services and equipment over the years * As of the publication of the report we have 648 MW in the U.S. **Ormat owns 12.75% interest in the 330 MW Sarulla Complex ORMAT: WHAT WE DO Ormat Technologies, Inc. (“Ormat” or the “Company”) is a leading renewable energy Company with over five decades of experience. Ormat is vertically integrated – engaged in the execution of all stages of devel.opment and energy generation – at our geothermal and recovered energy power plants. These stages include exploration, development, drilling, design, manufacturing, construction, and operation of our geothermal and recovered energy power plants. We are also expanding into the solar Photovoltaic (“PV”) and energy storage and management services business and provide integration services for our energy storage sector clients. Our Ormat Energy Converter – a power generation unit that converts heat into electricity – is the basis for the solutions and services that we offer our diverse array of customers. We design, develop, build, sell, own, and operate our clean, environ.mentally friendly geothermal and recovered energy-based power plants, usually using equipment that we design and manufacture in-house. Our objective is to become a leading global provider of renewable energy and we have adopted a strategic plan to focus on several key initiatives to expand our business. Exploration Development ABOUT OUR RENEWABLE ENERGY BUSINESS Our business is divided into three main segments: 1. Electricity Segment – In the Elec.tricity segment, which contributed 72% of our total revenues in 2019, we develop, build, own and operate geothermal, solar PV and recovered energy-based power plants in the United States and geothermal power plants in other countries around the world and then sell the electricity that they generate. In 2019, we derived 62% of our Electricity segment revenues from our operations in the U.S. and 38% from the rest of the world. Drilling Design Manufacturing Construction Operation 2. Product Segment – In the Product segment, which contributed 26% of our total revenues, we design, manufacture and sell equipment for geothermal and recovered ener.gy-based electricity generation and provide services relating to the engi.neering, procurement and construc.tion of geothermal and recovered energy-based power plants. In 2019, we derived 16% of our Product segment revenues from our opera.tions in the United States and 84% from the rest of the world. 3. Energy Storage and Manage.ment Services Segment -In our new Energy Storage and Management Services segment, which contrib.uted 2% of our total revenues in 2019, we provide energy storage, demand response and energy management related services as well as services relating to the engineering, procure.ment, construction, operation and maintenance of energy storage units, mainly through our Viridity business. In 2019, we derived 93% of our Energy Storage and Management Services segment business from our opera.tions in the United States. Net Revenues7 by geographical location and business segments: Segment Contribution to Revenue 1% 2% 28%  26%  71% 72%  2018 2019 Electricity Product Product Storage Management Services Geographic Breakdown of ProductsSegment Revenue 93%  84%  16% 7%  2018 2019 United States International Geographic Breakdown of ElectricitySegment Revenue 40%  38%  62% 60%  2018 2019 United States International Geographic Breakdown of Energy StorageManagement Services Segment Revenue 100%  7%  93%  2018 2019 United States International 7 Presented in US$ thousands. Presented in Ormat’s Form 10-K as “Geographic Breakdown of Results of Operations”. GEOTHERMAL POWER PLANTS Ormat is a global leader in the world geothermal energy market. Geothermal energy is produced by heat energy derived from the earth’s molten core and transported to the surface by movements of crustal plates, intrusion of molten magma and deep circulation of groundwa.ter. Reservoirs of hot water under pressure result from these forces, and it is these underground reservoirs that we identify, develop and from which we harness energy. Drilling wells into geothermal reservoirs enables the steam and high-pressure hot water to be captured and directed to drive turbines in power plants. This converts earth-bound energy into electrical energy. Geothermal Power Geothermal energy power plants harness a natural and locally available energy source and enables providing baseload electricity 24/7. Most impor.tantly, geothermal energy offers an environmentally friendly energy alter.native. Furthermore, unlike electric.ity produced by burning fossil fuels, electricity produced from geothermal energy sources is produced without emissions of certain pollutants such as nitrogen oxide, and with little emissions of other pollutants such as carbon dioxide. As a result, electricity produced from geothermal energy sources contributes significantly less to climate change than energy produced by burning fossil fuels. In addition, compared to power plants that utilize other renewable energy sources, such as wind or solar, geothermal power plants are available There are two main types of geothermal power plants: Binary systems - where generally, butane) that is vaporized and is used geothermal fluid is extracted from the to power the turbine. The organic fluid underground reservoir and flows from is then condensed in a condenser, the wellhead through a gathering which may be cooled directly by air system to a vaporizer that heats a or by water from a cooling tower and secondary working fluid (typically sent back to the vaporizer through an organic fluid, such as pentane or a pump. The cooled geothermal all year-long and all day-long and can therefore provide base-load electric.ity services. Geothermal power plants can also be custom built to provide a range of electricity services such as baseload, voltage regulation, reserve and flexible capacity. Geothermal energy is also an attractive alter.native to other sources of energy, and supportive of a diversification strategy to avoid dependence on any one energy source or politically sensitive supply sources. In July 2019, we launched our first geothermal and solar PV hybrid project, in which the electricity generated from a solar PV power plant is used to serve the equipment’s energy use at the geothermal facility, thus increasing the renewable energy delivered by the project to the grid8. fluid is then reinjected back into the reservoir. Binary technology can be utilized on a wide range of resources from low enthalpy to high. Multiple high enthalpy binary facilities are in service around the world. 8 https://investor.ormat.com/news-events/news/news-details/2019/Ormat-Announces-First-Geothermal-and-Solar-Hybrid-Power-Plant/default.aspx 16 Binary Systems Flash systems – where generally, geothermal fluid is extracted from the underground reservoir and flows from the wellhead through a gathering system to flash tanks and/ or separators. There, the steam is separated from the brine and sent to a demister, where any remaining water droplets are removed. This produces a stream of dry saturated steam, which powers a steam turbine coupled to a generator to produce electricity. In some cases, the brine at Steam Systems Binary geothermal power plants carry several environmental advan.tages over flash geothermal steam turbine plants. First, reinjection of the geothermal resources exploited promotes superior efficiency. By continuously recharging geother-of the steam condenser. The resulting condensate is used to provide make-up water for the cooling tower. Usually hot brine remaining after separation of steam is injected (either directly or after passing through a binary plant to produce addi.tional power from the residual heat remaining in the brine) back into the geothermal resource through a series of injection wells. the outlet of the separator is flashed a second time (dual flash), providing additional steam at lower pressure used in the low-pressure section of the steam turbine to produce addi.tional power. Steam exhausted from the steam turbine is condensed in a surface or direct contact condenser cooled by cold water from a cooling tower. The non-condensable gases (such as carbon dioxide) are removed by means of a vacuum system in order to maintain the performance Steam mal systems and reducing produc.tion-related pressure drawdowns, binary geothermal power plants help maintain the overall geother.mal reservoir pressure. In addition, air-cooled binary plants do not consume water for cooling (for addi-tional details on amount of water used in different geothermal plants see the water use table presented in the environmental chapter). Finally, air-cooled binary power plants have a low profile with minimal visual impact, as they do not emit a plume. Exploration and Evaluation of Geothermal Resources Our vertically integrated structure allows us to engage in every part of the geothermal energy process, from start to finish. Before we engage in a geothermal power project, we carry out exploratory and evaluation activities to ensure that the geothermal resource is significant and sustainable for the generation of renewable power over time. Starting from the initial evaluation phase in the exploration of geother.mal resources, we map the natural features of the potential geothermal site, such as springs or lakes in close proximity, as well as other relevant elements of the natural habitat. We also conduct surveys of the surrounding area including geolog.ical, geochemical and geophysical surveys, surface water analyses, soil surveys and geologic mapping. We begin design and construction of the plant once the exploration and drilling phases are completed, and it is determined that the geothermal resource is worth pursuing in terms of resource accessibility and cost. RECOVERED ENERGY POWER PLANTS Our recovered energy power plants produce electricity from “waste heat”. Recovered energy power plants utilize residual heat that is generated as a by-product from a variety of industrial processes (cement manufacturing, gas compression turbines, etc.), which would otherwise be wasted to generate electricity without burning additional fuel or generating emissions. Ormat’s Geothermal, Recovered Energy, and Solar Power Plants in Operation as of December 2019 The table below summarizes the portfolio of power plants and complexes that Ormat owns and operates, whether developed by Ormat or acquired9: Project  Location  Application  Operational Since10  Capacity (MW)11  Amatitlan  Guatemala  Geothermal  2007  20  Bouillante  Guadeloupe Island  Geothermal  1995, 2004  15  Brady  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  1992, 2004, 2007  26  Brawley Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  2011  13  Don A. Campbell Complex  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2014, 2015  36  Heber Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  1985, 1993, 2005, 2006, 2008  81  Jersey Valley  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2011  10  Mammoth Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  1984, 1990  29  McGinness Hills Complex  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2012, 2015, 2018  143  9 We indirectly own and operate all of our power plants, although financial institutions hold equity interests in three of our subsidiaries: (i) Opal Geo subsidiaries, which own the McGinness Hills Phases 1 and 2 geothermal power plants, the Tuscarora and Jersey Valley power plants and the second phase of the Don A. Campbell power plant, all located in Nevada; (ii) ORNI 41, which owns the McGinness Hills Phase 3 located in Nevada; and (iii) ORNI 47, which owns the Tungsten Mountain geothermal power plant located in Nevada. The nature of the equity interests held by the financial institution is described in our 2019 Annual Report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Opal Transaction”, “McGinness Hills 3 Tax Monetization Transaction” and “Tungsten Mountain Tax Monetization Transaction. Notwithstanding our 63.75% equity interest in the Bouillante power plant, 60% equity interest in the Neal Hot Spring power plant and 63.25% direct equity interest in the Puna plant, the first phase of Don A. Campbell, OREG 1, OREG 2 and OREG 3 power plants as well as the indirect interest in the second phase of the Don A. Campbell complex owned by our subsidiary, ORPD, we list 100% of the generating capacity of the Bouillante power plant, the Neal Hot Springs power plant and the power plants in the ORPD portfolio in the power plant table because we control their operations. We list our 12.75% share of the generating capacity of the Sarulla complex as we own a 12.75% minority interest. Revenues from the Sarulla complex are not consolidated and are presented under “Equity in earnings (losses) of investees, net” in our financial statements. 10 In power plants that were built in phases, the year of each new phase is indicated 11 In power plants owned by Ormat the capacity figure given is the net generating capacity to the grid, which is defined in Ormat’s 10K reports. In solar power plants the MWdc is indicated 12 The Neal Hot Springs power plant was acquired by Ormat in April 24, 2018. 13 Ormat holds the assets under a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) structure for approximately 15 years 14 Puna was shut down following a volcanic eruption in May 2018. The power plant was back in operation in November 2020 15 The Raft River power plant was acquired by Ormat in April 24, 2018. Ormat provided EPC services and installed its proprietary technology in Raft River to its former owner U.S. Geothermal in 2007 16 The San Emidio power plant was acquired by Ormat in April 24, 2018 We construct, own, and operate recovered energy-based power plants. We have built all of the recovered energy-based plants that we operate. The residual heat is captured in the recovery process using a similar power plant to Ormat’s binary geothermal power plant, which is used to generate electricity without burning additional fuel. The market for the recovery of waste heat is present in locations where available electricity resources are expensive or where the regulatory environment facilitates construction and marketing of power generated from these sources. However, typical recovered energy projects tend to be smaller than 10 MW. Neal Hot Springs  Oregon, U.S.  Geothermal  201212  22  Olkaria III Complex  Kenya  Geothermal  2000, 2009, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2018  150  OREG I – CS7, CS9, CS10, CS11  North Dakota and South Dakota, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbine  2006  22  OREG II – CS3, CS5, CS8, CS12  North Dakota, Minnesota and Montana, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbine  2009  22  OREG III – GRE - CS13  Minnesota, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbine  2010  5.5  OREG IV – Peetz  Colorado, U.S.  Recovered Energy on Gas Turbines  2009  3.5  Ormesa Complex  California, U.S.  Geothermal  1987-1989, 2005-2007  39  Platanares13  Honduras  Geothermal  2017  38  Puna Complex14  Hawaii, U.S.  Geothermal  1993, 2011, 2012  38  Raft River  Idaho, U.S.  Geothermal  200815  11  San Emidio  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  201216  11  Sarulla  Indonesia  Geothermal  2017, 2018  330 (Ormat’s share represents 42 MW)  Steamboat Complex  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  1992, 2005, 2007-2008  65  Tungsten Mountain  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2017  27  Tuscarora  Nevada, U.S.  Geothermal  2012  18  Zunil  Guatemala  Geothermal  1999  20  Tungsten Mountain (Solar)  Nevada, U.S.  solar PV System  2019  7AC  18 19 STORAGE & ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy storage systems use a variety of technologies, such as large-scale batteries to utilize surplus or available electricity. This enables the optimization of electricity grid operations, to run generators closer to full capacity for longer periods, and to operate the grid more effi.ciently and effectively. Common applications for energy storage systems involve management of local capacity, frequency regulation, ramping, reactive power, black start and movement of energy from times of excess supply to times of high demand and more.17 Our History and Key Experience Ormat was established in 1965 18 for the principal purpose of developing equipment for the production of energy from clean, renewable and inherently sustainable sources. We have a total of 54 years of experi.ence in the renewable energy sector pertaining to both technological development and the provision of products and services. Our first product, developed in 1966 and installed in the African country of Mali, was a solar pump, directly connected to a turbine that is rotated by vapor generated through solar panel heat. This pump was used to pump water from a well to provide members of the local community with access to water resources. Later, we engaged in the manufacturing, ownership and operation of solar ponds for energy generation in Israel and the United States (U.S.). Eventually, we ceased production of both products, but the technology and operational models are the basis for current day Ormat. In 1983, Ormat began to set up its first geothermal power plants in the U.S. state of Nevada. We began by selling our power plants to geother.mal developers, which later evolved into the development, ownership and operation of our own power plants. Today, we continue to grow our business by building power plants to ourselves and selling power plants to developers worldwide and through acquisition of additional geothermal power plants in the U.S. and internationally. Since our establishment, Ormat has built close to 180 geothermal and recovered energy power plants totaling 2,900 MW in a number of countries. As of December 31, 2019, Ormat owned and operated 914 MW of geothermal and recovered energy-based power plants, and 53 MW/56 MWh of operating storage projects - predominantly using equipment that we design and manufacture. The growth in our owned power plants was largely concentrated in the U.S., New Zealand and Latin America. We contributed significantly to the growth of the Turkish geothermal power industry, the world’s fastest growing geothermal market in the last decade. Our headquarters is located in Reno, Nevada and our major manufactur.ing facility is located in Yavne, Israel with others in the US and Turkey. As of the date of this report, Ormat operates power plants located in the U.S., Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Guatemala and Guadeloupe (French Caribbean). Our Proprietary Technology Our proprietary technology can be used with a variety of thermal energy sources, such as geothermal, recovered energy, biomass, solar energy and fossil fuels.  Specifically, our technology involves original designs  of  turbines,  pumps,  and heat exchangers, as well as formu.lation of organic motive fluids (all of which are non-ozone-depleting substances). By using advanced computational fluid dynamics tech.niques and other computer aided design software as well as our test facilities, we continuously seek to improve power plant components, reduce operations and maintenance costs, and increase the range of our equipment and applications. We are continuously examining ways to increase the output of our plants. In the geothermal as well as the recovered energy (waste heat) areas, we are examining two-level and three-level energy systems and other thermodynamic cycle alter.ations along with new motive fluids. Our Customers Ormat has two major customer categories: those who buy electric.ity and those who buy power plants and services. Ormat provides electricity from renewable energy solutions to customers worldwide. Most of the Company’s revenues arise from fully contracted energy and/or capacity payments under long-term power purchase agreements (“PPAs”). In the U.S., the purchasers of power from our power plants are typically investor-owned electric utility companies or electric cooperatives including publicly owned utilities. Outside of the U.S., our purchas.ers are either state-owned utilities or privately owned entities and we typically operate our facilities pursuant to rights granted to us by governmental agencies under agreements. In the sale of power plants and services, our customer base and contract scope differ. The scope varies from the supply of equipment to full, turn-key solutions. We serve as an EPC contractor for geother.mal and recovered energy power plants on a turnkey basis, using power units we design and manufac.ture. The customers, both existing and targeted, for our recovered energy solutions include companies engaged energy intensive industrial processes such as cement and glass production as well as gas processing and other companies engaged in other energy-intensive industrial processes. The target customers for our energy storage business are grid operators, retail energy providers and large commercial and industrial customers. The Company sells electricity, products and energy storage and other related servicesmainly to the geographical areas set forth below based on the location of the customer. Thefollowing tables present certain data by geographical areas: Revenues from external customers attributable to19:  2019 (US$ thousands)  2018 (US$ thousands)  2017 (US$ thousands)  United States  377,956  328,606  301,132  Indonesia20  —  4,379  28,968  Kenya  121,661  119,094  110,243  Turkey  88,938  168,699  125,166  Chile  25,540  980  8,895  Guatemala  28,624  27,975  27,991  New Zealand  31,222  10,451  33,395  Honduras  34,446  34,355  10,151  Other foreign countries  37,657  24,728  46,871  Consolidated Total  746,044  719,267  692,812  17 For more information on energy storage and related terminology, refer to the following link: https://www.ormat.com/en/renewables/storage/main/ 18 Ormat Technologies Inc. was initially established as a subsidiary of Ormat Industries in 1994. On February 12, 2015, Ormat Technologies Inc. completed the acquisition of Ormat Industries 20 in an all-stock merger, eliminating its majority ownership and control of Ormat Technologies. 19  revenues as reported in the geographic area in which they originated  20  Revenues in Indonesia include only products sale. Revenues from sell of electricity from Sarulla are accounted on an equity basis  21  OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Ormat Technologies, Inc. was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1994, by our former parent Company Ormat Industries, Ltd.21 In February 2015, Ormat Technologies, Inc. completed the acquisition of Ormat Industries, Ltd. in an all-stock merger, eliminating its majority ownership and control of Ormat Technologies, Inc. Ormat is a publicly traded company. The Company’s common stock is dually listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker “ORA” since 2004 and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE) since 2015.22 In 2017, ORIX (a Japan-based financial services group) acquired approxi.mately 11 million shares, representing approximately 22% ownership stake (purchased from FIMI ENRG limited partnership, FIMI ENRG and L.P. Bronicki Investments Ltd.). The Company Board of Directors is made up of ten members as of the date of this report. More information on our Board of Directors can be found in the Corporate Governance section of this report. BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP No shareholder holds a controlling interest in the equity structure of the Company. The below table presents our twelve largest shareholders as of December 31st, 201923. Significant Shareholders  Percentage of Institutional Ownership  ORIX Corporation  21.53%  The Vanguard Group  7.80%  BlackRock, Inc.  6.96%  Clal Insurance Entreprises Holdings Ltd.  6.21%  Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd  5.49%  Menora Mivtachim Insurance Ltd.  4.50%  Impax Asset Management Ltd.  3.50%  Harel Insurance Investments and Financial Services Ltd.  3.45%  Delek Group Ltd.  3.17%  Amitim  3.16%  Dimensional Fund Advisors, L.P.  2.69%  Psagot  2.66%  21 Ormat Industries, Ltd. was originally established in 1965 as Ormat Turbines Ltd. The entity was later renamed Ormat Industries. 22 Ormat Industries, Ltd. was listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in 1991, but in February 2015, it was delisted and Ormat Technologies’ common stock began trading on the TASE under the ticker “ORA”. 23 For more information on our ownership structure see: https://investor.ormat.com/stock-information/ownership/default.aspx AN ORGANIZATION SHAPED BY VALUES At Ormat, sustainability is not just another target we aim to achieve; it is at the core of our business and our way of life. Ormat was founded and has flourished as a Company whose purpose is to continually renew the Earth’s energy future, a goal that Ormat strives to achieve in the spirit of environmental and social responsibil.ity. Sustainability has been part of our corporate DNA since our inception and continues to be the inspiration for the growing number of renewable energy sectors that we participate in and for the diverse array of products Our Five Core Values and services that we offer. This way of life is also demonstrated in our core values as detailed below. Together, these values sustain our organization and propel Ormat forward as we seek an even larger platform and position in the global renewable energy sector of tomorrow. FULL COMMITMENT Full commitment to our stakeholders and a sustainable future is a value central to our brand’s promise. That means that wherever we operate, we are fully committed to delivering safe, reliable, clean renewable energy products and services that minimize environmental impacts and promote a clean energy future for generations to come. COURAGE Courage comes from leveraging our collective knowledge, experience, prudent risk management and unwavering focus to continually delivering the very best results for our customers. CREATIVITY Finally, creativity is a core value that reflects our appreciation for the uniqueness of our stakeholders and our understanding that creativity is vital to delivering robust solutions that can address their expectations and needs. Ormat is built on these core values, which are reflected in the way we conduct business each day, in all our locations.  We believe that our employees, managers, and directors must consistently demonstrate honesty, openness, and fairness in their dealings with each other, with our customers and with our community. OUR MAIN CHANNELS OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The main stakeholder groups that were identified as relevant for the organization are the following: KNOWING OUR IMPACTS – STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT APPROACH As a global company that under.stands the inherent value of sustain.ability as a business strategy, we work to assess our impacts on the environ.ment, society and local communities, as well as relevant impacts for our key stakeholder groups. As a result, we have developed processes for identifying, communicating with and addressing grievances from our key groups of stakeholders. As part of this engagement strategy, and to better understand these risks and opportu.nities, we engage in on-going stake.holder dialogue and have developed an organization-wide Stakeholder Engagement Policy that can be accessed at the following link.24 STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED BY THE ORGANIZATION Ormat regularly engages with various groups of internal and external stake.holders in the context of our business operations. Ormat’s management and relevant representatives from our various business units who engage directly with stakeholder groups – for example representatives from the Human Resources Department and from the Legal Department - initially identified the stakeholder groups listed below. However, in order to better assess the methods of engagement and the material interests of these stakeholders, and as part of the Company’s materi.ality assessment that we conducted according to the best practice recom.mendations of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), Ormat surveyed stakeholder groups to verify manage.ment’s and the various departmental representatives’ assessments of relevant stakeholder groups for Ormat.  Stakeholder Group  Methods of Communication  Employees  Employee communication portal and newsletters, periodic career and professional performance reviews, participation in employee health and safety committees, organized employee evaluations and open dialogue between employees, managers and human resources representatives, events and conferences for employees25.  Customers  Communication through our website, customer service framework, and on.going sales and business development relationships.  Investors & Shareholders  Communication and updates delivered through the Investor Relations arm, investors conferences and non-deal road shows, general shareholder meetings, earnings calls and relevant updates, through the ‘Investor Relations’ page on Ormat’s website26, annual and quarterly reports, SEC filings and press releases.  Financing Entities  Engagement through environmental and social impact assessments, compliance reviews and action plans, annual and quarterly reports and SEC filings, and on-going communication through our finance department.  Public Authorities, Policy Makers & Regulators  Engagement through industry organizations, lobbying activities, participation in workshops, conferences and events, compliance reviews and action plans, and on-going communication.  Local Communities  Communication through our global Stakeholder Engagement Policy and relevant local communication strategies, tours and meetings at Ormat’s local facilities.  Social & Environmental NGOs  Active participation in relevant events and conferences, donations, contributions and volunteering activities and cooperation in social and environmental projects and industry initiatives.  Media  Communication through Ormat’s website, press releases and informational notes, tours at Ormat’s various facilities, and on-going communication.  Academia  Cooperation with Ormat in conducting research and development activities specifically with our Resource Department, providing support for scientific initiatives and expansion of educational opportunities, and tours at Ormat’s various facilities.  Employees Customers Investors & Financing Entities Public Authorities, Policy Makers & Regulators Local Communities Shareholders OUR APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Ormat has developed a business strategy that places both environ.mental sustainability and social responsibility at the forefront of our activities. Our stakeholders play a central role in the realization of our sustainability strategy and it is our intent is to develop productive and fruitful relationships with these stake.holder groups while also expanding on the opportunities available for engagement with Ormat. Social & Environmental NGOS Media Academia Our approach to stakeholder engage.ment is demonstrated in our Stake.holder Engagement Policy which sets out our promise of productive, trans.parent and equitable relationships with stakeholders. In addition to these methods of communication, all stakeholders can submit their grievances, questions or comments concerning the Company’s activities to info@ormat.com. 24 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Stakeholder%20Engagement%20Policy.pdf 25 This list is not exhaustive and is presented as an example of employment engagement activities which may vary across jurisdictions. 26 https://investor.ormat.com/ 26 27 OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ KEY INTERESTS AND CONCERNS We believe that an adequate and clear understanding of our stakeholders’ interests and concerns encourages closer and more productive relation.ships with our stakeholders. Feedback from our stakeholders enables us to refine our business strategy in order to meet these needs and concerns. As part of our stakeholder and materiality assessment conducted in 2018, we surveyed our employees, customers, investors, shareholders, financing bodies, public authorities, policy makers and regulators, and finally, the local communities in which we operate. In 2019, we reviewed our stakeholder engagement mechanisms by consult.ing with investors, board members, community members and executive managers. The survey aimed to gain a better understanding of our sustain.ability reporting practices and the degree to which it matches and meets our stakeholders’ expectations for disclosure and transparency. Issues identified for focus in the course of the survey included: diversity, equal opportunity and employment, and disclosure of key environmental data, including our greenhouse gas emissions. The topics identified by our stake.holders are addressed in the scope of this report, in our existing policies and engagement frameworks and in our on-going business activities. We consistently seek out opportu.nities for active engagement with our stakeholders and embrace every opportunity to hear their opinions and concerns regarding our organization and our business activities. OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY .DEFINING WHAT’S MATERIAL TO ORMAT Ormat began working to identify our material issues in 2018 by conduct.ing a materiality assessment. Both the stakeholder survey (described above) and the materiality assess.ment were conducted with the assis.tance of independent consultants. This approach enabled us to maintain objectivity in recording and analyzing the answers from our various groups of stakeholders. Ormat’s internal and external stake.holders were surveyed for their opinions and viewpoints regarding two aspects: the groups of stake.holders that are relevant to Ormat’s business and the issues that are of critical interest or concern to the stakeholder group within the context of their specific relationship to the organization. With regards to the latter, stakeholders were asked to rank a range of material issues according to the level of importance of the issue to their specific stakeholder group. The list of issues presented to our stakeholders was compiled based on our understanding of relevant best practices and recommendations for compiling material issues for presentation to stakeholders, such as those indicated in the Sustainabil.ity Accounting Standards Board’s (“SASB”) standards for Electric Utilities and Power Generators27, information from the news media and from benchmark studies on relevant issues for our business sector. The materiality results presented below show the relative correla.tion between matters of interest to Ormat’s stakeholders and manage.ment in accordance with their signif.icance to the Company’s impacts on the one hand and our business strategy on the other. These issues – addressed in the scope of this report - reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization together with their degree of influence on the assess.ments and decisions of our groups of stakeholders. RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY SURVEY The results of the materiality survey in 2019 are presented below in two ways. In the first, the table where the material issues are presented according to their level of significance to both our stakeholders and the Company, and are classified according to Economics & Governance, Environment and Social. In the second, the material issues are presented in a graph matrix which groups all material issues together. Economics & Governance •Ethical Business Conduct •Legal & Regulatory Compliance •Operational Efficiency •Innovation (Products & Services) •Corporate Governance •Executive Compensation Evironment •Brine & Steam Management •Encouraging Green Energy •Climate Change Mitigation •Water Management •Waste & By-Product Management •Site Biodiversity, Restoration & Preservation •Energy Efficiency •Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations •Climate Change Risk & Opportunity Management •Air Quality Social •Safety and Emergency Planning •Occupational Health and Safety •Reliability of Ormat's Service •Ormat’s Labor Relations •Customer Service • Local Employment & Development •Employee Training & Development •Workplace Diversity •Data Privacy & Security •Local Community Engagement and Support •Employees’ Well-Being •Philanthropy and Volunteering  27  As per the “Electric Utilities & Power Generators Sustainability Accounting Standard,” Industry Standard Version 2018-10. Relative Importance to Ormat's Management5.0 4.0 3.0 Executive Compensation Air Quality2.0 Climate Change Risk 1.0 0 Relative Importance to Ormat's Stakeholders Legal & Regulatory Compliance Safety & Emergency Planning Ethical Business Conduct Brine & Steam Occupational Health & Safety Management Climate Change Mitigation Encouraging Green Energy Ormat s Labor Relations Local Employment and Development Ormat Operations Water Management Efficiency Corporate Governance Customer Service Risk Management Innovation Reliability Human Rights in Supply Chain (Products & of Ormat s Services) Service Employee Training DevelopmentWaste Management Biodiversity Workspace Diversity Employees’ Well-Being Local Community Engagement Community’s Support Energy Efficiency Site Restore & Preserve Data Privacy & Security Philanthropy and Volunteering Operations GHG Emissions Social Economics & Governance Environment OUR STRATEGIC COMMITMENTS AND SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Ormat is committed to principles of Environmental, Social and Gover.nance-related (“ESG”) responsibility - commitments that are achieved through our business activities, policies, frameworks for stake.holder engagement and strategic objectives. We pursue sustainable innovation and leadership in renewable energy across several areas – namely geothermal energy, recovered energy gener.ation and energy storage. Each of these directions allows our Company to advance existing practices and push forward to improve our performance in ways that minimize material and energy inputs, maximize energy output and our operational efficiency. For example, one of our established development practices involves the incremental increase of energy production capacity for geothermal plants. We work to better understand the specific properties of a geother.mal reservoir and add new energy generation capacities progressively in stages. As such, we strive to deliver more renewable energy while main.taining substantially the same devel.opmental footprint. Similarly, when it comes to developing new renewable energy plants, we work to fully under.stand the needs and concerns of the local stakeholder community and to build lasting relationships and specific community engagement programs designed to meet those needs and concerns. Ormat applies these and other sustainability principles to the way we evaluate opportunities and develop, manufacture and operate renewable energy facilities around the world. EXTERNAL INITIATIVES We endorse several external initia.tives that assist us in realizing our environmental, social and corporate governance commitments. We have reported on our Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) emissions to the CDP since 2010. We also report data on our carbon dioxide and GHG emissions to the Israeli Ministry of Environmen.tal Protection’s voluntary business reporting initiative, a practice that we have engaged in since 2011. In addition, Ormat was part of the Frontier Observatory for Research in Geothermal Energy (“FORGE”) initiative (in partnership with Sandia National Laboratory and others) initiated by the U.S. Department of Energy. FORGE yielded new insights and techniques for characterizing potential enhanced geothermal system (“EGS”) sites as well as tested new techniques and tools in the field of geothermal drilling technologies. Currently, Ormat is partnering on several proposals to the Depart.ment of Energy for federally funded research on drilling technology and machine learning. We sponsored the Women in Geother.mal Program (Wing Program), a global network that supports the role of women in the geothermal industry and works to promote gender equality in the sector. We shared information on the organization with our relevant groups of stakeholders and supported the organization’s mission at the 2018 Geothermal Resources Council Annual Meeting. ORMAT'S MEMBERSHIPS OF ASSOCIATION The table below outlines the main organizations of which Ormat is amember and that are related to our various business and ESG activities. Type of Organization  Relevant Memberships  1 | Geothermal Organizations  • Geothermal Resources Council (GRC) – U.S. • International Geothermal Association (IGA) • Indonesia Geothermal Association  2 | Energy Organizations  • California Energy Markets • California Energy Storage Alliance (CESA) • Energy Storage Association – U.S. • Society of Petroleum Engineers – U.S. • Utah Clean Energy • Green Energy Association of Israel • World Energy Council  3 | Health and Safety Organizations  • The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) • National Safety Council – U.S. • National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) – U.S. • Alliance for Industrial Efficiency • American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP) • CA OPC Engineers Board • California Community Choice Association (CalCCA)  4 | Chambers of Commerce  • CalChamber – California, U.S. • Churchill Economic Development Authority – Nevada, U.S. • Hawaii Island Chamber of Commerce • Elko Chamber of Commerce – Nevada, U.S. • Israel Export Institute • Manufacturers Association of Israel • Israel Latin America Association • Israel Turkey Business Council  ORMAT AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Member States of the United Nations adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (the 2030 Agenda).28  The 17 SDGs and the related 169 targets were designed to address the world’s most pressing social and economic issues. The goals were designed to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing the planet, society and economies, such as poverty, inequalities, injustice and climate change. However, it is widely believed that the UN’s Agenda can only be achieved through collaboration between all major stakeholders – including governments, local communities and business. As a leading global renewable energy company, we believe that Ormat has an important leadership role to play in helping to achieve these SDGs. 28 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/ The following table details the most relevant SDGs and targets that we address through our business activities andsocial and environmental engagement plans: Sustainable Development Goal  Relevant Targets  GRI Disclosures  Relevant Business Activities  No Poverty  • 1.4: Equal rights to economic resources, access to basic services, ownership and control over land and other forms of property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new  GRI Disclosure  413-2  • We assess the relative economic impact on the communities in which it operates through stakeholder engagement and economic impact assessments.  End poverty in all  technology and financial services, including microfinance  • We engage with local communities and work to alleviate poverty through our philanthropic activity  forms, everywhere  and employment creation as part of our agenda for 100% local employment  Good Health and  • 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to  GRI Disclosure  401-2  • Healthcare and safety are key aspects of the benefits that we provide our employees, including paid  Well-Being  quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines andv vaccines for all.  sick leave and access to healthcare packages at or beyond the local labor and regulatory requirements  Ensure healthy  lives and promote  well-being for all  at all ages  Quality Education  • 4.3: Ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university.  GRI Disclosure  404-1  • Our philanthropic activity world-wide is education focused. • Employees are offered opportunities to expand their technical and professional skills and knowledge,  Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and  • 4.5: Eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations  and to engage in personal development courses and degrees, which we work to sponsor at our inter.national power plants and facilities. On average, Ormat employees received 7 hours of training in 2019. • We provide equal academic and training opportunities for employees, regardless of their gender. We sponsor the Women in Geothermal (WING) Program to promote gender equality in the geothermal  promote lifelong  sector. Lastly, we set up a school for girls in our Kenya communities  learning opportuni. ties for all  Clean Water and Sanitation  • 6.3: Improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally.  GRI Disclosure  303-1-a GRI Disclosure  303-1-c  • Our power plants are air cooled, in comparison to the majority of geothermal plants which are water-cooled. Thus, we greatly minimize the use of water. • We work to minimize the use of water in our power plants and conduct environmental impact  Ensure access to  • Support and strengthen the participation of local communities in improving water and sanitation management.  assessments to test local aquifer and groundwater quality surrounding our power plants. We also work to minimize the amount of water used in the manufacturing process.  water and sanita. tion for all  Affordable and Clean Energy  • 7.2: Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix • 7.A: Enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency and advanced and  GRI Disclosure  302-1 GRI Disclosure  302-2 GRI Disclosure  302-3  • As a leading provider of renewable energy solutions worldwide, we are helping countries and commu.nities meet their renewable energy targets. • We provide recovered energy generation and energy storage, which help a variety of renewable  Ensure access to affordable, reliable,  cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology • 7.B: Expand infrastructure and upgrade technology for supplying modern and  energy solutions to work to scale. • We work with governments and through international frameworks to promote our renewable energy solutions, including support for research and development in the geothermal and energy storage fields,  sustainable and  sustainable energy services for all in developing countries, in particular least developed  collaborations with relevant industry organizations and with leading renewable energy companies.  modern energy  countries, small island developing States, and land-locked developing countries, in accordance with their respective programs of support  • We introduce our renewable energy technologies in the developing world to support national renewable energy goals and international commitments in those countries.  Decent Work and  • 8.2: Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological  GRI Disclosure 201-1  • We are committed to local employment at all of our operational facilities and power plants.  Economic Growth  upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labor-in.tensive sectors  GRI Disclosure  203-2 GRI Disclosure  102-8  • We work to develop the skills and knowledge of our employees, including at our manufacturing facilities thus encouraging the upgrading of skills for labor-intensive sectors.  Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all  • 8.5: Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value • 8.8: Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment.  GRI Disclosure  202-2 GRI Disclosure  401-1 GRI Disclosure  401-2 GRI Disclosure 401-3 GRI Disclosure  102-41 GRI Disclosure  403-1-a GRI Disclosure 403- 1-b GRI Disclosure  403-4-a GRI Disclosure  403- 4-b GRI Disclosure  403-5 GRI Disclosure  406-1  • Through our renewable energy solutions, we seek to help countries decouple economic growth from environmental degradation caused due to the burning of fossil fuels and from the use of non-renewable resources for energy generation. • We promote equality in employment for all of our employees regardless of gender, race, cultural background, religion, physical disposition, or other irrelevant factors. • We implement an advanced health and safety framework that is implemented through our Quality, Environment, Health and Safety policy. We support the labor rights of all our employees and honor their basic rights to decent work and fair pay. We manage human resources with employees’ rights in mind.  Affordable and  • 9.1: Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional  • Our power plants contribute to the existing energy generation infrastructure in the countries where  Clean Energy  and trans-border infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all.  we operate. The nature of renewable energy infrastructure works to increase the overall level of resilience in the country of operation.  Promote inclusive and sustainable  • 9.4: Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies.  GRI Disclosure  201-1  • Through our power plants and renewable energy solutions, we actively encourage the adoption of clean and environmentally-sound technologies, mainly in developing countries that may have limited access to such solutions.  economic growth, employment and  • 9.A: Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development in developing countries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support to African  GRI Disclosure  203-1  decent work for all  countries, least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States  Responsible  • 12.2: Achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources  GRI Disclosure  301-1  • We encourage the sustainable use of materials and resources, including natural geothermal resources.  Consumption and  • 12.4: Achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes  GRI Disclosure  302-1  • We encourage and track the generation of waste products and the use of materials (namely non-re- Production Ensure sustainable consumption and  throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment • 12.5: Substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.  GRI Disclosure  302-2 GRI Disclosure  302-3 GRI Disclosure  303-1-a GRI Disclosure  303-1-c GRI Disclosure  305-1  newable materials) at our operational sites. • We actively promote and enforce practices for recycling, reclamation and reuse of materials at our operational sites, with a specific emphasis on our manufacturing facilities.  production patterns  GRI Disclosure  305-2 GRI Disclosure  305-3 GRI Disclosure  306-1 GRI Disclosure  306-2  Climate Action  • 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries  • We analyze our risks and opportunities in terms of climate change impacts, and work to assess how our business and operational activities impact the likelihood of climate change and other environmental  Take urgent action to combat climate  GRI Disclosure  201-2  impact scenarios. This includes reporting on our own energy use and CO2 production. • Our core offering – geothermal energy – is renewable, thus reducing use and concomitant burdens of non-renewable energy use among our customers.  change and its  impacts  Life on Land  • 15.1: Ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements • 15.9: Integrate ecosystem and biodiversity values into national and local planning, development processes, poverty reduction strategies and accounts.  GRI Disclosure 304-1 GRI Disclosure 304-2 GRI Disclosure 304-3 GRI Disclosure 304-4  • We conduct environmental impact assessments to ensure that we have an adequate understanding of our impacts. • We actively engage our stakeholders and consult with local communities and local government administrators.  RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY – SUSTAINABILITY AND CLIMATE CHANGE.RELATED RISKS OUR RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH As a global Company and publicly traded entity, we place equal weight on the management of pertinent risks and the pursuit of relevant revenue generation opportunities. Our management team works in close cooperation with all our major oper.ational locations to identify and deal with relevant risks and to implement appropriate methodologies for addressing such risks. As such, our risk management process has several key levels of analysis: by our project teams and major oper.ations; by Company management and through assignment of respon.sibilities; through our management of know-how and skills relevant to the various disciplines that help us achieve our targets as a vertically-in.tegrated company; and through other relevant controls and measures for our business, such as audit and regu.latory functions. Our methodology for identifying relevant risks involves mapping the control environment of our corporate and business infrastructure including the main activities that we pursue. Our business units are categorized and mapped, and within these we map relevant business processes. In order to understand relevant risks for each of these processes, we develop risk ranking criteria that look at both the level of impact and the likelihood of occurrence. Based on this system, we conduct our risk assessment among the various business units and operations. The identified risks are further ranked and validated by the process owners and relevant members of management, resulting in a risk profile and priorities, and eventually culminating in our plan for management of those risks. Relevant Risks We consider potential risks from climate change according to the precautionary approach for risk management with regards to our products and services.29 In iden.tifying relevant risks from climate change that could potentially result in substantive changes to our oper.ations, revenue, and expenditures, we seek to minimize these risks and address them either through our model of engagement, physical infra.structure and operations, or in the on-going management and opera.tions of our plants and our Company. Based on our risk assessment, Ormat is not exposed to any special material risk from climate change. Our equipment is designed to withstand extreme weather events and is largely independent and isolated from weather-related impacts. With this, daily and seasonal fluctuations in temperature generally have a  more significant impact on the generat.ing capacity of geothermal energy plants than they do on conventional power plants.  Some of our power plants experience reduced genera.tion in warm periods due to the lower heat differential between geothermal fluid and the ambient surroundings. While we generally account for the projected impact of seasonal fluc.tuations in temperature based on our historic experience, the impact of climate change on traditional weather patterns has become more pronounced. This has reduced the certainty of our modelling efforts. For example, in 2019, we experienced prolonged elevated temperatures in the Western United States which impacted generating capacity at our facilities and adversely impacted our revenues in the fourth quarter of the year. To the extent weather conditions continue to be impacted by climate change, the generating capacity of certain of our facilities may be adversely impacted in a manner that we could not predict which may in turn adversely impact our opera.tions. Additionally, Recovered Energy units may be affected when winter temperatures are higher than average as it reduces the gas flow and, like all structures, power plants are likely to be affected by extreme weather occurrences such as hurricanes and tornadoes, which are unavoidable. Almost all of our power plants are located in areas that are not expected to be affected by rising sea levels. In terms of risk management in the geothermal exploration process, Ormat’s Resource Department is comprised of an experienced team of geologists, geophysicists and engineers who are dedicated to assessing, exploring, developing and managing geothermal reservoirs in the context of our projects or potential projects. The risk manage.ment process for the exploration phase begins with in-depth research on the geothermal reservoir, including its location in the potential plant area, in order to identify and assess potential physical, social or environ.mental risks early in the process. If a site is deemed to be relevant, the Resource Department begins the surface exploration process at the site whereby they initiate drilling in slim holes to determine the exact location of the geothermal reservoir and where to locate the plant. 