WORKPLACE Ormat is committed to creating and maintaining a workplace where our people can be their very best. That’s why we place a high priority on employee involvement and engagement in the major initiatives that we advance.  We believe clarity, transparency and clearly articulated values are fundamental. One such initiative, Ormat’s new brand identity and values, is an excellent example of how Ormat relies on employee input, ideas and enthusiasm to create authentic, relevant programs. Ormat also works to ensure our workplace is fair, open and free from discrimination or harassment. Progressive workplaces attract and retain the best employees, which we recognize as a key driver of our success as a company. Ormat offers equitable and competitive pay and benefits, health insurance and retirement savings plans. Lastly, we offer a wide variety of professional development opportunities design to help individuals excel at their current responsibilities, and to advance in their careers. NEW BRAND AND OUR EMPLOYEES For a company operating in 30 countries worldwide, a unified, cohesive brand is critical. Ormat’s successful brand launch in September 2017 started with employee involvement. Their collective ideas and shared experience helped shape and test the new branding platform, as well as the five core values that support them. According to Isaac Angel, Ormat’s CEO, “Our employees know who we are and where we are headed and played a very valuable role in the rebranding process. We greatly appreciate their contributions.” Ormat employee ideas and insights are considered valuable perspectives that enable our company to work more proactively, safely and in tune with the local communities in which we operate. Ormat’s worldwide brand launch event was staged simultaneously on September 18, 2017 so that every employee, regardless of the time zone or country, could celebrate together. Ormat’s CEO, Isaac Angel, spoke to employees through a video broadcast, explaining the brand values and what they symbolize. He said, “Ormat’s new brand was created by listening to our stakeholders – employees, clients, investors – to ensure it reflects who we are and where we are headed. You, our employees, are our most important brand ambassadors.” All Ormat employees received a special gift to commemorate the new brand, including a reusable tote bag, note pad and water bottle, all featuring Ormat’s new logo. Ormat also launched a new website the same day. Response to date has been overwhelmingly positive and Ormat looks forward to continuing to embed the new brand identity throughout all marketing and communication initiatives. 