GOVERNANCE AND ECONOMIC 70-88 › Our projectedgrowthplans to the end of 2023 compared to the end of 2021: Increase geothermal and solar PV capacity by approximately 18.5% and energy storage assets portfolio by approximately 260% ~1.5 GW 1.1 GW 2021 2022 2023 MANAGEMENT OF ECONOMICS AND FINANCE AT ORMAT The topics of economics and finance at Ormat aremanaged by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer. These individuals areresponsible for reporting economic performance and any relevant financial issues to the Board ofDirectors and shareholders, through regular reports to the Board, filings with the SEC, and other reports and press releases. Furthermore, and together with management, these individuals are responsible for preparing Ormat's annual, quarterly and periodic financial reports that are filed with the SEC, as well as all investor-facing external communications. All of our SEC filings, including the Company's 10-K, 10-Q and other relevant documents are available to the public both on the SEC website and on our Investor We hold quarterly earnings calls that all our globalRelations page. shareholders can access online along with the Ormat’s senior management reports to the Board of Company's corresponding earnings presentation.Directors annually on major risks to the Company’s In addition, our Investor Relations team issues emailbusiness strategy. This involves a discussion of trends notifications, alerts and news regarding Ormat'sas well as identified risks and opportunities relating tofinancial performance or any major Company eventsclimate change and other sustainability considerations on a regular basis through a wide media distributionaffecting the business. network and a list of registered subscribers. In all our Our shareholders are consistently provided with communication and interaction with shareholders, we current information on our financial performanceaim to provide best-in-class service while adequately and condition through our filings with the SEC.and appropriately addressing their requests. Loans and Financial Assistance Received from Governments and Development Banks Ormat interacts directly with governments, government agencies and development banks with regards to our power plants around the world. Our methods and types of communication and engagement with government entities vary based on the global and local legal and regulatory framework, as well as the economic structure of the electricity generation market in that country. There are several governmental incentives, such as tax benefitsor subsidies for renewable energy generation, that contribute to the attractiveness of our solutions. More information and an assessment of relevant tax benefits is available in our 2021 Annual Report. Aside from tax benefits, a number of Ormat's projects arefunded with financial loans from prominent government and multilateral backed development financial institutions, suchas the Development Finance Corporation (”DFC”), the German Investment Corporation (DEG)30 and the Asian Development Bank. Details on selected financial loans:DFC Project finance loanPlatanares, HondurasDFCProject finance loanOlkaria III, KenyaDEG Credit agreement Olkaria III, Kenya U.S. DOEProject finance loan - ARRA Section 1603Neal Hot Springs, Oregon, U.S.U.S. DOE and John HancockProject finance loan - ARRA Section 1705OFC-2 Geothermal Portfolio, Nevada, U.S.Usually, Ormat does not directly receive grants and benefits from governments, but indirectly through incentives paid to thesubsidiary companies that operate our power plants. More information on the relevant incentives received by our subsidiary companies can be found in the 2021 Annual Report. 30 Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft. Ormat's Approach to Taxes As a global company and in accordance with our core values, it is of principal importance that we pay the taxes we are obligated to pay, abide by the rules and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and pay what we owe in a timely fashion. In doing so, we seek to operate in a transparent, ethical, and socially responsible manner in our interactions with tax authorities and contribute to the communities in which we operate while maintaining our responsibility to our shareholders. We have createdaGlobalTaxPolicytohelpdefineandguideour approach to support our commitment to the communities we operate in. The Tax Policy defines Ormat's tax strategy, based on a commitment to excellence and the application of good tax practices aligned within the framework of the corporate Core Values and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Company’s tax strategy has been established to facilitate compliance with applicable tax laws and regulations and seeks to establish an appropriate coordination of tax practices. This is conducted within the framework of fulfilling the corporate interest and supportinga long-term business strategy that avoids tax risks and inefficiencies in the implementation of businessdecisions. The Company takes into account all legitimate interests, including public interests, that converge in its business. Our tax planning must support genuine commercial activity, comply with the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and be consistent with our business strategy and Core Values. The Company does not engage in "prohibited tax shelter transactions" including listed transactions, transactions with contractual protection, or confidential transactions as defined by the InternalRevenue Service of the U.S. or similar provisions in other taxing jurisdictions. Our Corporate Tax Policy is reviewed on a regular basis and changes are approved by the Company's Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Ormat’s Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the Tax Policyand delegates execution to the Vice President of Global Tax. Execution of the Tax Policy is supported by the Company's Global Tax and Finance teams. The Company has Ethics and Compliance Programs designed to prevent and detect violations of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and has established mechanisms for internal and external parties to anonymously raise compliance and ethics concerns, including unethical or unlawful behavior in relation to tax. OUR HOLISTIC APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Commitment to Upholding the Highest Standards Across the Organization As a publicly traded company with operations and activities across the globe, corporate governance is a top priority for Ormat. We believe that transparent corporate governance practices contribute to the financial successof our businessand help ensure that our company remains resilient and strong in the face of challenges, while also creating space for new business opportunities and engagement. In terms of our corporate values, our corporate governance practice is defined by honesty, openness and fairness, andwe expect all our employees, and especially our leaders, to exhibit these qualities at all times. By integrating these values into our corporate governance practices, we work towards the goal of ensuring the stability of our company as well as expressing our full commitment to transparency, fairness and good business practices with our stakeholders. We have implemented several corporate governance mechanisms for management and oversight that ensure that these values and our integrity are upheld on an ongoing basis. Corporate governance is one of the key sustainability issues identified by our stakeholders and we remain steadfast in ourcommitment to devoting resources to constantly improving our governance and our level of disclosure on related topics, such as anti-corruption, executive remuneration and regulatory compliance. Ormat's Corporate Governance Structure Board of Directors The Board of Directors' main responsibility is to provide direction to, and oversight of, management. The Board establishes Ormat’s strategic direction and oversees the performance of its business and management of any relevant economic, environmental and social impacts. We strive to promote diversity of representation at all levels of our company. As of December 31, 2021, our nine-member Board included one female director, and four directors from racially diverse backgrounds. As of the date of publication of this report, our Board contains three women and four members with racially diverse backgrounds. Independence of the board of directors The Board maintains the flexibility todetermine whether the roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO should be combined or separated, based on what it believes is in the best interests of the Company at any given point in time. The Board believes that this flexibility is in the best interest of the Company. Our Chairman is appointed annually by the Board and does not hold any additional executive roles in the company. Currently, the CEO position is separate from the Chairman of the Board position and our CEO does not serve on our Board. We believe this structure encourages free and open dialogue and provides for strong checks and balances.31 Board Member Nomination and Election The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board evaluate each director nominee’s key qualifications, skills,experience and perspectives that he or she may bring to the Board, as well as existing commitments to other businesses, professional experience, understanding of the Company’s business environment and the composition and combined expertise of the existing Board. The members of Ormat’s Board of Directors have educational and professional experience in numerous relevant areas, including but not limited to the following: senior leadership and strategy, public companycorporate governance,financeand accounting, capital markets, esg, energy industry, capital projects, business development and international business.32 31 More information can be found in Ormat’s 2021 Proxy Statement, page 18. 32 A complete description of director member experience can be found in Ormat’s 2021 Proxy Statement, page 26. 75 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 How Our Board is Organized Our Board of Directors conducts its business and affairs through meetings of the Board and through the four standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Investment, and Nominating and Corporate Governance.33 Board members are selected for the committees based on their professional knowledge, and in accordance with all the regulatory requirements, as detailed in the following diagram: Isaac Angel | Chairman Dan Falk | Lead Independent Director .. . Albertus “Bert” Bruggink . David Granot . ... Mike Nikkel Dafna Sharir .. . Stanley B. Stern . .. Hidatake Takahashi .. Byron G. Wong . Chair . 33 More information on the committees that make up Ormat's Board of Directorscan be found in Ormat’s 2021 ProxyStatement, pages 19-21. ESG Management at Ormat The Board of Directors delegates responsibilities to various senior executives for managing economic, environmental and social topics according to the relevance of the topic to the nature of their role34. For instance, our Executive Vice President of Business Development is responsible for assessing related risks and opportunities arising from Ormat's engagement with economic, environmental and social topics while developing projects. In addition, some senior roles are mainly devoted to relevant risk management issues, such as our VP of Investor Relations and ESG Planning and Reporting who reports directly to our Chief Financial Officer on ESG related performance metrics, and our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports oncompliance related issues to the CEO and Board of Directors. Additionally, our Human Resources division is responsible in managing various ESG aspects throughout Ormat. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the satisfaction and development of our employees, their benefits andwellbeing. These senior executives and relevant managers report to the management and/or the Board of Directors and its committees on a periodic basis and as needed, based on their determination of the necessity of such updates. Furthermore, relevant employees are involved in strategic thinking on the management of economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities. We consult with stakeholders regarding the proper management of key ESG risks and opportunities, including: our financial auditors, ESG consultants,legal advisors, largest stockholders, and employees. Ormat is committed to upholding our Stakeholder Engagement Policy expressing our commitment to maintaining systematic and proactive channels of dialogue in order to take key interests, concerns and needs into account. In 2021, no material actions were taken in response to evaluations of the Board of Director's performance, nor those pertaining to the governance of economic, environmental and social topics. 34 More information on the Board's skills, experienceand backgrounds,including ESG, can befound in Ormat’s 2021 ProxyStatement, page 26. Ormat's Management Ormat prides itself on assembling a highly qualifiedand experienced executive management team of eight members, one of whom joined our team during 2021. Each position on the management team is designed to serve a designated function that addresses Ormat's business needs and the needs of our key stakeholders. Ormat is committed to achieving a diverse and talented management team. The following table shows the members of our current senior management team, as of the date of publication of this report: Doron BlacharChief Executive Officer (CEO)July 20202013Assaf GinsburgChief Financial Officer (CFO)May 20202020Shlomi Argas President and Head of Operations and Products January 2021 1994 Shimon Hatzir Executive Vice President – Electricity Segment April 2021 1990 Ofer Ben Yosef Executive Vice President - Energy Storage and Business Development April 2020 2020 Bob Sullivan Executive Vice President – Business Development January 2015 2003 Jessica WoelfelGeneral Counsel and Chief Compliance OfficerJanuary 20222019Liza Tavori Senior Vice President – Human Resources Each member of the management team is screened for the relevant experience and knowledge that is needed to fully perform their role. Similarly, all executive managers undergo performance reviews and are provided with training or access to educational opportunities on topics that are most applicable to their professional role. Together with the Board of Directors, the management team is responsible for setting Ormat's business strategy and direction, December 2021 2021 including the company's performance goals, KPIs, and the general management of matters involving the Company's employees and stakeholders. With respect to ESG, the senior managers are responsible for the development, approval, and revision of Ormat’s purpose, policies, and goals related to ESG topics, as well as periodically reviewing environmental and social impact assessments and action plans of our business activity. Board and Committee Evaluations Every year, the Board and each of its committees evaluate and discuss their respective performance and effectiveness. The Board and committee evaluation for 2021 was led by our General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer. These evaluations were conductedby providing each director with detailed questionnaires on the Board and its committees, covering a wide range of topics, including, but not limited to, the fulfillment of the Board and committee responsibilitiesidentified in the Corporate Governance Guidelinesand committee charters. STEP 1: Initiation of Evaluations Our General Counsel initiates the annual evaluation process by presenting the proposed approach to the Board and distributing questionnaires to each director soliciting his or her opinions on Board performance and effectiveness. STEP 2: Board and Committee Assessment Questionnaires Each director completes a questionnaire addressing the Board’s knowledge and understanding of, and performance with respect to, the Company’s business, strategy, values and mission, the appropriateness of the Board’s structure and composition, the communication among the directors and between the Board and management and the Board’s meeting process. Committee members additionally assess, among other topics, how the committee has satisfied the responsibilities contained in its charter, the organization of the committee, the committee meeting process and the committee’s oversight. STEP 3: Follow-Up Interviews Our General Counsel reviews each questionnaire and conducts follow-up interviews with each director as necessary. STEP 4: Presentation of Findings Our General Counsel prepares and presents to the Board a report aggregating and summarizing for the Board and its committees the findings from the questionnaires and interviews. STEP 5: Implementation of Feedback The Board and its committees discuss the findings and consider what, if any, actions should be implemented to enhance future performance. Remuneration Policies The Compensation Committee, composed of independent directors, oversees our executive compensation program. The Compensation Committee administers our annual cash incentive and long-term equity incentive plans and reviews performance levels relevant to compensation. It also decides the compensation of all named executive officers other than our CEO, seeks to ensure that allexecutive compensation is aligned with our compensation philosophy, and makes recommendations to our Board of Directors with respect to the compensation of the CEO and our compensation practices in general. The CEO recuses himself from all Board discussions and decisions on his own compensation. In making its recommendations, the Compensation Committee seeks to compensate directors at appropriate levels and to align directors' interests with the long-term interests of our stockholders. In its deliberations, the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors consider whether the levels of director compensation could impair independence and critically evaluate any consulting, charitable contribution or other potentially indirect compensation arrangements. The Compensation Committee is responsible for setting corporate goals and objectives relevant to the CEO's and executive managers' compensation and assessing their performance against these set goals and objectives. In determining their level of compensation, the Compensation Committee considers a number of factors such as the Company's performance and relative shareholder return, the Committee’s interpretation of competitive compensation averages from individuals with similar responsibilities at companies with similar financial, operating and industry characteristics, insimilar locations. In addition, the Compensation Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving aspects of the CEO’s and executive officers' compensation based onincentive awards and opportunities, including cash-based and equity-based awards and opportunities, any employment agreements and severance agreements, change-in-control agreements, severance protection plans and change-in-control provisions affecting the level of compensation and benefits, and any special supplementary compensation and benefits for the CEOand executive officers. Furthermore, the CompensationCommittee reviews and discusses the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) that is included in the Company's annual proxy statement and 2021 Annual Report. The Fiscal 2021 compensation of our CEO and NEOs was based in part on the Company’s achievements with respect to: ..ESG-related metrics, including the publication of new ESG policies, reduced carbon footprint with respect to Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, and increased disclosure and transparency of Scope 3 GHG emissions; ..Diversity, equity and inclusion, including increased diversity in senior management, such that 30% of Vice President level employees as of Fiscal 2021 were women, and greater representation of local communities among senior management at our plants, such that all senior management at our power plants were hired from local communities; ..Successful mergers and acquisitions, including of Terra-Gen’s subsidiary, TG Geothermal Portfolio, LLC; ..Management of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Corporate Governance Policies and Guidelines Stock-based Awards In May 2018, Ormat's shareholders adopted the 2018 Incentive Compensation Plan (ICP), which provides for grants of certain kinds of awards including incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock units, performance awards, phantom stock, incentive bonuses and other possible related dividend payments to employees of the Company, directors and independent contractors. Under the 2018 Incentive Plan, a total of 5,000,000 shares of Ormat's common stock were authorized and reserved for issuance. In 2022 we proposed, and approved, an amendment and restatement of the 2018 ICP. The amendment changes include an additional 1,700,000 shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance, adjusting the fungible rate at which full value awards granted from 3.0 shares to 2.15 shares, and implementing a required one-year minimum vesting period (subject to limited exceptions) for new equity awards granted. These changes have been made because we believe they will enable us to attract, motivate and retain directors and key employees, as well as recognize the contribution to the success and growth of the company. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines outline the expectations from senior management and the Board of Directors to monitor and measure the effectiveness of policy and decision-making in order to enhance stockholder value for the long term. It was last reviewed and amended in April of 2021. The Guidelines, together with our articles of incorporation and bylaws, establish the governance framework for the management of the Company. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines are also intended to align the interests of directors and management with those of our stockholders. The guidelines address, among other matters, the role of our Board, Board composition and committees, Board membership criteria, director independence, Board meetings, performance evaluation and succession planning. Ormat's criteria for determining director independence and the Company's commitment to, at minimum, a majority of independent directors on the Board. Each of the Board of Directors' committees has its own separate charter that governs the topics and procedures of each of the committees, and which are publicly available on the "Governance" page of our website. In addition, we have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that is applicable to all of our employees, executive officers anddirectors, as well as a Code of Ethics Applicable to Senior Executives that is applicable to our principal executiveofficers,principalfinancialofficers, principal accounting officerand controller, and all persons performing similar functions, including our chief executive and senior financial officers. If we makeany amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Code of Ethics Applicable to Senior Executives or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of either code applicable to our CEO, CFO or principal accounting officer, weintend to disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website within four business days to the extent required by SEC rules. Senior executives are expected to follow Ormat's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applicable to all employees, and are required to sign and formally acknowledge the Code as part of their employment contract. Both of the policies were last reviewed and updated in April of 2021. Ensuring a Corruption-Free Work Environment As part of Ormat's commitment to operate with the highest corporate governance standards, we work to ensure that all of our activities are free from corrupt practices and that our employees are well-informed of our expectations regarding ethical behavior. Ormat’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Executives, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (“ABAC”) Policy , and other compliance procedures outline our relevant corporate governance practices regarding anti-corruption and the expectations our company has for good governance and business practices. Corporate governance policy documents can be found on our website on the "Governance" page. Ormat employees and officers must sign acompliancecertificatestatingtheirintentiontoupholdthese standards. Ormat conducts business around the world and is committed to complying with all applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. We have established corporate policies which seek to ensure that Ormat and its employees, officers, and directors will upholdnot only the letter, but also the spirit, of all legal and ethical standards in place for the conduct of global business activities. The standards that we set are clear: Ormat employees (and associated third parties conducting business on Ormat’s behalf) are strictly prohibited from offering, paying, promising to pay, authorizing the payment of, receiving or accepting, either directly or indirectly, any corrupt payment or anything of value to or from anyone, anywhere in the world, in order to obtain or retain business or secure any improper business advantage. The perceived or real cultural prevalence of such corrupt practices in a location is never a valid excuse or defense for corrupt activities. Our policies clearly defines key terms and requirements so that they are easily understandable by employees and provides guidelines for the reporting of relevant concerns and for mitigating potential risks through our company’s whistleblower policy. Our policies also provide an overview of Ormat's ABAC training requirements, audit and risk assessment processes, and third-party risk management processes and procedures, including due diligence, in addition to guidance related to the giving or receiving of gifts, hospitality, entertainment, sponsorships and donations around the world. Ormat’s Chief Compliance Officer oversees theCompliance department and the implementation of the Company’s compliance policies. Ormat also has an ABAC Committee composed of senior management representatives from various disciplines. including the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Executive Vice Presidents, and other members that are designated by Company management from time to time. The ABAC Committee stays up to date on the Compliance Department’s global activities and is a forum to discuss any compliance related items in various business units around the world. Ormat's Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the CEOand Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for compliance related matters. Ormat's ABAC Policy was initially adopted by the Board of Directors in 2016 and was last updated in 2021. All employees are responsible for complying with the Policy. Directors, executives, managers, employees, contractors or other stakeholders are requested to report any suspected violations of the ABAC Policy and failure to do so could result in termination of employment or of other contractual relationships. Retaliatory action is not taken or tolerated against any actor who, in good faith, reports suspected policy violations. Ormat maintains a whistleblower hotline by which complaints or concerns can be made anonymously through multiple mechanisms, and the Company is committed to investigating and reporting all concerns according to its policies. Employees can also report concerns in a variety of other ways, including escalating issues through management, Ormat’s compliance management system (the “GAN”), dedicated telephone lines specific to each countryin which we operate as part of our Whistleblower Policy, or directly to human resources, any member of management, our Chief Compliance Officer and General Counsel, or the Board of Directors.35 35 More information regarding thewhistleblower mechanism can be found in Ormat’s Whistleblower policy. Political Contributions and Lobbying Activities Due to our global nature and operations in various countries around the world, we are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen wherever we do business and more so, to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. To demonstrate our commitment and to solidify our approach within the company, in 2021 Ormat developed a Political Contributions and Activities Policy. This policy is directly in line with, and acts complementary to, our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for the offering and/or giving of political contributions in association with or on behalf of the company. Communication and Training on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Commitments Ormat communicates its ABAC policies to its employees as part of their employment onboarding and the policy is publicly communicated on Ormat's website. Our relevant employees are required to undergo periodic ethics and corporate governance training sessions that are targeted at identifying and dealing with potential corrupt behavior. To do so, we utilize training and policy modules through Ormat’s compliance management system. Employees are sorted by ABAC risk levels and assigned appropriate training and policy acknowledgments based on those risk levels. There are two ABAC training campaigns, Basic ABAC and Advanced ABAC, which are both offered in multiple languages to better fit the needs of our employees. Basic ABAC is a review of Ormat's ABAC policy and the accompanying ABAC presentation. Within the advanced ABAC training, we include a review of the policy, the presentation, a hypothetical dilemma and a test. All Ormat employees, regardless of risk level, are annually assigned a campaign to review and acknowledge the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, ABAC Policy, and other related policies. These policies are available in multiple languages and employees are responsible for periodically checking the GAN policy library for updates to the policies. Ormat first implemented the online trainings on corporate governance practices, such as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, ABAC Policy and more, through the GAN system in late 2020, and we are constantly working to improve the compliance management system. We have prioritized increasing employee adoption of the GAN System globally in order to improve our training metrics, and we intends for 100% of our employees to receive training on relevant corporate governance practices. To do so, Ormat’s Compliance team has established the following targeted goals: ..In-person visits by a compliance team member to every Ormat location in 2022 to meet with employees and increase awareness and use of the GAN system, as well as Ormat’s general compliance requirements. ..Conducting in-person trainings for the employees who don’t have access to computers at work. ..Optimize the GAN system, streamlining processes where possible, and integrating the Compliance Management process with Ormat’s other information technology infrastructures. ..Quarterly compliance messages from the General Counsel & CCO to the entire company that include information on compliance related issues and reminders to complete assigned campaigns. ..Providing an overview of the Compliance program and training requirements at new hire orientation. It is Ormat’s goal to constantly improve its Compliance program, and these are some of the many steps we are taking to do so. Insider Trading Policy Ormat’s Insider Trading Policy, was established to promote compliance with laws that prohibit a company’s securities from being traded on the basis of material, non-public information. The Policy is publicly available, and accessible on our website. Our Policy is applicable to all Ormat employees, officers,directors, family members and their controlled entities, as well as consultants, advisors, agents, contractors, temporary, loaned, contracted or seconded employees, or other persons who enter into a contractual agreement with Ormat. It clearly defines what kinds of informationcan be considered material and non-public, as well as the activities that are prohibited to those that have been potentially exposed to such information. Employees, directors and officers are required to sign and acknowledge the policy as a condition of their employment with Ormat. Major Ongoing LitigationThe Company is periodically involved in legal proceedings both in and out of court, which relate to corporate governance matters. The material legal proceedings are described in our 2021 Annual Report, page 65, and other public reports. ORMAT’S SUPPLY CHAIN & PROCUREMENT PRACTICES As a global Company with operations in a number of countries, Ormat has a diverse and dispersed supply chain that we responsibly manage through our Procurement Department. The Procurement Department is responsible for selecting, managing and assessing our supply chain as well as determining the conditions for working with various suppliers. Ormat engages with suppliers and subcontractors for two main purposes: for the provision of materials, parts and services in manufacturing through our Procurement Department and for the construction, operation and maintenance of our power plants around the world. In addition, Ormat engages a small number of service providers – such as lawyers, consultants and accountants – who advise Company management and the Board of Directors on certain issues. In addition to our engagement with subcontractors, contractors and third parties in the construction and design of our power plants, subcontractors also play in important role in ongoing plant operation and maintenance. We not only view engagement with local subcontractors in our areas of operation as an opportunity to support local economies; the maintenance of our power plants tends to involve the development of key infrastructure, such as roads and transportation routes around the plant site. At our global power plants, subcontractors and third parties are engaged to perform various jobs and deliver services that contribute to the nature of our operations and the reliability of our service to stakeholders. At the majority of our sites in Africa and Latin America, we employ security service contractors to guard the premises, offices and infrastructure of our powerplants, including residential facilities for on-site staff, where relevant. We engage with subcontractors in our US and Guatemala facilities to physically operate our plants, and at the vast majority of sites, local contractors are hired for transportation services and routine maintenance work, such as road repair and pipe cleaning. At our offices in Israel, some of ourInformation Technology, information security and data protection systems are managed by subcontractors that report to us. As such, Ormat's supply chain consists of four different types of suppliers: electrical parts suppliers, suppliers of materials, suppliers of parts and service providers. As of 2021, Ormat worked with approximately 5,800 different suppliers. Furthermore, our Company has operations in over ten different countries, and as a result, we work with suppliers from around the world. Where possible, Ormat encourages and seeks out opportunities to work with local suppliers. However, due to the technical specifications that are inherent in the construction of our power plants, we are often required to import materials, parts and supplies that are not typically manufactured locally. We categorize our work with suppliers according to the level of spending by the supplier over the fiscal year. As such, Ormat encourages work with smaller suppliers that are categorized by the Procurement Department according to the level of spend and volume of business. In 2021, we finalized and published our Supplier Code of Conduct, which implements our commitment to the values outlined in our "Code of Business Conduct and Ethics". Beyond reflecting Ormat’s values and existingTerms and Conditions for suppliers, this Code follows internationally recognized standards such as the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Conventions (ILO), as well as based on other relevant laws and regulations outlined where relevant. The policy outlines Ormat's requirements and expectations of suppliers in the areas of ethics and corporate governance, labor and human rights, environment and climate change policies and practices, and integrated quality, environment and health & safety systems. The Code is also distributed to our existing, new and potential suppliers and is publicly available on Ormat's website. Some of the conditions that we outline include avoiding conflicts of interest in dealing with suppliers, relevant anti.trust considerations and maintaining the confidentiality of ourterms and conditions with suppliers and our expectation of directors, officers and employees to deal fairly with suppliers.Furthermore, in our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety System Policy, we outline our commitment to treating our suppliers, subcontractors and business partners with the utmost respect, while also assessing, in general, that those suppliers, subcontractors and business partners uphold relevant social, environmental and health and safety standards for their employees. In addition to the above, Ormat runs due diligence on its suppliers as part of its Compliance program, including through the use of questionnaires and screening through various databases. Health & Safety in Our Work with Subcontractors In addition to implementing stringent health and safety measures for our employees, we require our subcontractors to comply with relevant health and safety regulations as they pertain to our operations, including our own rules, where relevant. In Ormat’s standard contract for work with subcontractors, the Company reserves the right to indemnify the services of the subcontractor if the subcontractor violates or infringes upon any relevant laws, rules, regulations or standards pertaining to the occupational health and safety of employees. Ormat expects its subcontractors to strictly adhere to local health and safety regulations, together with Ormat’s own expectations, whichever are even more stringent. We also require all subcontractors to adhere to our checklist of “Environmental Compliance Responsibilities”, which is a list of tasks and necessary milestones that should be regularly reported to Ormat by the subcontractor. Some of these requirements include attending pre-construction conferences to review health and safety expectations, preparing an emergency response plan, maintaining a speed limit of 10 miles-per-hour in the construction area and other environmental controls, such as developing a Storm Water Pollution Plan (SWPP). 86 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 Conflict MineralsOrmat has adopted a Conflict Minerals Policy, pursuant to the SEC’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (known as "the ConflictMinerals Rule"). Our Conflict MineralsPolicy, available on our website, defines principles,commitments andexpectations that extend to Ormat's partners, subcontractors and suppliers, with the intention of identifying, to the best of our ability and knowledge, sources of the minerals under the Conflict MineralsRule, i.e. tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, in the components and materials supplied to us and which are necessary to the production or functionality of our products. Our policy supports the intention of the Conflict Minerals Rule, which is notto economically disadvantage areas of conflict in the Democratic Republic ofCongo and surrounding countries, but rather to significantly reduce or eliminatethe funding of armed groups that have a record of human rights abuses in the region. As such, we have expressed a commitment to human rights and to perform effective due diligence on the sourcing practices within our supply chain. Our due diligence processes are materially based on the internationally recognized Conflict Minerals duediligence framework introduced by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). 87 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 DATA PRIVACY AND CYBERSECURITY FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Ormat is committed to protecting the data privacyofitsdirectors,officers,employees,customers and other relevant stakeholders. We have an "Electronic Communication Policy" that sets security procedures for Ormat's internal stakeholders. The policy includes our expectations of employees regarding use of Company equipment, authorized use of identification information, password policies,and how electronic messaging and documents should be properly handled. The policy is managed by our Information Technology department and all internal stakeholders are requested to acknowledge the policy in the context of their employment with Ormat. In addition, we work to strengthen our information technology systems by implementing cybersecurity measures Ormat has an advanced internal policy for managing cybersecurity risks that is overseen by the Company's Information Technology department. In our risk management processes, we consider threats and vulnerabilities in the information, information technology and communications systems that we use on a regular basis as well as any facilities or other assets that are a part of our cyber-infrastructure. We regularly communicate with our employees about cybersecurity threats and awareness. In addition to ongoing trainings, we email relevant materials about potential threats in order to raise awareness and to give tools and advice on how to avoid and prevent a personal cyberattack. 