A MESSAGE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT THIS REPORT with clients, contractors, vendors, and mal, storage, solar PV, and Recovered other stakeholders, while ensuring Energy Generation total generating In this report, we provide a detailed that all offices and facilities offered capacity to between 1.5 and 1.6 GW by overview of what sustainability looks stringent protective guidelines. 2023, with storage portfolio contrib.like at Ormat, through a rigorous uting between 0.27 and 0.37 GW. environmental, social and gover-At a time when the fiscal fallout nance (ESG) performance prism. of the pandemic led to significant CUNTINUED COMMITMENT TO A Our 2020 Sustainability Report is the global layoffs, Ormat chose to retain SUSTAINABLE FUTURE third we are publishing in alignment all employees at their full salaries, with the GRI Sustainability Reporting avoiding lay-offs or furloughs caused As we work to expand our renewable Standards reporting standard CORE by the COVID-19 crisis. Notwithstand-portfolio, Ormat is committed to option and the first to include ing the financial impacts suffered to continuing our ESG efforts to enlarge reporting standards from the Sustain-certain sectors of the Company due and refine our sustainability reporting ability Accounting Standards Board to pandemic impacts, I am very proud disclosure. In addition to this annual (SASB). This commitment enables us that our global workforce of approx-Sustainability Report, Ormat regularly to provide sector-specific coverage imately 1,400 employees retained participates in the global disclosure on our ESG impacts, across our entire their economic security during a time system CDP (formerly Carbon Disclo.value chain. of extraordinary uncertainty and I am sure Project) and reports the direct FROM THE CEO: grateful for our employees’ hard work, and indirect contributions of our OUR CORE VALUES extraordinary efforts, and ingenuity business activities and community To our Stakeholders, during these unprecedented times. I engagement towards the United Ormat’s five core values - stability, am also extremely proud of Ormat’s Nations Sustainable Development As I reflect on 2020, perhaps the biggest constant renewal, full commitment, continuous commitment to and Goals (SDGs). We invite you to review lesson brought into sharp focus by the courage, and creativity -continue support of local communities. As one our performance and progress in the COVID-19 pandemic is the intercon-to drive our business practices and example, and to combat growing food links provided. nection of all countries, governments, decisions. In accordance with these insecurity caused by the pandemic, businesses, institutions, communities, values, we are focused on addressing Ormat provided funds, food, and We value and appreciate your and people. It highlighted the priority the climate and societal challenges resources specifically for COVID-19 interest in Ormat and our sustainabil.of addressing poverty, social, and racial before us with full commitment related response efforts to our local ity performance. We are proud that inequality. It reinforced the importance and courage. communities. our efforts are lowering greenhouse of efforts to provide clear, credible infor-gas emissions while bringing break.mation and thoughtful, coordinated PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE AND OUR RENEWABLE GROWTH PLANS through technologies and solutions action. Critically, it firmly elevated the LOCAL CUMMINITIES to the world’s electricity grids. importance of sustainable thinking and Ormat’s mission is to be the world’s practices. In March 2020, when the World leading renewable energy provider. Health Organization (WHO) offi-Our company has a 56-year history of Ormat’s people, in every part of cially deemed the outbreak of renewable energy innovation, and we our global operations, rose to and the COVID-19 a pandemic, Ormat currently own and operate 1,100 MW responded effectively to the difficult developed an extensive program of of Geothermal, Storage, Solar PV, and challenges posed by the pandemic. Our working practices to meet and exceed Recovered Energy Generation assets. flexibility, adaptability, and application government requirements in each of These energy-generating and storage of strategic, creative thinking ensured the global jurisdictions in which we assets are helping create an alternate that we made meaningful progress operate. As part of our commitment energy future, where greenhouse gas toward our long term operational and to protect and preserve the health and emissions are significantly reduced financial goals while at the same time safety of our employees, we tempo-and the ability to store and access Doron Blachar continuing to protect both our people rarily enabled employees to work renewable power will enable electric-Chief Executive Officer and our environment. Though 2020 remotely, adopted separate shifts in ity grids to become more responsive was a year of unprecedented adversity, our power plants and manufacturing and stable. the lessons we learned during this chal-facilities to promote social distanc.lenging time have made us a stronger ing, and created a robust COVID-19 We see a bright future and believe our company and have strengthened even safety program for managing risk singular focus in the renewable energy further our commitment to supporting on-site. We also took steps to protect sector offers a unique value proposi.a sustainable future. our stakeholders. We held our first tion to our investors, customers, and “virtual” Annual General Meeting and energy consumers. In the short term, instituted online contact protocols our goal is to increase our geother.67 CHAPTER II. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ORMAT AT A GLANCE Approx. 1,400 Local Employees 1,100 MW of Geothermal, energy storage, solar PV and recovered energy generation Global Presence U.S, Guatemala, Honduras, Guadeloupe, Kenya, Indonesia 55 Years of Experience $705M In Revenues $420M Adjusted EBITDA $86M Net Income Renewable Growth Targeting a portfolio of between 1,528 – 1,648 MW by the end of 2023 (including 273-373 MW of energy storage) 1 U.S. 2 GUATEMALA 3 HONDURAS 4 GUADELOUPE 5 TURKEY 6 ISRAEL 7 KENYA 8 INDONESIA* Geothermal Geothermal Geothermal Geothermal Geothermal Geothermal670 40 38 15 15042 83 Energy Storage 7 Solar PV 53 REG Ormat power plants Capacity (MW) Ormat manufactoring facilities Countries in which Ormat supplied services and equipment over the years *Ormat owns 12.75% interest in the 330 MW Sarulla Complex WHAT’S NEW IN OUR REPORT THIS YEAR? Expanded and enhanced reporting standards to align with SASB We Began disclosing on SASB Sector Standards for Electric Utilities and Power Generators. Aligning to the SASB standards allows us to further sharpen our understanding of our impact and expectations of us on the most significant issues in our operations. It will also allow investors and the capital market to examine our performance over time, better understand how sustainability is embedded into our business model and governance framework and have increased visibility on our consistency and comparability to other players in the industry. Broader engagement with our Investors during the past year We continued and expanded engagement with our main investors in order to understand their specific expectations and requirements in relation to our sustainability report. The current report reflects the main topics that they brought up as areas of focus during the engagement and describes details regarding the engagement process. Publication of new ESG policy documents on various issues In order to strengthen our ESG commitments, we built and re-updated our approach and policy on four significant and valuable issues. The purpose of the move was to reflect in the most up-to-date and accurate way our approach and vision and courses of action on these issues: • Taxation Policy • Water Management Policy • Suppliers and Procurement Policy • Political engagement and communication Setting new and ambitious metrics and goals Based on conversations and understanding of the expectations of our stakeholders and investors, we significantly expanded and specified the goals we set for ourselves. The revision of the metrics and targets will allow us to deepen our commitment and respond more accurately and fully to our long-term strategic goals. Extensive disclosure on coping during the COVID period During the pandemic, we mobilized quickly and flexibly to provide a response and relevant assistance to our internal and external stakeholders. We have placed special emphasis on the continued employment, and health and safety of our workers and contractors and assistance to local communities in the areas in which we operate. AN ORGANIZATION SHAPED BY VALUES At Ormat, sustainability is not just another target we aim to achieve; it is at the core of our business and our way of life. Ormat was founded and has flourished as a Company whose purpose is to continually renew the Earth’s energy future, a goal that Ormat strives to achieve in the spirit of environmental and social responsibil.ity. Sustainability has been part of our corporate DNA since our inception and continues to be the inspiration for the growing number of renewable energy sectors that we participate in and for the diverse array of products Our Five Core Values and services that we offer. This way of life is also demonstrated in our core values as detailed below. Together, these values sustain our organization and propel Ormat forward as we seek an even larger platform and position in the global renewable energy sector of tomorrow. CREATIVITY Creativity is a core value that reflects our appreciation for the uniqueness of our stakeholders and our understanding that creativity is vital to delivering robust solutions that can address their expectations and needs. Ormat is built on these core values, which are reflected in the way we conduct business each day, in all our locations.  We believe that our employees, managers, and directors must consistently demonstrate honesty, openness, and fairness in their dealings with each other, with our customers and with our community. ENVIRONMENT Ormat is a global leader in delivery of energy solutions: geothermal energy, energy storage, recovered energy and management. We have developed and manufactured geothermal and recovered energy power plants with a cumulative collective capacity of more than 3,200 MW since our Company was established over 50 years ago, and we are proud to note that all of our power plants have operated without fossil fuel consumption during 2020. At Ormat, we are motivated to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, advance energy efficiency and promote the use of renewable energy sources. These aims lie at the heart of our business and represent our key value propo.sition for our customers. In addition, our efforts to reduce emissions have been identified as the highest priority by the stakeholders who participated in our materiality assessment and the ongoing stakeholder engagement. Mitigating climate change risks and identifying opportunities is essential to our environmental and financial perfor.mance and management. Our ability to successfully operate our geothermal and recovered energy power plants may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including weather condi.tions associated with climate-change or reduced availability of cooling water supply or other natural resources needed to support our operations. As an energy generator, we seek to improve our efficiency by using advanced technologies and equipment in order to optimize the energy generated by our power plants. We actively work to control impacts and opportunities, and this includes water use and management. As such, we have developed a Water Management Policy to support and uphold our water sustainability vision. At Ormat, we actively work to improve our relationship with the natural environment in the process of our business activities and beyond. We work towards responsible waste and material management at all our global facilities and have put in place ambitious programs, based on the results of environmental impact assessments and feedback from stakeholders, to better control the impact of our activities on local biodiversity. KEY HIGHLIGHTS • Moving towards net zero targets. • Increased disclosure and transparency of Scope 3 emissions to include freight. • Reduced carbon footprint in Scope 1 and 2 by an absolute 29%. • Aiming 5% annual average absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by the end of 2021, measured against the 2019 base levels. • Working and aiming to reach optimal water recycling in all locations by 2025. SOCIAL An Organization Shaped by Local • Continual Vigilance - Our goal is to Employment learn and improve our performance following every event in order to Ormat is an organization that prides itself reduce the number of incidents. This As a global company, we are proud on full local employment at all levels of requires that all employees maintain to employ and work closely with the our organization and in all our facilities, constant vigilance to ensure that communities that we serve, knowing power plants and operational locations. unsafe acts or work conditions are we contribute to local economies and identified, addressed, regulated and social well-being. With nearly one power We believe that local employment is prevented, wherever possible. plant on every continent, we have a essential to the success and vitality of commitment to generating a stable and our business because local employees, secure economic future for all, based on residents and community members sharing our knowledge and expertise possess a keen understanding of the regarding sustainable energy solutions. local geography, environment, social The promise of renewable energy that fabric, community and stakehold.we deliver to our customers and stake-ers. This places them in a position to holders goes hand in hand with our knowledgeably provide the superb commitment to local employment and degree of service that Ormat strives skill development wherever we work. for. In addition, we believe that culti.vating the skills of the local workforce As of YE 2020, we employed 1,402 is important in fostering knowledge people. This number includes both those regarding renewable energy solutions, in locations within the boundaries of with the goal of ensuring the long-term this report (United States, Israel, Turkey, sustainability of our power plants and Honduras, Guatemala, Guadeloupe energy solutions. Furthermore, we and Kenya) as well as a smaller number believe that investment in the local of employees located in territories workforce supports the local economy outside the Boundaries (Indonesia, the and enables community develop-Philippines, Chile and New Zealand)1,2. ment in that Ormat’s local employees Wherever we work, we strive for equal become part of a larger global orga.opportunity employment and to engage nization and learn skills that contrib.the skills, know-how and abilities of ute to their professional career and residents in our host communities. This personal goals. means encouraging a workspace where our employees are motivated to contrib-Ormat’s occupational health and ute their best, strive for creativity, and, in safety program the process, make strides in achieving their professional or personal goals. • Everyone, Everyday – All Ormat In 2020, nearly 99% of our employees employees are integral to safe opera-worked with us in a full-time capacity. tions, each charged with the respon-During COVID-19 Ormat’s business sibility to work safely and create and continued to operate and was consid-maintain a safe work environment. ered an essential business. For our employees at the various field opera-• Management of Hazards – Ormat tions, this meant continued work in a strives to systematically identify safe and responsible manner by working hazards, and then manage them by in fixed groups of people in the form of elimination, isolation or minimization. capsules to protect our employees. For our office employees, we provided the • Safety as a Core Value – Safety is a flexibility of working from home. core value at Ormat. 1 1,402 employees are included within the Boundaries of this report. 2   Exact figures on the number of our employees is provided in continuation of this report, and data is provided in reference to GRI disclosure 102-8: Information on employees and20 other workers KEY HIGHLIGHTS • Planning training programs and targeting between 5 to 10 hours of training annually for each management member. • Management will decide on long term, measurable diversity goals next year following the training process. • Employees completed a total of 42,226 training hours. • Contunual full-capacity employment of 99% of our employees. • Continued to operate and bring electricity to our customers throughout the pandemic. • 99% of our permanent and temporary employees received regular career perfor mance reviews. • Have committed to bringing on more female directors for election in our next annual general meeting. • The proportion of management hired from the local communities in our plants was 100%. • Delivered thousands of food bags to local communities in Guatemala. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sound corporate governance is a top priority for Ormat, in light of our nature as a publicly traded and global company with operations and activities across the globe. At Ormat, not only do we believe that transparent corporate governance practices contribute to the financial success of our business, they ensure that our Company remains resilient and strong in the face of challenges, while also creating space for new business opportunities and engagement. Furthermore, corporate governance has been identified as one of our key sustainability issues by our stakeholders, and therefore, we remain steadfast in our commitment to devoting resources to and improving our governance performance and our level of disclosure on related topics, such as anti-corruption, executive remuneration and regulatory compli.ance. To strengthen and support this commitment, Senior Management is responsible for implementation of the Company’s environment and climate change policies and actions. Ormat has developed an anti-cor.ruption program utilizing the GAN Integrity system, which categorizes employees into one of categories based on risk, and determines the level of training along with what is required for their role. Our Board of Directors conducts its business and affairs through meetings of the Board and through the four standing committees: Audit, Compen.sation, Investment, and Nominating and Corporate Governance. Due to our global nature and operations in various countries around the world, we are committed to complying with all applicable laws, rules and regula.tions and more so, to being a respon.sible corporate citizen wherever we do business. To demonstrate our commit.ment and to solidify our approach within the company, in 2021 Ormat developed a Political Contributions and Activities Policy. KEY HIGHLIGHTS • We have begun recording the amount of employees that have received anti-corruption training. • Received no material grievances in 2020. • Working towards 100% of our employees to receive training on relevant corporate governance practices. • Updated our Anti Corruption policy. 