CHAPTER III. ORMAT AS PART OF A NET ZERO FUTURE AN ORGANIZATION SHAPED BY VALUES Ormat Technologies, Inc. is a leading vertically integrated company primarily engaged in the geother.mal and recovered energy power businesses. We leveraged our core capabilities and global presence to expand our activity into different energy storage and solar photovol.taic (PV) services (including hybrid geothermal and solar PV as well as energy storage plus Solar PV). Our objective is to become a leading global provider of renewable energy and we have adopted a strategic plan to focus on several key initiatives to expand our business. We currently conduct our business activities in three business segments: • Electricity Segment. In the Elec.tricity segment, which contributed 76.8% of our total revenues in 2020, we develop, build, own and operate geothermal, solar PV and recovered energy-based power plants in the United States and geothermal power plants around the world and sell the electricity they generate. • Product Segment. In the Product segment, which contributed 21.0% of our total revenues in 2020, we design, manufacture and sell equipment for geothermal and recovered ener.gy-based electricity generation and remote power units and provide services relating to the engineering, procurement and construction of geothermal and recovered ener.gy-based power plants. • Energy Storage Segment. In the Energy Storage segment, which contributed 2.2% of our total revenues in 2020, we mainly provide energy storage, related services, including services relating to the engineer.ing, procurement, construction, operation and maintenance of energy storage units. At Ormat, sustainability is not just another target we aim to achieve; it is at the core of our business and our way of life. Ormat was founded and has flourished as a Company whose purpose is to continually grow renewable clean energy to the world, a goal that Ormat strives to achieve in the spirit of environmental and social responsibility. Sustainability has been part of our corporate DNA since our inception and continues to be the inspiration for the growing number of renewable energy sectors that we participate in and for the diverse array of products and services that we offer. This way of life is also demonstrated in our core values as detailed below. Together, these values sustain our organization and propel Ormat forward as we seek an even larger platform and position in the global renewable energy sector of tomorrow. •Our Five Core Values: •Constant renewal • Stability • Full commitment • Courage •Creativity Ormat is built on these core values, which are reflected in the way we conduct business each day, in all our locations. In living these values, we believe that our employees, managers, and directors must consistently demonstrate honesty, openness, and fairness in their dealings with each other, with our customers and with our community. KNOWING OUR IMPACTS – STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT APPROACH As a global company that under.stands the inherent value of sustain.ability as a business strategy, we work to assess our impacts on the environ.ment, society and local communi.ties, as well as relevant impacts for our key stakeholder groups. This year, we have decided to focus on communicating with and addressing comments and feedback from our key groups of stakeholders, mainly our key investors. As part of this engagement strategy, and to better understand these risks and opportu.nities, we engage in on-going stake.holder dialogue and have developed an organization-wide Stakeholder Engagement Policy that can be accessed at the following link.3 WHAT WE LEARNED FROM OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Every year we ensure that our stake.holders are heard by communicating with them following the publishing of reports. This allows us to better understand what topics they believe are important, and accordingly we expand on our activities and adjust and improve our reports. Subsequent to the publishing of the 2019 Sustain.ability Report, we used various forms of communication to listen to what some of our key stakeholders had to say, which included frequent commu.nication and conversation with our investors. Using the observations and information from interviews, anonymous surveys and question.naires we were able to analyze and internalize the feedback in order to implement changes and improve.ments for the 2020 Sustainability Report. This year, a main focus of ours was on addressing the feedback we received from key stakehold.ers, which included key investors for Ormat. The work put into the business and the report came in the form of condensing and sharpening our story and messages to highlight how sustainability impacts and is managed by Ormat. Additionally, we have furthered our transparency by including and expanding upon disclosures that were found to be of most interest to our key stakeholders, investors and to the company. These areas of focus include tax manage.ment, political engagement, water management, the suppliers code of conduct, and newly developed policies that strengthen our commit.ment to these topics. The topics identified by our stake.holders are addressed in the scope of this report, in our existing policies and engagement frameworks and in our on-going business activities. We consistently seek out opportu.nities for active engagement with our stakeholders and embrace every opportunity to hear their opinions and concerns regarding our organization and our business activities. OUR APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Ormat has developed a business strategy that places both environmen.tal sustainability and social responsi.bility at the forefront of our activities. Our stakeholders play a central role in the realization of our sustainabil.ity strategy; our intent is to develop productive and fruitful relationships with these stakeholder groups while also expanding on the opportunities available for engagement with Ormat. OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ KEY INTERESTS AND CONCERNS In 2020, we reviewed our stakeholder engagement mechanisms by consult.ing with key stakeholders, including investors and executive managers. 3 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Stakeholder%20Engagement%20Policy.pdf 28 The survey aimed to gain a better understanding of our sustainability reporting practices and the degree to which it matches and meets our stake.holders’ expectations for disclosure and transparency. Issues identified for focus in the course of the survey included: diversity, equal opportu.nity and employment, in addition to, disclosure of key environmental data, including our greenhouse gas emissions. STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED BY THE ORGANIZATION The main stakeholder groups that were identified as relevant for the organization are the following:  Stakeholder Group  Potential Methods of Communication  Employees  Employee communication portal and newsletters, periodic career and professional performance reviews, participation in employee health and safety committees, organized employee evaluations and open dialogue between employees, managers and human resources representatives, events and conferences for employees4.  Customers  Communication through our website, customer service framework, and on.going sales and business development relationships.  Investors & Shareholders  Communication and updates delivered through the Investor Relations arm, investors conferences and non-deal road shows, general shareholder meetings, earnings calls and relevant updates, through the ‘Investor Relations’ page on Ormat’s website5, annual and quarterly reports, SEC filings and press releases.  Financing Entities  Engagement through environmental and social impact assessments, compliance reviews and action plans, annual and quarterly reports and SEC filings, and on-going communication through our finance department.  Public Authorities, Policy Makers & Regulators  Engagement through industry organizations, lobbying activities, participation in workshops, conferences and events, compliance reviews and action plans, and on-going communication.  Local Communities  Communication through our global Stakeholder Engagement Policy and relevant local communication strategies, tours and meetings at Ormat’s local facilities.  Social & Environmental NGOs  Active participation in relevant events and conferences, donations, contributions and volunteering activities and cooperation in social and environmental projects and industry and local initiatives.  Media  Communication through Ormat’s website, press releases and informational notes, tours at Ormat’s various facilities, and on-going communication.  Academia  Cooperation with Ormat in conducting research and development activities specifically with our Resource Department, providing support for scientific initiatives and expansion of educational opportunities, and tours at Ormat’s various facilities.  In addition to these methods of communication, all stakeholders can submit their grievances, questions or comments concerning the Company’s activities to info@ormat.com or call the reporting hotline: toll-free number 001-866-294-5535. 4 This list is not exhaustive and is presented as an example of employment engagement activities which may vary across jurisdictions. 5 https://investor.ormat.com/ OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Ormat is constantly revising and updating our key areas of focus based on internal materiality assessments and feedback from our stakeholders, sector trends and other sector-rel.evant data. Both the stakeholder survey (described above) and our internal assessment were conducted with the assistance of independent consultants. This approach enabled us to maintain objectivity in recording and analyzing the answers from our various groups of stakehold.ers. Ormat’s internal and external stakeholders were surveyed for their opinions and viewpoints regarding two aspects: the groups of stake.holders that are relevant to Ormat’s business and the issues that are of critical interest or concern to the stakeholder group within the context of their specific relationship to the organization. With regards to the latter, stakeholders were asked to rank a range of issues according to the level of importance of the issue to their specific stakeholder group. The materiality results presented below show the relative correla.tion between matters of interest to Ormat’s stakeholders and manage.ment in accordance with their signif.icance to the Company’s impacts on the one hand and our business strategy on the other. These issues – addressed in the scope of this report -reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization together with their degree of influence on the assess.ments and decisions of our groups of stakeholders. RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY SURVEY The materiality survey that was conducted in 2019 has been restated for 2020, and continues to reflect Ormat’s main topics of discussion, interest and what we aim to address. The topics are presented below in two ways. First, the leading issues are presented in table form according to their level of significance to both 16 our stakeholders and the Company and are classified by topic according to Economics & Governance, Environment and Social. Second, the material issues are presented in a graph matrix that groups all material issues together. Economics & Governance •Ethical Business Conduct •Legal & Regulatory Compliance •Operational Efficiency •Innovation (Products & Services) •Corporate Governance •Executive Compensation Environment •Brine & Steam Management •Encouraging Green Energy •Climate Change Mitigation •Water Management •Waste & By-Product Management •Site Biodiversity, Restoration & Preservation •Energy Efficiency •Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations •Climate Change Risk & Opportunity Management •Air Quality Social •Safety and Emergency Planning •Occupational Health and Safety •Reliability of Ormat's Service •Ormat’s Labor Relations •Customer Service • Local Employment & Development •Employee Training & Development •Workplace Diversity •Data Privacy & Security •Local Community Engagement and Support •Employees’ Well-Being •Philanthropy and Volunteering Relative Importance to Ormat's Management5.0 4.0 3.0 Executive Compensation Air Quality2.0 Climate Change Risk 1.0 0 Relative Importance to Ormat's Stakeholders Legal & Regulatory Compliance Safety & Emergency Planning Ethical Business Conduct Brine & Steam Occupational Health & Safety Management Climate Change Mitigation Encouraging Green Energy Ormat s Labor Relations Local Employment and Development Ormat Operations Water Management Efficiency Corporate Governance Customer Service Risk Management Innovation Reliability Human Rights in Supply Chain (Products & of Ormat s Services) Service Employee Training DevelopmentWaste Management Biodiversity Workspace Diversity Employees’ Well-Being Local Community Engagement Community’s Support Energy Efficiency Site Restore & Preserve Data Privacy & Security Philanthropy and Volunteering Operations GHG Emissions Social Economics & Governance Environment OUR STRATEGIC COMMITMENTS AND SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Ormat is committed to principles of Envi.ronmental, Social and Governance-re.lated (“ESG”) responsibility - commit.ments that are achieved through our governance, business activities, policies, frameworks for stakeholder engagement and strategic objectives. We pursue sustainable innovation and leadership in renewable energy across several areas – namely geothermal energy, energy storage, hybrid geothermal and solar PV and recovered energy genera.tion. Each of these directions allows our Company to advance existing practices and push forward to improve our perfor.mance in ways that minimize material and energy inputs, maximize energy output and our operational efficiency. For example, one of our established development practices involves the incremental increase of energy produc.tion capacity for geothermal plants. We work to better understand the specific properties of a geothermal reservoir and add new energy generation capac.ities progressively in stages. As such, we strive to deliver more renewable energy while maintaining substantially the same developmental footprint. Similarly, when it comes to developing new renewable energy plants, we work to understand the needs and concerns of the local stake.holder community and to build lasting relationships and specific community engagement programs designed to meet those needs and concerns. Ormat applies these and other sustain.ability principles to the way we evaluate opportunities and develop, manufacture, and operate renewable energy facilities around the world. EXTERNAL INITIATIVES & MEMBERSHIPS OF ASSOCIATION Ormat endorses external initiatives and organizations that assist us in meeting our environmental, social and corporate governance commitments and values. Ormat’s endorsements are evaluated on an ongoing basis to ensure both parties have shared, sustainable commitments and values. ENVIRONMENTAL Ormat is proud of our record of envi.ronmental stewardship. In addition to meeting our regulatory requirements, Ormat reports annual Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) emissions to CDP, a non-profit organization that runs a global environ.mental impact disclosure system. We also report global carbon dioxide and GHG emissions to the Israeli Ministry of Envi.ronmental Protection’s voluntary business reporting initiative, a practice that we have engaged in since 2011. All Ormat’s facilities have received favorable envi.ronmental review under applicable laws and regulations and Ormat participates, where available, with local environmental monitoring coalitions or organizations. Ormat supports the Bureau of Land Management’s Federal Resource Advisory Committee’s in Nevada and Idaho. Our staff commit time, travel, and resource expertise to assist the Bureau of Land Management in sustainable resource management decision making. Ormat was part of the Frontier Observa.tory for Research in Geothermal Energy (“FORGE”) initiative (in partnership with Sandia National Laboratory and others) initiated by the U.S. Department of Energy. The FORGE initiative has yielded new insights and techniques for charac.terizing enhanced geothermal system (“EGS”) sites as well as testing new tech.niques and tools for geothermal drilling. At Great Basin National Park, Ormat supports the Great Basin National Park Foundation with an annual education grant of $5000 and helps to expand the Foundation’s base of sustaining donors to $150,000 annually. One of the Foun.dations primary efforts is working with colleges and high schools in Utah and Nevada to develop and support studies related to the Great Basin Observatory and the Great Basin ecosystem. Ormat also sponsors the Women in Geothermal (WING) Program, a global network that supports the role of women in the geothermal industry and works to promote gender equality in the industry. We shared information on the organiza.tion with relevant groups of stakeholders and supported the organization’s mission at the 2018 Geothermal Resources Council Annual Meeting. We participated in the Global Women’s Network for the Energy Transition (GWNET) 2020 Mentoring Program for Women in the Energy Sector, a program that is designed to accelerate the careers of women in junior/middle management positions in energy, support their pathway to leadership positions and foster a global network of mentorship, knowledge-shar.ing and empowerment. Our Subsidiary in Honduras, GeoPla.tanares, sponsored the creation of the “Circular Economy: Practical Guide to Sustainability” a book printed by FUNDAHRSE (Honduran Foundation for the Corporate Social Responsibility) about all the cases on circular economy in Honduras that will be distributed all around Latin America by the Embassy of Netherlands. GeoPlatanares is also one of the cases of study as the production of our energy is a complete closed loop and goes perfectly with Circular Economy. LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES Ormat supports local communities and engages with applicable Indigenous Tribes early in the geothermal site eval.uation process and not later than the beginning of exploration. Discussions and support are focused on under.standing local values, interests, and concerns as they relate to the potential geothermal energy resource. As projects are evaluated and geothermal facilities developed, Ormat’s level of support has become oriented to sustainable educa.tional and community support programs with legacy benefits. In 2020, Ormat made community investments of approx.imately $1 million. ORMAT'S MEMBERSHIPS OF ASSOCIATION The table below outlines the main organizations of which Ormat is amember as of 2020, related to our various business and ESG activities. Type of Organization  Relevant Memberships  1 | Geothermal Organizations  • Geothermal Resources Council (GRC) – U.S. • Colombia Geothermal Association (AGEOCOL) • International Geothermal Association (IGA) • Indonesia Geothermal Association  2 | Energy Organizations  • California Energy Markets • California Energy Storage Alliance (CESA) • Energy Storage Association – U.S. • Society of Petroleum Engineers – U.S. • Utah Clean Energy • Green Energy Association of Israel • World Energy Council  3 | Health and Safety Organizations  • The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) • National Safety Council – U.S. • National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) – U.S. • Alliance for Industrial Efficiency • American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP) • CA OPC Engineers Board • California Community Choice Association (CalCCA)  4 | Chambers of Commerce  • CalChamber – California, U.S. • Churchill Economic Development Authority – Nevada, U.S. • Hawaii Island Chamber of Commerce • Elko Chamber of Commerce – Nevada, U.S. • Israel Export Institute • Manufacturers Association of Israel • Israel Latin America Association • Israel Turkey Business Council  ORMAT AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) The Member States of the United Nations adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (the 2030 Agenda).6 The 17 SDGs and the related 169 targets were designed to address the world’s most pressing social, economic issues, and environmental. The goals were designed to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing the planet, society and economies, such as poverty, inequalities, injustice and climate change. It is widely believed that the UN’s Agenda can only be achieved through collaboration between all major stakeholders – including govern.ments, local communities and business. As a leading global renewable energy company, we believe that Ormat has an important leadership role to play in helping to achieve these SDGs. We have identified and determined the SDGs that Ormat has the most impact on, and where we believe we can help the most. The ideals of the identified goals accompany us throughout our business offerings, activities, engagements and governance. 6 https://sdgs.un.org/goals THE SDGS THAT ORMAT HAS PINPOINTED TO FOCUS ON ARE: We are connected to SDG 7 “Energy” by helping countries and communities meet their renewable energy targets by introduc.ing renewable technologies to the world and by helping countries cut their reliance of the import of energy sources. We are committed to providing decent work and economic growth through employing local personnel at our operations, developing their skills and knowledge, and promote equality and safety in our employment. Additionally, we are seeking to help countries, including developing ones, to decouple economic growth from environ.mental degradation caused from fossil fuels. OUR HISTORY AND KEY EXPERIENCE Since our establishment, Ormat has built approximately 200 geothermal and recovered energy power plants totaling more than 3,200 MW in a number of countries. As of December 31, 2020, Ormat owned and operated 932 MW of geothermal and recovered ener.gy-based power plants predominantly using equipment that we design and manufacture. In addition, we owned a 73 MW/136 MWh growing portfolio of energy storage projects. The growth in our owned power plants was largely concentrated in the U.S., Latin America and Kenya. Over the years, apart from the We enable and encourage SDG 9 “Infra.structure” through increasing resiliency in the countries our existing plants are located, as well as by encouraging the adoption of clean and environmentally sound technolo.gies in developing countries where it would otherwise be unavailable. Ormat contrib.utes to SDG 11 “Cities and Communities” through the various infrastructural devel.opment projects that are a part of our oper.ations globally. When beginning operations in a location, we require a certain amount of infrastructure development in order to operate. This includes the building and paving of roads. In many instances, we will partner with the local government or munic.ipality in order to help finance and support the paving of roads and the strengthening of infrastructures and improving road safety and accessibility. Lastly, our core offering helps to advance SDG 13 “Climate Action” as weprovidecustomers renewable sources of energy and reduce their need to use non-re.newable energy sources. U.S., we contributed significantly to the growth of the New Zealand geothermal market and in recent years to the Turkish geothermal power industry, the world’s fastest growing geothermal market in the last decade. Our headquarters are located in Reno, Nevada and our major manufacturing facility is located in Yavne, Israel. As of the date of this report, Ormat owns and operates power plants located in the U.S., Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Guatemala and Guadeloupe (French Caribbean). ORMAT: WHAT WE DO Own & operate over 1,100MW Geothermal, Storage, Solar PV & Recovered Energy Generation With over five decades of experience, own, and operate our clean, environmen-medium- and high-temperature heat into Ormat Technologies, Inc. (“Ormat” or tally friendly geothermal and recovered electricity. the “Company”) is a leading geothermal energy-based power plants, usually company and the only vertically inte-using equipment that we design and The Company has robust plans to accel.grated company engaged in geother-manufacture in-house and are primarily erate long-term growth in the energy mal and recovered energy generation basedontheOrmatEnergyConverter –a storage market and to establish a leading (“REG”). We design, develop, build, sell, power generation unit that converts low-, position in the U.S. energy storage market. Exploration Development Drilling Design Manufacturing Construction Operation ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Ormat staunchly believes that as a provider of energy solutions, and namely renewable energy solutions, we have a central role in the global economy and in ensuring the sustain.able development of communities. The energy market is one of the most signif.icant factors within the global economy as it enables economic growth and development, creates jobs, develops critical infrastructure, generates long-term value and enables the very nature of our modern society. As a leading vertically integrated company primarily engaged in the geothermal and recovered energy business, Ormat plays a significant role within the global renewable energy market generally, and the geothermal and energy storage markets particu.larly. Renewable energy is sustainable and clean, leading major countries to focus their efforts on the develop.ment of renewable energy sources, and geothermal energy, specifically. As such, Ormat has and continues to see significant economic benefits from its business activities, allowing the Company to become a publicly traded Company on leading stock exchanges, the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)7. In addition, Ormat is part of the following indices: CRSP, Dow Jones, FTSE, Morningstar, ICLN, MSCI, NASDAQ, Russell 2000, 2500 and 3000, S&P, TASE, Wilshire 5000, WisdomTree and WisdomTree U.S. For a further breakdown of our business and revenues, refer to our financial reports on Forms 10K and 10Q that are filed with the Security Exchange Commission (“SEC”) In addition to our geothermal power generation activities, we pursue relevant recovered energy-based power generation opportunities in North America and other locations. We believe recovered energy-based power generation (known as “REG” in other Company publications) will ultimately benefit from the efforts to reduce GHG emissions. We have built over 30 power plants that generate electricity utilizing “waste heat” from gas turbine-driven compressor stations along interstate natural gas pipelines, from midstream and gas processing facilities, and from other applications. Several U.S. states, and to a certain extent the federal government, have recognized the environmental benefits of recovered energy-based power generation, with a number of states allowing utilities to include recovered energy-based power generation in calculating their compli.ance with renewable portfolio goals and incentives. Energy storage is becoming a key component in the future electrical grid, as a result of the challenges in unstable deployment of the supply. This is one of the reasons Ormat is actively investing in the deployment and development of energy storage. We expect contin.uous and even stronger growth over the coming years, while we target the sector as one of our major segments for further investment and growth. As a central player in the geothermal and renewable energy markets through our diverse global presence, we plan to continue to develop our business and seek out relevant opportunities to improve our economic performance for shareholders, while also making mean.ingful and effective contributions to the renewable energy market. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy is focused on further developing a geographically balanced portfolio of geothermal, energy storage, solar (PV) and recovered energy assets and continuing our leading position in the geothermal energy market with the objective of becoming a leading Under the ticker “ORA”. global provider of renewable energy. The strategic plan was approved and is consistently reviewed in consultation with Ormat’s senior management team. The strategic plan is developed based on an understanding of our risks and opportunities – an assessment that is conducted with assistance from external consultants – and our profes.sional expertise and knowledge about the renewable energy market. We expect the plan to evolve over time in response to market conditions and other factors. ESG and climate change considerations are factored into the business strategy through the recog.nition of risks and opportunities. Through our sustainability reporting and environmental data collection framework, we are integrating the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosure’s (TCFD) recommendations for businesses across our governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and targets disclosures. Consistent with the TCFD’s recommendations, we are evaluating the addition of applying climate-related scenario analysis to our business development and strategy decision-making processes. GEOTHERMAL POWER PLANTS Ormat is a global leader in the world geothermal energy market. Geother.mal energy power plants harness a natural and locally available energy source and enables providing baseload electricity 24/7. Most impor.tantly, geothermal energy offers an environmentally friendly energy alter.native. Furthermore, unlike electric.ity produced by burning fossil fuels, electricity produced from geothermal energy sources is produced without emissions of certain pollutants such as nitrogen oxide, and with far lower emissions of other pollutants such as carbon dioxide. As a result, electricity produced from geothermal energy sources contributes significantly less to global warming and local and regional incidences of acid rain than energy produced by burning fossil fuels. In addition, compared to power plants that utilize other renewable energy sources, such as wind or solar, geothermal power plants are generally available all year-long and all day-long and can therefore provide base-load electric.ity services. Geothermal power plants can also be custom built to provide a range of electricity services such as baseload, voltage regulation, reserve and flexible capacity. Geothermal energy is an attractive alternative to other sources of energy and can support a diversification strategy, avoiding dependence on any one energy source or politically sensitive supply sources. There are two main types of geothermal power plants: Binary systems - where generally, geothermal fluid is extracted from the underground reservoir and flows from the wellhead through a gathering system to a vaporizer that heats a secondary working fluid (typically an organic fluid, such as pentane or butane) that is vaporized and is used to power the turbine. The organic fluid is then condensed in a condenser, which may be cooled directly by air or by water from a cooling tower and sent back to the vaporizer through a pump. The cooled geothermal fluid is then reinjected back into the reservoir. Binary technology can be utilized on a wide range of resources from low enthalpy to high. Multiple high enthalpy binary facilities are in service around the world. Flash systems – where generally, geothermal fluid is extracted from the underground reservoir and flows from the wellhead through a gathering system to flash tanks and/or separators. There, the steam is separated from the brine and sent to a demister, where any remaining water droplets are removed. This produces a stream of dry saturated steam, which powers a steam turbine coupled to a generator to produce electricity. In some cases, the brine at the outlet of the separator is flashed a second time (dual flash), providing additional steam at lower pressure used in the low-pressure section of the steam turbine to produce additional power. Steam exhausted from the steam turbine is condensed in a surface RECOVERED ENERGY POWER PLANTS Our recovered energy power plants produce electricity from “waste heat”. Recovered energy power plants utilize residual heat that is generated as a by-product from a variety of indus.trial processes (cement manufactur.ing, gas compression turbines, etc.), which would otherwise be wasted, to generate electricity without burning additional fuel or generating emissions. We construct, own, and operate recovered energy-based power plants. We have built all of the recovered energy-based plants or direct contact condenser cooled by cold water from a cooling tower. The non-condensable gases (such as carbon dioxide) are removed by means of a vacuum system in order to maintain the performance of the steam condenser. The resulting condensate is used to provide make-up water for the cooling tower. Usually hot brine remaining after separation of steam is injected (either directly or after passing through a binary plant to produce addi.tional power from the residual heat remaining in the brine) back into the geothermal resource through a series of injection wells. Binary geothermal power plants carry several environmental advantages Steam that we operate. The residual heat is captured in the recovery process using a similar power plant to Ormat’s binary geothermal power plant, which is use v d to generate electricity without burning additional fuel. ENERGY STORAGE Ormat serves the changing world of electricity generation by enabling a comprehensive umbrella of grid solutions related to energy storage systems. We provide grid operators with the power to enhance grid perfor.mance, stability and responsiveness – while delivering capacity at the right over flash geothermal steam turbine plants. First, reinjection of the geother.mal resources exploited promotes superior efficiency. By continuously recharging geothermal systems and reducing production-related pressure drawdowns, binary geothermal power plants help maintain the overall geothermal reservoir pressure. In addition, air-cooled binary plants do not consume water for cooling (for additional details on amount of water used in different geothermal plants see the water use table presented in the environmental chapter). Finally, air-cooled binary power plants have a low profile with minimal visual impact, as they do not emit a plume. time and the right price, both which allow for a fair and accessible solution. Ormat serves the changing world of electricity generation by enabling a comprehensive umbrella of grid solutions related to energy storage systems. We provide grid operators with the power to enhance grid perfor.mance, stability and responsiveness – while delivering capacity at the right time and the right price, both which allow for a fair and accessible solution. start and movement of energy from times of excess supply to times of high demand and more.8 8 For more information on energy storage and related terminology, refer to the following link: https://www.ormat.com/en/renewables/storage/main/ RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE.RELATED RISKS OUR RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH As a global Company and publicly traded entity, we place equal weight on the management of pertinent risks and the pursuit of relevant revenue generation opportunities. Our management team works in close cooperation with all our major operational locations to identify and manage relevant risks and to implement appropriate methodolo.gies for mitigating such risks. As such, our risk management process has several key levels of analysis: by our project teams and major oper.ations; by Company management and through assignment of respon.sibilities; through our management of know-how and skills relevant to the various disciplines that help us achieve our targets as a vertically-in.tegrated company; and through other relevant controls and measures for our business, such as audit and regu.latory functions. Our methodology for identifying relevant risks involves mapping the control environment of our corporate and business infrastructure including the main activities that we pursue. Our business units are categorized and mapped, and within these we map relevant business processes. In order to understand relevant risks for each of these processes, we develop risk ranking criteria that look at both the level of impact and the likelihood of occurrence. Based on this system, we conduct our risk assessment among the various business units and operations. The identified risks are further ranked and validated by the process owners and relevant members of management, resulting in a risk profile and priorities, and eventually culminating in our plan for management of those risks. RELEVANT RISKS We consider potential risks from climate change according to the precautionary approach for risk management with regards to our products and services9. In identi.fying relevant risks from climate change that could potentially result in substantive changes to our oper.ations, revenue, and expenditures, we seek to minimize these risks and address them either through our model of engagement, physical infra.structure and operations, or in the on-going management and opera.tions of our plants and our Company. Our equipment is designed to withstand extreme weather events and is largely independent and isolated from weather-related impacts. With this, daily and seasonal fluctuations in temperature generally have a more significant impact on the generating capacity of geother.mal energy plants than they do on conventional power plants. Some of our power plants experience reduced generation in warm periods due to the lower heat differential between geothermal fluid and the ambient surroundings. While we generally account for the projected impact of seasonal fluctuations in temperature based on our historic experience, the impact of climate change on tradi.tional weather patterns has become more pronounced. This has reduced the certainty of our modelling efforts. Additionally, Recovered Energy units may be affected when winter temperatures are higher than average as it reduces the gas flow and, like all structures, power plants are likely to be affected by extreme weather occurrences such as hurricanes and tornadoes, which are unavoidable. Almost all of our power plants are located in areas that are not expected to be affected by rising sea levels, however, our operations could be impacted by drought, wildfires, land.slides, floods, or other weather events (including weather conditions associ.ated with climate change) or similar occurrences affecting our power plants or any of the power purchas.ers or other third parties providing services to our power plants. In terms of risk management in the geothermal exploration process, Ormat’s Resource Department is comprised of an experienced team of geologists, geophysicists and engineers who are dedicated to assessing, exploring, developing and managing geothermal reservoirs in the context of our projects or potential projects. The risk manage.ment process for the exploration phase begins with in-depth research on the geothermal reservoir, including its location in the potential plant area, in order to identify and assess potential physical, social or environ.mental risks early in the process. If a site is deemed to be relevant, the Resource Department begins the surface exploration process at the site whereby they initiate drilling in slim holes to determine the exact location of the geothermal reservoir and where to locate the plant. 9 The precautionary approach was introduced by the United Nations in Principle 15 of ‘The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development’. It states: ‘In order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not 42 be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.