OUR IMPACT AND ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR EMPLOYEES, SOCIETY & LOCAL COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE: EMPLOYMENT AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT AT ORMAT As a global renewable energy company, we are proud to employ and work closely with the commu.nities that we serve, knowing we contribute to local economies and social well-being. With nearly one power plant on every continent, we have a commitment to generating a stable and secure economic future for all, based on sharing our knowledge and expertise regarding sustainable energy solutions. The promise of renewable energy that we deliver to our customers and stakeholders goes hand in hand with our commitment to local employment and skill develop.ment wherever we work. In 2019, we employed 1408 people worldwide121. This number includes both those in locations included within the Boundaries of this report (United States, Israel, Turkey, Honduras, Guatemala, Guadeloupe and Kenya),  as well as a smaller number of employees located in territories outside the Boundaries (Indonesia, the Philippines, Chile and New Zealand).122 123 Wherever we work, we strive for equal opportunity employment114 and to engage the skills, know-how and abilities of residents in our host communities. This means encourag.ing a workspace where our employees are motivated to contribute their best, strive for creativity, and, in the process, make strides in achieving their professional or personal goals. Therefore, we rely highly on employee feedback, ideas and enthusiasm to create authentic, relevant methods of engagement, while working more proactively, safely and in tune with local communities. OUR OUTLOOK ON EMPLOYMENT From Kenya to California, we work to uphold our obligation to provide our employees with a workplace that is fair, open and free from discrim.ination or harassment, and that encourages engagement and the development of employee potential. We place the highest value on the diversity of our employees, and we strive to hire a diverse workforce that includes individuals from all sectors of society, while also providing equal opportunities in the hiring process and in providing access to career growth opportunities. This is clearly expressed in our commitment to anti-discrimination, minimizing gender pay gap, and enabling free association by labor organizations that are engaged with our Company. As a vertically integrated company providing myriad solutions in the energy industry, our employees come equipped with and acquire in the course of employment an array of professional skills and capabilities, which we consider in the hiring and employment process, in addition to other factors, such as geographical location and ties to the local commu.nities around our power plants. We view engagement with local communities around our facilities to be a central tenant of our business policy and important to our success. That’s why we created and maintain a policy of 100% local employment and management of our power plants and manufacturing facilities, in addition to the majority of our administra.tive offices. Although our employees are spread across the globe, our Human Resources Department and the VP of Human Resources125, implement initiatives to encourage connection between individuals of different cultures and professional experience within our Company. These initiatives, offered on several platforms and which are outlined below, are aimed at fostering a sense of togetherness among our employees. We work to cultivate a transparent and diverse work environment that offers equal and fair opportunities for employees of all races, cultures, ethnic back.grounds, genders and gender asso.ciations, and we encourage our employees to support our mission of generating positive social and environmental value in their profes.sional opportunities and within their communities. Indeed, we involve our local employees in most of our stake.holder engagement mechanisms for local communities around our power plants. Respect for diversity, transpar.ent communication and enriching professional and personal opportu.nities are the principles central to our employment outlook, and we look to hire individuals who exemplify and implement these values in their work. OUR EMPLOYMENT FRAMEWORK Our employment framework, policies and initiatives are managed by Ormat’s Human Resources Depart.ment that is headed by the SVP of Human Resources, Ms. Liat Inbar-Arad. Our Human Resources depart.ment sets the tone for employee management and opportunity-cre.ation processes in the Company, but the hiring, termination, and training areas are managed at each power plant, facility or office by a local manager who either reports directly to the Human Resources department, or to a member of senior manage.ment on a regular basis. All of our employment contracts are drafted in accordance with regula.tory requirements in the country of operation, providing the benefits that are afforded by the law as well as additional benefits and employment considerations based on employees’ needs, such as flexible working hours, paid maternity or paternity leave, 121 Exact figures on the number of our employees is provided in continuation of this report, and data is provided in reference to GRI Standard 102-8: Information on employees and other workers. 122 1385 employees are included within the Boundaries of this report. 123 Exact figures on the number of our employees is provided in continuation of this report, and data is provided in reference to GRI Standard 102-8: Information on employees and other workers. 124  In general reference and in adherence to the U.S. Department of Labor’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) law. https://www.dol.gov/general/topic/discrimination 82 125 Appointed to the position in mid-2020. More information is available in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy statement: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf and sponsorship of learning oppor.tunities, among others. 126 Ormat offers equitable and competitive pay and benefits, health insurance and retirement savings plans to all of our employees, details of which are reported in the “Employee Benefits” section. Labor and Employment Policies at Ormat In addition to the outstanding conditions that are outlined in our employment agreements, our Human Resources Department works to implement and ensure that all stake.holders uphold four key policies: 1. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines commitments to our employees regarding equal employment opportunity, diversity in employment and anti-harassment, and the ethical and behavioral expec.tations of employees in the workplace. The Code outlines, among others, our staunch insistence on equality and fairness in the hiring, promotion, and termination processes, as well as our policies to attract and retain diverse talent within our organi.zation. It expresses our commit.ment to continue hiring appropri.ately qualified diverse candidates, including for leadership positions. In addition, we outline our commitments to employees and various other stakeholder groups in upholding a transparent and fair workplace, that also looks to promote social and environmental value creation for our stakeholders. 2. The Human Rights and Labor Policy, adopted in 2018 by Ormat’s management, expresses our commit.ment to upholding international human rights and labor standards for all of our employees, suppliers, business partners and stakeholders. We recognize our employees’ rights to the freedom of association and collective bargaining, all relevant and essential employment rights in our countries of operation, their rights to a workplace based on equal oppor.tunities based on individual merit, and which is free of harassment and discrimination in all forms. In addition, we express our commitments to elim.inating human rights abuses through.out our value chain, such as child and forced labor practices. 3. The Integrated Quality, Environ.ment, Health & Safety Policy that outlines our compliance with relevant standards and regulations, as well as our commitment to the health, safety and well-being of our employees and other key stakeholders. The Policy also recognizes our commitment to providing our employees with educa.tional opportunities and training to enhance their skills. Furthermore, the Policy outlines our commitment to providing our employees with the appropriate resources for implemen.tation of our expectations, which include, among other resources, written guides and training on relevant health & safety, environment and quality-related issues. 4. Certain aspects of the Stakeholder Engagement Policy, namely on issues that pertain to employees, subcon.tractors and other stakeholders. These principles include our commit.ment to open communication and dialogue and sharing information to better instill our corporate values. Implementation of Employment Framework and Employee Feedback on Employment Practices Ormat’s management, Human Resources department and the local employment managers at each of our operational sites ensure that these frameworks, policies and their relevant conditions are upheld in our dealings with employees, and that 126 Information on special conditions of employment agreements for our Executive Officers and information on Executive Compensation are provided in the “Corporate Governance” section of this report. Employees with questions or griev.ances regarding employment contrac.tors, any of the abovementioned policies or our general employment framework have a number of avenues available to them for reporting their feedback or concerns. Employees can report to their direct manager, the Human Resources department, the Secretary of the Corporation or Most of our employees (98%) in 2019 were permanent employees, i.e. those employees with standard employment agreements managed by the Human Resources department, local facili.ty-based HR teams, and the local laws of to our whistleblower ethics hotline at the third-party managed website at www.ethicspoint.com or via telephone at 1-866-294-5535. We also garner employee feedback through performance reviews and one-on-one meetings with our employees. Through these methods, we seek to create an open and Employment Data for Ormat127 employment in our operational locations. Our Human Resources department is also responsible for engaging with our temporary employees, which are defined as those employees who are third parties, freelancers, and other encouraging environment for our employees to share their unique cultures with us, further promoting their open feedback on our levels of corporate engagement with their communities. service providers, who are employed according to a specific employment or engagement contract which may be considered as employees. In 2019, 2% of our employees were classified as temporary. 2019  2018  Total number of employees (by employment type and gender) YE  Full Time  Part Time  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  30 or younger  175  27  2  2  180  26  3  1  31-50  649  131  3  3  628  117  3  4  51 or older  314  69  7  3  306  64  9  5  Total  1,138  227  12  8  1,114  207  15  10  2019  2018  Location  Number of Employees  Percentage of Total Employees  Of Which Permanent  Of Which Temporary  Number of Employees  Percentage of Total Employees  Of Which Permanent  Of Which Temporary  United States  578  41%  566  12  584  43%  577  7  Israel  584  42%  574  10  556  41%  545  11  Kenya  64  5%  64  0  58  4%  58  0  Honduras  52  4%  48  4  45  3%  45  0  Guatemala  57  4%  56  1  54  4%  54  0  Turkey  25  2%  25  0  23  2%  23  0  Guadeloupe  25  2%  22  3  26  2%  20  6  TOTAL  1,385  100%  1,355  30  1,346  100%  1,322  24  In 2019, nearly 99% of our employees worked with us in a full-time capacity. According to our employment framework and out of our commit.ment to creating meaningful employ.ment opportunities, we rely as much as possible on our own employees for all aspects of conducting our business. Our employees play a central role in the design, manufac.turing and on-going operations and maintenance of our power plants and other facilities. Most part-time functions are based on addressing specific business needs, performance of skill-oriented work, professional functions or available organizational knowledge and capabilities. Further.more, and when applicable, we provide our employees with options for part-time positions based on their personal or professional needs. In addition, temporary employees are often offered opportunities to become full-time Ormat employees, and we treat our temporary employees and subcontractors as full-fledged members of our organi.zation for the purposes of stakeholder engagement. SUBCONTRACTORS AND THIRD PARTIES Power Plant Design and Construction As a global renewable energy company, we work with a variety of contractors, subcontractors and other third parties to design, construct and operate our power plants and facilities. Typically, third parties and subcontractors are engaged in the design and devel.opment process depending on the complexity of the location and their knowledge of the physical environment and terrain.In addition, we work with subcontractors and third parties to carry out some of our manufacturing activities. For example, when construct.ing new power plants, we work with subcontractors on a temporary, yet mainly full-time basis for the comple.tion of implementation-based projects at various operational locations. These subcontractors usually fulfill various roles such as site grading, road construction, civil, mechanical and elec.trical work, among others. Power Plant Maintenance and Administrative Support In addition to our engagement with subcontractors, contractors and third parties in the construction and design of our power plants, subcontrac.tors also play a key role in on-going plant operation and maintenance. We not only view engagement with local subcontractors in our areas of operation as an opportunity to support local economies; the maintenance of our power plants tends to involve the development of key infrastructure, such as roads and transportation routes around the plant site. At our global power plants, subcon.tractors and third parties are engaged to perform various jobs and deliver services that contribute to the nature of our operations and the reliability of our service to stakeholders. At the majority of our sites in Africa and Latin America, we employ security service contractors to guard the premises, offices and infrastructure of our power plants, including residen.tial facilities for on-site staff, where relevant. We engage with subcontrac.tors in our US facilities to physically operate our plants, and at the vast majority of sites, local contractors are hired for transportation services and routine maintenance work, such as road repair and pipe cleaning. At our offices in Israel, some of our Information Technology, information security and data protection systems are managed by subcontractors that report to us. 2019  2018  Total number of employees (by employment contract and gender) YE  Permanent  Temporary  Permanent  Temporary  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  30 or younger  166  25  11  4  169  24  14  3  31-50  641  132  11  2  628  120  3  1  51 or older  320  71  1  1  314  67  1  2  Total  1,127  228  23  7  1,112  211  18  6  127  This includes only those locations included within the Boundaries of this report, and excludes personnel located in Chile, Indonesia, New Zealand, and the Philippines. 84 Our geothermal power plants in Guatemala, at Zunil and Amatitlan, employ local community members to carry out maintenance work, such as pipe cleaning and road repair. The agreement to work with local contractors and laborers was estab.lished as a result of stakeholder dialogue and focus groups that were conducted between Ormat and the local community in the 2000s, when the plants entered development. The goals of the agreement are to provide economic opportunities for employment at our plants and to instill pride for the infrastructure they develop and maintain in and around the plants. In order to provide extended employment opportu.nities for the local community, we offer temporary plant maintenance employees the opportunity to work periodically during the months of the year, thereby creating more overall opportunities for employment in the local community. In addition, construction contractors are often consulted when reaching decisions on where to build access roads and surrounding routes. Information on our engagement with Suppliers and other Third Parties, not referenced in this section, is outlined in the “Supplier Relations” section of this report. Employee Retention At Ormat, we view one of the indica.tors to the strength and stability of our Company as a whole. to be in the long-term commitment and dedi.cation exhibited by our employees. Despite the global spread of our company that would seemingly create dissonance, our organizational values and commitment to employee growth, education and skillsets allow us to maintain workforce stability. This is exhibited in our high global employee retention rate, which in 2019 was 86%. Total number of employees (by employment contract and gender) hired in 2019  Total number of employees (by employment type and gender) hired in 2019  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  30 or younger  50  8  21  6  68  13  3  1  31-50  83  23  12  5  95  28  0  0  51 or older  11  8  0  2  11  9  0  1  Total  144  39  33  13  174  50  3  2  Total number of employees (by employment contract and gender) hired in 2018  Total number of employees (by employment type and gender) hired in 2018  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  30 or younger  48  8  19  2  67  10  0  0  31-50  101  21  2  1  103  22  0  0  51 or older  33  9  1  2  34  9  0  2  Total  182  38  22  5  204  41  0  2  Total number of employees to end employment in 2019  Total number of employees to end employment in 2019  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  30 or younger  29  0  12  5  40  5  1  0  31-50  80  17  3  4  83  20  0  1  51 or older  36  9  1  3  34  9  3  3  Total  145  26  16  12  157  34  4  4  Total number of employees to end employment in 2018  Total number of employees to end employment in 2018  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  30 or younger  28  3  31  3  57  5  2  1  31-50  79  12  4  0  83  11  0  1  51 or older  47  14  2  0  45  14  4  0  Total  154  29  37  3  185  30  6  2  Our Hiring & Termination Policies As an equal opportunity employer, we consider each applicant according to their level of fit, knowledge and skills that are appropriate for the position, while also focusing on hiring such appropriately qualified candidates from various gender, ethnic and cultural backgrounds. This includes for management and Company lead.ership positions. Our organizational values and the frameworks, policies and directives noted above guide our hiring and employment practices. We are committed to treating each applicant and employee fairly and equitably throughout their engagement with our Company, and we are committed to eliminating discrimination in hiring and termination decisions. Our hiring processes are managed and designed by the Human Resources department, in full consultation, implementation and management by the various power plant and facility managers. The Human Resources department and plant managers assess new employees’ professional capabili.ties and experience and in terms of their fit with the relevant position. In addition, the team considers the employees’ fit in our organizational culture, such as with our workplace values, ethical and behavioral expectations according to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and personal and professional goals regarding the oppor.tunity to work with us. Employment with Ormat is based solely on an unbiased analysis of our labor requirements and the individual applicant’s qualifications. In cases of employment termination, end of employment, or retirement, Ormat has an organized framework in place for providing these employees with their rights and benefits. The Company adheres to all relevant legal obligations according to the relevant country of operation where the employee is ending their employment or retiring. Diversity & Equality in Employment at Ormat All qualified applicants for employ.ment with Ormat receive consider.ation for employment without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, status with regard to public assistance, source of income, national origin, citizenship status, disability, or any protected status. We are committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all genders, racial, cultural and ethnic minorities as a key part of our employment framework, which also applies to management and the Board of Directors. While we do not have specific organizational goals or quotas for hiring individuals from specific gender, racial, cultural, ethnic, national or religious groups, we work to integrate as many different perspectives, experiences and back.grounds into our employee base at all levels of the organization. Our employees, including our executive managers and director members, come from diverse backgrounds, enriching our organization with their unique experience. As noted, we are an organization with a commitment to 100% local employment in the belief that local knowledge is a critical asset to the success of our business. As noted above and regarding the Company policies that govern our human resources framework, we adhere to all relevant legal frame.works governing equality in employ.ment, such as through the Affirma.tive Action directives issued by the U.S. Department of Labor through which we seek to hire individuals from underrepresented gender, and/or ethnic, national, cultural and religious minority groups. Our Human Resources department in the U.S. has partnered with a consulting firm that provides us with statistical analysis of the gender and ethnicity ratios, to present how we are doing in our efforts to meet Ormat’s diversity goals, as well as goals as advised by the US. federal government. In addition, we work with several organi.zations in the U.S. helping us to open positions to job boards that target ethnic minorities and veterans. That said, it is important to stress that Ormat first and foremost considers a potential candidate’s professional skills and their overall qualifica.tions for the position, and only then hires the most qualified candidate for the said position. This is in line with our commitment to complete professionalism paired with zero tolerance for discrimination, harass.ment and inequality of treatment in the workplace. Furthermore, we are committed to eliminating discrimi.nation in our hiring and employment termination practices and ensuring that all employees are adequately accommodated and treated equally. Below is our 2019 year-end new Below is our U.S. 2019 year-end hires headcount by gender new hires headcount by ethnicity/race128: Gender  Count  % of Total  Total Female  62  22%  Total Male  215  78%  Total Overall  277  Category  Count  % of Total  Total Minorities129  50  27%  Total Non-Minorities  132  73%  Overall Total  182  As of 2019, 17% of our employees were female. There are six female members of our broader management team who fill positions such as the Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary; VP, Human Resources; VP, Informa.tion Technology; VP, Engineering; VP, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations; and several female legal managers. We actively seek oppor.tunities to hire and promote female employees and managers across our Company. In addition, we work to ensure that our employees come from diverse age groups. Most of our employees are between the ages of 31-50, but we also have a significant number of employees who are age 51 and older as well as 30 and younger. As an equal opportunity employer, we do not discriminate against employees based on their age. As outlined in the section below, we afford all of our employees full retirement benefits and flexible employment conditions according to the relevant conditions of employ.ment in the country of operation, as detailed below. Furthermore, and as noted, we are committed to local employment at all our operational, manufacturing and administrative facilities. As such, and due to the wide geographical spread of our locations, we employ individu.als on nearly every continent and of many different races – in the continen.tal United States, in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Central America, Africa and the Caribbean. We are committed to allowing the specific racial, ethnic and religious groups among our employees the appropriate freedoms, including freedom of expression and worship, in the workplace and strive to create an open and welcoming environ.ment to bridge cultural, communicative and national borders. 128 We do not track the specific diversity of our workforce in our locations outside of the US.  With this, all overseas employees are locally hired and thus are representative of the communities in which we operate. 129 Includes the following minority groups: Black or African American; Native American and Alaskan Natives; Asian Americans; Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders; Hispanics and Latinos of all races, and people of two or more races. 88 Below is our 2019 year-end headcount by management category and gender: Category  Senior management  % of total  VPs  % of total  Mid-management (reporting to VPs)  % of Total  Total Female  0  0%  9  39%  14  13%  Total Male  7  100%  14  61%  90  87%  Overall Total  7  23  104  Below is our U.S. 2019 year-end management headcount by ethnicity/race: Category  Senior management  % of total  VPs  % of total  Mid-management (reporting to VPs)  % of Total  Total Minorities130  0  0%  0  0%  6  15%  Total Non- Minorities  1  100%  8  100%  35  85%  Overall Total  1  8  41  Collective Bargaining Agreements & Employee Unions While we support the right to freely associate and establish employee unions as a basic human and labor right that should be afforded to workers (as noted in our Human Rights and Labor Policy), most of our employees were not covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2019. As of December 2019 1.8% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, namely the employees of our Bouil.lante power plant in Guadeloupe, where employees are represented by the national union, the Confédération Générale du Travail de Guadeloupe. In Israel, while all employees are hired according to personal employment contracts, those skilled workers in the metallurgy and electronics industry have been covered by specific union conditions since September 2005131. Furthermore,  we currently provide such employees with benefits and working conditions that are at least as favorable as the conditions specified in the collective bargain.ing agreement.132 These workers and skilled laborers are predominately employed in our major manufactur.ing facility in Yavne. In our over 50 years of operation, we are proud to report that we have never experienced a major labor dispute, strike or work stoppage. As noted above and evident from our high employee retention rate, we consider our relations with our employees to be one of our key success factors. Indeed, we believe that our current stability and future growth depend on our continued ability to hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel with fair, equal and transparent employment practices everywhere we operate. Employee Benefits, Healthcare & Welfare Frameworks Our experience in working with a large group of diverse employees has taught us that the success of our business depends on employee satis.faction and stability. We therefore strive to provide employees at all levels with benefits and access to welfare frameworks that clearly express our level of appreciation and care for employee well-being. We ensure this by providing basic and competitive employment benefits, growth opportunities and a warm and positive work atmosphere for our full-time, part-time and temporary employees at our significant locations of operation.133 130 Includes the following minority groups: Black or African American; Native American and Alaskan Natives; Asian Americans; Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders; Hispanics and Latinos of all races, and people of two or more races. 131 By order of the Israeli Ministry of Economy and Industry, the provisions  of a collective  bargaining  agreement  between  the Histadrut  (the General  Federation  of Labor in Israel) and the Coordination  Bureau  of Economic Organizations (which includes the Industrialists Association) may apply to some of our Israeli non-managerial, finance and administrative, and sales and marketing personnel. This collective bargaining agreement principally concerns cost of living pay increases, length of the workday, minimum wages and insurance for work related accidents, annual and other vacation,  sick pay,  and determination  of severance  pay,  pension contributions,  and other conditions  of employment. 132 2019 Annual Report. 133 These include the operational locations included in the scope of the Information Boundaries of this report, i.e.: Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Kenya, Turkey, and the United States. In total, the percentages presented in the benefits table refer to seven significant locations of operation for our activities in 2019. could be issued as options or as other forms of awards. The term of stock-based awards typically ranges from six to ten years from the grant date. In addition, we afford our employees access to gender-neutral family support programs, including parental leave for both new fathers and In order to facilitate a healthy work-life balance for our employees, we encourage them to take vacation days and, at some locations, we provide special holidays to mark the observance of religious holidays, and cultural events. Our approach towards vacation time is flexible, allowing employees to choose their vacation period and to divide the period into intervals throughout the year, of course in consultation with their managers. At some of our oper.ational locations, we offer employees holidays for major personal events mothers. Typically, parental leave is granted within the regulatory framework in the country of operation, and in many cases, we encourage our employees to embrace our flexibility in returning to work with comfortable working hours so that they are able to accommodate for their growing families. We believe that when our 2019  Male  Female  Total number of employees entitled to parental leave  1,150  235  Total number of employees that took parental leave  22  12  Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended  22  11  Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work  26  5  Return to work rate following parental leave  100%  92%  and milestones, such as personal days, wedding vacations and compassion.ate leave upon the death of a relative. In addition to the healthcare benefits noted above, we also offer many of our employees access to supplemen.tary health benefits such as coverage for dental care payments, optical care payments, and, in some cases, support for mental health issues and personal care. The health and well-be.ing of our employees is important to us, which is why we not only work to ensure they are supported in their employees are happy and closer with their families, their quality of work and appreciation for the opportuni.ties that Ormat has to offer grow, and we can build stronger relationships with the newest members of our local communities. healthcare needs, but we actively seek employee feedback in develop.ing these benefits and offerings. Due to the dynamic nature of energy generation processes, some of our employees and contractors reside for certain periods of time at our sites in housing facilities. We do our best to ensure that the facilities are up to their standards and that they are afforded a reasonable level of comfort and accessibility. According to our Human Rights and Labor Policy, at all of our facilities we work to uphold Most of our employees receive parental leave benefits, health care insurance134,sick leave benefits, coverage in the event of disabil.ity and/or infirmity, and vacation days135. Additionally, at our significant locations of operation136, our full-time employees are provided benefits that may include life insurance, health.care, dental care coverage, disability and invalidity coverage, retirement provision, optical care and others. In some localities, benefits are made available to part-time and temporary employees137 . All our global employees are entitled to retirement and pension benefits138 at or beyond the legally required level of employer contribution in the relevant country of operation, including access to 401(k)139 pension schemes in the U.S. We fully cover retirement and pension plan liabili.ties in relevant countries of operation with our general resources. All current employees in Israel who are entitled to benefits in the event of termina.tion or retirement in accordance with the Israeli Government sponsored programs are provided with limited non pension benefits. These plans generally obligate the Company to pay one month’s salary per year of service to employees in the event of involuntary termination. There is no limit on the number of years of service in the calculation of the benefit obli.gation. The Company has an obliga.tion to partially fund the liabilities through regular deposits in pension funds and severance pay funds. The amounts funded amounted to $10.8 million and $10.6 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Severance pay expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $3.5 million,  $3.0  million and $3.2 million, respectively,  which are  net of income  (including loss) amounting to  $1.0  million, $(1.1) million,  and  $1.8  million, respectively, generated from the regular deposits and amounts accrued in severance funds. Accordingly, the following table sets forth our contractual obligations to employees in paying their benefits (or relevant assets) upon retirement: Our retirement commitments are for both voluntary and mandatory frameworks, according to the regional or country-based schemes in our countries of operation. In Israel, and according to the law, all employees receive pension plan coverage, with the employer contributing 7.5% or more, depending on the personal employment contract with the employee141. At several locations, we offer retiring employees the option to continue work after the retirement age or to enter into retirement in phases. Due to our high employee retention rate, many of our retiring employees have worked with Ormat for years, if not decades, and we appreciate the potential difficulties to be felt in such a transition. As such, we usually work to include retirees and alumni in some of our employee events and continue to consult and engage with them on a regular basis. We also offer some of our employees access to stock options and stock-based awards. Stock options and stock-based awards are available only to full-time employees and some independent contractors who work with our company. Described in the “Corporate Governance” section of this report, our 2018 Incentive Compensation Plan142, adopted in May 2018 by the Company’s share.holders, provides the granting of the following types of awards: incentive stock options,  non-qualified stock options, restricted  stock  units (“RSUs”), stock  appreciation  rights (“SARs”),  stock  units,  performance awards,  phantom  stock, incentive bonuses, and other possible related dividend equivalents to employees of the company, directors and indepen.dent contractors. According to the Plan, a total of 5,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock were reserved for issuance, all of which Year ending 2020  (in thousands of USD)  Benefits upon retirement140  4,780  133 These include the operational locations included in the scope of the Information Boundaries of this report, i.e.: Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Kenya,Turkey, and the United States. In total, the percentages presented in the benefits table refer to seven significant locations of operation for our activities in 2019. 134 According to the relevant nationally mandatory or voluntary healthcare frameworks in the relevant significant location of operation. 135  According to the relevant national framework for vacation days or the personal employment contract of the employee. The indication here is to the possibility foremployees to take vacation days, as well as the possibility for extended vacation periods, based on requests and individual employee needs. 136 Coverage for GRI Disclosures 401-2b is provided for the employees that are included in the ‘significant locations of operation’ noted in the “Information Boundariesof This Report,” and does not include employees based in Indonesia, the Philippines, Chile and New Zealand. 137  Benefits are not provided to part-time or temporary employees at our significant locations of operation in the United States. 138 At the national retirement or pension issuance age in the significant location of operation. 139  In the United States, a 401(k) plan is the tax-qualified, defined-contribution pension account defined in subsection 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 140 The above  amount was  determined based  on employees’  current  salary rates and the number of years’  service  that  will have been accumulated  at their expected  retirement  date.  These  amounts do not include amounts that  might be paid to  employees  that  will cease  working  with us before  reaching  their expected retirement age. 141  Through Ormat Systems, we provide limited non-pension benefits to all current employees in Israel who are entitled to benefits in the event of termination orretirement in accordance with the Israeli Government sponsored programs. These plans generally obligate the Company to pay one month’s salary per year of service 90 to employees in the event of involuntary termination. There is no limit on the number of years of service in the calculation of the benefit of obligation. 142 The 2012 Incentive Plan expired in May 2018 upon adoption of the 2018 Incentive Compensation Plan (“2018 Incentive Plan”), except as to stock-based awardsoutstanding under the 2012 Incentive Plan on that date. basic human rights, and we apply this dining options for our employees – Employee Performance Reviews & in our approach to employee housing namely at our manufacturing facili-Satisfaction Surveys and residential facilities as well. In ties. Finally, our manufacturing and some cases, when we are not able to power plant employees are proudly As part of our commitment to physically construct housing facilities, fitted with workplace uniforms, and in providing our employees with a better we provide employees with funds to various locations we support replace-employment experience, we invest support their living expenses while ment for necessary work items, such significant time and resources in our working for Ormat. At other locations, as shoes and protective gear, and program for performance reviews. we provide our employees with access provide laundry services. to transportation options, such as As of 2019, 87% of our permanent bussing to and from the power plants and temporary employees received to facilitate a smoother work experi-regular career performance reviews, ence. We offer healthy and fulfilling i.e. on an annual or biannual basis. Percent of employees who received performance review in 2019 2019  Male  Female  Permanent employees  90%  87%  Temporary employees  29%  0%  Through career performance reviews, which occur between the employee and their direct manager, depending on the nature of the position and if the employee works on a permanent or temporary basis, employees are able to provide their feedback on their position, share their career goals and receive feedback from their direct managers on their performance. Through these career performance reviews the employee and the manager can set goals and milestones for assessing future performance and the employee can request a salary review, if desired. We view employee performance reviews as an important avenue for engage.ment with our employees, and work to obtain key insights from the content of their reviews to improve our employment and workplace experience. In 2019, we did not receive any substantive complaints or grievances from employees regarding violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics nor their overall employment experience at Ormat. In addition, and as employees are a key stakeholder group for our orga.nization, we have begun to regularly survey employees on their level of satisfaction in employment by Ormat, as well as the programs for personal, professional and educational devel.opment that we offer. In 2019, we surveyed nearly 10% of our employees at various global locations on their employment experience. Currently, our Human Resources Department and the various power plant and facility managers are working to develop an organized mechanism for surveying a greater number of employees and relevant stakeholders (such as temporary employees and subcontractors) moving forward. Employee Engagement and Promoting Well-Being in the Workplace Our employees are spread across the globe, which would seemingly create a challenge in connecting them. However, our Human Resources Department, together with various business units in the company, work together on initiatives to create a sense of community and together.ness among our employees no matter their location. We actively facilitate community events, employee gath.erings (including virtual gatherings), or company trips to facilitate open communication and healthy connec.tions between employees, and other stakeholders across the globe. In addition, we actively engage our employees through online portals, social media networks and on-line platforms. We have dedicated Instagram pages that document factory and power plant activities, and have WhatsApp groups for easy and accessible communication, providing employees with opportu.nities to connect and get more done on-the-go. In addition, we regularly distribute an employee newsletter with key updates and alerts and in 2019 released our intra-organizational communication platform “OrMeet” that allows employees in some of our locations to create professional and personal groups to share expe.riences, insights and provide profes.sional support. We offer employees several options to improve their work-life balance and ensure that they are fulfilling both their personal and professional goals. We allow some flexibility in work schedules for parents, and in some cases we allow for regular remote work or work from home, depending on the circumstances and the specific needs of the employee. We encourage our staff to enjoy the nature around our power plants and facilitate joint staff lunches and events outdoors, as well as holiday and team milestone celebrations. Bonding activities are a big hit, and some sites provide employees with opportunities for volunteering activ.ities together with their local team and members of the community. Finally, we encourage our employees to remain active and support lectures on fitness, weight loss, yoga practice and running groups. In some locations, we sponsor summer camps and recreational activities for employees’ children and family members. We invite all of our part-time employees and many of our temporary employees and subcontractors to participate and enjoy the health and well-being activities that we offer. Technical, Professional & Safety Training Below you will find a table with some examples of the hundreds of courses we offer every year: Type of Training  Relevant Courses Offered to Employees  Operator Qualification Program  Mechanic Qualification Program  Electrical Instrumentation & Controls Qualification Program  Flammable and Combustible Liquids Safety  Health & Safety  First Aid  Work at Height Courses and Certifications  Safety Officer Competency  Emergency and Fire Safety Preparedness Courses  Safety in the Operation of Mechanical Equipment  Accident Investigation Procedure  Mandatory training on Ormat's Code of Conduct and Business Ethics  Anti-Bribery and Corruption  Harassment Training  Corporate Governance & Human Resources  Project Management  Effective Communication Skills Training  Leadership Training  Team Building  American Society of Mechanical Engineers Course  Welding Course  Calibration Course  ISO CAT 111, ISO 45001, ISO 14001  Professional and Technica Training  Technical Sketching for production workers  Exploration and Development of Geothermal Resources  Information System Security Certification  English Training  MS Office Excel Essential Training  Procurement and Supply Chain Best Practices  TRAINING & EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES We express our commitment to the professional and personal develop.ment of our employees out of the belief that it contributes to their career growth and trajectory in the Company, but also that it expands our company’s knowledge base. Therefore, we offer our employees with a wide array of training and educational programs regarding relevant professional and soft skills to help them improve their performance and expand their horizons. These opportunities help foster a creative mindset among our employees that is conducive to our company’s inno.vative and dynamic nature. We believe that quality education and access to new economic, social and environmental opportunities enrich our employees’ experience while working for Ormat and, in turn, contribute to the development and growth of the communities where we work. As a result, and in many cases, we also support our employees and their families in the pursuit of educa.tional opportunities through various subsidy and scholarship packages that are aimed at updating employee skills and developing a devoted and experienced workforce in the countries where we operate. In 2019, Ormat employees received an average of 7 hours of training and education. The diverse nature of our operations that span from the factory floor to the power plant site require our employees to remain in-the-know regarding relevant technical and professional skills, health & safety requirements and best business practices. At all of our manufacturing facilities, we provide our employees with access to training regarding equipment use and emergency procedures. At our power plants, where there are regulated emergency procedures in place depending on the location of the plant, we often provide guided instruction on the geographical specifications and local points of reference for each potential emergency. These are skills that employees apply in their work for Ormat, but which also can be applied throughout their path towards career development path. In addition, for business and admin.istrative professionals, we provide access to courses on corporate gover.nance and ethics topics – in addition to ethics training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics– as well as soft skills instruction to help improve their value offerings for Ormat and within their professional networks. We believe that these skills contribute to the atmosphere of creativity and innovation that we seek to encourage among all Company employees – no matter their educa.tional background or geographi.cal location. Each area of training and course.work is managed according to the relevant business unit, i.e. Quality, Environment, Health & Safety for relevant Health & Safety training, or the Company’s management for legal and corporate governance training. In addition to necessary technical, professional and safety skills, our nature as a renewable energy project developer and operator bestows upon us a commitment that we are proud to implement educational programs for our employees and other relevant stakeholders, such as contractors and business partners, who are involved in the construction, operation and maintenance of our global power plants, on the impor.tance of managing environmental, health and safety risks on site and in the course of plant development. We factor management of health & safety risks into our site management policies and work with relevant stake.holders to inform them of potential risks and modes of operation. Other relevant training opportunities are professionally and administratively managed by the Human Resources department or the plant managers, or are initiated by managers and Vice Presidents of various business units. Finally, employees are welcome to suggest additional areas of expertise and coursework that are deemed necessary for the fulfillment of their position and we are open to consider.ing integrating their suggestions into our training program and framework. Expanding Educational Horizons for Our Employees & Their Families The professional and educational development assistance we offer varies from in-house training courses to subsidies for higher education programs, covering a range of topics or skills depending on individual needs and aptitudes. We believe that by investing in employee skill development through provision of educational assistance we can meet our strategic business targets while adequately preparing our employees for a rapidly evolving professional environment. We offer our employees access to educational grants and partial or full scholarship opportunities in the belief that the best way to innovate our company is through employee knowledge. For instance, at our power plants in Guatemala, we implement an Educational Assistance Program for local employees that is based on workforce planning and development. Employees are asked to submit a proposal with the courses or degree that they wish to pursue as well as the name of the relevant academic institution, and the plant managers make considerations based on the employees’ overall performance and career trajectory at the plant. Other locations, like our power plant in Honduras, awards educational scholarships based on the amount of time the employee has worked for the Company, and all employees in Honduras (as well as at various other locations) are provided with English language courses to better facilitate their work and communication within the organization. In addition, we encourage our employees to develop their career horizons within our company through management development learning platforms. At our adminis.trative offices in Israel, employees can “shadow” managers in their department, participate in soft skills courses and exchange experiences with managers in other business units in order to help them grow as managers. Due to the diverse nature of our operations, and the tendency of our employees to develop specific areas of expertise, we highly encourage intraorganizational communication in our management development programs. However, it should be noted that manage.rial training is not a condition for employee promotion and is instead an offering to employees interested in exploring their opportunities for career growth within Ormat. Employees who are transitioning to a different position, ending or terminating their employment with Ormat, or who are in the process of retirement are also offered access to reskilling and upskilling opportunities to ensure that they have the correct knowledge and tools to meet their next challenge. An Organization Shaped by Local Employment Ormat is an organization that prides itself on full local employment at all levels of our organization and in all our facilities, power plants and oper.ational locations. In 2019, the proportion of manage.ment hired from the local commu.nities in our plants was 100%.143 We believe that local employment is essential to the success and vitality of our business because local employees, residents and community members possess a keen understand.ing of the local geography, environ.ment, social fabric, community and stakeholders. This places them in a position to knowledgeably provide the superb degree of service that Ormat strives for. In addition, we believe that cultivating the skills of the local workforce is important in fostering knowledge regarding renewable energy solutions, with the goal of ensuring the long-term sustainability of our power plants and energy solutions. Furthermore, we believe that investment in the local workforce supports the local economy and enables community development in that Ormat’s local employees become part of a larger global organization and learn skills that contribute to their professional career and personal goals. In countries like Kenya, Guatemala, Honduras and Guadeloupe where local employment options are limited, Ormat offers our employees access to different professional employment opportunities such as plant managers, local sustainability managers, power plant operators, maintenance workers, engineers, mechanics and more. Individuals retained for these positions are hired by the local Human Resources manager based on their relevant experience, knowledge and education. In some locations where employment options are limited in the vicinity of the power plant our plants have also agreements with local community councils and repre.sentatives to create additional job opportunities for the communities nearby. For example, In Guatemala, both the Amatitlan and Zunil have agreements which provide preference to the employment in certain profes.sions, of local employees, to work in time-set “shifts”. This method enables to increases the rate of local employ.ment and Ormat’s economic impact on local communities. This is the case not only in the developing countries where Ormat operates, but also in the U.S., where Ormat has operations in some areas with traditionally high unemployment rates. Therefore, we not only hire qualified local staff where available, but also invest in creating oppor.tunities for qualified local staff. For example, Ormat has power plants in the Imperial Valley, a region that has one of the highest unemploy.ment rates in California, and our local employment policy there has made Ormat the region’s second largest employer. In addition, as outlined above, we provide all of our employees with access to educational opportunities. Furthermore, Ormat has written curricula for local community colleges and universities in Nevada focusing on technical subjects such as plant operation and relevant academic subjects such as geoscience, which has helped promote a talented local 143 ‘Senior management’ is defined as employees who manage operations and implementation of our projects and business targets at our power plants and in our offices. ‘Local’ is defined as the immediate communities surrounding our operations. ‘Significant locations of operation’ are those operational locations that are included in the Boundaries of this report, as defined in the “Information Boundaries of This Report” section. ENSURING A SAFE & HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AT ORMAT The health and safety of our employees, subcontractors, the public and the environment is an overarching priority at Ormat. We manage risks by identifying, assessing and controlling risks in every facility, office and workplace that we own and operate. We promote safety awareness and values and our goal is to report, analyze, learn and improve performance following every event in order to reduce the number of incidents. We also work to continu.ously improve our safety performance and to instill a strong workplace safety culture. The countries where Ormat operates have local laws regulating the topics of health and safety that the Company follows, and where possible and practical, we strive to go beyond the requirements of the legal regulations to promote the utmost level of health and safety for our employees and other relevant stakeholders. These include safety requirements such as ventilation, fire protection, work at height regulations, personal protection and gear, railings, electric protection and employee training on pertinent issues, among other topics that are outlined in the following chapter. OUR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAM – STRIVING TO GO BEYOND COMPLIANCE Safety is a key area of concern to us. We believe that the optimal, most efficient and profitable perfor.mance of our power plants can only be achieved by fostering a safe and healthy working environment. First and foremost, we follow the relevant health and safety rules and work regulations at each of our oper.ational locations, but we also go beyond compliance at the corporate level to ensure that the appropriate policies and initiatives are imple.mented wherever we operate. The goal of these efforts is to create an overall culture of safety for Ormat’s employees at all of our locations. In addition, we have an advanced online platform for recording, reporting and tracking safety and environmental incidents at our power plants and operational sites. Ormat’s occupational health and safety program is focused on four main components: 1. Everyone, Everyday – All Ormat employees are integral to safe opera.tions, each charged with the respon.sibility to work safely and create and maintain a safe work environment. 2. Management of Hazards – Ormat strives to systematically identify hazards, and then manage them by elimination, isolation or minimization. 3. Safety as a Core Value – Safety is a core value at Ormat. 4. Continual Vigilance - Our goal is to learn and improve our performance following every event in order to reduce the number of incidents. This requires that all employees maintain constant vigilance to ensure that unsafe acts or work conditions are identified, addressed, regulated and prevented, wherever possible. The topic of Quality, Environment, Health and Safety (QEHS) was managed during the relevant period by Ormat’s appointed Global VP of QEHS. The Global VP of QEHS is responsible for oversight and manage.ment of the health and safety budget and relevant policies, processes, training and work practices across the organization. Plant managers at each of Ormat’s operational sites and power plants are accountable for implementing relevant Company-level and local health and safety regulations and initiatives through the appointed Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) coordinator. On-site EHS coor.dinators are additionally responsible for upholding the local conditions, regulations or other agreements, for ongoing record-keeping and reporting and for the training and certification of employees. These EHS coordinators report to the plant and/or power plant manager and conduct work according to Company-wide EHS initiatives that are set by the Global VP QEHS. Ormat has an Integrated Quality, Envi.ronment, Health and Safety Policy that sets out our general commit.ments towards health and safety principles at our sites and for all our stakeholders. The policy is enforced by the Company’s Global VP QEHS and adherence with the policy, or the need for relevant revisions, is consistently monitored and assessed together with Company manage.ment. The policy is publicly available on Ormat’s website144 and outlines our commitments to providing high quality products, conducting our business with care for the environ.ment and for integrating our QEHS system into our business strategy and work processes. In addition, our Human Rights and Labor Policy, which is also available publicly on our website145, outlines our commitments to ensuring that essential health and safety standards and practices are enforced in the workplace, to devel.oping risk awareness and to encour.aging responsible health and safety behavior among employees. The policy was updated in 2018 to add more comprehensive information on our health and safety policies, initiatives and expectations, such as our full commitment to meet and go beyond all legal and regulatory health and safety requirements in our countries of operation and infor.mation on the industry standards to which we adhere. 144  HTTPS://WWW.ORMAT.COM/WAREHOUSE/USERUPLOADFILES/IMAGE/ORMAT%20INTERGRATED%20QUALITY%20ENVIORNMET%20HEALTH%20AND%20SAFETY%20(QEHS)%20POLICY.PDF 145 HTTPS://WWW.ORMAT.COM/WAREHOUSE/USERUPLOADFILES/IMAGE/ORMAT%20HUMAN%20RIGHTS%20POLICY.PDF 98 Ormat’s employees have represen.tation on Company’s health and safety committees. Ormat has two types of safety committees: one for the management of health and safety aspects at our factories and manufacturing facilities and one for the management of health and safety aspects in other operations, i.e. at Ormat’s power plants and offices. The committees organize and assess Ormat’s health and safety program at the corporate level. An employee from each department is nominated to participate in the committees and employees from all Ormat’s global locations are encouraged to volunteer their participation. In order to expand employee involvement, the employee representatives are rotated each year. Overall in 2019, 20% of Ormat’s employees took part in the safety committees. Whether participating as an employee representative or not, all of Ormat’s employees are encour.aged to communicate their concerns or recommendations to the relevant committees. In 2019, we received over 7,400 health and safety observa.tions and hundreds of safety sugges.tions from our employees through our health and safety management platform (detailed below). Furthermore, Ormat facilities have safety training programs, under the responsibility of each plant manager and the local EHS manager, and which is directed by our Company’s joint employee and management health and safety committees. The program seeks to ensure that safety expectations are clearly commu.nicated and understood by all employees and subcontractors, and that comprehensive safety plans are maintained across all Company oper.ations. We provide regular training in health and safety regulations and procedures at all our locations and have detailed guidelines in place in case of emergency to monitor health and safety standards on a continual basis. In 2019, we continued our Safety Leadership Training, also known as the ProAct safety training program, as well as to expand employee partic.ipation in our SafeStart® health and safety training and implementation program, including integration of the SafeStart® philosophies and practices into our health and safety key performance indicators (KPIs). In addition, we increased employee participation in our behavior-based safety programs, which contributes greatly to maturing and advancing a culture of safety at our organization. MEASURING OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Ormat reports its health and safety data to the Bureau of Labor Statis.tics (BLS), which is part of the U.S. Department of Labor, according to internationally accepted reporting standards such the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA)146 forms for recording work-related injuries and illnesses. Ormat’s manufacturing and office facilities in Israel operate in all material respects according to OHSAS 18001, but the facilities do not have certifica.tion from the local Standards Institute of Israel. Ormat works to ensure that its employees who unfortunately expe.rience an injury or illness as a result of their work for the Company receive the utmost treatment and care for their ailment or affliction and that all of their expectations of the Company with regards to the matter are met. Ormat conducts Quality, Environ.ment, Health and Safety audits of our plants and facilities every three The following table details Ormat’s performance with regards to accepted workplace health and safety indicators in 2019. Parameter147  Female  Male  All  Injury Rate148  0  3.56  2.13  Occupational Disease Rate149  0  0  0  Lost Day Rate 150  0  1.31  1.10  Absentee Rate  0.05  0.03  0.03  Work-Related Fatalities 151  0  0  0  146 The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is an agency of the United States Department of Labor. 147  Each of the health and safety parameters are reported according to the relevant disclosures set out in 403-2 of the GRI’s SRS standards. 148 Frequency of injuries, relative to the total time worked by all workers during the reporting period. Ormat uses the total recordable injury rate, TRIR which is calculated as the number of medical treatment injuries per 200,000 employee hours. 149  Frequency of occupational diseases relative to the total time worked by all workers during the reporting period. Calculated as the number of medical treatment occupational diseases per 200,000 employee hours. 150 Time (‘days’) that cannot be worked (and are thus ‘lost’) as a consequence of a worker or workers being unable to perform their usual work because of an occupational disease or accident. Calculated as the number of lost day cases per 200,000 employee hours. 151 Death of a worker occurring in the current reporting period, arising from an occupational disease or injury sustained or contracted while performing work that is controlled 100 by the organization or that is being performed in workplaces that the organization controls. Calculated as the number of fatalities per 200,000 employee hours. In 2019, we recorded the following reportable injuries at our operational sites: Type of Injury  Number of Occurrences  Struck  7  Exertion  6  Slip  4  Falls  5  Pinch Point  3  Eye Injury  1  Chemical Contact  1  Environmental  1  Misstep  2  Repetitive Motion  1  years. In 2019, internal audits were completed for several sites in the U.S. including Mammoth, Steamboat, Tuscarora and Neal Hot Springs, and at our Yavne facility in Israel. Ormat has Company wide KPIs for the implementation of our health and safety program for employees. Through adoption of the KPI, we seek to emphasize the importance of sound health and safety activi ties at all sites, as well as express our commitment to learning and improving our health and safety performance. The KPIs measure, Ormat manages and monitors our QEHS performance at a global level for all sites. Reports are catego.rized according to the criteria and performance metrics of the Occu.track and compare performance regarding our existing Safety Partici pation Program and will report on the following indicators: Safety Suggestion Number of safety sugges tions generated Safety Observations Number of safety observations performed by employees Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) Number of JHAs completed or revised per quarter pational Safety and Health Associa.tion (OSHA) of the U.S. Department of Labor. Pre-Job Safety Meetings (PJSM) Number of documented PJSMs per month Safety Inspections Number of safety inspections per month Safety Work Orders (and/or Completion of Safety Tasks) Number of safety work orders generated or safety tasks completed Safety Committee Meetings Number of safety committee meetings conducted per quarter The following table represents our health and safety performance regarding the abovementioned indicators in 2019: Indicator  Business Unit  2019 Performance  2019 Total  Safety Suggestions  United States Operations  317  791  Israel Operations  244  Other International Operations  155  Drilling Operations  75  Safety  United States Operations  2249  6872  Israel Operations  2539  Other International Operations  1426  Drilling Operations  658  JHAs  United States Operations  133  432  Israel Operations  53  Other International Operations  186  Drilling Operations  19  PJSMs  United States Operations  950  2169  Israel Operations  514  Other International Operations  454  Drilling Operations  251  Safety Inspections  United States Operations  1564  1895  Israel Operations  10  Other International Operations  158  Drilling Operations  63  Safety Work Orders (Tasks)  United States Operations  1212  1638  Israel Operations  317  Other International Operations  61  Drilling Operations  48  Safety Committee Meetings  United States Operations  163  289  Israel Operations  70  Other International Operations  52  Drilling Operations  4  In forthcoming reports, we plan to report on our health and safety indicator performance to show our progress year-over-year. Based on these indicators, we operate a proactive safety plan for our employees, who are required to complete several different types of activities and to report on their “Safety KPI Scorecard”. Each of our sites is required to set goals regarding the KPIs and to report on their perfor.mance regarding the following param.eters: safety training of employees, number and frequency of actionable safety suggestions made, number and frequency of safety observations made, job hazard analyses (JHAs) performed, pre-job safety meetings (PJSMs) held and at which frequency, number of safety inspections, number of safety work orders and number of safety committee meetings. Employees are encouraged to take an active role in improving our health and safety performance through the global Safety Partic.ipation Program. The program is designed to encourage and recognize employees who are actively involved in all aspects of maintaining a safe and healthy work environment. Employees can earn “Ormat Bucks” by completing and participating in health and safety activities, such as safety work, taking proactive safety measures, demonstrating safety leadership, or by increasing safety engagement. By submitting safety reports, reporting unsafe conditions, participating in JHAs or acting as a safety committee member, Ormat employees can collect their “Ormat Bucks” at the end of the month and select a prize. HEALTH & SAFETY IN OUR WORK WITH SUBCONTRACTORS In addition to implementing stringent health and safety measures for our employees, we require our subcon.tractors comply with relevant health and safety regulations as they pertain to our operations, including our own rules, where relevant. In Ormat’s standard contract for work with subcontractors, the Company reserves the right to indemnify the services of the subcontractor if the subcontractor violates or infringes upon any relevant laws, rules, regu.lations or standards pertaining to occupational health and safety of employees. Ormat expects its subcontractors to strictly adhere to local health and safety regulations, together with Ormat’s own expecta.tions, whichever are more stringent. We also require all subcontractors to adhere to our checklist of “Environ.mental Compliance Responsibilities”, which is a list of tasks and necessary milestones that should be regularly reported on to Ormat by the subcon.tractor. Some of these requirements include: attending pre-construction conferences to review health and safety expectations, preparing an emergency response plan, maintain.ing a speed limit of 10 miles-per-hour in the construction area and other environmental controls, such as developing a Storm Water Pollution Plan (SWPP). SAFE DEALING WITH HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS When it comes to hazardous materials, U.S. plants are subject to the Compre.hensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), and Federal Risk Manage.ment Plan/Process Safety Manage.ment (RMP-PSM). In all cases, the regulated substance is the motive fluid in our power plants; pentane, isopentane, butane, isobutane152 . We typically have small quantities of other regulated substances like solvents, but most do not reach the quantity relevant under the regula.tion for official treatment. In Israel, our manufacturing facility follows the rules and regulations outlined in the Hazardous Materials Law (1993). Details on our treatment and dealing with hazardous materials is provided in the “Measuring and Controlling Environmental Impacts: Waste, Management of Materials and Biodiversity Conservation “ chapter of this report. Ormat upholds detailed and well-communicated emergency response plans at each of its sites for evacuation in cases of emergency, natural disaster or other hazards, such as chemical or pollutant spills and leakages. In general, the Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) are developed and adopted by each of the offices, operational facilities and power plants on a local and case-to-case basis. EAPs in the U.S. are based on the RMP-PSM, which governs all U.S. state regulations, such as Chemical Accident Prevention Program (CAPP) in Nevada and the California Acci.dental Release Prevention (CalARP) Program. However, there is some general guidance from the global occupational health and safety team on the general guidelines for gener.ating an EAP. In our office spaces, the EAP requirement is triggered by our fire detection systems (OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.164) and by the fixed fire extinguishing system (sprinklers; OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.160). 152  More information on our treatment of these regulated substances can be found in the “Waste and Materials” chapter. SUPPORTING  AND SHAPING  SUSTAINABLE  COMMUNITIES AND  FUTURES  OUR GOALS AND GUIDEPOSTS  As a leading global provider of  renewable energy solutions, Ormat  recognizes the vital role that local  people, communities and positive,  long-term relationships play in  advancing the adoption, uptake  and long-term viability of renewable  energy. Ormat sees an imperative to  act, operate and engage with local  people and communities in a manner  that is consistent both with globally  recognized social, environmental and  economic development standards  and Ormat’s corporate values – of  stability, constant renewal, full  commitment, courage and creativ. ity. We view this as a fundamental  pathway to success and are inspired  by the standards of various leading  sustainability frameworks, including  those of the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI), the United Nations  Sustainability Development Goals  (SDGs), and other principles such as  the OECD Guidance on Sustainabil. ity Impact Assessments and the ISO  26000 guidelines for social respon. sibility. These are the guideposts for  the behavioral expectations Ormat  upholds for all employees as we work  towards fulfilling our mission and  engaging with local communities.  Another essential principle that we  seek to implement in our activities  and policies is that of equality. Ormat applies the same high standards to the way we interact, engage and  develop our business wherever we  operate, across the globe.  We under. stand and perceive the unique cultural  needs of each location on every level,  76 More information on our treatment of these regulated substances can be found in the “Waste and Materials” chapter.  from country to local community. In all cases and locations, Ormat is committed to being open, transpar.ent, consistent and focused on deliv.ering sustainable renewable energy solutions that generate inherently positive impact, for the environment, society and the economy. UNDERSTANDING AND UNIQUENESS Ormat knows each community reflects a constellation of unique stakeholders and that no two communities are identical. Each has its specific needs, characteristics, constraints and challenges. We seek first to understand and assess the local conditions through our Stake.holder Engagement Policy. Our approach is responsive and respect.ful to local customs, in full alignment with all local regulations and laws and sensitive to the specific needs and requests for contributions and assis.tance voiced by each community. This approach highlights an essential truth – each community has deep insights into the ways it can be improved. Seeking this input typically leads to the most proactive and potentially uplifting outcomes. Ormat’s commit.ment to community typically begins well before we start development in a new region. Every part of our connec.tion with stakeholders – from pre-de.velopment and planning through to operations – is characterized by our “open door” policy. SOCIAL ACTION PLANS At Ormat, we take the impacts from the construction of our power plants seriously and work diligently to reduce them. We are usually guided by Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA), which are conducted according to local standards and requirements. We view this as an important way to reduce negative impacts and conducting such assessments is the first stage in establishing our relationship with the local community. The social part of the impact assessment first collects data through dialogue with the local community, then maps the needs of the local community and finally provides a framework for both addressing stakeholder grievances and for generating positive impact through investment (philanthropic or otherwise) in programs and/or funds. Often these assessments are reviewed by relevant public authori.ties or by funding bodies, like institu.tional investors, development banks and other relevant parties, and are often conducted prior to permitting processes. The initial ESIA is the basis to our relationship with the community but we maintain ongoing dialog and change according to their changing needs. In 2019, of all the social and envi.ronmental impact assessments we conducted, Ormat did not discover any notable negative impacts to local communities. LISTENING MEANS LEARNING Community Engagement and Handling Grievances Ormat recognizes that for successful interactions to occur, there must be a basis for meaningful communication, mutual respect and trust. That’s why we create processes and feedback mech.anisms to encourage all community members to speak openly and honestly about any concerns that our develop.ment activities may raise. Ensuring both positive and negative input is reported, listened to, and, most impor.tantly, acted upon, keeps communica.tion channels clear, quickly identifies pressing issues and promotes a spirit of cooperation and proactivity. Ormat’s stakeholders are encouraged to file their grievances directly with local plant managers and/or with appointed representatives in their municipal or community council who regularly liaise with Ormat. Stakeholders may also contact Ormat through the ‘Contact Us’ page153 on Ormat’s corporate website which lists the mail, telephone, fax or email through which they may connect and communicate with the Company. All concerns and grievances received are addressed by Ormat’s Marketing and Communications department and are systematically reviewed and directed to the relevant corporate department for review and any necessary action and/or follow-up. In 2019, Ormat did not receive any major stakeholder grievances nor were any other issues raised regarding vulnerable community groups in our areas of operation. We are committed to achieving our goal of addressing and responding to 100% of stake.holder requests received through our various channels of stakeholder engagement, as outlined in the “Our Strategy for Stakeholder Engage.ment” section. Beyond local and national platforms, Ormat has also found a voice on the global stage to discuss the benefits of geothermal energy. In 2019, Vice President of Business Development Paul Thomsen presented on Ormat’s efforts to implement sustainable development goals in the geothermal energy arena to the United Nations in New York, NY. United States In the United States, Ormat works to increase awareness of renewable and geothermal energy in the general public as well as for policy makers and government representatives. We regularly share information with these groups regarding the multiple benefits of geothermal as a viable, steady, and reliable source of renewable energy that has minimal impacts on the surrounding environ.ment. Ormat employs several mech.anisms to engage with local commu.nities near our power plants in the United States, encouraging open dialogue and seeking to address relevant issues and concerns. As an example of the in-depth engagement activities initiated by Ormat in communities that host our power plants, in 2019 Ormat began work on a Steamboat Hills geother.mal enhancement project near Reno, Nevada. The enhancement project entails the replacement of old power plant equipment to improve performance and efficiency. With the aim of being a good neighbor in our community, staff attended a neighborhood advisory board meeting, provided a workshop at the Reno City Council, and met with the City Planning Commission and the Regional Planning Committee to proactively address questions and concerns regarding the project. Following these meetings, the Reno City Council approved the Steamboat Hills geothermal enhancement project, based on its adherence to relevant regulations, including those governing Ormat’s environmental and social engagement. Since 2019, Ormat has continued to address relevant concerns and provide community education on geothermal energy in the Reno, Nevada area, including communi.ty-wide presentations on renewable energy hosted by the Great Basin Institute, the Nevada Petroleum and Geothermal Society, and local Chambers of Commerce. These well-attended presentations were highlighted by the local news and led to heightened community interest in tours of our geothermal facilities. We continue to provide these tours and presentations, attend community meetings, and implement feedback mechanisms from the public in all of our host communities to sustain community engagement and interest. Regarding the initiatives identified throughout the course of these outreach activities, Ormat publishes an annual progress report accessible to the public. 153     https://www.ormat.com/en/company/contact/main/ 106 While a significant component of community engagement is focused on the economic benefits of building a geothermal power plant, Ormat is also deeply committed to looking beyond economic factors to enhance the quality of life in our host commu.nities. In May of 2018, Kilauea, a volcano active since 1983, began a months-long eruption in Puna, Hawaii, transforming the landscape and devastating the community. In the wake of the eruption, Puna Geothermal Venture (PGV) and 700 surrounding homes in the community were entirely surrounded by lava. Ormat immediately committed to bringing the PGV plant back online to provide power to the community. Working closely with oversight partners, Ormat worked quickly to design, engineer and clear a new path to the facility. And with the help of the Kapoho Land Development Company, we were able to create access for our neighbors whose homes had become inaccessible due to the eruption. Following the eruption, as Puna banded together to heal, Ormat was honored to contribute funds to the Hawaii Island Chamber of Commerce, the Imiloa Astronomy Center, the local Hawaii chapter of the Boy Scouts of America, and several other community groups and causes as their journey to overcome the tragedy commenced. Abiding by the philosophy that a rising tide lifts all boats, Ormat seeks similar phil.anthropic and sponsorship opportu.nities in all of our host communities to encourage those communities to thrive and flourish through arts, education, health and wellness. In 2019, we donated funds to the AVA Ballet Theater and the Pioneer Center for Performing Arts in Reno, NV and in both 2018 and 2019 we sponsored a summer youth education program for the Yomba Shoshone tribe in Austin, NV centered around culture, community, and wellness. In addition to extensive outreach activities in our host communities, Ormat takes every opportunity to increase education and awareness for policy makers and government representatives, including tours and educational presentations to local and national delegations. In 2019, the geothermal energy space saw a flurry of activity in Washington D.C., as Nevada Senator Cortez Masto and Oregon Senator Ron Wyden introduced the Geothermal Energy Opportunities Act. Following this and based on increased interest in geothermal technology on a national level, Ormat presented the clean energy potential of geother.mal energy to the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee in September of that same year. Guatemala Ormat’s community engagement efforts and action plans for the largely agrarian areas around Zunil and Amatitlan are designed to support positive value creation and improved quality of life. To develop our community engage.ment plans in Amatitlan, Ormat communicates directly with  five local communities: San Francisco de Sales, El Cedro, El Bejucal, El Pepinal and San Jose Calderas. This is done through a committee, known as a “COCODES” that organizes and manages relevant stakeholder requests. Local officials from the municipality, regulators and local community members are all represented on the COCODES. Ormat then answers the requests through relevant activities, initiatives or messages to the community. The relationship and assistance to the community in Amatitlan is handled through the Orpacaya Trust (“Fide.icomiso Orpacaya”) that enables Ormat to advance relationships with the local community by furnishing economic and educational opportu.nities. The Orpacaya Trust works to develop social projects on education, health, infrastructure and environ.mental mitigation. Financial support for the trust is allocated annually from Ormat’s power plant budget. As there is one small community near Zunil the relationship is less formal and there is direct contact between residents of the local community and the plant management. In 2019, we donated a computer and a printer for the COCODE of San Francisco de Sales, so that they could write letters to the community and the Municipality updating them of 77 https://www.ormat.com/en/company/contact/main/ their progress.  Also, in that city we a more stable, affordable electricity protect pedestrians and motorists Guatemala financed a road paving project which grid. To that end, in 2019 hundreds alike.  Throughout the region we is set to be completed in 2020.  In of people from across Honduras – serve, we conducted a program of In 2019, Ormat supported early Calderas, we financed the replace-students, local government members, reforestation, together with students childhood and elementary school ment of the water pump that had service organizations, environmen-of the communities, which resulted education in five target communities served the community with a modern tal groups, and others – visited our in the planting of over 12,000 trees, served by Amatitlan.  We funded the 20-horsepower pump system. In El facility for tours. and a recycling education program, salary costs of two teachers serving Cedro, we completed the third phase which made available recycling kits schools in Calderas and Pepinal of constructing a community recre-Ormat recognizes that for successful for solid residues. and provided scholarships for four ation park, including a playground for interactions with the community to students in San Francisco de Sales. In children.  Last, but not least, Ormat occur, there must be a basis for mean-Kenya the latter city, we also donated musical was a sponsor of the 2019 Pepinal ingful communication, mutual respect instruments for the school band.  In community soccer championship. and trust. That’s why we create mech-In compliance with Ormat’s stake-Bejucal, we built new bathrooms anisms to encourage all community holder engagement strategy, and for a community school in an effort Honduras members to speak openly and to address requests from project to improve the overall sanitary and honestly about any concerns that our funders - the German Investment health conditions experienced by The mission of Ormat’s geothermal development activities may raise. The Corporation (DEG) and the Envi.schoolchildren.  In El Cedro, we project in Honduras, Geotérmica Grievance Mechanism ensures that ronmental Resources Management donated stoves to the town’s primary Platanares (GPS), is to be a leading both positive and negative input is (ERM) East Africa Environmental school, to enable them to provide hot regional provider of renewable reported, listened to, and, most impor-and Social Due Diligence (ESDD), breakfasts for their students. Also in energy while building a balanced tantly, acted upon, keeps communica-Ormat’s Olkaria III facility developed El Cedro, we purchased a refrigerator portfolio of geothermal assets. tion channels clear, quickly identifies a number of mechanisms to engage for the local nursery school to help GPS also recognizes the vital role pressing issues and promotes a spirit with the local communities, to handle preserve the food that they receive that local people, communities and of cooperation and pro-activity. In grievances, and to provide support from the Ministry of Education. positive, long-term relationships play 2019, GPS did not receive any major to disadvantaged members. These in advancing the adoption, uptake stakeholder grievances nor were any mechanisms include: a Stakeholder In La Calera, the village near Zunil, and long-term viability of renewable other issues raised regarding vulner-Engagement Plan (SEP), a Grievance and with association management to equality of opportunity in education. which is home to a population of energy. We see an imperative to able community groups in our area Mechanism (GM), a Corporate Social discuss and address the concerns of In 2019, Ormat provided support around 600 people, our efforts act, operate and engage with local of operation. We are committed to Responsibility (CSR) Policy and a stakeholders.  In 2019, as in previous to the Central Union High School focus on supporting the communi.people and communities in a manner achieving our goal of addressing CSR Strategy. The local sustainabil-years, we worked to support the District in El Centro, California, ty’s elementary school, because we that is consistent both with globally and responding to 100% of stake-ity manager reports annually on the social improvement of the neighbor-towards their youth softball league. believe that education can serve as recognized social, environmental and holder requests received through status of each of these policies and hood and the city at large, as well as We are now in the second year of our a springboard for the advancement economic development standards our various channels of stakeholder implementation plans, while setting for other nearby communities. three-year commitment (begun in of the whole community.  Currently, and our corporate values – of stability, engagement. goals and recommending projects for 2018) to the Mammoth Lakes Foun-around 70 students from 5 to 13 years constant renewal, full commitment, future engagement. EDUCATIONAL EMPOWERMENT dation, which funds full scholarships of age attend, and it is therefore courage and creativity. As in previous years, in 2019 we for every Mono County senior high critical that the school will be able conducted a robust program of In 2019, we continued our activities to United States school student planning on attending to adequately serve their needs. To Geotérmica Platanares applies the community outreach in Honduras. support local communities.  We worked the Cerro Coso Community College. that end, in 2019 Ormat sponsored same high standards to the way we We underwrote improvements to the together with the Kenya Wildlife Ormat aims to educate as many In 2019, we also began a scholar-the construction of a second-floor interact, engage and develop our main roadway, enabling residents to Service to help restore the Hell’s Gate people as possible about renewable ship program for students of the addition to the existing building, business, while also understanding safely make their way to work at the National Park, financed the construc-energy – specifically geothermal Eureka County High School, which adding five new classrooms, complete and perceiving the unique cultural San Andres Mines.  We remodeled tion of water and electrical infrastruc-energy – and its concomitant benefits offers competitive scholarships with new desks and whiteboards, needs of each community on every the San Andres Social Center, a ture, opened and graded community for people, their communities, and to graduating seniors planning on together with a renovation of the level. In all cases, GPS is committed long-awaited improvement, which roads, and supported farming projects, the environment It is with this aim continuing to college or vocational entire school. The inauguration to being open, transparent, consistent will enable it to serve as a venue for alongside other activities to support in mind that we generally provide studies, with an emphasis on Engi-was a big community event, with and focused on delivering sustain-town meetings and the celebration vulnerable persons. tours and workshops for students neering, Electrical Instrumentation the students receiving new school able renewable energy solutions that of social occasions.  In El Cedro, one and educators at several of our facil-& Controls (through Great Basin supplies and uniform. generate inherently positive impact, of the poorest communities in the Guadeloupe ities, emphasizing the types of skills Community College in Elko) or other for the environment, society and region, we provided the materials and education needed to work in the scientific fields. Similarly, in 2019 Honduras the economy. to build new roofs for the town’s In Guadeloupe, our power plant is in renewable energy space. Ormat also committed funds to fund neediest residents. When it comes to the center of the city of Bouillante. scholarships for students attending In 2019, we began a project in collab-Our goal is to inform and engage our community safety, our focus this year For this reason, we view community In addition to reaching school Hawaii Community College and the oration with the Honduras Ministry visitors and provide a first-hand look was Traffic Safety.  To this end, we engagement as being especially students of all ages, we also under-University of Hawaii, Hilo as the of Education, which will transform at how geothermal energy is contrib-placed road signs, traffic lights, and important. To this end, we hold stand the importance of fostering local community recovered from the a community public school into uting to a cleaner energy future and crosswalks in critical places to help periodic meetings with residents developing minds and providing trauma of the 2018 Kilauea eruption. Honduras’ first public bilingual 108 109 school, teaching English as a Second Language.  This year, we started with students at the kindergarten level, and will expand to the first-grade level in 2020.  Though the program is new, it has already created an impact – enrollment in the community school has doubled since we began. In 2019, we also provided 50 scholar.ships to students at the high school and university level to enable them to access quality educational opportuni.ties that would otherwise be unavail.able to them. We believe that hunger is a major barrier to the ability of children to learn. For this reason, we continue to provide the ingredients to provide meals to all the children in the five educational centers within our communities.  We also donated appliances, water tanks, food storage containers, and other materials to ensure that the food can remain fresh and nutritious before being served. Kenya To realize our Community Investment Policy in Kenya, Ormat has a well-es.tablished record of funding education programs in Kenyan communities near our operations, emphasizing scholarship opportunities for bright young girls. By doing so, we provide higher education pathways for female students which open doors to careers as a viable alternative to early marriage. In 2019, we granted mid-level and tertiary sponsorships to over 40 students from our six served communities (Narasha, Olomunyak, Olmara, Nkaampani, Oltepesi, and Olmaiyana), alongside over 50 secondary school bursaries. We also carried out a mentor-ship program in partnership with the National Organization of Peer Educators to 8th grade girls. In all our communities, we supported schools by providing hot meal services, install.ing water tanks, transporting teachers to schools, building classrooms, donating classroom furniture and equipment, supporting extracurricu.lar activities, and in some cases hiring school guards and funding teacher salaries. Guadeloupe In 2019, we continued our support for extracurricular activities, such as sports and music, which consists of providing grants to purchase supplies. We provide essential school tutoring for students in need, and provide prize incentives (computers, mobile phones, and travel tickets) for the 10 best students in the city. As Safety is a core Ormat value, we have continued our ongoing program to support safe bicycle and scooter driving for young people. Israel While Ormat actively engages in many philanthropic endeavors in Israel, our focus is on supporting the “ORT Ormat” technical and vocational secondary school, which was estab.lished in 1970 at Ormat’s Yavne factory in cooperation with Israel’s Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Social services and the ORT network.154 The ORT Ormat school teaches students, many from socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds, essential industrial and technical subjects, such as electrical manufacturing, metalworking, and computer programming and opera.tions. This long-term initiative provides added value for Ormat as well – most long-term manufacturing employees at Ormat’s Yavne facility are graduates of the program. In 2019, as in previous years, Ormat financed school activi.ties, including meals for students and teachers and a class trip to Poland, and several of Ormat’s engineers served as tutors. In 2019, Ormat provided funding to additional programs serving high-risk, special needs, and socio-economically disadvantaged youth.  Among these are the Nirim Youth Village, which provides a ‘second chance’ to at-risk youth to become fulfilled, contrib.uting members of society.  We also provided computers to a youth club, “Kadima,” serving low-income children, and donated to an organization which provides employment opportunities to artists with special needs. HEALTHCARE DELIVERS HOPE Improving access to healthcare is one of the most profound ways a company can exert a positive influence on indi.viduals and communities. Access to healthcare improves the most funda.mental human conditions, prevents disease, supports families and is a major pillar of our community invest.ment program. Similarly, initiatives that work to reduce poverty and provide nutritional food, especially for younger, growing children, are among the priority areas Ormat targets with our community invest.ment programming United States Ormat is involved in a wide variety of partnerships designed to promote health, well-being, dignity, and self-suffi.ciency in our host communities. In 2019, Ormat was a sponsor at the American Heart Association’s (AHA) annual Heart and Stroke Ball and employees also participated in the AHA’s annual Heart and Stroke Walk. We also continue to proudly support the Food Bank of Northern Nevada through donations and volunteered staff time. Guatemala During 2019, Ormat supported the salary costs of a doctor for three days per week at the Cedro Health Post. Additionally, we supported the salary costs of a nurse who provided weekend services at the San Vincente Health Center, two days a week.  This initiative 154 The ORT network is a global initiative which provides critical science and technology skills to over 300,000 people worldwide, with a special focus on communities facing socio-economic challenges. See https://en.ort.org.il/ 110 Committed to health during the global pandemic Ormat is committed to the health and well-being of our employees and all the individuals living in our host communities across the globe. Never before has that commitment been tested as it was in the latter part of 2019, and through 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic swept across the globe. The virus infected hundreds of thousands of people in every country, leading to the shutdown of economic activity and the breakdown of essential global supply chains. In the early days of this crisis, Ormat acted quickly to put strict social distancing mechanisms in place to protect all of our employees. While their safety was our top priority, it was clear that more was needed from us in many of the commu.nities that host our power plants. Quick work was needed to launch an extensive outreach plan to support these communities where we do business. One of the largest impacts to individuals that we sought to address was the reduced availability of food to vulnera.ble populations. Because of this dangerous food insecurity, Ormat devised a  plan to supply food to 17 different communities, ultimately providing 2,795 food packages to support 11,411 people in Kenya, Guatemala and Honduras. In addition to providing needed sustenance to these communities, there was an outcry from health.care workers across the globe for medical and personal protective equipment (PPE). Ormat heard the call and joined the hundreds of international companies who stepped up to donate necessary supplies and personal protective equipment (PPE) to hospitals in Kenya, Guatemala, Honduras and the United States. In Nevada, we donated 1,200 unused N95 masks from our power plant operations to Renown Hospital and the Veterans Administration Hospital. While the world isn’t out of the woods yet, we understand the need to come together as a global community to meet the needs of our most vulnerable. We will continue to seek opportunities in our communities to make a positive impact on our neighbors, and we hold onto the hope that as the world recovers, we will all emerge from this crisis stronger and more connected, resilient and prepared than ever before. is a continuation of the support that we provided in 2018.  Additionally, we supported the ongoing renovation of the Pepinal Health Post, including the construction of a new roof, and facili.tated the donation of medical supplies. Honduras This year, Ormat continued to collab.orate with the Central American Medical Outreach (CAMO)155 Brigades, a foundation that provides essential medical services to disad.vantaged communities. In 2019, we worked with them to provide medical services year-round to our communities.  Through this initiative, Honduras – Mitigating the Impact of COVID-19 in our communities As an electric power generation company, GPS was required to continue operations upon the outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020, even though most Honduras companies were forced to shut down. Enterprises that were closed included the mining company which provides Ormat was able to provide hundreds of medical treatments such as dental care treatments for children between the ages of 7 and 16, mammography screening to women older than 35 years of age, and cytology exams. Kenya In 2019, Ormat continued many of our initiatives begun in previous years, including providing a community HIV/ AIDS peer educator to help reduce the prevalence of the disease in the region that we serve.  This year, we also operated a free medical clinic, in partnership with the government-run Naivasha District Hospital. work for 90% of the residents in our communities. Honduras, like many other Central American countries, was especially hard-hit by the economic conse.quences of these closures.  Many depend on informal work for their livelihoods, which has been severely impacted by social distancing measures. Moreover, public health centers and hospitals were not equipped to cope with the medical emergency. LOCAL LIVELIHOOD One of the prime directives that sets Ormat apart is our Company-wide promotion of local employment; everyone who works at a plant is from the country in which the plant is located. We believe every renewable energy facility we develop, own and/or operate should be staffed by people who live in or close to the local community. This reflects Ormat’s responsibility to return benefits and generate positive impact for the local communities in proximity to our operations. We believe that being a good neighbor is the right thing to do and that hiring locally is the right way to operate. From the outset of this crisis, GPS worked to help alleviate the new hardships that arose.  We created a special social project to help each and every family of our communities through the monthly provision of food, directly aiding 2,500 people in our communities.  We also donated food supplies to the municipality of La Unión, which was able to serve an additional 8,000 people, and provided medical supplies to hospitals through.out western Honduras. United States For many communities, geother.mal power plants provide ongoing employment and financial produc.tivity, particularly in areas that are remote or have limited employment opportunities.  Ormat’s Ormesa Geothermal Complex, built in Cali.fornia’s Imperial Valley in 1988, became the second largest employer in an area that is impacted by severe unemployment. Part of Ormat’s commitment to job creation and quality education involves working in local U.S. commu.nities to train students in high-de.mand fields and instill technical skills that translate into career-building opportunities. For example, Ormat developed curricula for a power operator course at a local community college, which provided a successful pool of employees for our local plant. Ormat also sponsored a program to educate local teachers on renewable and geothermal energy through the Desert Research Institute (DRI), a non-profit environmental research arm of the Nevada System of Higher Education. Ormat also wrote curricula for a geothermal energy course for the U.S. public school STEM program156  and sponsors a geother.mal energy program for geoscientists at the University of Nevada. Guatemala Members of our local communities in Guatemala have expressed their desire that Ormat create more oppor.tunities for local employment to help alleviate the prevalent conditions of economic hardship. Unfortunately, in many cases this is not possible as our plants only require a limited amount of employees once they are constructed and operational. In order to partially address these needs, we have embarked upon a program in our Amatitlan and Zunil locations, which creates temporary employment for local residents, thus generating significant economic value throughout our local commu.nities.  This has taken the form of approximately dozens of positions (about half in Amatitlan and half in Zunil) which provide an income well above the local average. Employees hold these positions for two months a year, following which another local resident is offered the opportunity. Kenya Ormat continues to provide training and capacity building opportunities for youth, as an engine for broader economic development and job creation in our communities.  This includes vocational skill training (driving, operating construction equipment, and business manage.ment and administration.  We also provide essential skills training and mentorship to small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in the area and prioritize hiring community members to work within our facility. 