THE ENVIRONMENT AND TECHNOLOGY – ALWAYS INNOVATING Ormat’s sustainable approach to energy development is based on key technological pillars and an ongoing commitment to advancing the science of renewable energy technologies. It also means finding new ways to operate more sustainably, at every facility, every day. OPTIMIZING EVERY FACILITY THROUGH RESOURCE EFFICIENCY At Ormat, being a responsible facility operator means continually seeking ways to make the most out of every square meter of land our plants occupy and constantly evaluating opportunities to improve our operational efficiency. Ongoing research into new equipment helps keep our facilities running as cleanly and incident-free as possible. In 2017, our engineering and research and development teams enabled a series of improvements. For example, several facilities were reconfigured to accommodate larger pumps, which can more efficiently extract and process fluids from geothermal reservoirs. This, in turn, reduces the number of wells that are required to properly exploit a geothermal reservoir, thereby reducing our overall land use, while at the same time enhancing the overall operational capacity of the facilities. The installation of more efficient, angled air-cooling equipment was another compelling improvement that significantly reduced energy consumption at a number of Ormat facilities. LOCAL SERVICE CENTERS Ormat provides renewable energy solutions to clients worldwide and we strive to ensure that we minimize the distance that our equipment needs to be transported, again to reduce unnecessary environmental impacts, while maintaining a streamlined and efficient value chain. Turkey is one of Ormat’s key markets, with Ormat supplying Turkey with over 30 of our power plants in just over a decade. In the past two years we’ve established a manufacturing workshop in Turkey, which employs 22 local professional workers,  and provides the capability to build everything required for local customers in-house. This center better accommodates our client’s needs, provides fast and more efficient service to allow the customers to enjoy higher incentives per the Turkish incentive regulation. Another incentive for Ormat to opt for this localized approach was environmental; it reduces both the amount of shipping and logistics issues, as well as time constraints for our customers. MCGINNESS HILLS PHASE THREE – AN EVEN SMALLER IMPACT OF THE PLANT ON ITS SURROUNDINGS Every new facility Ormat develops requires detailed environmental plans to minimize impacts to the surrounding natural lands and wildlife ecosystems, with the hope of minimizing the level of disruption to nearby communities. continuously recharges geothermal systems, by maintaining consistent water flow and pressures. Reinjection of geothermal fluids, which are often referred to as “brines”, as they contain water, salts and other minerals, help reduce production-related pressure drawdown and promote enhanced thermal energy extraction from the heated rocks within the reservoir. Importantly, reinjection also avoids the need for disposal of wastewater into nearby surface water bodies and minimizes make-up water required to keep a geothermal reservoir viable. Ormat emphasizes resource management and almost all of our plants are air-cooled without requiring make-up water. Our company is known for our pioneering advances, which achieve 100% recirculation of the exploited geothermal fluid (condensate and brine) back into geothermal reservoirs while avoiding unsustainable use of water enhance depleted resources.  the to  REDUCING VISIBLE IMPACT  Optimizing locations for energy generating facilities to lessen their visual impact is an important part of reducing the footprint associated with geothermal energy generation. The visible plumes geothermal power plants emit consist of water After extensive work in 2016 and 2017, Ormat’s plan for the 48 MW Phase Three of the McGinness Hills geothermal complex received regulatory approval. Construction for the expansion, which will boost the overall complex’s capacity to 138 MW, is expected to be completed by year-end 2018. This latest expansion incorporates cutting edge facility features designed to reduce impacts such as light and sound pollution and others intended to prevent raven and raptor perching. RESERVOIR CONSERVATION THROUGH REINJECTION A key sustainability driver for geothermal power generation is the conservation and recycling of the water that conveys the heat from deep underground to geothermal power plants on the earth’s surface. Ormat, through its unique designs and operating processes, makes strong efforts to ensure that this precious water is not depleted. The geothermal resources Ormat develops involve reinjection and recirculation essentially of all of the geothermal fluids back into their respective reservoirs, in what are known as “closed loop” systems. This highly efficient method vapor emissions in the form of steam. Geothermal power plants do not combust fossil fuels, hence they produce no harmful emissions such as carbon dioxide, Sulphur dioxide or nitrous oxides. Even so, a steam plume’s impact can be further reduced by thoughtful design. Ormat designs and sites geothermal facilities to blend into the surrounding landscape, taking into consideration the actual physical location of each facility, the configuration of units that are used to build it, landscaping, paint and other surface finishes. Studies show that over a typical 30-year lifespan of a power plant, a geothermal facility consumes 404 square meters of land per gigawatt hour, while a coal facility consumes 3,632 square meters per gigawatt hour.2 ADVANCING TECHNOLOGY THROUGH PROGRESSIVE RESEARCH Ormat participates in different research programs that are furthering the understanding of geothermal reservoirs and advancing methodologies to increase efficiencies. Ormat was part of the Frontier Observatory for Research in Geothermal Energy (FORGE) initiative (in partnership with Sandia National Laboratory and others) initiated by the U.S. Department of Energy. FORGE yielded new insights and techniques in characterizing potential EGS sites as well as tested new techniques and tools in the field of geothermal drilling technologies. Currently Ormat is partnering on several proposals to the Dept. of Energy for federally-funded research on drilling technology and machine learning. Ormat is actively looking to partner with organizations, entities and governments on new and emerging technologies in the renewable energy field. INNOVATION IN THE FIELD OF ENERGY STORAGE AND DEMAND RESPONSE SERVICES Brake-Through Energy Storage – SEPTA - Viridity has worked with the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority (SEPTA) since 2012 to develop and operate a fleet of distributed energy storage assets. This “value-stacking” innovation applies a power control system to the subway trains that run on the system, and as they brake, the kinetic energy flows to three storage systems deployed at three separate traction power substations. The battery storage assets are charged from voltage surges caused by regenerative braking events from subway cars and discharge to offset electric supply costs. Viridity manages the system and is the market operator for this stored “braking” power. This dynamic system is designed to achieve higher performance and better subway system electricity use by leveraging flexibility, reducing risk and providing a faster return on investment for system operators. Value-Stacking in the Village of Minster, Ohio - The Village of Minster, Ohio has a large industrial customer base, and in 2016 Viridity delivered a value stacking and system control with energy storage project for this client, that is deployed behind-the-meter. This involved Viridity in monitoring the municipality’s 15-25 MW average load in real-time to guarantee no reverse power flow to electric distribution company feeders. To do so, Viridity introduced a dynamic dispatch modulator and developed a unique software solution to monitor and manage solar power generation through storage. The project was recognized at the 2016 PowerGen Conference as Project of the Year for its ground-breaking innovation. 