A Message for Our Stakeholders To our Stakeholders, 2021 was another successful year for Ormat, with our business segments and personnel displaying resilience and ingenuity delivering solid financial returns while navigating several unique challenges raised by the global pandemic, and global supply chain constraints. We successfully grew our portfolio and made significant investments to support ourgrowth plans for the coming years while continuing our mission to protect the environment and help the communities in which we do business advance their own sustainability goals. We continue to be encouraged by the developing landscape of renewable power generation and the growing demand for clean energy. Our business will not only capture this development in the form of financial returns and growth, but our products and storage segments will play a meaningful and integral role in the seismic change taking place throughout the ongoing energy transition and broader adoption of renewable energy sources. ABOUT THIS REPORT As we work to expand our renewable portfolio, Ormat is committed to continuing our ESG efforts to enlarge and refine our sustainabilityreporting. Our 2021 Sustainability Report has been newly updated and structured with the aim of enhancing the clarity of Ormat’s Environmental, Social and Governance-related (“ESG”) activities for our shareholders and broader stakeholders. We have restructured the content to more specificallyfocus on each component of the ESG framework and have expanded the data collection to ensure accuracy and transparency for readers of this report. In 2021, we began to align our disclosures with the recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosure’s (TCFD). Aligning to the TCFD standards further strengthens our awareness of the impact Ormat and its operations have on climate change. This is our fourth report published in accordance with GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, and our second report to include reporting standards from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) after introducing that into our disclosures last year. OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY We aim to act as responsible stewards of the environment and to create and foster a corporate culture for our employees that encompasses the highest standards of fairness and equality. This year, we have added updates on social activities such as diversity and inclusion training for employees and our recruiting efforts to attract, advance, and retain a more diverse talent pool. This work surrounding diversity and inclusion remains fundamental to our business as we look to drive both our short-term and long-term initiatives in a sustainable and socially responsible manner. We actively seek to create career pathways that help retain and further promote diverse talent. Additionally, Ormat takes seriously the issues of poverty and social inequality, and we’ve worked to be a source of positive change by encouraging local economic growth and expanding employment opportunities in the places where Ormat does business. OUR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH PLANS ARE ROOTED IN RENEWABLES Ormat has been sustainably generating power since 1965, and we remain committed to providing renewable energy safely, economically, and in an environmentally responsible manner. A large part of our business involves bringing baseload energy to parts of the world that lack access to affordable, renewable energy. Our Company recognizes the importance of the fightagainst climate change and the imperative of lowering global greenhouse gas emissions, and our core business actively works to counteract these existential threats. Our energy-generating and storage assets are helping to create a sustainable energy infrastructure, and further an alternative energy future, where greenhouse gas emissions are significantly reduced and the ability toaccess and store renewably sourced power will enable electricity grids to become more responsive, more stable, and inherently more environmentally friendly. CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Our activities in 2021 further proved that we have an inherent positive impact on our surrounding communities, and we are committed to mitigating climate change risk, reducing our GHG emissions, advancing energy efficiency, and promoting the use of renewable energy sources. We are proud to leverage our proven capabilities to help deliver clean, renewable energy to our partners and their end-users, at affordable prices, while also ensuring grid reliability. As we develop and grow as an organization, we must continue to support the rapidly shifting needs of both our clients and our world. This report is just one component of our sustainability journey and serves as our corporate pledge to expand upon our work and increase transparency in these areas. We value and appreciate your interest in Ormat and our sustainability performance. We are proud that our efforts are lowering greenhouse gas emissions while bringing breakthrough technologies and solutions to the world’s electricity grids. Sincerely, Doron Blachar Chief Executive Officer. ORMAT AT A GLANCE 5 6 1 4 72 3 . ESG HIGHLIGHTS Environmental 22% absolute reduction in scope 1&2 emissions from 2019 to 2021 16.5% improvement in our GHG emissions intensity by generation compare to 2020 8,590 GWh sustainable energy generated 9% increase in generation capacity compare to 2020 98% sustainable electricity use Social ~1,400 employees 30% female managers 1.1 total recordable injury rate (TRIR) 84% retention rate in 2021 32,000+ training hours completed by employees Governance-Economic 55+ years of experience 1.1 GW portfolio $663M 2021 revenues $401M 2021 adj. EBITDA1 $62M 2021 net income2 1See appendix for reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.2 Net income attributable to the company stockholders. 5 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 . WHAT’S NEW IN OUR REPORT THIS YEAR? › WHAT’S NEW IN OUR REPORT THIS YEAR? New report structure This 2021 Sustainability report has been newly structured and updated to enhance the flow and clarityof Ormat’s Environmental, Social and Governance-related (“ESG”) activities. We have organized the report according to Environment, Social and Governance chapters and have created a clear and consolidated index at the end of the report for presentation of data. In addition to restructuring the content, we have sought to increase data transparency to the readers of this report. Expanded our disclosure on our people To further strengthen our commitments to our employees and to inclusion and diversity, we have added updates on social activities completed throughout 2021 and our plans for 2022. These activities include providing diversity and inclusion training to employees, and focused on attracting a more diverse talent pool in our recruiting efforts. Began integration of TCFD recommendations into our report We have begun aligning our disclosures to the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosure’s (TCFD) recommendations. This includes the integration of the recommendations into our process for evaluating climate change risks and opportunities to our business. Aligning to the TCFD recommendations will allow us to further sharpen our understanding of our impact on and from climate change and present to investors and other stakeholders our performance over time and how sustainability is embedded into our business model and governance framework. Broadening of environmental data We have improved our environmental data collection and measurement processes. In 2021, we significantly increased data collection and transparency in greenhouse gas emissions (“GHG”) by including business air travel for Guadeloupe and Honduras and business travel by land for our US operations. In addition, we increased our data collection capabilities and transparency by further breaking down the methods for waste disposal and management. . AN ORGANIZATION SHAPED BY VALUES › AN ORGANIZATION SHAPED BY VALUES At Ormat, sustainability is not just another target we aim to achieve; it is at the core of our business and our way of life. Ormat Technologies, Inc. ("Ormat" or the “Company") was founded and has flourished as a company whose purpose is to continually grow our renewable energy capabilities; a goal that Ormat strives to achieve while being environmentally and socially responsible. Sustainability has been part of our corporate DNA since our inception and continues to be the inspiration for the growing number of renewable energy sectors we operate in and for the diverse array of products and services we offer. This way of doing business is reflectedin our core values, detailed alongside. Together, these values sustain and propel Ormat forward as we seek to be a leader in the global renewable energy world of tomorrow. Our Five Core Values Ormat is inspired by five core values, which guide how we conduct business everyday, everywhere. In living these values, we believe that our employees, managers, and directors must consistently demonstrate honesty, openness, and fairness in their dealings with each other, with our customers and with our community. Constant renewal has kept Ormat at the forefront of renewable energy development since our first turbine was designed back in 1965. It’s a promisethat we fulfill by continually seeking out new challenges, developing new technologies,enteringintonew fields,andtestingoutnewbusinessmodels.It is the basis for our sustainable value proposition. Stability is a core value that has helped establish and sustain our company over the years. We implement long-term action plans and thoughtful, well-planned renewable energy projects, supported by firm financialfoundations. In addition, we believe that a stable workforce, technology, product, and operations are all hallmarks of an organization with well-integrated sustainable management systems. Full commitment to our stakeholders and a sustainable future is central to our brand's promise. It means that wherever we operate, we are committed to delivering safe, reliable, clean renewable energy products and services that aim to minimize environmental impacts and promote a clean energy future for generations to come. Courage comes from leveraging our collective knowledge, experience, prudent risk management and unwavering focus on delivering the very best results for our clients. Creativity is a core value reflecting our appreciation for the uniqueness ofour stakeholders and our understanding that creativity is vital to delivering robust solutions that can address their expectations and needs. 