ORMAT: WHAT WE DO DevelopingRenewable Energyand Critical Infrastructure We believe that the presence of Ormat’s operations around the world, including in various developing countries, has an inherently positive impact on environmental, economic and social aspects. Our projects provide a valuable source of renewable energy to support a country’s infrastructure development, which in turn helps create jobs and has the potential to strengthen a country’s energy sources and move away from fossil-fuel to renewable energy and domestic sources. Equally important, our projects provide energy security and the development of geothermal energy resources to indigenous communities. We are a natural, synergistic partner in developing clean-energy assets that align with the goals of the countries within which we operate. In every location where Ormat operates, we believe that our presence has generated positive impacts through the creation of economic opportunities, development and employment benefits. These economic benefits includeproviding inbound capital investment, creation of long-term jobs, and other social and economic benefits for the local community.Starting from the exploration phase for geothermal resources, Ormat attempts to assess and augment the level of critical infrastructure – including roads and electricity transmission lines needed to implement the project. This infrastructureremains a valuable resource for local communities regardless of the existence of the project, in the form of local roads, water and electricity distribution systems. In addition to these significant indirect economic impacts, weplay an active role in local communities near all our operations. Thisisdonethroughourvariouscommunitydevelopmentactivities, which focus on health, education, and alleviating food insecurity in the communities in which we operate. 8 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › Development Exploration Drilling Engineering Manufacturing Construction Operation With over five decades of experience, Ormat is a leading developer andseller of geothermal energy and the only company that is vertically-integrated and engaged in geothermal and recovered energy generation (“REG”). We design, develop, build, sell, own, and operate clean, environmentally-friendly geothermal and recovered energy. A majority of our operations use equipment and machinery that we OUR HISTORY AND KEY EXPERIENCE design and manufacture in-house and are primarily based on the Ormat Energy Converter – a power generation unit that converts low, medium, and high-temperature within the earth heat into electricity. In addition, Ormat plans to accelerate long-term growth in the energy storage market and to enhance its position in the U.S. energy storage market. Since our establishment, Ormat has built approximately 200 geothermal and recovered energy power plants that produce more than 3,200 MW in 27 countries. As of December 31, 2021, Ormat owned and operated 1,100 MW of geothermal, energy storage, REG and solar photovoltaic (“PV”) sites globally with 83 MW / 176 MWh of energy storage. The growth in our owned power plants during 2021 has been mostly in the U.S. We built geothermal power plants for third-party customers in New Zealand and in the Turkish industry. Additionally, Ormat owns a growing portfolio of energy storage projects, with a significant presence in theUnited States, where our projects are selling energy, capacity and/or ancillary services to power grids in markets that we believe are attractive and have growth potential, including California, Texas, and New Jersey. Our headquarters is located in Reno, Nevada and our main manufacturing facility is in Yavne, Israel. Currently, Ormat owns and operates power plants in the U.S., Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Guatemala and Guadeloupe (French Caribbean). The company is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE)3. In addition, Ormat is included in the following leading indexes: CRSP, Dow Jones, FTSE, Morningstar, MSCI, NASDAQ, Russell, S&P (recently added to the S&P Mid-Cap 400), BlueStar, Goldman Sachs, Invesco Strategic US and WisdomTree. Of those, we are included in the following ESG and Impact related indexes: ..Indxx Renewable Energy Producers Index ..NASDAQ Clean Edge Green Energy ..S&P Global Clean Energy ..S&P Kensho Clean Power Index ..MVIS Global Low Carbon Energy Index ..MSCI Global Environment Select Index ..MSCI KLD 400 Social Index ..MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index For a further breakdown of our business and revenues, please refer to our financial reports on Forms 10-K and10-Q that are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 3 Under the ticker "ORA". . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Ormat staunchly believes that as a renewable energy provider, we have a central role in supporting the world’s transition to clean energy. Energy enables everything our lives depend on, from hospitals to manufacturing, communication and transportation. Considering the pressing challenges presented by climate change, we believe renewable energy is set to take a much more predominant share of the global energy market and specifically geothermalenergy is forecast to grow into larger segment in the renewable energy industry. The energy market enables economic growth, creates jobs, develops critical infrastructure and generates long-term value to support the sustainable development of communities. As a leading, vertically-integrated company that is primarily engaged in the geothermal and recovered energy business, Ormat leverages our core capabilities and global presence to expand our activity in recovered energy generation and particularly in the geothermal market. In addition, Ormat is expanding its activity into energy storage services, solar PV (including hybrid geothermal and solar PV as well as solar PV plus energy storage). Our objective is to become a leading global provider of renewable energy and we have adopted a strategic plan that includes several key initiatives to expand our business. We currently conduct our activities in three business segments: ..Electricity. In this segment, which contributed 88.3% of our total revenues in 2021, we develop, build, own and operate geothermal, solar PV and recovered energy based power plants and sell the electricity they generate in the U.S. and other countries around the world. ..Product Segment. In this segment, which contributed 7.1% of our total revenues in 2021, we design, manufacture and sell equipment for geothermal and recovered energy generation power units. We also provide services relating to the engineering, procurement and construction of geothermal and recovered energy power plants. Countries around the world are focusing efforts on switching to renewable, sustainable, clean energy, like the geothermal energy produced by Ormat, as a means to promote stable energy supply while mitigating the risk of climate change. ..Energy Storage Segment. In this segment, which contributed 4.6% of our total revenues in 2021 we own and operate grid connected In Front of the Meter (IFM) Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities, which provide capacity, energy and ancillary services directly to the electric grid. We design, manufacture and sell products for electricity generation and provide the related services described below: Geothermal Power Plants Ormat is a global leader in the world geothermal energy market. Geothermal energy power plants harness a natural and locally-available energy source to provide electricity 24/7. Geothermal energy is an environmentally friendly energy source: unlike electricity produced by burning fossil fuels, it produces electricity without emissions of certain pollutants such as nitrogen oxide, and with far lower emissions of other pollutants such as carbon dioxide (CO2). As a result, geothermal energy contributes significantly less to global climate change and theoccurrence of acid rain than energy from fossil fuels. Unlike other renewable energy sources, such as wind or solar, geothermal energy can provide continuous uninterrupted power throughout the year. Geothermal power plants can provide a range of electricity services such as base load, voltage regulation, reserve and flexible capacity. Geothermal energy is a sustainableand stable energy source as it is not dependent on changing weather conditions. Additionally, it supports energy diversification strategies since it allows less reliance on any one energy source. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › Recovered Energy Power Plants Our recovered energy power plants produce electricity from "waste heat". These facilities utilize residual heat that is a by-product from a variety of industrial processes such as cement manufacturing and gas compression turbines, which would otherwise not be used. This process generates electricity without burning additional fuel or generating additional emissions, thus contributing to reducing air pollution and GHG emissions. The residual heat is captured in the recovery process using a similar power plant to Ormat’s binary geothermal power plant. We construct, own, and operate recovered energy power plants. Recovered energy power generation benefits from efforts to reduceGHG emissions: the U.S. federal government and several states have recognized its environmental benefits and allow utilities to include recovered energy power generation to be counted towards compliance with renewable portfolio goals and incentives. Energy Storage Energy storage is becoming a key component in the management of the electrical grid, especially with the expansion of intermittent sources such as wind and solar energy. Ormat serves the changing world of electricity generation by enabling a comprehensive umbrella of grid solutions related to energy storage systems. We provide grid operators with the ability to enhance grid performance, stability and responsiveness. Energy storage systems use a variety of technologies, including large-scale batteries to store for later use surplus electricity. This enables the optimization of electricity grid operations to run generators closer to full capacity for longer periods,andtooperatethegridmoreefficientlyand effectively. Energy storage systems allow for efficientmanagement of local capacity,frequency regulation, ramping, reactive power, black start and movement of energy from times of excess supply to times of high demand and more.4 A key sustainability driver for geothermal power generation is the conservation and recycling of the geothermal resources that carry the heat from deep underground to the geothermal power plant on the Earth’s surface. 4 For more information on energy storage and related terminology, refer to the following link: https://www.ormat.com/en/renewables/storage/main/ Our Reinjection Approach and Strategy Our geothermal power plants involve reinjection systems. This method continuously recharges geothermal systemsby maintaining consistent geothermal fluid flow andpressures. Reinjection of brine and condensate help reduce production-related pressure drawdown and promote enhanced thermal energy extraction from the heated rocks within the reservoir. Importantly, reinjection also avoids by-products from emitted geothermal steam, mainly greenhouse gases, and the need for disposal of wastewater, as well as visual impacts in the form of emissions plumes from the cooling process. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › INNOVATION AT ORMAT Ormat sees innovation as its engine of growth. As part of our core business, we are constantly innovating and exploring ways to increase the efficiency of our power plants. Therefore, we are enhancing our technological capabilities by investing in research and development (R&D) of renewable energy technologies and leveraging our technological expertise to continuously improve power plant components, reduce operations and maintenance costs, develop competitive and environmentally friendly products for electricity generation and target new service opportunities. In addition, we are expanding our core geothermal competencies to provide high efficiency solutions for high enthalpy applications by utilizing our binary enhanced cycle and technology. This commitment to innovation includes a relentless focus on our plants. During 2021, we made technological improvements to part of our power plants in the U.S.. These improvements increased energy production efficiency and reduced the carbon footprint of the plants: ..Galena 2 (Steamboat Complex)- we implemented a technology used in other geothermal facilities in our portfolio to reinject the non condensed gases coming out of the artesian well and eliminate all CO2e emissions. ..Steamboat Hills (Steamboat Complex) - we replaced the old steam turbines originally installed in this power plant with Ormat’s binary turbines that enables closed cycle and zero emissions and therefore eliminated all CO2e emissions. ..CD-4 - during 2021, we built the new power plant “CD4” using our new turbines technology in a innovative new binary cycle, as well as the new sealing technology that reduces the amount of emissions in the pentane tank. ..Solar power - we intend to increase our use of solar PV panels for the auxiliary needs of our geothermal power plants in order to increase the amount of MW that can be sold from geothermal resources to the grid. Even though we have increased the company's total energy production by 9%, these efforts have reduced the quantity of GHG emissions that comes from our power plants by more than 10%. In 2021, Ormat applied for two patents, out of 80 U.S. patents and applications5 since 1965. ORMAT’s vapor absorption refrigeration system (VARC) pilot a system with unique closed loop absorption cycle and LiBr-Methanol solution inside, is replacing the electric compressors in standard vapor compression refrigeration cycles (VCRC). The VARC is capable of coolingbelow 0°C and reduces GHG emissions footprint by utilizing low grade waste heat instead of electrical energy in the refrigeration cycle. Methanol is the refrigerant in ORMAT VARC, replacing the conventional refrigerants used in standard VCRCs which have higher GWP (Global Warming Potential) and ODP (Ozone Depletion Potential) values.5 As of December 31, 2021, we have 75 issued U.S. patents and five pending U.S.patent application. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy is focused on further developing a geographically balanced portfolio of geothermal, energy storage, solar PV and recovered energy assets, and continuing our leading position in the geothermal energy market, with the additional objective of becoming a leading global provider of renewable energy. At least one Board meeting annually is devoted to our long-term business strategy. During these meetings, the Board and management discuss the competitive landscape in our industry, emerging technologies, significant business risks and opportunities, and strategic priorities of the Company. Specific short- andlong-term strategic plans are also discussed on an as-needed basis throughout the year, and our senior management team regularly reports to the Board on the execution of our long-term strategic plans, the status of important projects and initiatives, and the key opportunities and risks facing the Company. The plan was developed based on an understanding of our risks and opportunities – an assessment that is conducted with assistance from external consultants and our professional expertise and knowledge about the renewable energy market. We expect the plan to evolve over time in response to market conditions and other factors. ESG and climate change considerations are factored into the business strategy through the recognition of risks and opportunities. Through our sustainability reporting and environmental data collection framework, we are integrating recommendations from the TCFD for businesses across our governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and targets disclosures. As part of this effort, and guided by the TCFD’s recommendations, we are adding climate-related scenario analysis to our business development and strategy decision-making processes. OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY A commitment to ESG principles is in Ormat’s DNA. These commitments are applied through our corporate governance, business activities, policies, and strategic objectives. We are committed to engaging with our stakeholders on, and strengthening our commitment to, sustainability issues, including ESG matters. We endorse certain external initiatives and partner with national and international associations that we believe assist us in meeting our ESG commitments and values. We strive to provide recent, credible and comparable data to ESG agencies while engaging institutional investors and investor advocacy organizations around ESG issues. As a renewable energy solution provider, we are motivated to identify our opportunities and risks with respect to climate change and take efforts to reduce our GHG emissions and improve our energy efficiency. We advanceexisting practices and push forward to improve our performance in ways that minimize material and energy inputs and maximize energy output and our operational efficiency.. ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › At the core of our strategy, we strive to advance a number of goals and work towards accomplishing them in several ways: Increasing clean energy production capacity We work to better understand the specific properties of a geothermal reservoir and progressively add new energy generation capacities. As such, we strive to deliver more renewable energy while substantially maintaining the same developmental footprint. 2 Promoting innovation in all our activities We strive to establish and operate our sites of operation in the most innovative way. Ormat's R&D department regularly searches for innovations that can be implemented to improve the efficiency of our operations, including environmental performance. 3 Maintaining synergy with the communities in which we operate This includes, both existing and new sites, where we work to understand the needs and concerns of the local stakeholder community and to build lasting relationships and specific community engagement programs designed to meet those needs and concerns. 4 Prioritizing and developing our people our employees are our most important resource. With this understanding, we strive to provide a diverse and inclusive working environment, to ensure that employees can fulfill both their professional goals, and instill a safe workplace culture. As part of our strategy, we are focusing on hiring and promoting a diverse workforce across all areas of the organization. 5 Commitment to a fair supply chain We see great importance in managing a fair supply chain and working with suppliers, subcontractors and business partners with good human rights practices. Ormat is committed to complying with applicable laws and human rights commitments, as reflected in our published policies and business activities. 6 Strong values for solid governance Ormat is committed to conducting its business everywhere with honesty and integrity, and in a manner that avoids even the appearance of impropriety. We believe candidly, openness and fairness must be demonstrated by every Ormat employee, manager or director, at all times. Ormat applies these and other sustainability principles to the way we evaluate opportunities to develop, manufacture, and operate renewable energy facilities around the world. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › KNOWING OUR IMPACTS -STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY As a global company that understands the inherent value of sustainability as a business strategy, we work to assess our impacts on the environment, society and local communities. We do this by routinely communicating with key groups of stakeholders, and then evaluating and consistently addressing relevant comments and feedback. As part of this engagement strategy, and to better understand these risks and opportunities, we engage in on.going stakeholder dialogue and have developed an organization-wide Stakeholder Engagement Policy, which is available on the company’s website. We engage with our stakeholders following the publishing of our annual sustainability report. This allows us to better understand what topics they believe are important, and we expand on our activities and adjust and improve our reports accordingly. Using the observations and information from interviews, anonymous surveys and questionnaires we were able to analyze and internalize the feedback in order to implement changes and improvements for the 2021 Sustainability Report. The main topics identified by our stakeholders are addressed in this report, in our existing policies and engagement frameworks, and in our on.going business activities. We consistently seek out opportunities for active engagement with our stakeholders and embrace opportunities to hear their opinions and concerns regarding our organization and our business activities. Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement Management reaches out to the Company’s largest stockholders at least once each year to facilitate a dialogue regarding governance, compensation, sustainability and other matters. Management reports on the conversations with those investors to the board and also, as appropriate, to the Compensation Committee. In 2021, the company took an integrated approach to its stockholder engagement efforts, including with respect to governance, compensation, financial andsustainability matters. Through these integrated efforts, in 2021, the company approached stockholders, with an offer to meet by phone. This outreach reached stockholders that represent more than 86% of the company’s outstanding shares. During these interactions, stockholders most frequently raised topics concerning executive compensation, and ESG-related matters. The stockholder engagement program continues to influence and inform the company’s policies and practices. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is demonstrated in our Stakeholder Engagement Policy, which aims to foster a framework for productive, transparent and equitable relationships with stakeholders. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › Employees Employee communication portal and newsletters, periodic career and professional performance reviews, participation in employee health and safety committees, organized employee evaluations and open dialogue between employees, managers and human resources representatives, events and conferences for employees.6 Stakeholder Customers Communication through our website, customer service, and on-going sales and businessGroups Engaged by development relationships.the Organization Investors & Shareholders Communication and updates delivered through the Investor Relations arm, investor The main stakeholder groups conferences and non-deal road shows, annual meetings of stockholders, earnings callsfor the organization are the and relevant updates, through the 'Investor Relations' page on Ormat's website, annualfollowing: and quarterly reports filed with the SEC, other SEC filings and press releases.Financing Entities Engagement through compliance reviews and action plans, annual and quarterly reports filed with the SECand other SEC filings, and on-going communication through our financedepartment. Public Authorities, Policy  Engagement through industry organizations, participation in workshops, conferences  Makers and Regulators  and events, compliance reviews and action plans, lobbying activities, and on-going  communication.  Local Communities Communication through our global Stakeholder Engagement Policy and relevant local communication strategies, in the early stages of any project, as well as tours and meetings at Ormat's local facilities of existing development. Social & Environmental Active participation in relevant events and conferences, donations, contributions and NGOs volunteering activities and cooperation in social and environmental projects and industry and local initiatives. The Media Communication through Ormat's website, press releases and informational notes, tours at Ormat's various facilities, and on-going communication. Academia Cooperation with Ormat in conducting research and development activities specifically with our Resource Department, providing support for scientific initiatives and expansion 6 This list is not exhaustive and is presented as an example of educational opportunities, and tours at Ormat's various facilities.of employment engagementactivities which may varyacross jurisdictions. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY SURVEY We conducted a materiality survey in 2019. Based on stakeholder feedback, we updated the list for 2021 to reflect Ormat's main topics of discussion,interest and what we aim to address in this report. The leading issues, that were identified as the most significant to both our stakeholders and the Company, are presented below, divided to three main categories: Environmental, Social and Governance: . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › EXTERNAL INITIATIVES & MEMBERSHIPS OF ASSOCIATION Ormat supports the Ormat supports the Bureau Bronze Level sponsorOrmat endorses external initiatives Great Basin National of Land Management’s and board member inand organizations that assist us Park Foundation with Federal Resource Advisory WING, a global networkin meeting our environmental, an annual education Committee’s in Nevada and that promotessocial and corporate governance grant and by expanding Idaho. Our staff commit gender equality andcommitments and values. Ormat’s the Foundation’s base to assist the in sustainable supports the role ofendorsements are evaluated on an of sustaining donors to resource management women and in theongoing basis to help ensure that both $150,000 annually decision making geothermal industryparties have compatible,, sustainable commitments and values. Ormat is proud of our record of environmental stewardship. In addition to meeting our regulatory requirements, we collaborate with many different organizations, association and governmental departments. Being part of the community in the locations we The program designed Ormat reports Sponsored theoperate in an important part of the The company has reported GHG to accelerate the annual Greenhouse creation of thecompany's agenda. emissions to the careers of women Gas emissions “Circular Economy:Ormat engages with applicable local Israeli Ministry of in management to CDP, a non-Practical Guide to communities and/or indigenous Environmental positions in the energy profit organization Sustainability” atribes early in the geothermal site Protection's voluntary sector and promote that runs a global book that will be evaluation process. Discussions and business reporting gender equality environmental impact distributed in support are focused on understanding initiative since 2011 disclosure system Latin America local values, interests, and concerns as they relate to the potential geothermal energy resource. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › Ormat's Memberships of Association The table below outlines the main organizations related to our various business and ESG activities of which Ormat is a member as of 2021. Geothermal Rising - U.S. Women in Geothermal (WING)1. Geothermal Organizations International Geothermal Association (IGA) Indonesia Geothermal Association California Energy Storage Alliance (CESA) American Clean Power (ACP) 2. Energy Organizations Society of Petroleum Engineers – U.S. Utah Clean Energy California Community Choice Association (CalCCA) 3. Health and Safety Organizations National Safety Council – U.S. Churchill Economic Development Authority – Nevada, U.S. Hawaii Island Chamber of Commerce 4. Chambers of Commerce Israel Export Institute Israel Latin America Association Israel Turkey Business Council . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE RELATED RISKS Our Risk Management Approach As a global Company and publicly-traded entity, we give substantial effort to identifying and managing pertinent risks to our business and the pursuit of cooperation with all our major operational locations to identify and manage relevant risks while implementing appropriate methodologies for mitigating such risks. As such, our risk management process has several key levels of analysis: by our project teams and major operations; by Company management and through assignment of responsibilities; through our management of know-how and skills relevant to the various disciplines that help us achieve our targets as a vertically-integrated company; and through other relevant controls and measures for our business, such as audit and regulatory functions. Our methodology for identifying relevant risks involves mapping the control environment of our corporate and business infrastructure including the main activities that we pursue. Our business units are categorized and mapped, analyzing relevant business processes. In order to understand risks for each of these processes, we develop risk ranking criteria that look at both the level of impact and the likelihood of occurrence. Based on this system, we conduct our risk assessment among the various business units and operations. The identified risks are further ranked and validated by the process owners and members of management, resulting in a risk profile with priorities, and eventually culminating in our plan for management of those risks. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › Climate change presents both risks and opportunities to our business. In identifying relevant risks from climate change that could potentially result in substantive changes to our operations, revenue, and expenditures, we seek to minimize these risks and address them either through models of engagement, physical infrastructure and operations, or in the on.going management and operations of our plants and our Company. Guided by the recommendations of TCFD, we have begun working to integrate methodologies to best identify and map our climate change risks and opportunities.7 The first step of Ormat’s mitigationof climate change risks and pursuit of related opportunities is using our existing management tools and integrating the TCFD recommendations by following a step-by-step procedure. Ormat is working to ensure there is a general understanding of climate change concepts and its potential impacts across the Company. This includes a deep understanding of climate change and how Ormat’s operations may find certain risksand opportunities within climate change. Ormat will then begin to identify specific risk managementprocesses by setting climate risk and opportunities and their likelihood for Ormat. From there, we believe we will be able to further understand and disclose the actual and potential impacts and opportunities on our business, strategy, and planning. After these internal discussions and processes, we plan to integrate the recommendations of TCFD into our risk management process and disclosures. These principles help to ensure that climate change considerations are applied. This will be done through rating risks in terms of their likely impact in the form of a risk heat map. At Ormat, we have begun implementing various climate scenarios into our business strategy to anticipate physical risks associated with climate change, and how they can potentially positively or negatively affect our business operations. The risks outlined below have become the starting point for our scenario analysis, and integration of TCFD recommendations into our sustainability reporting. Our equipment is designed to withstand extreme weather events and is largely isolated from weather-related impacts. However, daily and seasonal fluctuations in temperature generally have a moresignificant impact on the generating capacityof geothermal energy plants than they do on conventional power plants. Some of our power plants experience reduced generation in warm periods due to the lower temperature differential between geothermal fluid and the ambient surroundings.While we generally account for the projected impact of seasonal fluctuations in temperature based on ourhistoric experience, the impact of climate change on traditional weather patterns has become more pronounced. These changes have challenged our modelling efforts. Additionally, recovered energy units may be affected when winter temperatures are higher than average as it reduces gas pipeline flow and, likeall structures, power plants are likely to be affected by extreme weather occurrences such as hurricanes and tornadoes. Almost all our power plants are in areas that are not expected to be affected by rising sea levels. However, our operations could be impacted by droughts, tsunamis, wildfires, landslides,floods, or other weather events (including weatherconditions associated with climate change) or similar occurrences that affect our power plants or any of the power purchasers or other third parties providing services to our power plants. In terms of risk management in the geothermal exploration process, Ormat's Resource Department is comprised of an experienced team of geologists, geophysicists and engineers who are dedicated to assessing, exploring, developing, and managing geothermal reservoirs in the context of our projects or potential projects. The risk management process for the exploration phase begins with in-depth research on the geothermal reservoir, including its location in the potential plant area, to identify and assess potential physical, social or environmental risks early in the process. If a site is deemed to be relevant, the Resource Department begins the surface exploration process at the site whereby they initiate drilling in slim holes to determine the exact location of the geothermal reservoir and where to locate the plant. 7 We are working to be fully compliant with therecommendations of TCFD in the future and do not currentlyclaim compliance with these standards. . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › ORMAT AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) The United Nations adopted 17 SDGs as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (the UN’s 2030 Agenda). The UN designed the SDGs and the related 169 targets to address some of the world's most pressing social, economic, and environmental issues, such as poverty, inequalities, injustice and climate change. It is widely believed that the UN’s 2030 Agenda can only be achieved through collaboration between all major stakeholders – including governments, local communities and business. As a leading global renewable energy company, we believe that Ormat has an important leadership role to play in helping to achieve these SDGs. We have identifiedand determined the SDGs that Ormat has the most impact on, and where we believe we can help the most. The ideals of the identified goals accompany us throughout our business offerings, activities, engagements, and governance. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 7.2; 7.3; 7B As a leading provider of renewable energy solutions worldwide, we are helping countries and communities meet their renewable energy targets by helping them cut their reliance on the import of conventional energy sources. ..Own & operate ~1,100 MW of sustainable energy ..9% increase in sustainable energy generated in 2021 compared to 2020 ..9.39 energy intensity in 2021, a decrease of 17% compared to 2020 ‘About our Business’ ‘Emissions from our power plants and operations’ Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 8.3; 8.4; 8.5; 8.6; 8.8 As a global renewable energy company, we are creating and providing decent jobs in the sustainable energy sector with a focus on hiring from local communities. . Ormat is also investing in renewable technology projects that work to achieve higher levels of economic productivity through technological innovation. Through our Ormat-promoted schools, we are increasing youth employment, education and training. ..100% of plant management employed from local communities ..16 employees from Honduras, which are local community members, were professional trained and hired for security positions instead of hiring external company ..About 32,000 hours of training was provided in 2021 ‘Our People’ ‘Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures’ . ORMAT: WHAT WE DO › Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 9.1; 9.4; 9A Our power plants contribute to the existing energy generation infrastructure in the countries where we operate. The nature of renewable energy infrastructure helps to support the increase in the overall level of resilience in the country of operation. We actively encourage the adoption of clean technologies, mainly in developing countries that may have limited access to such solutions. ..Creating renewable energy utilities in 27 countries around the world, 16 of which are developing countries ..75 issued U.S. patents and 5 pending U.S. patent applications ..$4.1 million research and development expenses in 2021 'Innovation at Ormat’ ‘Our Business’ Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.2; 12.5; 12.6 We encourage the sustainable use of materials and resources, including natural geothermal resources. We actively promote and enforce practices for recycling, reclamation and reuse of materialsatouroperationalsites,withaspecificemphasis on our manufacturing facilities. ..48% of our waste is recycled ..12% reduction in waste compared to 2020 ..98% of our electricity consumption from self-generated sustainable energy 'Waste, Management of Materials and Biodiversity Conservation’ Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts* 13.1; 13B We provide customers with renewable sources of energy and reduce their need to use non.renewable energy sources. These efforts build resilience and a capacity for dealing with future climate-change-related risks through the use of sustainable, reliable energy. In addition, we analyze our risks and opportunities in terms of climate change impacts, and work to assess how our business and operational activities impact the likelihood of climate change and other environmental impact scenarios. ..Responded to CDP for the 4th year in a row ..We have begun working to integrate methodologies to best identify and map our climate change risks and opportunities in accordance with the TCFD recommendations ..0.19 emissions intensity CO2e KG per revenue in thousands of dollars