CHAPTER IV. OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS MANAGEMENT OF ECONOMICS AND FINANCE AT ORMAT The topics of economics and finance at Ormat are managed by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and the Finance Department’s managers and employees. These indi.viduals are responsible for reporting to the Board of Directors and share.holders, through our filings, reports and press releases and by our Investor Relations department, regarding Ormat’s economic performance and regarding any relevant financial issues. Furthermore, and together with management, these individuals are responsible for preparing Ormat’s annual, quarterly and periodic financial reports that are filed with the SEC. All of our SEC filings, including the Company’s 10K, 10Q and other relevant documents are available to the public both on the SEC website10 and on our Investor Relations page11. Ormat’s senior management reports to the Board of Directors annually on major risks to the Company’s business strategy. This involves a discussion of trends as well as identified risks and opportunities relating to climate change and other sustainability consid.erations affecting the business. Our shareholders are consistently provided with current and exact infor.mation on our financial performance and condition. We regularly hold earnings calls that all our global share.holders can access online along with the Company’s earnings call presenta.tion. In addition, our Investor Relations team issues email notifications, alerts and news regarding Ormat’s financial performance or any major Company events on a regular basis through a wide media distribution and a list of regis.tered subscribers. In all our communi.cation and interaction with sharehold.ers, we aim to provide top-of-the-line service while adequately and appropri.ately addressing their requests. Our growth plans to the end of 2023 compare to the end of 2020: Increase Geothermal and Solar PV capacity by between 35-37% and energy storage assets portfolio by between 274-411% MW EXPECTATIONS LOANS AND FINANCIAL ASSIS.TANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERN.MENTS AND DEVELOPMENT BANKS Ormat interacts directly with govern.ments, their agencies and development banks in the context of financing our power plants around the world. Our methods and types of communication and engagement with government entities vary based on the legal and regulatory framework in the relevant Usually, Ormat does not directly receive grants and benefits from governments, but the subsidiary companies estab.lished in order to operate our power plants are eligible in certain cases to receive governmental incentives. More information on the relevant incentives received by our subsidiary companies can be found in the 2020 Annual Report at the following link13. Overall, governments and govern.mental entities are not part of Ormat’s shareholding structure. As of 2020, there were two exceptional case: Name of Entity  Type of Financing  Project  DFC  Project finance loan  Platanares, Honduras  DFC  project finance loan  Olkaria III, Kenya  DEG  Credit agreement  Olkaria III, Kenya  U.S. DOE  Project finance loan .ARRA Section 1603  Neal Hot Springs, Oregon, U.S.  U.S. DOE and John Hancock  Project finance loan .ARRA Section 1705  OFC-2 Geothermal Portfolio, Nevada, U.S.  country, as well as the economic structure of the electricity generation market in that country. There are several governmental incen.tives, such as tax benefits or subsidies for renewable energy generation, that contribute to the attractiveness of our solutions. More information and assessment of relevant tax benefits is available in our 2020 Annual Report at the following link12. Details on selected projects and loans: • The national electric company of Guatemala, Instituto Nacional de Elec.trificación (INDE), owned 3% of our Zunil power plant. • Two government entities, Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (CDC), a French state-owned financial organiza.tion and Sageos holding, a fully owned subsidiary of Bureau de Recherches Géologiques et Minières, the French geological survey, together own 36.25% of our Bouillante project in Guadeloupe Island, France. Aside from tax benefits, a number of Ormat’s projects are funded with financial loans from prominent government and multilateral backed development financial institutions, such as the Development Finance Corpora.tion (”DFC”), the German Investment Corporation (DEG), , Japan Bank of International Cooperation (“JBIC”) and the Asian Development Bank. Details on the projects and the loans received are detailed in the following table. 12 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 13 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 10 https://www.sec.gov/ 11 https://investor.ormat.com/Docs 46 ORMAT’S APPROACH TO TAX As a global country and in accordance with our Core Values, it is of principal importance that we pay the right amount of tax by abiding by the rules and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate and paying what we owe in a timely fashion. In doing so, we operate in a transparent, ethical, and socially responsible manner with regard to our interactions with tax authorities, contributing to the communities in which we operate while being mindful of our responsi.bility to our shareholders. To support our commitment and responsibility as a company to the communities we operate in, we have created a Global Tax Policy to help define and guide our approach. The Tax Policy defines Ormat’s tax strategy, based on excellence and a commitment to the application of good tax practices aligned within the framework of the corporate Core Values and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Company’s tax strategy has been established to of ensure compliance with applicable tax laws and regulations and seeks to establish an appropriate coordination of the tax practices followed by the companies of the Group, all within the framework of fulfilling the corporate interest and supporting a long-term business strategy that avoids tax risks and inefficiencies in the imple.mentation of business decisions. The Company takes into account all legitimate interests, including public interests, that converge in its business. Our tax planning must support genuine commercial activity, comply with the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and be consistent with—and be seen to be consistent with—our business strategy and Core Values. The Company does not engage in “prohibited tax shelter transactions” including listed transactions, transac.tions with contractual protection, or confidential transactions as defined by the Internal Revenue Service of the U.S. or similar provisions in other taxing jurisdictions. As previously discussed, we operate in a transparent, ethical, and socially responsible manner with regard to working with tax authorities. We strive to maintain a proactive, profes.sional, and constructive relationship with tax authorities and help focus their resources on the most important issues by providing clear and concise documentation and support and disclosing all relevant facts for the conclusions reached in our filings Our Corporate Tax Policy is reviewed on a regular basis and changes are approved by the Company’s Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Ormat’s Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the Tax Policy and delegates execution to the Vice President, Global Tax. Execution of the Tax Policy is supported by the Company’s global Tax and Finance teams. The Company has Ethics and Compli.ance Programs designed to prevent and detect violations of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and has established mechanisms for internal and external parties to anonymously raise compliance and ethics concerns, including unethical or unlawful behavior in relation to tax. DEVELOPING RENEWABLE ENERGY AND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE We believe that the presence of Ormat’s operations around the world, including in various developing 14 Source: http://www.geo-energy.org/reports/2017/GEOTHERMAL%20IS%20GOOD%20FOR%20AMERICA.pdf 48 countries, has an inherently positive impact on environmental, economic and social aspects. This is due to the fact that the projects provide a valuable source of renewable energy to support a country’s infra.structure development, create jobs and strengthen its energy sector by helping to diversify its energy sources and move away from fossil-fuel to renewable energy and domestic sources. Furthermore, and as outlined in the “Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures” Chapter of this report, in every location where Ormat operates, our presence has generated positive impacts through the creation of economic opportuni.ties, development and employment benefits. For instance, geothermal energy provides numerous benefits to the U.S. economy, as was outlined in a report by the Geothermal Energy Association (GEA)14. According to such report, the economic benefits of a typical 30 MW geothermal plant can provide about US$150-225 million in inbound capital investment, create about 50 long-term jobs in order to operate the plant, resulting in surpluses in property taxes and royalties to the land owners as well as other social and economic benefits for the local community. Furthermore, and starting from the exploration phase for geothermal resources, Ormat attempts to assess the level of critical infrastructure – including roads and electricity transmission lines – needed in order to implement the project. This infra.structure remains a valuable resource for local communities regardless of the existence of the project, such as is the case with the development of local roads, water and electricity distribution systems. In addition to these significant indirect economic impacts, we play an active role in communities local to all our operations, including through phil.anthropic contributions and various community development activities as detailed in the “Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures” Chapter in this report. Environmental Regulations Support.ing Our Business As a renewable energy company, Ormat adheres to and benefits from a number of regulations that promote renewable energy through different incentive models, and increasingly, by requiring the use of renewable energy in countries’ energy mixes. Some of the relevant environmental laws, regulations and incentives in our countries of operation are outlined and detailed under Item 1 in our recent 10K report filed with the SEC. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS SUPPORTING OUR BUSINESS As a renewable energy company, Ormat adheres to and benefits from a number of regulations that promote renewable energy through different incentive models, and increasingly, by requiring the use of renewable energy in countries’ energy mixes. Some of the relevant environmental laws, regulations and incentives in our countries of operation are outlined and detailed under Item 1 in our recent 10K report filed with the SEC. ORMAT’S  inherent in the construction of our  “Integrated Quality, Environment,  PROVIDING EXCELLENT  solutions and technology and the quality of  DATA PRIVACY AND  SUPPLY CHAIN & PROCUREMENT  power plants, we are often required to import materials, parts and supplies that are not typically manufac- Health & Safety System Policy”, we outline our commitment to treating our suppliers, subcontractors and  AND RELIABLE CUSTOMER SERVICE  our customer service relations that is charac.terized by regular and productive communi.cations with customers. As a company who  CYBERSECURITY FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS  PRACTICES  tured locally.  business partners with the utmost respect, while also assessing, in  is both an operator, as well as equipment manufacturer, we have the unique advantage  We categorize our work with suppliers  general, that those suppliers, subcon- Ormat is the world’s only vertically-integrated  in the market which allows us to share our  according to the level of spend with  tractors and business partners uphold  geothermal company, and we usually are  operational experience and provide a better  Ormat is committed to ensuring the data  As a global Company with operations  the supplier over the fiscal year. As  relevant social, environmental and  responsible for exploration, development,  experience to our customers.  privacy of its directors, officers, employees,  in a number of different countries,  such, Ormat encourages work with  health and safety standards for their  drilling, design, manufacturing, construction,  customers and other relevant stakeholders.  Ormat has a diverse and dispersed  smaller suppliers that are categorized  employees.  and operation of our geothermal power  Some of these methods of communica- We have an “Electronic Communication  supply chain that we responsibly  by the Procurement Department  plants. Our customers benefit from our  tion include:  Policy” that sets security procedures for  manage through our Procurement  according to the level of spend and  Ormat has adopted a Conflict Minerals  modular, flexible approach and our extensive  Ormat’s internal stakeholders. The referred  Department.  The  Procurement  volume of business.  Policy, in compliance with the SEC’s  experience in applying a variety of different  • Continuous contact with direct customer  to policy includes our expectations of  Department  is  responsible  for  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and  products and solutions – all designed for  service representatives - each customer has  employees regarding use of Company  selecting, managing and assessing  In 2021, we finalized and published  Consumer Protection Act (known  simple transportation, installation, operation  direct contact to the team which they can  equipment, authorized use of identification  our supply chain as well as determin. our Supplier Code of Conduct, which  as “the Conflict Minerals Rule”). Our  and ongoing maintenance. We manufacture  contact for any issue that might arise. Also,  information, password policies, and how  ing the conditions for working with  ensures the implementation and  Conflict Minerals Policy, available at  most of the power generating unit equipment  team members periodically initiate contact  electronic messaging and documents  various suppliers.  commitment to the values as outlined  the following on our website15, defines  componentry used in our power plants. We  with each of their customers to maintain  should be properly handled. The policy is  in our “Code of Business Conduct and  principles, commitments and expecta. acquire any equipment we do not build  ongoing dialog.  managed by our Information Technology  Ormat  engages  with  suppliers  Ethics” which serves as guidelines for  tions that extend to Ormat’s partners,  ourselves from selected, top-quality, trusted  department and all internal stakeholders are  and subcontractors for two main  directors, officers and employees that  subcontractors and suppliers, with the  suppliers. Ormat is ISO 9001 and ISO14001  • Newsletters – we publish newsletters in  requested to acknowledge the policy in the  purposes: for provision of materials,  deal with or come into direct contact  intention of identifying, to the best of  certified, with our manufacturing facilities  which we suggest recommendations for  context of their employment with Ormat.  parts and services in manufacturing  with suppliers. Beyond reflecting  our ability and knowledge, sources  also meeting the standards of the American  different types of improvements to products  through our Procurement Department  Ormat’s values and existing Terms and  of the relevant minerals under the  Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and  and services (for example, for increasing  In addition, we work to ensure that all  and for the construction, operation  Conditions for suppliers, this Code  Conflict Minerals Rule, i.e. tin, tantalum,  the European Pressure Equipment Directive  the efficiency and generating capacity of  our information technology systems are  and maintenance of our power plants  follows those principles set forth in  tungsten and gold, in the components  (PED). Many electric utilities around the world  our plants).  secured in terms of their cybersecurity  around the world. In addition, Ormat  internationally recognized standards  and materials supplied to us and  have also recognized Ormat as an approved  aspects. Ormat has an advanced internal  engages a small amount of service  such as the United Nations Declara. which are necessary to the produc. supplier. Ormat’s design and manufacturing  •  Workshops and Webinars – Ormat  policy for managing cybersecurity risks  providers – such as lawyers, consul. tion of Human Rights and the Interna. tion or functionality of our products.  standard meets the requirements of the  organizes and hosts several different client  that is overseen by the Company’s Infor. tants and accountants – who advise  tional Labor Conventions (ILO), as well  Our policy supports the intention of  applicable European Commission directives  workshops or webinars in different countries  mation Technology department. In our  Company management and the Board  as based on other relevant laws and  the Conflict Minerals Rule, which is  and therefore we are entitled to carry the  periodically. The workshop aims to share  risk management processes, we consider  of Directors on certain issues.  regulations outlined where relevant.  not to economically disadvantage  CE marking that denotes conformity with  Ormat Operation and Maintenance expe. threats and vulnerabilities in information,  areas of conflict in the Democratic  health, safety and environmental protec. rience, address different operations issues,  information technology and communi- As such, Ormat’s supply chain consists  The policy outlines Ormat’s require- Republic of Congo and surrounding  tion standards for products sold within the  discuss improvements and upgrades, and  cations systems that we use on a regular  of four different types of suppliers:  ments and expectations of suppliers  countries, but rather to significantly  European Economic Area.  present innovations in Ormat’s technology.  basis to deliver our products and services,  electrical parts suppliers, suppliers  in the areas of: ethics and corporate  reduce or eliminate funding of armed  General customer service requests – we  facilities or other assets that are a part of our  of materials, suppliers of parts and  governance, labor and human rights,  groups that have a record of human  Due to Ormat’s nature as a vertically inte. answer general requests submitted through  cyber-infrastructure.  service providers. As of 2020, Ormat  environment and climate change  rights abuses in the region. As such,  grated Company, we have a number of points  other channels such as ones directed to our  worked with approximately 5,000  policies and practices, and integrated  we have an expressed commitment  of contact with our various customers and  international Customer Service department  We are in constant internal communication  different suppliers. Ormat did not  quality, environment and health &  to human rights and our understand- we work to provide them at all times with  through our website on the “Contact Us”  with our employees about cybersecurity  experience any significant changes  safety systems. The Code is also  ing of the impact of our activities is  excellent and reliable customer service.  page which offers an online form and other  threats and awareness. In addition to  to the organization that affected its  distributed to all existing, new and  realized in our continued efforts to  forms of contact:  trainings and the policy, we email relevant  supply chain in 2020. There were no  potential suppliers as well as being  perform effective due diligence on the  At Ormat, we offer a variety of short- and  materials about possible threats in order to  significant changes to Ormat’s supply  publicly available on Ormat’s website.  sourcing practices within our supply  long-term unique services and along with  Address: Ormat Technologies Inc., 6140  raise awareness, to give tools and advice  chain in 2020.  chain. Our due diligence processes are  that, we provide service to any and all users  Plumas Street, Reno, NV 89519-6075, U.S.  on how to avoid and prevent a personal  Some of the conditions that we  materially based on the international- of our services. Customer service at the  Tel: +1-775-356-9029  cyberattack.  Furthermore,  our  Company has  outline include avoiding conflicts  ly-recognized Conflict Minerals due  Company is managed by our After sales and  Fax: +1-775-356-9039  operations in over ten different  of interest in dealing with suppliers,  diligence framework introduced by  Product support Group, which is part of the  Ormat did not experience any material  countries, and as a result, we work  relevant anti-trust considerations and  the Organization for Economic Coop- Business Development and Sales Group.  Email: info@ormat.com  breaches or cybersecurity events, nor did  with suppliers from around the world. Where possible, Ormat encourages and seeks out opportunities to work with local suppliers. However, due to the technical specifications that are  maintaining the confidentiality of our terms and conditions with suppliers and our expectation of directors, officers and employees to deal fairly with suppliers. Furthermore, in our  eration and Development (OECD). A full description of our Conflict Minerals due diligence activities can be found at our website at the following link19.  Our Product support department collects, addresses, and manages relevant requests from our various customers around the world. It is important to note that Ormat prides itself on its strong base of repeat customers,  Ormat’s policy is to address all our customer service requests in a timely and suitable manner in order to ensure the continued satisfaction of our global customer base.  the organization receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer data or privacy, in 2020.  which is due to the strength of our energy  