ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF A RENEWABLE ENERGY LEADER CONTRIBUTING TO A LOWER CARBON FUTURE Ormat’s operating activities from owned facilities and purchased electricity (Scope 1 and 2 emissions), which include manufacturing facilities, offices, corporate automobile fleet and other contributors created CO2 emissions of approximately 14,162 tons in 2017. In 2017, Ormat-owned power plant facilities generated more than 5.5 million MWh of electricity. Note that these MWh do not count in our calculation of direct (Scope 1) and indirect from purchased electricity (Scope 2) emissions as the electricity is sold to utilities and should be counted in their emissions reporting. When compared with other base load electricity generation methods, all of which are fossil fuel-based, the chart shows the renewable electricity offset Ormat recorded: 80,000 tons of CO2 ORMAT PLANTS In addition, these figures represent only what Ormat’s owned power plants mitigated in 2017. The amount of CO2 mitigated by the more than 1,500 MW in power plants Ormat has supplied to other power producers would result in a substantially higher offset figure. This chart demonstrates the impact of * renewable energy, comparing Ormat s 2017 CO2 emissions from the more than 5.5 million MWh of electricity we generated to the amounts that would have been generated using fossil fuels. ("CO2 Emissions From Fuel Combustion Highlights 2017" International Energy Agency (IEA), 2018) 2,200,000 tons of CO2 NATURAL GAS PLANTS 5,190,000 tons of CO2 3,710,000 tons of CO2 OIL PLANTS COAL PLANTS RESPONSIBLY RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT We have outlined how Ormat’s technology has a profound and positive impact on the environment. We take our commitment to the environment even further, by going to great lengths to minimize and mitigate our impact on the environment, adhering to all regulations in each of the different countries in which we operate and by going beyond compliance where we deem fit. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION The countries in which Ormat operates have local environmental protection laws regulating: • the effect on the environment outside of the power plant, including restrictions on noise, air emissions and discharge of pollutants and contaminants; • air quality and noise levels inside our power plants, to protect employees; • Ormat maps and monitors laws regulating our sites and maintains a multi-year plan for the continuous improvement of our environmental performance. In addition to meeting all legal and regulatory requirements in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, Ormat meets the exacting standards of various international operating guidelines and has earned IS014001 certification. ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Ormat's facilities and the people who operate them strive to work in full compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Despite our best efforts, sometimes exceedances (emissions beyond what a facility is licensed to emit), spills or other incidents may occur. That's why Ormat continually monitors facility performance and reports any incidents that may occur. Close monitoring of our environmental performance provides the information necessary to improve or modify procedures over time, with the goal preventing future incidents.  of  MINIMIZING IMPACTS TO LOCAL RESOURCES In the U.S. Ormat minimizes  our  facility footprint by operating in accordance with National Environmental Policy Act (40 CRS 1500.1) if the sites are located on public land. Ormat interacts with various government and regulatory agencies in the U.S., most frequently with the federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM), as well as with the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Department of Defense (DOD). Other federal agencies we consult with on proposed geothermal projects or during permitting application and review processes may include: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), U.S. Army Corp of Engineers (ACOE), Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), National Park Service (NPS), State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO). Ormat is also active in Wildlife Working Groups.