CHAPTER V. OUR IMPACT AND ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR EMPLOYEES, SOCIETY & LOCAL COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE: EMPLOYMENT AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT AT ORMAT Ormat is a global organization with employees working across the world. As of the end of 2018, we employed some 1,350 full and part-time employees worldwide. We are an equal opportunity employer and are committed to creating and maintaining a workplace where our people feel motivated to give their all and realize their professional and personal goals. As such, Ormat relies on employee input, ideas and enthusiasm to create authentic, relevant methods of engagement and to enable our Company to work more proactively, safely and in tune with the local communities in which we operate. Ormat believes that employees have the right to a workplace that is fair, open and free from discrimination or harassment and that encourages engagement and the development of employee potential. We strive to hire a diverse workforce that includes individuals from all sectors of society. In addition, due to our vertically integrated business model, we work with employees with an array of professional skills and capabilities and do our best to accommodate their professional and personal growth within the Company, taking into account their unique characteristics. Despite Ormat’s diverse workforce in terms of their geographic spread and professional capabilities, we encourage integration and a sense of togetherness among our employees. We cultivate a transparent and diverse work environment and encourage our employees to  or questions regarding to ethical  support our mission of generating  conduct in the workplace to our  positive social and environmental  whistleblower ethics hotline or  value. These principles are central to  third-party managed website at  our model of labor and employment  www.ethicspoint.com.  and we look to hire individuals who  express a keen understanding, and  exhibit a personal example of our  OUR EMPLOYMENT FRAMEWORK  values in their work.  We rely as much as possible on our  Many aspects of our outlook  own employees for all aspects of  towards employment are managed  conducting our business. We use  through our Human Rights and  our own employees to design,  Labor Policy that puts into writing  manufacture and operate our  Ormat’s employment values.In the  power plants. Most employees  policy, we recognize our employees’  work with us full-time, with  rights to the freedom of association  some part-time functions  and collective bargaining, all  depending on specific business  relevant and essential employment  needs, professional functions or  rights in our countries of operation,  on employee abilities. We work  their rights to a workplace free of  to accommodate our employees  harassment and discrimination in  with both full and part-time  all forms and our commitments to  positions based on their personal,  eliminating human rights abuses  professional or academic needs.  such as child and forced labor  In addition, the vast majority  practices. In addition, our Code  of our employees – 98 percent  of Business Conduct and Ethics  -work with us on a permanent  outlines our additional commitments  and on-going basis, with a very  to our employees regarding equal  limited number of positions  employment opportunity and anti- being filled by temporary  harassment, and our ethical and  employees. Our subcontractors  behavioral expectations of them  are mainly employed for the  in the workplace context. Ormat’s  completion of specific projects  executive management, Human  or tasks, information technology  Resources department and the local  (IT) and maintenance work and  employment managers at each of our  to address other professional  operational sites ensure that these  capacities, as needed.  policies and their relevant conditions  are upheld in our dealings with  employees, and that our employees  fully understand and comply with  our expectations. Employees with  grievances regarding management  of the issue of employment can  report to their direct manager, the  Human Resources department,  the Secretary of the Corporation  or the relevant Code of Ethics  contact person. In addition, and  as outlined in the “Our Holistic  Approach to Corporate Governance  and Economic Management”  section of this report, employees  can submit any relevant grievances  Below is a breakdown of Ormat’s employees per country and employment type at year-end 2018. Location  Number of Employees  Percentage of Total Employees  Of Which Permanent  Of Which Temporary  United States  584  43%  577  7  Israel  556  41%  545  11  Kenya  58  4%  58  0  Honduras  45  3%  45  0  Guatemala  54  4%  54  0  Turkey  23  2%  23  0  Guadeloupe  26  2%  20  6  TOTAL  1,346  100%  1,322  24  Equality in Employment at Ormat Ormat’s employees are diverse. They are of varying ages, genders, and cultural or religious backgrounds. Through our organizational values and the frameworks, policies and directives that guide our human resources and employment practices, we express our commitment to treating every employee fairly and equitably throughout their employment journey with us. This includes eliminating discrimination in our hiring and employment termination practices and ensuring that all employees are adequately accommodated and treated equally. We work to ensure that our employees come from diverse age groups. The majority of our employees are between the ages of 31-50, but we also have a significant number of employees who are age 51 and older as well as 30 and younger. As an equal opportunity employer, we do not discriminate against employees on the basis of their age. As outlined in the section below, we afford all of our employees full retirement benefits according to the relevant conditions of employment in the country of operation. Below is a breakdown of Ormat’s employees per age, sex, and employment type at year-end 2018. Total number of employees (by employment contract and gender) YE 2018  Total number of employees (by employment type and gender) YE 2018  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male Female  30 or younger  169  24  14  3  180  26  3  1  31-50  628  120  3  1  628  116  3  4  51 or older  314  67  1  2  306  64  9  5  Total  1,111  211  18  6  1,114  206  15  10  Total number of employees (by employment contract and gender) hired in 2018  Total number of employees (by employment type and gender) hired in 2018  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male Female  30 or younger  48  8  19  2  67  10  0  0  31-50  101  21  2  1  103  22  0  0  51 or older  33  9  1  2  34  9  0  2  Total  182  38  22  6  204  41  0  2  Furthermore, as an equal opportunity employer, all qualified applicants for employment with Ormat receive consideration for employment without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, status with regard to public assistance, source of income, national origin, citizenship status, disability, or any protected status. Ormat’s hiring processes are managed and designed by the Company’s Human Resources team. The team considers new employees according to their professional capabilities and experience and in terms of their fit with the relevant position. In addition, the team considers the employees’ fit in Ormat’s culture, such as with our workplace values, ethical and behavioral expectations according to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and personal and professional goals regarding the opportunity to work at Ormat. Employment with Ormat is based solely on the Company’s requirements and the individual’s qualifications. Ormat strives for equal employment opportunities for women and for minorities at all of its operational sites. We have not set organizational  providing these employees with  goals for the number of women and  their rights and benefits. The  minorities working at our organization.  Company adheres to all relevant  However, Ormat adheres to all relevant  legal obligations according to  legal frameworks governing equality  the relevant country of operation  in employment, such as through the  where the employee is ending their  Affirmative Action directives issued by  employment or retiring.  the U.S. Department of Labor through  which we seek to hire individuals from  underrepresented and/or minority  groups. That said, it is important to  stress that Ormat first and foremost  considers a potential candidate’s  professional skills and their overall  qualifications for the position, and  only then hires the most qualified  candidate for the said position. This  is in line with our commitment to  complete professionalism paired with  zero tolerance for discrimination in  the workplace.  Ormat offers equitable and  competitive pay and benefits,  health insurance and retirement  savings plans to all of our  employees. We also offer a  wide variety of professional  development opportunities  designed to help individuals excel  at their current responsibilities  and to advance in their careers.  In unfortunate cases of employment  termination, end of employment,  or retirement, Ormat has an  organized framework in place for  Below is a breakdown of Ormat’s employees who ended employment during 2018, categorized by age and gender, in addition to a breakdown by  employment type: Total number of employees (by employment contract and gender) end employment in 2018  Total number of employees (by employment type and gender) end employment in 2018  Permanent  Temporary  Full Time  Part Time  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male  Female  Male Female  30 or younger  28  3  31  3  57  5  2  1  31-50  79  12  4  0  83  11  0  1  51 or older  47  14  2  0  45  14  4  0  Total  154  29  37  3  185  30  6  2  Subcontractors While the majority of our activities are carried out by our permanent and temporary employees, we work with subcontractors for some manufacturing activities and for construction activities, which allows us to expand our construction and development capacity on an as-needed basis. In the construction or expansion of our power plants, we work with subcontractors on a temporary, yet mainly full-time basis for the completion of implementation-based projects at various operational locations. These subcontractors usually fulfill various roles such as site grading, road construction, civil, mechanical and electrical work, among others. Aside from plant construction and expansion, additional subcontractor roles mainly include: provision of security services, sourcing and supply chain, and cleaning and site maintenance staff. Collective Bargaining Agreements The vast majority of Ormat’s employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. As of December 2018, two percent of Ormat’s employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, namely the employees of our Bouillante power plant in Guadeloupe, where employees are represented by the national union, the Confédération Générale du Travail de Guadeloupe. We have never experienced a major labor dispute, strike or work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be one of our success factors, and to be beyond satisfactory. We believe that our future success depends on our continued ability to hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel everywhere we operate. Employee Benefits Ormat knows that the success of our business depends on employee satisfaction and stability. We therefore strive to make our working environment a place that employees will choose to stay. We ensure this by providing competitive benefits, growth opportunities and a warm and positive work atmosphere. All of our global employees are entitled to retirement and pension benefits at or beyond the legal level of employer contribution in the relevant country of operation, including access to 401(k)65 pension schemes in the U.S., and parental leave according to the allotted time period in each country. Some examples of the additional benefits that Ormat provides to employees include: health and dental insurance, disability coverage, additional vacation days and other benefits beyond local employment laws. Ormat affords these benefits to its permanent full and part-time employees. Some of the other benefits that are afforded to our employees at a number of our operations sites include:  access  to  educational  funds,  transportation  fees,  housing  subsidies,  optical  care,  compassionate leave (during mourning periods), birthday, family gifts and stipends, laundry services, and more depending on the local needs in the country and relevant requests from employees. Performance Reviews As part of our commitment to providing our employees with a better employment experience possible, we 65 In the United States, a 401(k) plan is the tax-qualified, defined-contribution pension account defined in subsection 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. invest significant time and resources in our program for performance reviews. As of 2018, nearly 85 percent of our employees received career performance reviews. Through career performance reviews, which occur on an annual or biennial basis between the employee and their direct manager (depending on the nature of the position), employees are able to provide their feedback on their position, share their career goals and receive feedback from their direct managers on their performance. Together, the employee and the manager set goals and milestones for assessing future performance and the employee can request a salary review, if desired. Our goal for 2019 is for all of our global employees to undergo performance reviews – a measure that will be overseen and monitored by our Human Resources department. Frameworks for Employee Engagement and Promoting Well-Being in the Workplace With such a large base of employees, we seek to encourage a sense of community and togetherness among our employees. There are a number of ways that we achieve this, be it through community events and employee gatherings, or through our employee portals, social media networks and on-line platforms. All of our well-being activities for employees are sponsored or initiated by the employees themselves. For instance, due to requests from employees we began a Weight Watchers program and Company-sponsored running groups. In Israel, we sponsor summer camps and activities for employees’ children, as well as festive holiday events. In the U.S., we have an annual party for employees and other Company leisure activities such as Company picnics and family events. Our employees have a number of readily available communication channels to express their expectations, grievances or recommendations for improvement, beginning with their direct manager and on to their Human Resources representative and through to our CEO. We laso have an employee newsletter and in 2019 we are planning to release our intra-organizational communication platform “OrMeet” that will allow employees to create professional and personal groups to share experience, insights and support. The goal of the application is to create an additional platform that encourages bonding between employees across geographies and professional capacities. In addition, our CEO tours regularly the factory floor and other sites to receive feedback and recommendations for improvement from employees. In everything that we do, we seek to encourage our employees’ utmost health and well-being both in and outside of the workplace. TRAINING AND EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Ormat is committed to supporting the professional development of our employees during their employment with us as well as to preparing them for career growth. As such, we offer a variety of training and educational programs for our staff on both relevant professional and soft skills to help them improve their performance. We also support our employees and their families in the pursuit of educational opportunities through a variety of country-based programs and based on specific employee and business. We provide of our employees with access to health and safety training, corporate governance training mainly regarding compliance with our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, training in soft skills such as the use of Office programs and is spread out in the organization. Health and Safety training is managed by the QEHS department, guided by the VP QEHS and carried out by employees in each location. Other training is professionally and administratively managed by the HR department (and it’s local representatives) but is initiated by different bodies such as department managers. languages,  as  well  as  relevant  professional skills.  Direct  management  of  training  The following outlines some of the professional and soft skills training courses that we provide our employees with. It is important to note that we provide all of our employees with access to educational opportunities and courses that are relevant to their profession on a case-by-case basis: Providing Our Employees with Educational Opportunities Type of Training  Relevant Courses  Health & Safety  Operator Qualification Program Mechanic Qualification Program Electrical Instrumentation & Controls Qualification Program Crane Operation Course First Aid Work at Height Courses and Certifications Safety Officer Competency Emergency and Fire Safety Preparedness Courses Safety in the Operation of Mechanical Equipment Driving Safety Courses  Corporate Governance & Human Resources  Ormat's Code of Conduct and Business Ethics Time Management Project Management Negotiation Skills Leadership Training Team Building Anti-Bribery and Corruption  Professional & Technical Training  Solar and Storage Course American Society of Mechanical Engineers Course Welding Course Calibration Course Wage Assessment and Accounting Certification Course ISO CAT 111, ISO 45001, ISO 14001 Technical Sketching for production workers Exploration and Development of Geothermal Resources Information System Security Certification Import/Export Training Inventory and Warehouse Management Procurement Best Practices  The professional and educational development assistance we offer varies from in-house training courses to subsidies for higher education programs through our educational funds, covering a range of topics or skills depending on individual needs and aptitudes. We believe that by investing in employee skill development through provision of educational assistance we can meet our strategic business targets while adequately preparing our employees for a rapidly evolving professional environment. An Organization Shaped by Local Employment Ormat is an organization that prides itself on full local employment at all levels at our power plants around the world. In 2018, the proportion of senior management hired from the local communities in our plants was 100 percent.66 We believe that local employment is essential because our employees have better understanding of the local community, stakeholders and environment and can adequately provide the superb degree of service that Ormat strives for. In addition, we believe that cultivating the skills of the local force is important in fostering knowledge regarding renewable energy solutions, with the goal of ensuring the long-term sustainability of our power plants and energy solutions. Furthermore, we believe that investment in the local workforce supports the local economy and enables community development in that Ormat’s local employees become part of a larger global organization and learn skills that contribute to their professional career and personal goals. In countries like Kenya, Guatemala, Honduras and Guadeloupe where local employment options are limited, Ormat offers our employees access to different professional employment opportunities such as plant managers, local sustainability managers, power plant operators, maintenance workers, engineers, mechanics and more. Individuals that are hired for these positions are hired by the local Human Resources manager based on their relevant experience, knowledge and education. In some locations where employment options are limited in the areas surrounding the power plant – such as in Guatemala – our plants have agreements with local community councils and representatives to create more local job opportunities. As such, both the Amatitlan and Zunil plants in Guatemala have agreements whereby employees work in time-set “shifts” for a few months before other local employees assume the position. This method increases the rate of local employment and the degree of Ormat’s economic impact on local communities. This is the case not only in the developing countries within which Ormat operates, but also in the U.S., where Ormat has operations in areas with traditionally high unemployment rates. Therefore, we not only hire qualified local staff where available, but also invest in creating opportunities for qualified local staff. For example, Ormat has power plants in the Imperial Valley, a region that has one of the highest unemployment rates in the state of California, and our local employment policy there has made Ormat the region’s second largest employer. In addition, as outlined above, we provide all of our employees with access to educational opportunities. Furthermore, Ormat has written curricula for local community colleges and universities in Nevada focusing on technical subjects such as plant operation and relevant academic subjects such as geoscience, generating a talented local employment pool. 66 'Senior management' is defined as employees who manage operations and implementation of our projects and business targets at our power plants and in our offices. 'Local' is defined as the immediate communities surrounding our operations. 'Significant locations of operation' are those operational locations that are included in the Boundaries of this report, as defined in the "Information Boundaries of This Report" section. ENSURING A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AT ORMAT The health and safety of our employees, subcontractors, the public and the environment is an overarching priority at Ormat. We manage risks by identifying, assessing and controlling risks in every facility, office and workplace that we own and operate. We promote safety awareness and values and our goal is to report, analyze, learn and improve performance following every event in order to reduce the number of incidents. We also work to continuously improve our safety performance and to instill a strong workplace safety culture. The countries where Ormat operates have local laws regulating the topics of health and safety that the Company follows, and where possible and practical, we strive to go beyond the requirements of the legal regulations to promote the utmost level of health and safety for our employees and other relevant stakeholders. These include safety requirements such as ventilation, fire protection, work at height regulations, personal protection and gear, railings, electric protection and employee training on pertinent issues, among other topics that are outlined in the following chapter. Our Occupational Health and Safety Program – Striving to Go Beyond Compliance Safety is a key area of concern to us. We believe that the optimal, most efficient and profitable  goal is to learn and improve our  Ormat’s website67 and outlines  performance of our power plants  performance following every event  our commitments to providing  can only be achieved by fostering  in order to reduce the number  high quality products, conducting  a safe and healthy working  of incidents. This requires that  our business with care for the  environment. First and foremost,  all employees maintain constant  environment and for integrating  we follow the relevant health and  vigilance to ensure that unsafe acts  our QEHS system into our business  safety rules and work regulations at  or work conditions are identified,  strategy and work processes.  each of our operational locations,  addressed, regulated and prevented,  In addition, our Human Rights  but we also go beyond compliance  wherever possible.  and Labor Policy, which is also  at the corporate level to ensure  available publicly on our website68 ,  that the appropriate policies  The topic of Quality, Environment,  outlines our commitments to  and initiatives are implemented  Health and Safety (QEHS) is  ensuring that essential health and  wherever we operate. The goal  managed by Ormat’s appointed  safety standards and practices  of these efforts is to create an  Global VP of QEHS, who reports  are enforced in the workplace,  overall culture of safety for all  directly to the CEO. The Global VP  to developing risk awareness  of Ormat’s employees at all of  of QEHS is responsible for oversight  and to encouraging responsible  our locations. This includes the  and management of the health and  health and safety behavior  initiation of a compensation and  safety budget and relevant policies,  among employees. The policy  incentive program for managers  processes, training and work  was updated in 2018 to add more  that considers the implementation  practices across the organization.  comprehensive information on  of health and safety initiatives as  Plant managers at each of Ormat’s  our health and safety policies,  a factor in evaluating performance  operational sites and power plants  initiatives and expectations, such  and as a condition for receiving  are accountable for implementing  as our full commitment to meet and  bonuses. In addition, we have  relevant Company-level and local  go beyond all legal and regulatory  an advanced online platform for  health and safety regulations and  health and safety requirements  recording, reporting and tracking  initiatives through the appointed  in our countries of operation  safety and environmental incidents  Environmental Health and Safety  and information on the industry  at our power plants and operational  (EHS) coordinator. On-site EHS  standards that we adhere to.  sites.  coordinators are additionally  responsible for upholding the local  Ormat’s employees have  Ormat’s occupational health and  conditions, regulations or other  representation on the Company’s  safety program is focused on four  agreements, for ongoing record- health and safety committees.  main components:  keeping and reporting and for  Ormat has two types of safety  the training and certification of  committees: one for the  1. Everyone, Everyday -All Ormat  employees. These EHS coordinators  management of health and safety  employees are integral to safe  report to the plant and/or power  aspects at our factories and  operations, each charged with the  plant manager and conduct work  manufacturing facilities and one  responsibility to work safely and  according to Company-wide EHS  for the management of health and  create and maintain a safe work  initiatives that are set by the Global  safety aspects in other operations,  environment.  VP QEHS.  i.e. at Ormat’s power plants and  offices. The committees organize  2. Management of Hazards -Ormat  Ormat has an Integrated Quality,  and assess Ormat’s health and  strives to systematically identify  Environment, Health and Safety  safety program at the corporate  hazards, and then manage them by  Policy that sets out our general  level. An employee from each  elimination, isolation or minimization.  commitments towards health and  department is nominated to  safety principles at our sites and  participate in the committees  3. Safety as a Core Value - for all our stakeholders. The policy  and employees from all Ormat’s  Safety is a core value at Ormat.  is enforced by the Company’s  global locations are encouraged  We are always committed to  Global VP QEHS and adherence  to volunteer their participation.  safeguarding employees and  with the policy, or the need for  In order to expand employee  assets, customers, the community  relevant revisions, is consistently  involvement, the employee  and the environment.  monitored and assessed together  representatives are rotated each  with Company management. The  year. Overall in 2018 17 percent of  4. Continual Vigilance -Our  policy is publicly available on  Ormat’s employees took part in  67 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Intergrated%20Quality%20Enviornmet%20Health%20and%20Safety%20(QEHS)%20Policy.pdf 68 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Human%20Rights%20Policy.pdf the safety committees. Whether participating as an employee representative or not, all of Ormat’s employees are encouraged to communicate their concerns or recommendations to the relevant committees. In 2018, we received over four thousand health and safety observations and hundreds of safety suggestions from our employees through our health and safety management platform (detailed below). Furthermore, every Ormat facility has a safety training program, under responsibility of each plant manager and the local the EHS manager, and which is directed by our Company’s joint employee and management health and safety committees. The program seeks to ensure that safety expectations are clearly communicated and understood by all employees and subcontractors, and that comprehensive safety plans are maintained across all Company operations. We provide regular training in health and safety regulations and procedures at all our locations and have detailed guidelines in place in case of emergency to monitor health and safety standards on a continual basis. In 2018, we provided plant managers and supervisors Safety Leadership Training, also known as the ProAct safety training program. In 2019, we plan to continue this training program, as well as to expand employee participation in our SafeStart® health and safety training and implementation program, including integration of the SafeStart® philosophies and practices into our health and safety key performance indicators (KPIs). In addition, we increased employee participation in our behavior-based safety programs, which contributes greatly to maturing and advancing a culture of safety at our organization. Measuring Our Health and Safety Performance Ormat reports its health and safety data to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which is part of the U.S. Department of Labor, according to internationally-accepted reporting standards such the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA)69 forms for recording work-related injuries and illnesses. Ormat's manufacturing and office facilities in Israel operate in all material respects according to OHSAS 18001, but the facilities do not have certification from the local Standards Institute of Israel. Type of Injury  Number of Occurrences  Laceration  7  Contusion  7  Strain  7  Heat Stress  3  Sprain  3  Broken Bone(s)  3  Eye Injury  2  Puncture Wound  2  Burn  2  Amputation  1  Ormat works to ensure that all of its employees who unfortunately experience an injury, illness or fatality as a result of their work for the Company receive the utmost treatment and care for their ailment or affliction and that all of their expectations of the Company with regards to the matter are met. Ormat conducts Quality, Environment, Health and Safety audits of our plants and facilities every three years. In 2018, internal audits were completed for a number of sites in the U.S. including Mammoth, Steamboat, Tuscarora and Neal Hot Springs. Ormat manages and monitors our QEHS performance at a global level for all sites using Microsoft’s Power BI platform. All reports are categorized according to the criteria and performance metrics of the Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA) of the U.S. Department of Labor. 69 The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is an agency of the United States Department of Labor. 70 Each of the health and safety parameters are reported according to the relevant guidelines set out in 403-2 of the GRI Standards. 71 Frequency of injuries, relative to the total time worked by all workers during the reporting period. Ormat uses the total recordable injury rate, TRIR which is calculated as the number of medical treatment injuries per 200,000 man hours. 72 Frequency of occupational diseases relative to the total time worked by all workers during the reporting period. Calculated as the number of medical treatment occupational diseases per 200,000 man hours. The following table details Ormat's performance with regards to accepted workplace health and safety indicators in 2018: Parameter70  Female  Male  All  Injury Rate71  0  3.65  2.80  Occupational Disease Rate72  0  0.28  0.20  Lost Day Rate73  0  2.30  2.00  Absentee Rate74  This parameter was not calculated in the scope of this report  Work-Related Fatalities75  0  0  0  In 2018, we recorded the following injuries at our operational sites 73 Time (‘days’) that cannot be worked (and are thus ‘lost’) as a consequence of a worker or workers being unable to perform their usual work because of an occupational disease or accident. Calculated as the number of lost day cases per 200,000 man hours. 74 Ormat plans to report on its Absentee Rate for employees in forthcoming reports. 75 Death of a worker occurring in the current reporting period, arising from an occupational disease or injury sustained or contracted while performing work that is controlled by the organization or that is being performed in workplaces that the organization controls. Calculated as the number of fatalities per 200,000 man hours. Ormat has a Company wide KPIs  Safety Suggestions | Number of  Safety Inspections | Number of  for the implementation of our  safety suggestions generated  safety inspections per month  health and safety program for  employees. Through adoption of  Safety Observations | Number of  Safety Work Orders (and/or  the KPI, we seek to emphasize  safety observations performed  Completion of Safety Tasks) |  the importance of sound health  by employees  Number of safety work orders  and safety activities at all sites, as  generated or safety tasks  well as express our commitment  Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) |  completed  to learning and improving our  Number of JHAs completed or  health and safety performance.  revised per quarter  Safety Committee Meetings |  The KPIs measures, tracks and  Number of safety committee  compares performance regarding  Pre-Job Safety Meetings (PJSM) |  meetings conducted per quarter  our existing Safety Participation  Number of documented PJSMs  Program and will report on the  per month  following indicators:  The following table represents our health and safety performance regarding the above-mentioned indicators in 2018: Indicator  Business Unit  2018 Performance  2018 Total  United States Operations  493  929  Safety  Israel Operations  229  Suggestions  Other International Operations  203  Drilling Operations  4  United States Operations  3131  7402  Safety  Israel Operations  2828  Observations  Other International Operations  1375  Drilling Operations  68  JHAs  United States Operations  200  432  Israel Operations  62  Other International Operations  169  Drilling Operations  1  PSJMs  United States Operations  1065  2068  Israel Operations  486  Other International Operations  494  Drilling Operations  23  Safety Inspections  United States Operations  1450  1626  Israel Operations  0  Other International Operations  171  Drilling Operations  5  Safety Work Orders (Tasks)  United States Operations  1353  1956  Israel Operations  352  Other International Operations  243  Drilling Operations  8  Safety Committee Meetings  United States Operations  166  290  Israel Operations  64  Other International Operations  59  Drilling Operations  1  In forthcoming reports, we plan to report on our health and safety indicator performance to show our progress year-over-year. Based on these indicators, we operate a proactive safety plan for our employees, who are required to complete a number of different types of activities and to report on their “Safety KPI Scorecard”. Each of our sites is required to set goals regarding the KPIs and to report on their performance regarding the following parameters: safety training of employees, number and frequency of actionable safety suggestions made, number and frequency of safety observations made, job hazard analyses (JHAs) performed, pre.job safety meetings (PJSMs) held and at which frequency, number of safety inspections, number of safety work orders and number of safety committee meetings. Employees are encouraged to take an active role in improving our health and safety performance through the global Safety Participation Program. The program is designed to encourage and recognize employees who are actively involved in all aspects of maintaining a safe and healthy work environment. Employees can earn “Ormat Bucks” by completing and participating in health and safety activities, such as safety work, taking proactive safety measures, demonstrating safety leadership, or by increasing safety engagement. By submitting safety reports, reporting unsafe conditions, participating in JHAs or acting as a safety committee member, Ormat employees can collect their “Ormat Bucks” at the end of the month and select a prize. Health & Safety in Our Work with Subcontractors In addition to implementing stringent health and safety measures for our employees, we demand our subcontractors to comply with relevant health and safety regulations as they pertain to our operations, including our own rules, where relevant. In Ormat’s standard contract for work with subcontractors, the Company reserves the right to indemnify the services of the subcontractor if the subcontractor violates or infringes upon any relevant laws, rules, regulations or standards pertaining to occupational health and safety of employees. Ormat expects its subcontractors to strictly adhere to local health and safety regulations, together with Ormat’s own expectations, whichever are more stringent. We also require all subcontractors to adhere to our checklist of “Environmental Compliance Responsibilities”, which is a list of tasks and necessary milestones that should be reported to Ormat on regularly by the subcontractor. Some of these requirements include: attending pre.construction conferences to review health and safety expectations, preparing an emergency response plan, maintaining a speed limit of 10 miles-per-hour in the construction area and other environmental controls, such as developing a Storm Water Pollution Plan (SWPP). Safe Dealing with Hazardous Materials and Emergency Response Plans When it comes to hazardous materials, U.S. plants are subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), and Federal Risk Management Plan/ Process Safety Management (RMP.PSM). In all cases, the regulated substance is the motive fluid in our power plants; pentane, isopentane, butane, isobutane.76 We typically have small quantities of other regulated substances like solvents but most do not reach the quantity relevant under the regulation for official treatment. In Israel, our manufacturing facility follows the rules and regulations outlined in the Hazardous Materials Law (1993). Details on our treatment and dealing with hazardous materials is provided in the “Measuring and Controlling Other Environmental Impacts” chapter of this report. Ormat upholds detailed and well-communicated emergency response plans at each of its sites for evacuation in cases of emergency, natural disaster or other hazards, such as chemical or pollutant spills and leakages. In general, the Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) are developed and adopted by each of the offices, operational facilities and power plants on a local and case-to-case basis. EAPs in the U.S. are based on the RMP-PSM, which governs all U.S. state regulations, such as Chemical Accident Prevention Program (CAPP) in Nevada and the California Accidental Release Prevention (CalARP) Program. However, there is some general guidance from the global occupational health and safety team on the general guidelines for generating an EAP. In our office spaces, the EAP requirement is triggered by our fire detection systems (OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.164) and by the fixed fire extinguishing system (sprinklers; OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.160). 76 More information on our treatment of these regulated substances can be found in the “Waste and Materials” chapter. Under the Volcano – Managing Emergency Shutdown at Ormat’s Puna, Hawaii Geothermal Facility Ormat is majority owner of the Puna geothermal power plant located close to the Kilauea volcano’s East Rift Zone on the Big Island of Hawaii. The Puna facility was safely shut down in early May 2018, following a series of earthquakes and lava incursions caused by the volcano’s eruption. On May 3rd, Hawaii County’s Civil Defense department advised the Company about a series of earthquakes and cracks in the Leilani Estate area near the plant and warned about the potential for volcanic activity near the Puna facility. All the geothermal wells at the Puna facility were put under 24/7 monitoring for pressure levels and other important production and safety indicators. Ormat employees also noted some pressure and brine irregularities. In response, Ormat’s plant employees followed the established protocols for lava intrusion and took quick action to initiate shutdown procedures at the plant. This involved reducing the plant’s pressure to 200 psi and isolating the plant in sections until the entire facility was safely shut down. In addition, to prevent any further hazards, potential flammable chemicals such as pentane were removed from the facility. On May 4th, an earthquake measuring 6.9 on the Richter scale was recorded, causing widespread power outages, severe cracks to highways and other infrastructure and major lava flows. The Puna facility reverted to emergency diesel generators to maintain basic power, while remaining in shutdown mode. Events leading up to the shutdown demonstrate the strong safety and communication protocols and emergency response planning and procedures that Ormat’s employees apply at all operating facilities. Protecting the health and safety of employees, the public and the environment is of highest priority to the Company. Ormat maintained communication and worked in full cooperation with all local authorities throughout the event. Ormat assisted the local community by making the Puna facility’s air monitoring equipment available so that air quality and safety could be accurately gauged throughout the eruption and lava flows, which continued for several weeks. The facility continues to remain shut down and Ormat is currently working to repair damaged equipment, targeting a start-up in late 2019. SUPPORTING AND SHAPING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES AND FUTURES OUR GOALS AND GUIDEPOSTS Ormat’s mission is to be a leading global provider of renewable energy while building a balanced portfolio of geothermal, recovered energy and storage assets. Ormat also recognizes the vital role that local people, communities and positive, long-term relationships play in advancing the adoption, uptake and long-term viability of renewable energy. Ormat sees an imperative to act, operate and engage with local people and communities in a manner that is consistent both with globally recognized social, environmental and economic development standards and Ormat’s corporate values – of stability, constant renewal, full commitment, courage and creativity. We view this as a fundamental pathway to success and are inspired by the standards of various leading sustainability frameworks, including those of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs), and other principles such as the OECD Guidance on Sustainability Impact Assessments and the ISO 26000 guidelines for social responsibility. These are the guideposts for the behavioral expectations Ormat upholds for all employees as we work towards fulfilling our mission and engaging with local communities. Another essential principle that we seek to implement in our activities and  policies  is  that  of  equality.  Ormat  applies  the  same  high  standards to the way  we  interact,  engage and develop our business wherever we operate, across the globe, while also understanding and perceiving the unique cultural needs of each location on every level, from country to local community. In all cases and locations, Ormat is committed to being open, transparent, consistent and focused on delivering sustainable renewable energy solutions that generate inherently  positive  impact,  for  the  environment, society  and  the  economy.  Our goal is to inform and engage our visitors and provide a first-hand look at how geothermal energy and other renewables are contributing to a cleaner energy future and a more stable, affordable electricity grid. Across the globe, hundreds of people – from school students, local governments, service organizations, environmental groups and others visited our facilities for tours. UNDERSTANDING AND UNIQUENESS Ormat knows each community reflects a constellation of unique stakeholders and that no two communities are identical. Each has its specific needs, characteristics, constraints and challenges. We seek first to understand and assess the local conditions through our Stakeholder Engagement Policy. Our approach is responsive and respectful to local customs, in full alignment with all local regulations and laws and sensitive to the specific needs and requests for contributions and assistance voiced by each community. This approach highlights an essential truth – each community has deep insights into the ways it can be improved. Seeking this input typically leads to the most proactive and potentially uplifting outcomes. Ormat’s commitment to community typically begins well before we start development in a new region. Every part of our connection with stakeholders – from pre.development and planning through to operations – is characterized by our “open door” policy. SOCIAL ACTIONS PLANS At Ormat, we take the impacts from the construction of our power plants seriously and work diligently to reduce them. We are guided by Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA), which are conducted according to local standards and requirements. We view this as an important way to reduce negative impacts and conducting such assessments is the first stage in establishing our relationship with the local community. The social part of the impact assessment first collects data through dialogue with the local community, then maps the needs of the local community and finally provides a framework for both addressing stakeholder grievances and for generating positive impact through investment (philanthropic or otherwise) in programs and/ or funds. Often these assessments are reviewed by relevant public authorities or by funding bodies, like institutional investors, development banks and other relevant parties, and are often conducted prior to permitting processes. In 2018, of all the social and environmental impact assessments we conducted, Ormat did not discover any notable negative impacts on local communities. LISTENING MEANS LEARNING Community Engagement and Handling Grievances Ormat recognizes that for successful interactions to occur, there must be a basis for meaningful communication, mutual respect and trust. That’s why we create processes and feedback mechanisms to encourage all community members to speak openly and honestly about any concerns that our development activities may raise. Ensuring both positive and negative input is reported, listened to, and, most importantly, acted upon, keeps communication channels clear, quickly identifies pressing issues and promotes a spirit of cooperation and pro-activity. Ormat’s stakeholders are  In 2018, Ormat did not receive  encouraged to file their grievances  any major stakeholder grievances  directly with local plant  nor were any other issues raised  managers and/or with appointed  regarding vulnerable community  representatives in their municipal  groups in our areas of operation  or community council who  received. We are committed to  regularly liaise with Ormat.  achieving our goal of addressing  and responding to 100 percent  Stakeholders may also contact  of stakeholder requests received  Ormat through the ‘Contact Us’  through our various channels  page77 on Ormat’s corporate  of stakeholder engagement, as  website which lists the mail,  outlined in the “Our Strategy for  telephone, fax or email through  Stakeholder Engagement” section.  that they may connect and  communicate with the Company.  All concerns and grievances  received are addressed by Ormat’s  Marketing and Communications  department and are systematically  reviewed and directed to the  relevant corporate department for  review and any necessary action  and/or follow-up.  United States close proximity to our Mammoth Amatitlan is handled through the The plan includes grievance In the United States, Ormat Geothermal Complex. The Orpacaya Trust (“Fideicomiso mechanisms for stakeholders works to increase awareness of stakeholder group, known as Orpacaya”) that enables Ormat to that enables various points of renewable energy and geothermal the Mammoth Community Water advance relationships with the local view, interests and concerns from energy in the general public as District (MCWD), asserted that community by furnishing economic local communities to be heard, well as for policy makers and the extraction of geothermal fluid and educational opportunities. The understood and factored into the government representatives. We at Ormat’s plant was affecting Orpacaya Trust works to develop plant’s operations and plans for share information on geothermal the area’s shallow water aquifer social projects on education, community investment. energy’s multiple benefits as a and impacting the quality of its health, infrastructure and viable, steady, reliable source of drinking water. Ormat conducted environmental mitigation. Financial The sustainability plan in renewable energy that has minimal advanced hydrological testing, support for the trust is allocated Honduras includes allocation of impacts on the surrounding which showed that our activities annually from Ormat’s power plant financial resources to support a environment. Ormat also engages do not impact the area’s shallow budget. In 2018, Ormat contributed Corporate Social Responsibility with local communities near our water aquifer. The MCWD US$100,000 to the trust, which Fund. In this location, the power plants in the United States, withdrew its claims against Ormat funds social, environmental and local community is defined according to organized stakeholder in late 2018. educational engagement. The as those in close proximity to engagement mechanisms that engagements are designed to transmission lines coming out encourage open dialogue and seek In 2018, during the construction be self-sustaining and motivate of the Geotermica Platanares to address relevant issues and of the 3rd phase of the McGinness support and involvement from the geothermal facility. Through this concerns according to grievance Hills complex, Ormat, followed local community. In 2018, the trust fund, Ormat makes investments mechanisms. agreements reached in the early paved roads, built infrastructure to enhance the quality of life, stages of community consultation, and funded supplies and food education and healthcare locally. A recent project involved the with the Yomba Shoshone and for local residents impacted by During the past two years, Ormat repower (replacement of old Duckwater Tribes. The two tribes the Volcan de Fuego eruption, supported road improvements power plant equipment to improve were consulted throughout the which occurred June 3rd, 2018. in Yarusin and Maicupa. performance) of one of our plants project and were able to monitor Additional funds were invested in These major infrastructure in the Steamboat geothermal construction in their sacred land. the construction and renovation Honduras community so that individuals improvements acknowledged complex near Reno, Nevada. Ormat of local parks, tree planting and Since 2012, Ormat has actively can submit requests and/or road impacts made by heavy attended a neighborhood advisory Guatemala reforestation programs, and in advanced development of suggestions directly to the plant. machinery during construction board (NAB) meeting, provided a Ormat’s community engagement the development of research and Honduras’ national geothermal of the Geotermica Platanares workshop at the Reno city council, efforts and action plans for the hydrological studies to improve energy capability through our To address requests from the and Ormat, and together with and in 2019 plans to meet other largely agrarian areas around local water supply and access. involvement in the Geotermica project’s funding institutions, project partners, ensured that bodies such as the City Planning Zunil and Amatitlan are designed Platanares geothermal project, Ormat developed a thorough the roads were restored to pre-Commission and the Regional to support positive value creation Our Zunil power plant manages and from the start this included stakeholder engagement plan construction conditions. Planning Committee. The Reno and improved quality of life. and executes a fund for the community engagement. Under based on the ISO 26000 standard City Council approved the project, engagement and support of La Honduran law, Ormat’s Platanares of social responsibility, World Kenya based on its adherence to relevant To develop our community Calera, the local community. power plant must comply with Bank standards, the OECD Ormat’s Kenyan geothermal regulations, including those engagement plans in Amatitlan, This fund focuses on identifying a number of social engagement Guidelines for Multinational facility, Olkaria III, is uniquely governing Ormat’s environmental Ormat communicates directly and improving educational requirements, such as establishing Enterprises and relevant SDGs. located inside a wildlife sanctuary and social engagement. During with the local five communities: opportunities for the students a fund that we contribute to on a The plant works according to with close to Lake Naivasha Hell’s Gate the NAB, Ormat explained San Francisco de Sales, El Cedro, in the local elementary monthly basis for investment in the United Nations Development National Park, where there two the power plant’s purpose, its El Bejucal, El Pepinal and San school. The local community’s the local community and to fund Program (UNDP) to measure local communities: Olomunyak financial benefits and fielded Jose Calderas. This is done relevant requests or grievances reporting on our sustainability its social and environmental and Narasha. In compliance with concerns and questions from the through a committee, known as are communicated to and activities regularly. Stakeholder progress. This helps us provide Ormat’s stakeholder engagement local community. Following the a “COCODES” that organizes and addressed directly by the local engagement and local community recommendations for future strategy, and to address requests meeting, Ormat worked to address manages relevant stakeholder plant manager. engagement are managed activity while minimizing from project funders -the relevant concerns and we continue requests. Local officials from according to a defined stakeholder exposure to potential economic, German Investment Corporation to publish an annual report on the municipality, regulators and relations plan, corporate social social and environmental risks (DEG) and the Environmental progress regarding identified local community members are all responsibility action plan, health and supporting the discovery Resources Management (ERM) initiatives. represented on the COCODES. and safety action plan, grievance of positive local engagement East Africa Environmental and Ormat then answers the requests mechanism and an environmental opportunities. The systematic Social Due Diligence (ESDD) .In 2018, Ormat addressed through relevant activities, action plan. These plans are approach to stakeholder Olkaria III developed: Stakeholder stakeholder grievances from initiatives or messages to the shared with the local community engagement encourages the Engagement Plan (SEP), a representatives in Mammoth community. The relationship and in central locations. Mail boxes development of constructive, long-Grievance Mechanism (GM), a Lakes, California -a town in assistance to the community in were also set up around the local term stakeholder relationships. Corporate Social Responsibility 76 77 (CSR) Policy and a CSR Strategy. The local sustainability manager reports annually on the status of each of these policies and implementation plans, while setting goals and recommending projects for future engagement with the local community. Ormat’s SEP in Kenya provides a framework for engagement of relevant stakeholders and the local community. It does this by defining the regulatory, lender and Company entities necessary for consultation, while also identifying and prioritizing relevant stakeholders. The plan also defines a strategy and timeframe for sharing information and consulting stakeholders and stipulates the resources and responsibilities for implementation of stakeholder engagement activities. In addition, the Grievance Mechanism is made of key performance indicators (KPIs) such as accounting for the number of grievances received, those that are unresolved, or grouping of grievances according to stakeholder groups. The mechanism’s goal is to identify trends across all grievances received, ensuring that they are addressed while identifying areas for improvement. Ormat’s Kenyan Community Investment Policy was created through community consultation, shaped by several key principles and themes including: training and capacity building, biodiversity conservation, health promotion, education and supporting local community development programs with the goal of improving livelihoods. These areas of impact were determined based on the plant’s community investment strategy, which currently focuses on five key areas: donation to the school to support teachers, the Bursary program, the school feeding program, investing in improved infrastructure around the plant and for the local community, and supporting the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and Kenya Forest Service (KFS), which facilitate the environmental and ecosystem management of Hell’s Gate National Park. Guadeloupe In Guadeloupe we have a community engagement program according to which we organize a periodical meeting with the neighbors and association management to discuss our stakeholders concerns. Additionally, as our power plant is located in the heart of the city, we have a role in the social improvement of the neighborhood and the life of the city and the local sport and cultural association and we supported cultural events. We also provide support for such associations in the cities close to Bouillante. We support the refurbishment of the houses located around the plant to improve the quality of life for local stakeholders. Local Livelihood One of the prime directives that sets Ormat apart is our Company-wide promotion of local employment; everyone who works at a plant is from the country in which the plant is located. We believe every renewable energy facility we develop, own and/ or operate should be staffed by people who live in or close to the local community. This reflects Ormat’s responsibility to return benefits and generate positive impact for the local communities in proximity to our operations. We believe that being a good neighbor is the right thing to do and that hiring locally is the right way to operate. United States A significant component of community engagement is focused on the economic benefits of building geothermal power plants as they can act as a source for ongoing employment and financial productivity, particularly in areas that are remote and do not have many employment opportunities. For example, Ormat’s Ormesa Geothermal Complex, built in California’s Imperial Valley in 1988, became the second largest employer in an area that is impacted by severe unemployment. Part of Ormat’s commitment to job creation and quality education involves working in local U.S. communities to train students in high-demand fields and instill technical skills that translate into career-building opportunities. For example, Ormat developed curricula for a power operator course at a local community college, which provided a successful pool of employees for our local plant. Ormat also sponsored a program to educate local teachers on renewable and geothermal energy through the Desert Research Institute (DRI), a non-profit environmental research arm of the Nevada System of Higher Education. Ormat also wrote curricula for a geothermal energy course for the U.S. public school STEM78 program and sponsors a geothermal energy program for geoscientists at the University of Nevada. Guatemala - Amatitlan In Amatitlan, the Orpaycaya Trust includes a labor agreement for the creation of jobs for local residents. As of 2018, 47 positions were available and were provided to local residents on a rolling or job-sharing 78 STEM is a curriculum based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — in an interdisciplinary and applied approach. basis, with a salary well above the average local income. Employees are able to work for two months a year and then the job moves on to another local resident. Through this process, we are able to generate and disperse significant economic and professional value across the local community. In Zunil, Ormat created similar arrangements through which 30 positions are made available to local community residents, with five employees working concurrently for a period of two months. In the past, the local community indicated that it would like Ormat to create more jobs to address the economic needs of the community. However, once Ormat’s power plants are constructed and operational, they are largely self-sufficient and require only eight to twelve full-time employees to operate. The program described above tries to answer that need, and was well-received by community residents, who have withdrawn the majority of their job creation grievances with the Company, but still there were complaints in 2018 that not enough jobs are available. Kenya In order to support economic development and job creation, Ormat provides training and capacity building opportunities for youth. These range from vocational skill training on financial literacy, driving, construction, business management and administration,  as  well  as  scholarships  for  secondary,  mid-level  and  university  education. Additionally, Ormat supports small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) through business training and is considering adding a provision of micro-credit schemes in the future. Additionally, Ormat has a program to employ people from the local community at the plant, whenever possible. Educational Empowerment Responsible citizenry, improved social conditions, economic self-sufficiency and the enrichment of individuals’ lives are just a few of the benefits that can be derived from educational opportunities. Ormat is a strong supporter and promoter of universal access to education and wherever we operate, we look for opportunities to fund and strengthen educational opportunities – at all levels – from primary education all the way to university. United States Ormat decided, early in 2018, to commit substantial funds over three years to the Mammoth Lakes Foundation, underscoring our strong commitment to public education. These funds will support student scholarships for Mono County students attending Cerro Coso Community College in the Eastern Sierra Region of South California. The scholarship funding covers students’ full tuition, and according to Paul Thomsen, Ormat’s Vice President, “This partnership aligns with our ongoing efforts to support community development in the Mammoth community. Ormat believes in higher education and in promising futures for the Mammoth community and its students.” In addition, in an effort to teach as many people as possible about renewable energy – specifically geothermal energy -Ormat sponsored an exhibit about geothermal resources at a local children’s museum and hosts numerous tours and workshops for students and educators at our facilities. Guatemala In Amatitlan in 2018, the Orpacaya Trust provided 35 recreational options. In addition, to the Company and contribute to the organizations in Israel, but the ORT network, the goal of chance for education. This students with scholarships, school children were invited to local economy. Ormat also supports the focus of its community the school’s four-year program innovative program also creates funded construction of schools participate in painting the front the school in terms of teachers’ engagement is a special technical is to instill in graduates skill shared value by ensuring a and new classrooms and paid wall of the plant. This event helped employment, improvements and and vocational secondary school sets and expertise in industrial stream of skilled employees for the salaries for two teachers at teach the students about the renovations to local schools and called “ORT Ormat”. ORT is a crafts such as electrical Ormat’s Yavne manufacturing local schools. benefits of geothermal energy and provides materials and equipment non-governmental organization manufacturing, metalworking facility and by training and the importance of preserving the as donations-in-kind. Field trips that sponsors the country’s and multi-media. A number of empowering young people who In 2018 in Zunil, the La Calera trust natural habitat. for students and educating youth largest science and technology the students come from socio-are challenged by conventional providedfundingfor scholarshipsfor on the benefits of renewable and network. Established in 1970 at or economically disadvantaged educational systems. About 70 fifteen exceptional students who will Family-oriented celebrations geothermal energy are other ways Ormat’s Yavne factory together backgrounds or faced challenges percent of Ormat’s long-term pursue additional higher education are an integral aspect of Ormat promotes innovative learning. with the Ministry of Labor, Social in the local school system and manufacturing employees are opportunities. Funding was also Honduran culture. Ormat Affairs and Social Services, and the school is often their last Ormat ORT graduates. allocated to donate food and gas recognizes and supports Guadeloupe supplies, used to make healthy these cultural celebrations, We support local clubs such as breakfasts for schoolchildren, for the contributing to events honoring a sports club (for soccer and donation of laptops and projectors, Children’s Day, Student’s Day, cycling) and music club. The school supplies, school and sports Mother’s Day and Christmas, by support is provided through Dreams Come True for Mary this, she joined the Davpur High the chance to attend school. uniforms and sponsorship of a fun underwriting the costs of food grants in purchasing supplies. Hoseni School, then transferred to St. Mary volunteers at the local day, known as “Children’s Day”. baskets, cakes and piñatas. Additionally we provide school Clare’s of Assisi girls’ Secondary school, providing motivation These practical, grass-roots actions tutoring for students. As Safety School. Ormat continued to and encouragement to support openness and long-term Kenya is a core value at Ormat, we have Ormat believes education create sponsor her educational studies younger teenage girls to stability while creating pathways for To realize our Community supported a specific action plan, opportunities, opens pathways and in 2015 she entered Jomo reach their goals. She also progress. Investment Policy in Kenya, Ormat in association with the City, for and makes progress possible Kenyatta University of Agriculture coaches local sports teams for has a well-established record of safe bicycle and scooter driving – socially, environmentally and Technology, successfully girls, recognizing that being Honduras funding education programs in for young people. This included and economically. That’s why obtaining her diploma in mentally and physically fit is Ormat has provided support for Kenyan communities near our a “Safety Day” with policemen, wherever we operate, we seek purchasing and supply chain an important contributor to the local schools in Honduras, operations, emphasizing scholarship firemen, and driving lessons innovative ways to support management. She went for her successful learning. Finally, donating one hundred school desks opportunities for bright young girls. in the school. Lastly, we have education at every level, through attachment at Moi teaching and she contributes her time as to improve the educational learning This Bursary program provides also granted some electronic scholarships and bursaries, referral hospital which was an a Community School Board environment. The beautifully higher education pathways for gifts such as computers and funding of teacher’s salaries, academic requirement. Member, which provides support carved wooden desks are durable, female students and opens doors cellphones and travel tickets collaborating on curriculum so that other female students functional and more comfortable to careers as an alternative to early for the ten best students in the development and by providing After graduating, Ormat hired are able to access quality for the students and intended to marriage. One local female bursary city. classroom equipment and Mary for an initial internship in educational opportunities. improve students’ overall learning recipient is now an Ormat employee, infrastructure. 2017 and enthusiastically hired experience. Ormat also donated applying the knowledge she gained Israel her as a permanent employee in bicycles to the school to improve through her education to give back Ormat supports many charitable Mary Hoseni, a 23-year-old who 2018. Mary explains what Ormat’s lives in Narasha Village, Naivasha, support has meant to her: “I Kenya is a prime example of what was lucky to get sponsorship at a willingness to learn and strong Olkaria III. I am very grateful to educational support can do. Mary the entire Company for making had a challenging childhood, my dreams come true. This where she bravely overcame a support enabled me to achieve series of eye issues and a major eye my goals and made me whom I operation. Despite having to drop am today.” out of school several times due to these setbacks, Mary persevered, Mary’s education and working her way through the employment pathway has Narasha primary school, which generated a series of benefits Ormat has supported for more throughout her community. than 17 years. Mary was the first With her education and full-girl child to complete the primary time employment, she has the school level in the School, a major resources available to help accomplishment and cultural support her family and pay shift away from early marriage, school fees for her younger which is commonplace. Following siblings, giving all of them 80 81 Healthcare Delivers Hope Improving access to healthcare is one of the most profound ways in which a Company can exert a positive influence on individuals and communities. Access to healthcare improves the most fundamental human conditions, prevents disease, supports families and is a major pillar of our community investment program. Similarly, initiatives that work to reduce poverty and provide nutritional food, especially for younger, growing children, are among the priority areas Ormat targets with our community investment programming. United States Ormat is involved in a wide variety of partnerships designed to promote health, well-being, dignity and self-sufficiency. We are proud sponsors of a new inclusive playground at the Mammoth Creek Park, California, which was officially opened on July 4th, 2018. The 7,700 square-foot playground serves as a National Demonstration Site and incorporates the Seven Principles of Inclusive Playground Design79, providing opportunities for the physical, social-emotional, sensory, cognitive, and communicative benefits of play for all. Ormat also proudly supports the Food Bank of Northern Nevada. Guatemala In 2018, the Orpacaya Trust supported salaries for a doctor and nurse to work three and two days per week respectively at a local clinic as well as transportation for local residents to reach the clinic. These measures helped elevate the standard of healthcare locally as access to adequate healthcare is a topic of national concern in Guatemala. Honduras Ormat contributes to the health of local communities by funding the local community health center, and by providing necessary instruments, equipment and medicine. Ormat also funds medical, dental and optical treatments for local residents in need and has built a new water distribution plant for the local community. Kenya Ormat supports health-related interventions in Kenya such as health education, sanitation and behavioral change to effect positive improvements in community health. Our programming includes the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Promotion, raising HIV-AIDs awareness and school health campaigns. Honduras – Designing a Social Action Plan According to the SDGs In 2018, Ormat advanced a social action plan for the local community around the Plantanares geothermal power plant, in alignment with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and relevant targets. The purpose of connecting the social action plan to the SDGs is to accurately gauge local communityimpactsanddemonstrate to Honduran governmental and non-governmental groups how Ormat’s activities are contributing to the achievement of nation-wide development targets. Ormat’s Plantanares plant manager evaluated the SDGs that Ormat was likely to have the most local impact on and identified the following: SDG 2 – Zero Hunger; SDG 3 – Health & Well-Being;  initiatives  are  the first  outcomes  SDG 4 – Education; SDG 6 – Clean  of a multi-year plan that will be  Water; SDG 7 – Affordable and  enlarged  and  reinforced  in  2019  Clean Energy; SDG 8 – Decent  and beyond.  Work and Economic Growth;  SDG 9 – Industry, Innovation  and Infrastructure; and SDG 13. Climate Change.  Based on these SDGs, Ormat  began engaging in programs  with local and international  development organizations to  maximize the impact of its social  investments. For example, Ormat  committed to working with the  World Food Program locally, which  provides meals for local school  children. We also invested heavily  in improvement to the local health  center and medical infrastructure.  To address SDG 6, Ormat’s plant  funded a water filtration and  distribution system, together  with the local municipality. These  79 They are thoughtfully designed to provide a safe place where children of all abilities can play together, and are developmentally appropriate for children with and without disabilities. An inclusive playground takes away the barriers to exclusion, both physical and social, providing a “sensory rich” experience for all. 