CHAPTER VI. OUR IMPACT AND ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR EMPLOYEES, SOCIETY & LOCAL COMMUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS ABOUT EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY Approx. 1,400 Employees As a global renewable energy company, we are proud to employ and work closely with the commu.nities that we serve, knowing we contribute to local economies and social well-being. With nearly one power plant on every continent, we have a commitment to generating a stable and secure economic future for all, based on sharing our knowledge and expertise regarding sustainable energy solutions. The promise of renewable energy that we deliver to our customers and stakeholders goes hand in hand with our commitment to local employment and skill develop.ment wherever we work. As of YE 2020, we employed 1,402 people26. This number includes both those in locations included within the Boundaries of this report (United States, Israel, Turkey, Honduras, Guatemala, Guadeloupe and Kenya), as well as a smaller number of employees located in territories outside the Boundaries (Indonesia, the Philippines, Chile and New Zealand)27,28. Wherever we work, we strive for equal opportunity employment29 and to engage the skills, know-how and abilities of residents in our host communities. This means encourag.ing a workspace where our employees are motivated to contribute their best, strive for creativity, and, in the process, make strides in achieving their professional or personal goals. Therefore, we rely highly on employee feedback, ideas and enthusiasm to create authentic, relevant methods of engagement, while working more proactively, safely and in tune with local communities. In 2020, nearly 99% of our employees worked with us in a full-time capacity. During COVID-19 Ormat continued to work and was considered an essential business. For our employees at the various operations, this meant continued work in a safe and respon.sible manner by working in capsules. These capsules were set groups of employees that worked together, in order to reduce possible infection and ensure the health and safety of everyone. For our office employees, we provided the flexibility of working from home. OUR PEOPLE: EMPLOYMENT AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT AT ORMAT OUR OUTLOOK ON EMPLOYMENT From Kenya to California, we work to uphold our obligation to provide our employees with a workplace that is fair, open and free from discrimination or harassment, and that encourages engagement and the development of employee potential. We place the highest value on the diversity of our employees, and we strive to hire a diverse workforce that includes indi.viduals from all sectors of society, while also providing equal oppor.tunities in the hiring process and in providing access to career growth opportunities. This is clearly expressed in our commitment to anti-discrimi.nation, minimizing gender pay gap, and enabling free association by labor organizations that are engaged with our Company. As a vertically inte.grated company providing myriad solutions in the energy industry, our employees come equipped with and acquire in the course of employment an array of professional skills and capabilities, which we consider in the hiring and employment process, in addition to other factors, such as geographical location and ties to the local communities around our power plants. We view engagement with local communities around our facilities to be a central tenant of our business policy and important to our success. That’s why we created and maintain a policy of 100% local employment and management of our power plants and manufacturing facilities, in addition to the majority of our administra.tive offices. Although our employees are spread across the globe, our Human Resources30 Department and the VP of Human Resources, implement initiatives to encourage connection between individuals of different cultures and professional experience within our Company. These initiatives, offered on several platforms and which are outlined below, are aimed at fostering a sense of togetherness among our employees. We work to cultivate a transparent and diverse work environment that offers equal and fair opportunities for employees of all races, cultures, ethnic back.grounds, genders and gender asso.ciations, and we encourage our employees to support our mission of generating positive social and environmental value in their profes.sional opportunities and within their communities. Indeed, we involve our local employees in most of our stake.holder engagement mechanisms for local communities around our power plants. Respect for diversity, transpar.ent communication and enriching professional and personal opportu.nities are the principles central to our employment outlook, and we look to 26 Exact figures on the number of our employees is provided in continuation of this report, and data is provided in reference to GRI disclosure 102-8: Information on employees and other workers. 27  1420 employees are included within the Boundaries of this report. 28 Exact figures on the number of our employees is provided in continuation of this report, and data is provided in reference to GRI disclosure 102-8: Information on employees and other workers. 72 29 In general reference and in adherence to the U.S. Department of Labor’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) law. https://www.dol.gov/general/topic/discrimination 30 Appointed to the position in mid-2020. More information is available in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy statement: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d.db5e1032b447.pdf hire individuals who exemplify and implement these values in their work. OUR EMPLOYMENT FRAMEWORK Our employment framework, policies and initiatives are managed by Ormat’s Human Resources Depart.ment that is headed by the SVP of Human Resources. Our Human Resources department sets the tone for employee management and opportunity-creation processes in the Company, but the hiring, termination, and training areas are managed at each power plant, facility or office by a local manager who either reports directly to the Human Resources department, or to a member of senior management on a regular basis. We believe that all of our employment contracts are drafted in accordance with regulatory requirements in the country of operation, providing the benefits that are afforded by the law as well as additional benefits and employment considerations based on employees’ needs, such as flexible working hours, paid maternity or paternity leave, and sponsorship of learning opportunities, among others31. Ormat offers equitable and competitive pay and benefits, health insurance and retirement savings plans to all of our employees, details of which are reported in the “Employee Benefits” section. 31 Information on special conditions of employment agreements for our Executive Officers and information on Executive Compensation are provided in the “Corporate Governance” section of this report. Labor and Employment Policies at Ormat In addition to the outstanding conditions that are outlined in our employment agreements, our Human Resources Department works to implement and ensure that all stake.holders uphold four key policies: 1. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines commitments to our employees regarding equal employment opportunity, diversity in employment and anti-harassment, and the ethical and behavioral expec.tations of employees in the workplace. The Code outlines, among others, our focus on equality and fairness in the hiring, promotion, and termination processes, as well as our policies to attract and retain diverse talent within our organization. It expresses our commitment to continue hiring appropriately qualified diverse candidates, including for leadership positions. In addition, we outline our commitments to employees and various other stakeholder groups in upholding a transparent and fair workplace, that also looks to promote social and environmental value creation for our stakeholders. 2. The Human Rights and Labor Policy, adopted in 2018 by Ormat’s manage.ment, expresses our commitment to aim to upholding international human rights and labor standards for all of our employees, suppliers, business partners and stakeholders. We recognize our employees’ rights to the freedom of association and collective bargaining, all relevant and essential employment rights in our countries of operation, their rights to a workplace based on equal opportunities based on individual merit, and which is free of harassment and discrimination in all forms. In addition, we express our commitments to eliminating human rights abuses throughout our value chain, such as child and forced labor practices. 3. The Integrated Quality, Environ.ment, Health & Safety Policy that outlines our compliance with relevant standards and regulations, as well as our commitment to the health, safety and well-being of our employees and other key stakeholders. The Policy also recognizes our commitment to providing our employees with educa.tional opportunities and training to enhance their skills. Furthermore, the Policy outlines our commitment to providing our employees with the appropriate resources for implemen.tation of our expectations, which include, among other resources, written guides and training on relevant health & safety, environment and quality-related issues. 4. Certain aspects of the Stakeholder Engagement Policy, namely on issues that pertain to employees, subcon.tractors and other stakeholders. These principles include our commit.ment to open communication and dialogue and sharing information to better instill our corporate values. Implementation of Employment Framework and Employee Feedback on Employ.ment Practices Ormat’s management, Human Resources department and the local employment managers at each of our operational sites aim to ensure that these frameworks, policies and their relevant conditions are upheld in our dealings with employees, and that our employees understand and comply with our expectations. Employees with questions or griev.ances regarding employment contrac.tors, any of the abovementioned policies or our general employment framework have a number of avenues available to them for reporting their feedback or concerns. Employees can report to their direct manager, the Human Resources department, the Secretary of the Corporation or to our whistleblower ethics hotline at the third-party managed website at www. ethicspoint.com or via telephone at 1-866-294-5535. We also garner employee feedback through performance reviews and one-on-one meetings with our employees. Through these methods, we seek to create an open and encour.aging environment for our employees to share their unique cultures with us, further promoting their open feedback on our levels of corporate engagement with their communities. Most of our employees (98%) in 2020 were permanent employees, i.e. those employees with standard employment agreements managed by the Human Resources depart.ment, local facility-based HR teams, and the local laws of employment in our operational locations. Our Human Resources department is also responsible for engaging with our temporary employees, which are defined as those employees who are third parties, freelancers, and other service providers, who are employed according to a specific employment or engagement contract which may be considered as employees. In 2020, 2% of our employees were classified as temporary. According to our employment framework and out of our commit.ment to creating meaningful employ.ment opportunities, we rely as much as possible on our own employees for all aspects of conducting our business. Our employees play a central role in the design, manufacturing and on-going operations and maintenance of our power plants and other facilities. Most part-time functions are based on addressing specific business needs, performance of skill-oriented work, professional functions or available organizational knowledge and capa.bilities. Furthermore, and when appli.cable, we provide our employees with options for part-time positions based on their personal or profes.sional needs. In addition, temporary employees are often offered opportunities to become full-time Ormat employees, and we treat our temporary employees and subcon.tractors as full-fledged members of our organization for the purposes of stakeholder engagement. SUBCONTRACTORS AND THIRD PARTIES POWER PLANT DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION As a global renewable energy company, we work with a variety of contractors, subcontractors and other third parties to design, construct and operate our power plants and facilities. Typically, third parties and subcon.tractors are engaged in the design and development process depending on the complexity of the location and their knowledge of the physical environment and terrain. In addition, we work with subcontractors and third parties to carry out some of our manufacturing activities. For example, when constructing new power plants, we work with subcontractors on a temporary, yet mainly full-time basis for the completion of implementa.tion-based projects at various oper.ational locations. These subcontrac.tors usually fulfill various roles such as site grading, road construction, civil, mechanical and electrical work, among others. POWER PLANT MAINTENANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT In addition to our engagement with subcontractors, contractors and third parties in the construction and design of our power plants, subcontrac.tors also play a key role in on-going plant operation and maintenance. We not only view engagement with local subcontractors in our areas of operation as an opportunity to support local economies; the maintenance of our power plants tends to involve the development of key infrastructure, such as roads and transportation routes around the plant site. At our global power plants, subcon.tractors and third parties are engaged to perform various jobs and deliver services that contribute to the nature of our operations and the reliability of our service to stakeholders. At the majority of our sites in Africa and Latin America, we employ security service contractors to guard the premises, offices and infrastructure of our power plants, including residential facilities for on-site staff, where relevant. We engage with subcontractors in our US facilities to physically operate our plants, and at the vast majority of sites, local contractors are hired for trans.portation services and routine main.tenance work, such as road repair and pipe cleaning. At our offices in Israel, some of our Information Technology, information security and data protec.tion systems are managed by subcon.tractors that report to us. Our geothermal power plants in Guatemala, at Zunil and Amatitlan, employ local community members to carry out maintenance work, such as pipe cleaning and road repair. The agreement to work with local contractors and laborers was estab.lished as a result of stakeholder dialogue and focus groups that were conducted between Ormat and the local community in the 2000s, when the plants entered development. The goals of the agreement are to provide economic opportunities for employ.ment at our plants and to instill pride for the infrastructure they develop and maintain in and around the plants. In order to provide extended employment opportunities for the local community, we offer temporary plant maintenance employees the opportunity to work periodically during the months of the year, thereby creating more overall opportunities for employment in the local community. In addition, construction contractors are often consulted when reaching decisions on where to build access roads and surrounding routes. Information on our engagement with Suppliers and other Third Parties, not referenced in this section, is outlined in the “Supplier Relations” section of this report. EMPLOYEE RETENTION At Ormat, we view one of the indica.tors to the strength and stability of our Company as a whole. to be in the long-term commitment and dedi.cation exhibited by our employees. Despite the global spread of our company that would seemingly create dissonance, our organizational values and commitment to employee growth, education and skillsets allow us to maintain workforce stability. This is exhibited in our high global employee retention rate, which in 2020 was 87%. OUR HIRING & TERMINATION POLICIES As an equal opportunity employer, we consider each applicant according to their level of fit, knowledge and skills that are appropriate for the position, while also focusing on hiring such appropriately qualified candidates from various gender, ethnic and cultural backgrounds. This includes for management and Company lead.ership positions. Our organizational values and the frameworks, policies and directives noted above guide our hiring and employment practices. We are committed to treating each applicant and employee fairly and equitably throughout their engage.ment with our Company, and we are committed to eliminating discrim.ination in hiring and termination decisions. Our hiring processes are managed and designed by the Human Resources department, in full consul.tation, implementation and manage.ment by the various power plant and facility managers. The Human Resources department and plant managers assess new employees’ professional capabilities and expe.rience and in terms of their fit with the relevant position. In addition, the team considers the employees’ fit in our organizational culture, such as with our workplace values, ethical and behavioral expectations according to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and personal and professional goals regarding the opportunity to work with us. Employ.ment with Ormat is based solely on an unbiased analysis of our labor require.ments and the individual applicant’s qualifications. In cases of employment termination, end of employment, or retirement, Ormat has an organized framework in place for providing these employees with their rights and benefits. The Company aims to adhere to all relevant legal obligations according to the relevant country of operation where the employee is ending their employment or retiring. DIVERSITY & EQUALITY IN EMPLOY.MENT AT ORMAT We believe that all qualified appli.cants for employment with Ormat receive consideration for employ.ment without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, status with regard to public assistance, source of income, national origin, citizenship status, disability, or any protected status. We are committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all genders, racial, cultural and ethnic minorities as a key part of our employment framework, which also applies to management and the Board of Directors. Our employees, including our executive managers and director members, come from diverse backgrounds, enriching our organization with their unique expe.rience. As noted, we are an organi.zation with a commitment to 100% local employment in the belief that local knowledge is a critical asset to the success of our business. As part of our commitment to diversity, and our diverse employees, in 2020 we set a specific organizational goal. We have set the goal of planning training programs on diversity, and to reach 5 to 10 hours training annually for each management member. As a result of this training, throughout the coming year, management will decide on long term diversity goals for the following year from what they learned through.out the training process. As noted above and regarding the Company policies that govern our human resources framework, we adhere to all relevant legal frame.works governing equality in employ.ment, such as through the Affirma.tive Action directives issued by the U.S. Department of Labor through which we seek to hire individuals from underrepresented gender, and/or ethnic, national, cultural and religious minority groups. Our Human Resources department has partnered with a consulting firm that provides us with statistical analysis of the gender and ethnicity ratios every year, to present how we are doing in our efforts to meet Ormat’s diversity goals, as well as goals as advised by the US. federal government. In addition, we work with several organi.zations helping us to open positions in job boards that target ethnic minori.ties and veterans. That said, it is important to stress that Ormat first and foremost considers a potential candidate’s professional skills and their overall qualifica.tions for the position, and only then hires the most qualified candidate for the said position. This is in line with our commitment to complete professionalism paired with zero tolerance for discrimination, harass.ment and inequality of treatment in the workplace. Furthermore, we are committed to eliminating discrimi.nation in our hiring and employment termination practices and ensuring that all employees are adequately accommodated and treated equally. In 2020, we set the goal of planning training programs on diversity and targeting 5 to 10 hours training annually for each management member. In addition to this, throughout the coming year, management will decide on long term diversity goals next year following the training process. As of 2020, 17% of our employees were female. There were 8 female members, which represented 32% of our broader management team who fill positions such as the Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary; Senior VP, Human Resources; VP, Infor.mation Technology; VP, Engineering; VP, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations; and several female legal managers. We actively seek oppor.tunities to hire and promote female employees and managers across our Company. This feat has not proven to be without its challenges, as the work demanded by the physical labor at the plants continues to be a male-dom.inated sector and area of work. We are seeking to ensure the complete integration of women in our work.places t, including our various offices in the operations around the world. In addition, are working to encourage women, such as with our high school in Israel, to further enter the field in hopes to create a female-empow.ered future generation powered by geothermal energy. In addition, we work to ensure that our employees come from diverse age groups. Most of our employees were between the ages of 31-50, but we also have a significant number of employees who were age 51 and older as well as 30 and younger. As an equal opportunity employer, we ai to not discriminate against employees based on their age. As outlined in the section below, we afford all of our employees, full retirement benefits and flexible employment conditions according to the relevant conditions of employ.ment in the country of operation, as detailed below. Furthermore, and as noted, we are committed to local employment at all our operational, manufacturing and administrative facilities. As such, and due to the wide geographical spread of our locations, we employ individuals on nearly every continent and of many different races – in the continental United States, in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Central America, Africa and the Caribbean. We are committed to allowing the specific racial, ethnic and religious groups among our employees the appropriate freedoms, including freedom of expression and worship, in the workplace and strive to create an open and welcoming environment to bridge cultural, communicative and national borders. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS & EMPLOYEE UNIONS While we are committed to support.ing the right to freely associate and establish employee unions as a basic human and labor right that should be afforded to workers (as noted in our Human Rights and Labor Policy), most of our employees were not covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2020. As of December 2020, none of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In Israel, while all employees are hired according to personal employment contracts, those skilled workers in the metallurgy and electronics industry have been covered by specific union conditions since September 200532, Furthermore, we believe that we currently provide such employees with benefits and working conditions that are at least as favorable as the conditions specified in the collec.tive bargaining agreement33. These workers and skilled laborers are predominately employed in our major manufacturing facility in Yavne. In our over 50 years of operation, we are proud to report that we have never experienced a major labor dispute, strike or work stoppage. As noted above and evident from our high employee retention rate, we consider our relations with our employees to be one of our key success factors. Indeed, we believe that our current stability and future growth depend on our continued ability to hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel with fair, equal and transparent employment practices everywhere we operate. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, HEALTHCARE & WELFARE FRAMEWORKS Our experience in working with a large group of diverse employees has taught us that the success of our business depends on employee satisfaction and stability. We therefore strive to provide employees at all levels with benefits and access to welfare frame.works that clearly express our level of appreciation and care for employee well-being. We aim to ensure this by providing basic and competitive employment benefits, growth oppor.tunities and a warm and positive work atmosphere for our full-time, part-time and temporary employees at our significant locations of operation34. Most of our employees receive parental leave benefits, health care insurance35,sick leave benefits, coverage in the event of disability and/ or infirmity, and vacation days36. Addi.tionally, at our significant locations of operation37, our full-time employees are provided benefits that may include healthcare, dental care coverage, disability and invalidity coverage, retirement provision, optical care and others. In some localities, benefits are made available to part-time and temporary employees38. In 2020 100% of our employees were eligible for parental leave, and we had a 100% return to work rate of both women and men who took parental leave. All our global employees are entitled to retirement and pension benefits39 at or beyond the legally required level of employer contribution in the relevant country of operation, including access to 401(k)40 pension schemes in the U.S. We fully cover retirement and pension plan liabilities in relevant countries of operation with our general resources. All current employees in Israel who are entitled to benefits in the event of termination or retirement in accor.dance with the Israeli Government sponsored programs are provided with limited non pension benefits. These plans generally obligate the Company to pay one month’s salary per year of service to employees in the event of involuntary termination. There is no limit on the number of years of service in the calculation of the benefit obligation. The Company has an obli.gation to partially fund the liabilities through regular deposits in pension funds and severance pay funds. Our retirement commitments are for both voluntary and mandatory frameworks, according to the regional or country-based schemes in our countries of operation. In Israel, and according to the law, all employees receive pension plan coverage, with the employer contributing 7.5% or 32 By order of the Israeli Ministry of Economy and Industry, the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement between the Histadrut (the General Federation of Labor in Israel) and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations (which includes the Industrialists Association) may apply to some of our Israeli non-managerial, finance and administrative, and sales and marketing personnel. This collective bargaining agreement principally concerns cost of living pay increases, length of the workday, minimum wages and insurance for work related accidents, annual and other vacation, sick pay, and determination of severance pay, pension contributions, and other conditions of employment. 33 2020 Annual Report. 34  These include the operational locations included in the scope of the Information Boundaries of this report, i.e.: Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Kenya, Turkey, and the United States. In total, the percentages presented in the benefits table refer to seven significant locations of operation for our activities in 2020 78 35  According to the relevant nationally mandatory or voluntary healthcare frameworks in the relevant significant location of operation. 36 According to the relevant national framework for vacation days or the personal employment contract of the employee. more, depending on the personal employment contract with the employee41. At several locations, we offer retiring employees the option to continue work after the retirement age or to enter into retirement in phases. Due to our high employee retention rate, many of our retiring employees have worked with Ormat for years, if not decades, and we appreciate the potential difficulties to be felt in such a transition. As such, we usually work to include retirees and alumni in some of our employee events and continue to consult and engage with them on a regular basis. We also offer some of our employees’ access to stock options and stock-based awards. Stock options and stock-based awards are available only to full-time employees and some independent contractors who work with our company. Described in the “Corporate Governance” section of this report, our 2018 Incentive Compensation Plan42, adopted in May 2018 by the Company’s shareholders, provides the granting of the following types of awards: incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), stock units, performance awards, phantom stock, incentive bonuses, and other possible related dividend equivalents to employees of the company, directors and indepen.dent contractors. According to the Plan, a total of 5,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock were reserved for issuance, all of which could be issued as options or as other forms of awards. The term of stock-based awards typically ranges from six to ten years from the grant date. In addition, we afford our employees access to gender-neutral family support programs, including parental leave for both new fathers and mothers. Typically, parental leave is granted within the regulatory framework in the country of operation, and in many cases, we encourage our employees to embrace our flexibility in returning to work with comfortable working hours so that they are able to accommodate for their growing families. We believe that when our employees are happy and closer with their families, their quality of work and appreciation for the opportuni.ties that Ormat has to offer grow, and we can build stronger relationships with the newest members of our local communities. At Ormat, we value our employees and we are proud to offer generous leave policies, healthcare benefits, and other lifestyle perks, when appropriate. In order to facilitate a healthy work-life balance for our employees, we encourage them to take vacation days and our approach is flexible, allowing employees to choose their vacation period and to divide the period into intervals throughout the year. At some locations, we provide special holidays to mark the observance of religious holidays and cultural events, and we offer employees holidays for major personal events and milestones such as personal days, wedding vacations, and compassionate leave upon the death of a relative. We also offer many of our employees’ access to supplementary health benefits such as coverage for dental care payments, optical care payments, and, in some cases, support for mental health issues and personal care. The health and well-being of our employees is important to us and we actively seek employee feedback in developing these benefits and offerings. Due to the dynamic nature of energy generation processes, some of our employees and contractors reside at our sites in housing facilities for certain periods of time. We do our CONTINUING AS A PART OF THE ORMAT FAMILY IN SPITE OF LIMITATIONS A senior carpenter that was with the company for 35 years retired at the end of 2020 after years of working, even during changes in his ability due to medical limitations. During his final years at the company, due to a medical condition that resulted in physical limitations, Ormat worked to find a placement for him within the company. He was able to work part-time as a ware.houseman in the heat exchang.ers department. At the end of 2020 the employee retired after having had the opportunity to continue working and contrib.uting to Ormat. best to ensure that the facilities are up to their standards and that they are afforded a reasonable level of comfort and accessibility. In some cases, when we are not able to physically construct housing facilities, we provide employees with funds to support their living expenses while working for Ormat. At other locations, we provide our employees with access to transportation options, such as buses, to facilitate a smoother work experi.ence. We offer healthy and fulfilling dining options for our employees at our manufacturing facilities. Finally, our manufacturing and power plant employees are proudly fitted with workplace uniforms, and in various locations we support replacement for necessary work items, such as shoes and protective gear, and provide laundry services. 41  In the United States, a 401(k) plan is the tax-qualified, defined-contribution pension account defined in subsection 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 42 Through Ormat Systems, we provide limited non-pension benefits to all current employees in Israel who are entitled to benefits in the event of termination or retirement in accordance with the Israeli Government sponsored programs. These plans generally obligate the Company to pay one month’s salary per year of service to employees in the event of involuntary termination. There is no limit on the number of years of service in the calculation of the benefit of obligation. EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE REVIEWS & SATISFACTION SURVEYS As part of our commitment to providing our employees with a better employ.ment experience, we invest significant time and resources in our program for performance reviews. As of 2020, 99% of our permanent and temporary employees received regular career performance reviews, i.e. on an annual or biannual basis. Through career performance reviews, which occur between the employee and their direct manager, depending on the nature of the position and if the employee works on a permanent or temporary basis, employees are able to provide their feedback on their position, share their career goals and receive feedback from their direct managers on their perfor.mance. Through these career perfor.mance reviews, the employee and the manager can set goals and milestones for assessing future performance and the employee can request a salary review, if desired. We view employee perfor.mance reviews as an important avenue for engagement with our employees, and work to obtain key insights from the content of their reviews to improve our employment and workplace experience. In 2020, we did not receive any substan.tive complaints or grievances from employees regarding violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics nor on their overall employment experi.ence at Ormat. In addition, and as employees are a key stakeholder group for our organization, we have begun to regularly survey employees on their level of satisfaction in employment by Ormat, as well as the programs for personal, professional and educational development that we offer. In 2020, we surveyed nearly 17% of our employees at various global locations on their employment experience. Currently, our Human Resources Department and the various power plant and facility managers are working to develop an organized mechanism for surveying a greater number of employees and relevant stakeholders (such as temporary employees and subcontractors) moving forward. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND PROMOTING WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE Our employees are spread across the globe, which would seemingly create a challenge in connecting them. However, our Human Resources Department, together with various business units in the company, work together on initia.tives to create a sense of community and togetherness among our employees no matter their location. We actively facilitate community events, employee gatherings (including virtual gather.ings), or company trips to facilitate open communication and healthy connections between employees, and other stake.holders across the globe. In addition, we actively engage our employees through online portals, social media networks and on-line platforms. We have an Ormat Instagram pages that document factory and power plant activities, and have WhatsApp groups for easy and accessible communication, providing employees with opportu.nities to connect and get more done on-the-go. In addition, we regularly distribute an employee newsletter with key updates and alerts and continue to use our intra-organizational communi.cation platform “OrMeet” that allows employees in some of our locations to create professional and personal groups to share experiences, insights and provide professional support. We offer employees several options to improve their work-life balance and ensure that they are fulfilling both their personal and professional goals. We encourage our staff to enjoy the nature around our power plants and facilitate joint staff lunches and events outdoors, as well as holiday and team milestone celebrations. Bonding activities are a big hit, and some sites provide employees with opportunities for volunteering activities together with their local team and members of the community. Finally, we encourage our employees to remain active and support lectures on fitness, weight loss, yoga practice and running groups. In some locations, we sponsor summer camps and recreational activ.ities for employees’ children and family members. We invite all of our part-time employees and many of our temporary employees and subcontractors to partic.ipate and enjoy the health and well-being activities that we offer. TRAINING & EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 42,226 Total Hours of Training Completed by Employees We express our commitment to the professional and personal development of our employees out of the belief that it contributes to their career growth and trajectory in the Company, but also that it expands our company’s knowledge base. Therefore, we offer our employees with a wide array of training and educational programs regarding relevant professional and soft skills to help them improve their performance and expand their horizons. These opportunities help foster a creative mindset among our employees that is conducive to our company’s innovative and dynamic nature. We believe that quality education and access to new economic, social and environmental opportunities enrich our employees’ experience while working for Ormat and, in turn, contribute to the development and growth of the communities where we work. As a result, and in many cases, we also support our employees and their families in the pursuit of educational opportunities through various subsidy and scholarship packages that are aimed at updating employee skills and developing a devoted and experienced workforce in the countries where we operate. Technical, Professional & Safety Training Below you will find a table with some examples of the hundreds of courses we offer every year: Type of Training  Relevant Courses Offered to Employees  Operator Qualification Program  Mechanic Qualification Program  Electrical Instrumentation & Controls Qualification Program  Flammable and Combustible Liquids Safety  Health & Safety  First Aid  Work at Height Courses and Certifications  Safety Officer Competency  Emergency and Fire Safety Preparedness Courses  Safety in the Operation of Mechanical Equipment  Accident Investigation Procedure  Mandatory training on Ormat's Code of Conduct and Business Ethics  Anti-Bribery and Corruption  Harassment Training  Corporate Governance & Human Resources  Project Management  Effective Communication Skills Training  Leadership Training  Team Building  American Society of Mechanical Engineers Course  Welding Course  Calibration Course  ISO CAT 111, ISO 45001, ISO 14001  Professional and Technica Training  Technical Sketching for production workers  Exploration and Development of Geothermal Resources  Information System Security Certification  English Training  MS Office Excel Essential Training  Procurement and Supply Chain Best Practices  The diverse nature of our operations that span from the factory floor to the power plant site require our employees to remain in-the-know regarding relevant technical and professional skills, health & safety requirements and best business practices. At all of our manufacturing facilities, we provide our employees with access to training regarding equipment use and emergency procedures. At our power plants, where there are regulated emergency procedures in place depending on the location of the plant, we often provide guided instruction on the geographical specifications and local points of reference for each potential emergency. These are skills that employees apply in their work for Ormat, but which also can be applied throughouttheircareerdevelopment path. In addition, for business and administrative professionals, we provide access to courses on corporate governance and ethics topics – in addition to ethics training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics– as well as soft skills instruction to help improve their value offerings for Ormat and within their professional networks. We believe that these skills contribute to the atmosphere of creativity and innovation that we seek to encourage among all Company employees – no matter their educational background or geographical location. Each area of training and coursework is managed according to the relevant business unit, i.e. Quality, Environment, Health & Safety for relevant Health & Safety training, or the Company’s management for legal and corporate governance training. In addition to necessary technical, professional and safety skills, our nature as a renewable energy project developer and operator bestows upon us a commitment that we are proud to implement educational programs for our employees and other relevant stake.holders, such as contractors and business partners, who are involved in the construc.tion, operation and maintenance of our global power plants, on the importance of managing environmental, health and safety risks on site and in the course of plant devel.opment. We factor management of health & safety risks into our site management policies and work with relevant stakeholders to inform them of potential risks and modes of operation. Other relevant training oppor.tunities are professionally and administra.tively managed by the Human Resources department or the plant managers, or are initiated by managers and Vice Presidents of various business units. Finally, employees are welcome to suggest additional areas of expertise and coursework that are deemed necessary for the fulfillment of their position and we are open to considering integrating their suggestions into our training program and framework. EXPANDING EDUCATIONAL HORIZONS FOR OUR EMPLOYEES & THEIR FAMILIES The professional and educational devel.opment assistance we offer varies from in-house training courses to subsidies for higher education programs, covering a range of topics or skills depending on indi.vidual needs and aptitudes. We believe that by investing in employee skill development through provision of educational assis.tance we can meet our strategic business targets while adequately preparing our employees for a rapidly evolving profes.sional environment. We offer our employees access to educa.tional grants and partial or full scholarship opportunities in the belief that the best way to innovate our company is through employee knowledge. For instance, at our power plants in Guatemala, we implement an Educational Assistance Program for local employees that is based on workforce planning and develop.ment. Employees are asked to submit a proposal with the courses or degree that they wish to pursue as well as the name of the relevant academic institution, and the plant managers make considerations based on the employees’ overall perfor.mance and career trajectory at the plant. Other locations, like our power plant in Honduras, awards educational scholar.ships based on the amount of time the employee has worked for the Company, and all employees in Honduras (as well as at various other locations) are provided with English language courses to better facilitate their work and communication within the organization. In addition, we encourage our employees to develop their career horizons within our company through management development learning platforms. At our administrative offices in Israel, employees can “shadow” managers in their depart.ment, participate in soft skills courses, and exchange experiences with managers in other business units in order to help them grow as managers. Due to the diverse nature of our operations, and the tendency of our employees to develop specific areas of expertise, we highly encourage intraorganizational communi.cation in our management development programs. However, it should be noted that managerial training is not a condition for employee promotion and is instead an offering to employees interested in exploring their opportunities for career growth within Ormat. Employees who are transitioning to a different position, ending or terminating their employment with Ormat, or who are in the process of retirement are also offered access to reskilling and upskilling opportunities to ensure that they have the correct knowledge and tools to meet their next challenge. ORMAT SCHOOL GRADUATE A graduate of the Ormat technical high school in Israel began his career journey at Ormat after having finished the army. He began as a part-time worker in the warehouse in 2016, and quickly showed the skills and passion necessary to continue and become a more permanent part of the Ormat family. He was later on hired as a permanent employee in the maintenance department, and in 2020 developed his career further by moving to the produc.tion department. There he stepped into the role of warehouse manager, and replaced a co-worker who was retiring. Throughout his growth in Ormat, from high school student to warehouse manager, he went through a process of growth, trans.ferring of professional knowledge from generation to generation and represents the employee develop.ment possible at Ormat. An Organization Shaped by Local Employment Ormat is an organization that prides itself on full local employment at all levels of our organization and in all our facilities, power plants and oper.ational locations. In 2020, the proportion of manage.ment hired from the local commu.nities in our plants was 100%43. We believe that local employment is essential to the success and vitality of our business because local employees, residents and community members possess a keen understand.ing of the local geography, environ.ment, social fabric, community and stakeholders. This places them in a position to knowledgeably provide the superb degree of service that Ormat strives for. In addition, we believe that cultivating the skills of the local workforce is important in fostering knowledge regarding renewable energy solutions, with the goal of ensuring the long-term sustainability of our power plants and energy solutions. Furthermore, we believe that investment in the local workforce supports the local economy and enables community development in that Ormat’s local employees become part of a larger global organization and learn skills that contribute to their professional career and personal goals. In countries like Kenya, Guatemala, Honduras and Guadeloupe where local employment options are limited, Ormat offers our employees access to different professional employment opportunities such as plant managers, local sustainability managers, power plant operators, maintenance workers, engineers, mechanics and more. Individuals retained for these positions are hired by the local Human Resources manager based on their relevant experience, knowledge and education. In some locations where employment options are limited in the vicinity of the power plant our plants have also agreements with local community councils and repre.sentatives to create additional job opportunities for the communities nearby. For example, In Guatemala, both the Amatitlan and Zunil have agreements which provide preference to the employment in certain profes.sions, of local employees, to work in time-set “shifts”. This method enables to increases the rate of local employ.ment and Ormat’s economic impact on local communities. This is the case not only in the developing countries where Ormat operates, but also in the U.S., where Ormat has operations in some areas with traditionally high unemployment rates. Therefore, we not only hire qualified local staff where available, but also invest in creating oppor.tunities for qualified local staff. For example, Ormat has power plants in the Imperial Valley, a region that has one of the highest unemploy.ment rates in California, and our local employment policy there has made Ormat the region’s second largest employer. In addition, as outlined above, we provide all of our employees with access to educational opportunities. Furthermore, Ormat has written curricula for local community colleges and universities in Nevada focusing on technical subjects such as plant operation and relevant academic subjects such as geoscience, which has helped promote a talented local employment pool. 43  ‘Senior management’ is defined as employees who manage operations and implementation of our projects and business targets at our power plants and in our offices.  44   https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Intergrated%20Quality%20Enviornmet%20Health%20and%20Safety%20(QEHS)%20Policy.pdf  ‘Local’ is defined as the immediate communities surrounding our operations. ‘Significant locations of operation’ are those operational locations that are included in the Boundaries of this report, as defined in the “Information Boundaries of This Report” section.  45  https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Human%20Rights%20Policy.pdf  84  85  ENSURING A SAFE & HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AT ORMAT During the COVID-19 pandemic, the overarching priority at Ormat was the health and safety of our employees, subcontractors, the public and the environment. We worked to manage risks by allowing our employees to work from home, and for employees who couldn’t work from home we moved to capsules. We continue to promote our safety values and our goal is report, analyze, learn and improve performance following every event in order to reduce the number of incidents. We also work to continuously improve our safety perfor.mance and to instill a strong workplace safety culture. The countries where Ormat operates have local laws regulat.ing the topics of health and safety that the Company aims to follow, and where possible and practical, we strive to go beyond the requirements of the legal regulations to promote the utmost level of health and safety for our employees and other relevant stakeholders. These include safety requirements such as ventilation, fire protection, work at height regulations, personal protection and gear, railings, electric protection and employee training on pertinent issues, among other topics that are outlined in the following chapter. OUR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAM – STRIVING TO GO BEYOND COMPLIANCE Safety is a key area of concern to us. We believe that the optimal, most efficient and profitable performance of our power plants can only be achieved by fostering a safe and healthy working environment. First and foremost, we follow the relevant health and safety rules and work regulations at each of our operational locations, but we aim to also go beyond compliance at the corporate level to ensure that the appropriate policies and initiatives are implemented wherever we operate. The goal of these efforts is to create an overall culture of safety for Ormat’s employees at all of our locations. In addition, we have an advanced online platform for recording, reporting and tracking safety and envi.ronmental incidents at our power plants and operational sites. Ormat’s occupational health and safety program is focused on four main components: 1. Everyone, Everyday – All Ormat employees are integral to safe opera.tions, each charged with the respon.sibility to work safely and create and maintain a safe work environment. 2. Management of Hazards – Ormat strives to systematically identify hazards, and then manage them by elimination, isolation or minimization. 3. Safety as a Core Value – Safety is a core value at Ormat. It requires a personal commitment at all levels in the organizations. 4. Continual Vigilance - Our goal is to learn and improve our performance following every event in order to reduce the number of incidents. This requires that all employees maintain constant vigilance to ensure that unsafe acts or work conditions are identified, addressed, regulated and prevented, wherever possible. The topic of Quality, Environment, Health and Safety (QEHS) was managed during the relevant period by Ormat’s appointed VP of QEHS and Director of EHS. They are responsible for oversight and management of the health and safety budget and relevant policies, processes, training and work practices across the organization. Plant managers at each of Ormat’s operational sites and power plants are accountable for implementing relevant Company-level and local health and safety regulations and initiatives through the appointed Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) coordinator. On-site EHS coor.dinators are additionally responsible for upholding the local conditions, regulations or other agreements, for ongoing record-keeping and reporting and for the training and certification of employees. These EHS coordinators report to the plant and/or power plant manager and conduct work according to Company-wide EHS initiatives that are set by the Global VP QEHS. Ormat has an Integrated Quality, Envi.ronment, Health and Safety Policy that sets out our general commitments towards health and safety principles at our sites and for all our stakeholders. The policy is enforced by the Company’s Global VP QEHS and adherence with the policy, or the need for relevant revisions, is consistently monitored and assessed together with Company manage.ment. The policy is publicly available on Ormat’s website44 and outlines our commit.ments to providing high quality products, conducting our business with care for the environment and for integrating our QEHS system into our business strategy and work processes. In addition, our Human Rights and Labor Policy, which is also available publicly on our website45, outlines our commit.ments to ensuring that essential health and safety standards and practices are enforced in the workplace, to develop.ing risk awareness and to encouraging responsible health and safety behavior among employees. The policy was updated in 2018 to add more compre.hensive information on our health and safety policies, initiatives and expecta.tions, such as our full commitment to meet and go beyond all legal and regu.latory health and safety requirements in our countries of operation and informa.tion on the industry standards to which we adhere. Ormat’s employees have representa.tion on Company’s health and safety committees. Ormat has two types of safety committees: one for the manage.ment of health and safety aspects at our factories and manufacturing facilities and one for the management of health and safety aspects in other operations, i.e. at Ormat’s power plants and offices. The committees organize and assess Ormat’s health and safety program at the corporate level. An employee from each department is nominated to partic.ipate in the committees and employees from all Ormat’s global locations are encouraged to volunteer their partici.pation. In order to expand employee involvement, the employee represen.tatives are rotated each year. Overall in 2020, 20% of Ormat’s employees took part in the safety committees. Whether participating as an employee represen.tative or not, all of Ormat’s employees are encouraged to communicate their concerns or recommendations to the relevant committees. In 2020, we received over 7,400 health and safety observations and hundreds of safety suggestions from our employees through our health and safety manage.ment platform (detailed below). Furthermore, Ormat facilities have safety training programs, under the responsibil.ity of each plant manager and the local EHS manager, and which is directed by our Company’s joint employee and management health and safety commit.tees. The program seeks to ensure that safety expectations are clearly communicated and understood by all employees and subcontractors, and that comprehensive safety plans are main.tained across all Company operations. We provide regular training in health and safety regulations and procedures at all our locations and have detailed guide.lines in place in case of emergency to monitor health and safety standards on a continual basis. In 2020, we continued our Safety Lead- Health and Safety audits of our plants  ership Training, also known as the ProAct  and facilities every three years. In  safety training program, as well as to  2019, internal audits were completed  expand employee participation in our  for several sites in the U.S. including  SafeStart® health and safety training and  Mammoth, Steamboat, Tuscarora and  implementation program, including inte- Neal Hot Springs, and at our Yavne  gration of the SafeStart® philosophies  facility in Israel.  and practices into our health and safety  key performance indicators (KPIs). In  Ormat manages and monitors our QEHS  addition, we increased employee partic. performance at a global level for all sites.  ipation in our behavior-based safety  Reports are categorized according to  programs, which contributes greatly  the criteria and performance metrics  to maturing and advancing a culture of  of the Occupational Safety and Health  safety at our organization.  Association (OSHA) of the U.S. Depart. ment of Labor.  MEASURING OUR HEALTH AND  SAFETY PERFORMANCE  Ormat reports its health and safety data  to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS),  which is part of the U.S. Department  of Labor, according to internationally  accepted reporting standards such the  Occupational Safety and Health Admin. istration’s (OSHA)54 forms for recording  work-related injuries and illnesses.  Ormat’s manufacturing and office  facilities in Israel operate in all material  respects according to OHSAS 18001,  but the facilities do not have certifica. tion from the local Standards Institute  of Israel. At our operations in Honduras,  we follow the regulations for preven. tive measures for work accidents and  occupational diseases of the Republic  of Honduras, Agreement STSS-007-02.  We comply with fire prevention and  safety measures in accordance with  the law of the fire department in decree  No. 294-93. We are certified by the Fire  Prevention and Safety Technical Office  of the Fire Department based in Santa  Rosa de Copan.  Ormat works to ensure that its  employees who unfortunately expe. rience an injury or illness as a result of  their work for the Company receive the  utmost treatment and care for their  ailment or affliction and that all of their  expectations of the Company with  regards to the matter are met.  Ormat conducts Quality, Environment,  Ormat has Company wide KPIs for the implementation of our health and safety program for employees. Through adoption of the KPI, we seek to emphasize the importance of sound health and safety activities at all sites, as well as express our commitment to learning and improving our health and safety performance. The KPIs measure, track and compare perfor mance regarding our existing Safety Participation Program and will report on the following indicators: Safety Suggestion Number of safety suggestions generated and the number of overdue action items Safety Observations Number of safety observations performed by employees Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) Number of JHAs completed or revised per quarter Pre-Job Safety Meetings (PJSM) Number of documented PJSMs per month Safety Inspections Number of safety inspec tions per month Safety Work Orders (and/or Completion of Safety Tasks) Number of safety work orders generated or safety tasks completed Safety Committee Meetings Number of safety committee meetings conducted per quarter Based on these indicators, we operate a  regulations or standards pertaining  cases of emergency, natural disaster  proactive safety plan for our employees,  to occupational health and safety of  or other hazards, such as chemical or  who are required to complete several  employees. Ormat expects its subcon. pollutant spills and leakages. In general,  different types of activities and to  tractors to strictly adhere to local health  the Emergency Action Plans (EAPs)  report on their “Safety KPI Scorecard”.  and safety regulations, together with  are developed and adopted by each  Each of our sites is required to set  Ormat’s own expectations, whichever  of the offices, operational facilities and  goals regarding the KPIs and to report  are more stringent. We also require  power plants on a local and case-to. on their performance regarding the  all subcontractors to adhere to our  case basis. EAPs in the U.S. are based  following parameters: safety training  checklist of “Environmental Compliance  on the RMP-PSM, which governs all  of employees, number and frequency  Responsibilities”, which is a list of tasks  U.S. state regulations, such as Chemical  of actionable safety suggestions made,  and necessary milestones that should be  Accident Prevention Program (CAPP)  number and frequency of safety obser. regularly reported on to Ormat by the  in Nevada and the California Accidental  vations made, job hazard analyses  subcontractor. Some of these require- Release Prevention (CalARP) Program.  (JHAs) performed, pre-job safety  ments include: attending pre-con- However, there is some general guidance  meetings (PJSMs) held and at which  struction conferences to review health  from the global occupational health and  frequency, number of safety inspec. and safety expectations, preparing an  safety team on the general guidelines for  tions, number of safety work orders and  emergency response plan, maintaining  generating an EAP. In our office spaces,  number of safety committee meetings.  a speed limit of 10 miles-per-hour in the  the EAP requirement is triggered by our  construction area and other environ- fire detection systems (OSHA Standard  Employees are encouraged to take an  mental controls, such as developing a  29 CFR 1910.164) and by the fixed fire  active role in improving our health and  Storm Water Pollution Plan (SWPP).  extinguishing system (sprinklers; OSHA  safety performance through the global  Standard 29 CFR 1910.160).  Safety Participation Program. The  SAFE DEALING WITH HAZARDOUS  program is designed to encourage and  MATERIALS AND EMERGENCY  recognize employees who are actively  RESPONSE PLANS  involved in all aspects of maintaining  a safe and healthy work environment.  When it comes to hazardous materials,  Employees can earn “Ormat Bucks” by  U.S. plants are subject to the Compre. completing and participating in health  hensive Environmental Response,  and safety activities, such as safety  Compensation, and Liability Act  work, taking proactive safety measures,  (CERCLA), the Emergency Planning  demonstrating safety leadership, or  and Community Right-to-Know Act  by increasing safety engagement. By  (EPCRA), and Federal Risk Manage- submitting safety reports, reporting  ment Plan/Process Safety Management  unsafe conditions, participating in JHAs  (RMP-PSM). In all cases, the regulated  or acting as a safety committee member,  substance is the motive fluid in our  Ormat employees can collect their  power plants; pentane, isopentane,  “Ormat Bucks” at the end of the month  butane or, isobutane46. We typically  and select a prize.  have small quantities of other regulated  substances like solvents, but most do not  HEALTH & SAFETY IN OUR WORK  reach the quantity relevant under the  WITH SUBCONTRACTORS  regulation for official treatment. In Israel,  our manufacturing facility aims to adhere  In addition to implementing stringent  to the rules and regulations outlined in  health and safety measures for our  the Hazardous Materials Law (1993).  employees, we require our subcontrac- Details on our treatment and dealing  tors comply with relevant health and  with hazardous materials is provided in  safety regulations as they pertain to  the “Measuring and Controlling Environ- our operations, including our own rules,  mental Impacts: Waste, Management of  where relevant. In Ormat’s standard  Materials and Biodiversity Conservation  contract for work with subcontractors,  “ chapter of this report.  the Company reserves the right to  indemnify the services of the subcon- Ormat upholds detailed and well-com. tractor if the subcontractor violates or  municated emergency response plans  infringes upon any relevant laws, rules,  at each of its sites for evacuation in  46 More information on our treatment of these regulated substances can be found in the “Waste and Materials” chapter. SUPPORTING AND SHAPING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES AND FUTURES OUR GOALS AND GUIDEPOSTS As a leading global provider of renewable energy solutions, Ormat recognizes the vital role that local people, communities and positive, long-term relationships play in advancing the adoption, uptake and long-term viability of renewable energy. Ormat sees an imperative to act, operate and engage with local people and communities in a manner that is consistent both with globally recognized social, environmental and economic development standards and with Ormat’s corporate values – of stability, constant renewal, full commitment, courage and creativ.ity. We view this as a fundamental pathway to success and are inspired by the standards of various leading sustainability frameworks, including those of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs), and other principles such as the OECD Guidance on Sustainability Impact Assessments and the ISO 26000 guidelines for social responsibility. These are the guideposts for the behavioral expectations Ormat upholds for all employees as we work towards fulfill.ing our mission and engaging with local communities. Another essential principle that we seek to implement in our activities and policies is that of equality. Ormat applies the same high standards to the way we interact, engage and develop our business wherever we operate, across the globe. We under.stand and perceive the unique cultural needs of each location on every level, from country to local community. In all cases and locations, Ormat is committed to being open, transpar.ent, consistent and focused on deliv.ering sustainable renewable energy solutions that generate inherently positive impact, for the environment, society and the economy. UNDERSTANDING AND UNIQUENESS Ormat knows each community reflects a constellation of unique stakehold.ers and that no two communities are identical. Each has its specific needs, characteristics, constraints and chal.lenges. We seek first to understand and assess the local conditions through our Stakeholder Engage.ment Policy. Our approach aims to be responsive and respectful to local customs, in alignment with all local regulations and laws and sensitive to the specific needs and requests for contributions and assistance voiced by each community. This approach highlights an essential truth – each community has deep insights into the ways it can be improved. Seeking this input typically leads to the most proactive and potentially uplifting outcomes. Ormat’s commitment to community typically begins well before we start development in a new region. Every part of our connection with stakeholders – from pre-develop.ment and planning through to opera.tions – is characterized by our “open door” policy. SOCIAL ACTION PLANS At Ormat, we take the impacts from the construction of our power plants seriously and work diligently to reduce them. We are usually guided by Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA), which are conducted according to local standards and requirements. We view this as an important way to reduce negative impacts and conducting such assessments is the first stage in establishing our relationship with the local community. The social part of the impact assessment first collects data through dialogue with the local community, then maps the needs of the local community and finally provides a framework for both addressing stakeholder grievances and for generating positive impact through investment (philanthropic or otherwise) in programs and/or funds. Often these assessments are reviewed by relevant public authori.ties or by funding bodies, like institu.tional investors, development banks and other relevant parties, and are often conducted prior to permitting processes. The initial ESIA is the basis to our relationship with the community but we aim to maintain ongoing dialog and change according to their changing needs. In 2020, of all the social and envi.ronmental impact assessments we conducted, Ormat did not discover any significant unmitigated negative impacts to local communities. LISTENING MEANS LEARNING Community Engagement and Handling Grievances Ormat recognizes that for successful interactions to occur, there must be a basis for meaningful communication, mutual respect and trust. That’s why we create processes and feedback mech.anisms to encourage all community members to speak openly and honestly about any concerns that our develop.ment activities may raise. Ensuring both positive and negative input is reported, listened to, and, most impor.tantly, acted upon, keeps communica.tion channels clear, quickly identifies pressing issues and promotes a spirit of cooperation and proactivity. Ormat’s stakeholders are encouraged to file their grievances directly with local plant managers and/or with appointed representatives in their municipal or community council who regularly liaise with Ormat. Stakeholders may also contact Ormat through the ‘Contact Us’ page47 on Ormat’s corporate website which lists the mail, telephone, fax or email through which they may connect and communicate with the Company. All concerns and grievances received aimed to be are addressed by Ormat’s Marketing and Communications department and are systematically reviewed and directed to the relevant corporate department for review and any necessary action and/or follow-up. In 2020, Ormat did not receive any major stakeholder grievances nor were any other issues raised regarding vulnerable community groups in our areas of operation. We are committed to achieving our goal of addressing and responding to 100% of stakeholder requests received through our various channels of stakeholder engagement, as outlined in the “Our Strategy for Stakeholder Engagement” section. United States In the United States, Ormat’s approach to sustainability focuses on engagement, education, and philan.thropy opportunities that support our host communities. Community Engagement and Education Ormat regularly shares information with the general public and policy makers regarding the benefits of geothermal, energy storage, and recovered energy generation tech.nologies. As a company, we employ several mechanisms to engage with local communities near our power plants in the United States, encour.aging open dialogue and seeking to address relevant issues and concerns. As a company, we also aim to educate as many people as possible about renewable energy and all of its benefits to people, communities, and their environment. With this aim in mind, we provide tours and workshops for students and educators at several of our facil.ities, emphasizing the types of skills and education needed to work in the renewable energy space. While the COVID-19 pandemic put a temporary hold on tours of our facilities and in-person speaking and networking activities, Ormat still managed to engage with our stakeholders in creative ways. Virtual conferences throughout the year allowed Ormat to maintain a community presence and network via video chat and video presentation, to further the industry and our company among prospective customers and members of our communities. In particular, the 2020 Geothermal Rising Conference provided ample opportunity for Ormat’s Business Development, Resources, Sales and Procurement teams to present to and connect with attendees. Beyond local and national platforms, Ormat has also found a voice on the global stage to discuss the benefits of geothermal energy. In March of 2020, Ormat’s Director of Project Development was a panelist on the Climate Environment session at the International Women’s Entrepreneur.ship Symposium held at the Univer.sity of Nevada, Reno. There, she participated in discussions involving the current state of the climate and environment. This provided the perfect opportunity to highlight Ormat’s binary geothermal systems, delivering emissions free and sustain.able energy for a clean environment. Philanthropy In the US, our philanthropic efforts are focused in five areas to encompass the diverse needs of our communities. In 2020, Ormat had the opportunity to provide over $150,000 in funds to support our communities across these five areas, as outlined in the following 47 https://www.ormat.com/en/company/contact/main/ 92 sections. Community Health and Welfare Ormat is involved in a wide variety of partnerships designed to promote health, well-being, dignity, and self-sufficiency in our host commu.nities. Due to the global pandemic, 2020 saw an increase in our focus on community health and welfare in our philanthropic giving. Shortly after the pandemic saw businesses shut down and hospitals facing shortages in personal protective equipment, our Reno plants gathered 800 N95 masks to donate to Renown Hospital. Additionally, over the course of the year, Ormat donated $17,000 to food banks in Northern Nevada and the Imperial Valley in California, as well as $20,000 to Imperial Valley, Mammoth and Northern Nevada foundations to aid families effected by COVID-19 with rental assistance, utility assistance, and household and health supplies. While the pandemic was globally devastating, the western region of the United States also faced one of the harshest wildfire years on record. The Niland Fire, in the Imperial Valley, impacted several families in one of our host communities. In response, Ormat staff banded together to purchase replacement furniture and home goods for those families who had lost their homes in the fire. The power plant staff who donated their time for this effort live in the community and felt a personal connection to the families who were devastated by the fire. Youth and Educational Empowerment Ormat understands the importance of fostering developing minds through secondary education and planting the seeds to develop a robust workforce for the US renewable energy future. As a demonstration of this commitment, in 2018 we pledged $45,000 over the course of three years to the Mammoth Lakes Foundation to support student scholarships for every Mono County senior planning to attend Cerro Coso Community College. In 2020, we completed this three-year commitment, funding the full tuition for each graduat.ing senior. We donated an additional $12,000 to the University of Hawaii Foundation’s Community College scholarship fund and $5,000 to the Eureka County High School Scholarship fund, as well as $5,000 to the Brawley Union High School in Imperial Valley for a financial literacy program and $5,000 to the Yomba Shoshone Tribe for their summer youth education program. Arts and Culture Cultural engagement is an important element to fostering connections with our host communities. Ormat deeply values the diverse artistic and cultural elements of each community we operate in, and corporate support for the arts has demonstrably shown improvement in community growth and welfare. In 2020, we had the opportunity to donate heaters and fire pits to the town of Austin, NV, home to our McGinness Hills geothermal facilities, to use during their first annual Christmas tree lighting. We also donated funds to the ‘Imiloa Astronomy Center in Hilo, HI. The ‘Imiloa Astronomy Center features exhibits and shows focusing on Hawaiian culture and history, astronomy, and the overlap between the two. Ormat also proudly supports the AVA Ballet Theater in Reno each year, and in 2020 sponsored the theater’s virtual Nutcracker performance, available to livestream all around the country. We were also privi.leged to sponsor a virtual holiday performance by the Note-Ables, a group of professional musicians who shatter the stereotype that people with disabilities have limited talents and abilities. Funds raised by their virtual performance provide musical programming for individuals with disabilities year-round. Recreation and Environment Ormat is committed to being a good neighbor in our host communities, and this includes the preservation of the environments in which we build our power plants. In addition to ensuring that our facilities are developed thoughtfully and cautiously for the preservation of biological and cultural diversity, our commitment extends to the enhancement of these areas for the enjoyment of the community. In past years, Ormat has had the opportunity to donate funds toward inclusive community parks, community centers, and trail systems. In 2020, we became a corporate sponsor of the Great Basin National Park Foundation. The Foundation’s mission is to enhance, preserve, and interpret the starry night skies, wide-open scenery, cultural heritage, and diverse native ecosystems of Great Basin National Park – the only El Pepinal and San Jose Calderas. This of constructing a community recreation will report it until next year. national park in Nevada. is done through a committee, known park, including a playground for children as a “COCODES” that organizes and Kenya Sponsorship of the foundation helps manages relevant stakeholder requests. Honduras pay for the Great Basin Observa-Local officials from the municipality, regu-In compliance with Ormat’s stake.tory, the Park Astronomy Program, lators and local community members are Resilience holder engagement strategy, and park trail access, park educational all represented on the COCODES. Ormat to address requests from project materials, and the park’s visitor then answers the requests through Supporting and Shaping Sustainable funders – the German Investment center. The Great Basin National Park relevant activities, initiatives or messages Communities during harsh times. Corporation (DEG) and the Envi.is open to visitors year-round and to the community. The relationship and ronmental Resources Management provides a myriad of educational and assistance to the community in Amatitlan “Resilience is the ability to withstand (ERM) East Africa Environmental recreation opportunities for people is handled through the Orpacaya Trust and reduce the magnitude and/ and Social Due Diligence (ESDD), of all ages. (“Fideicomiso Orpacaya”) that enables or duration of disruptive events”, Ormat’s Olkaria III facility developed Ormat to advance relationships with the including during and after COVID – 19 a number of mechanisms to engage Civic Enhancement local community by furnishing economic pandemic or extreme weather events with the local communities, to handle and educational opportunities. The (such as during extreme rain events grievances, and to provide support to A community’s citizenry, leadership, Orpacaya Trust works to develop social like Hurricanes Eta and Iota). be felt by majority of the community and community affairs are vital to projects on education, health, infra-members. These mechanisms include: its economic health. This is why structure and environmental mitigation. The COVID-19 pandemic is testing the a Stakeholder Engagement Plan Ormat commits funding each year Financial support for the trust is allocated societies of the world’s most unequal (SEP), a Grievance Mechanism (GM), to economic development author-annually from Ormat’s power plant continent, and Honduras has not a Corporate Social Responsibility ities through the western region of budget. As there is one small community been left out where many depend (CSR) Policy and a CSR Strategy. The the US. In a similar vein, good infra-near Zunil the relationship is less formal on informal work for their livelihood. local sustainability manager reports structure is vitally important to any and there is direct contact between Social-distancing measures directly annually on the status of each of these community, and lack of infrastructure residents of the local community and the affect their livelihoods and make policies and implementation plans, can be a barrier to economic growth plant management. immediate social assistance impera-while setting goals and recommend-and diversity. Because of this, Ormat tive. Besides, the public health centers With all this, GeoPlatanares created operations to the community. ing projects for future engagement. is committed to enhancing the infra-In 2019, we donated a computer and a and hospitals are not equipped to a special social project to help every structure in our host communities printer for the COCODE of San Francisco respond to this emergency. family on our communities of direct GeoPlatanares also made donations In 2020, the mechanisms facilitated when we have the opportunity. de Sales, so that they could write letters and indirect impact with a monthly of special medical supplies to the the development of Community to the community and the Municipality Besides, as if the pandemic hadn’t provision of food. hospitals around the western part of Development Committees (CDC) for In February of 2020, we pledged updating them of their progress. Also, been enough, Honduras was hit by Honduras.At GeoPlatanares we see an engaging with Orpower4 on behalf $10,000 to the non-profit, Eureka in that city we financed a road paving the two hurricanes Eta and Iota in a This had an impact on 8220 people imperative to act, operate and engage of the communities and provide Restoration Enterprise (ERE), for project which is set to be completed period of two weeks. Back-to-back on the communities. Besides that, with local people and communities in feedback, and further guiding in the restoration of the Charles Laut-in 2020. In Calderas, we financed the hurricanes unleashed heavy winds, GeoPlatanares also gave a donation a manner that is consistent both with development of Community Invest.enschlager building in downtown replacement of the water pump that had rain, and severe flooding and land-to the municipality of La Unión of a globally recognized social, environ-ment Plans (CIP). As well, the identifi-Eureka, Nevada. This building will be served the community with a modern slides across Central America. On batch of food supplies for the rest of mental and economic development cation and mapping of key stakehold.used for community events, such as a 20-horsepower pump system. In El November 3, Hurricane Eta made the communities of the area, having standards and our corporate values ers both direct and interested with the summer reading and art program and Cedro, we completed the third phase landfall as a powerful Category 4 an impact on 8,000 people and – of stability, constant renewal, full Project was achieved. dance instruction, and to house new storm. Just two weeks later Hurricane offered instant help to provide, food, commitment, courage and creativity. businesses. As part of a larger effort Iota, a Category 5 storm at its hygiene supplies, critical relief items, In 2020, we continued our activities CASE STUDY: to reinvigorate downtown Eureka, strongest, traveled the same path and protection for the most vulnera-We view this as a fundamental to support local communities. We AMATITLAN COMMUNITY Ormat was thrilled to support ERE through the region. “Storms Eta and ble people. pathway to success and are inspired worked together with the Kenya in the first step. Iota adversely affected 4.6 million by the standards of various leading Wildlife Service to help restore the We continued our collabora-people in Honduras, representing In situations of emergency like this, sustainability frameworks, including Hell’s Gate National Park, financed the Guatemala tions and support of the local nearly half of the country’s population one of the main subjects is Biologic those of the GRI Sustainability construction of water and electrical community through food of 9.3 million, according to the results Safety. GeoPlatanares donated a Reporting Standards, the United infrastructure, opened and graded Ormat’s community engagement efforts donations. of a multi-sector needs assessment complete special uniform to the Nations Sustainability Development community roads, and supported and action plans for the largely agrarian conducted by the UN Disaster Assess-community cleaning crews to keep Goals (SDGs), and other principles farming projects, alongside other areas around Zunil and Amatitlan are The food support program started ment and Coordination (UNDAC) them safe while performing their such as the OECD Guidance on activities to support vulnera.designed to support positive value on April 6th and finished on August team between November 22 and job of maintaining the community Sustainability Impact Assessments ble persons. creation and improved quality of life. 20th. In total were delivered 3,726 December 3 in nine affected depart-clean and safe. We also donated 800 and the ISO 26000 guidelines for food bags to the communities that ments. The effects of Hurricanes unused N95 masks, 10 gallons of anti-social responsibility. We are starting Guadeloupe To develop our community engagement Ortitlan, Amatitlan’s power plant worsen food insecurity in Honduras bacterial gel, and special portable irri-to introduce the Global Compact Prin.plans in Amatitlan, Ormat communicates entity support. in the following months, with 3 million gation pumps from our power plant ciples to our action plan as well but In Guadeloupe, our power plant is in directly with five local communities: San people currently projected as experi-Francisco de Sales, El Cedro, El Bejucal, encing severe acute food insecurity”. 94 95 the center of the city of Bouillante. For this reason, we view community engagement as being especially important. To this end, we hold periodic meetings with residents and with association management to discuss and address the concerns of stakeholders. In 2019, as in previous years, we worked to support the social improvement of the neighbor.hood and the city at large, as well as for other EDUCATIONAL EMPOWERMENT Kenya To realize our Community Invest.ment Policy in Kenya, Ormat has a well-established record of funding education programs in Kenyan communities near our operations, emphasizing scholarship opportu.nities with priority to vulnerable and bright young girls. By doing so, we provide higher education pathways for students with open doors to careers as a viable alternative to early marriage for girls. In 2020, we granted secondary education spon.sorship to 45 students alongside 9 students’ mid-level and university bursaries to both direct and other communities category. This was achieved amidst COVID-19 pandemic that resulted to indefinite and regular closure of learning institutions. We also continued with ongoing community programs of supporting vulnerable persons, schools with infrastructure, COVID-19 basic items, farming, and with teachers to supple.ment government teachers. Israel While Ormat actively engages in many philanthropic endeavors in Israel, our focus is on supporting the “ORT Ormat” technical and vocational secondary school, which was established in 1970 at Ormat’s Yavne factory in cooperation with Israel’s Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Social services and the ORT network57. The ORT Ormat school teaches students, many from socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds, essential industrial and technical subjects, such as elec.trical manufacturing, metalworking, and computer programming and operations. This long-term initiative provides added value for Ormat as well – most long-term manufacturing employees at Ormat’s Yavne facility are graduates of the program. In 2020, as in previous years, Ormat financed school activities, including meals for students and teachers and a class trip to Poland, and several of Ormat’s engineers served as tutors. In 2020, Ormat provided funding to additional programs serving high-risk, special needs, and socio-economi.cally disadvantaged youth. Among these are the Nirim Youth Village, which provides a ‘second chance’ to at-risk youth to become fulfilled, contributing members of society. We also provided computers to a youth club, “Kadima,” serving low-income children, and donated to an orga.nization which provides employ.ment opportunities to artists with special needs. HEALTHCARE DELIVERS HOPE Improving access to healthcare is one of the most profound ways a company can exert a positive influence on indi.viduals and communities. Access to healthcare improves the most funda.mental human conditions, prevents disease, supports families and is a major pillar of our community invest.ment program. Similarly, initiatives that work to reduce poverty and provide nutritional food, especially for younger, growing children, are among the priority areas Ormat targets with our community invest.ment programming. Honduras The Central American Medical Outreach is a foundation that provides medical brigades amongst other medical and social programs. In Honduras, we have made an alliance with them and bring medical brigades through the whole year to our communities. • AUDIOLOGY BRIGADES: We started with 30 audiometry tests for children and the elder people of the community. • MAMOGRAPHY BRIGADES: We also provided 100 mammography tests to women from 35 years of age. • OPHTALMOLOGIC BRIGADES: The Central American Medical Outreach in alliance with the Robles Ophthalmologic Centre, provided us the ophthalmologic brigades for our communities. Including transportation to the 100 beneficiaries from the communities to the Robles Ophthalmo.logic Centre that is about two hours away, the patients received a complete package of medical attention, tests, medicines, and eyeglasses when necessary. Some of them even got an operation appointment that was going to be covered by CAMO and the Robles Ophthalmologic Centre. Kenya In 2020, Ormat continued many of our initiatives begun in previous years, including providing a community HIV/ AIDS peer educator to help reduce the prevalence of the disease in the region that we serve. This year, in partnership with Ministry of Health, Naivasha and Kenya Red Cross, Narok we supported the fight against COVID-19 with basic medical items. As well, we supported our direct four communities with regular supply of foodstuff and basic COVID-19 items. 57 The ORT network is a global initiative which provides critical science and technology skills to over 300,000 people worldwide, with a special focus on communities facing socio-economic challenges. See https://en.ort.org.il/ 96 Honduras – Mitigating theImpact of COVID-19 in our communities As an electric power generation company, GPS was required to continue operations upon the outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020, even though most Honduras companies were forced to shut down. Enterprises that were closed included the mining company which provides work for 90% of the residents in our communities. Honduras, like many other Central American countries, was especially hard-hit by the economic conse.quences of these closures.  Many depend on informal work for their livelihoods, which has been severely impacted by social distancing measures. Moreover, public health centers and hospitals were not equipped to cope with the medical emergency. From the outset of this crisis, GPS worked to help alleviate the new hardships that arose.  We created a special social project to help each and every family of our communities through the monthly provision of food, directly aiding 2,500 people in our communities.  We also donated food supplies to the municipality of La Unión, which was able to serve an additional 8,000 people, and provided medical supplies to hospitals through.out western Honduras. LOCAL LIVELIHOOD One of the prime directives that sets Ormat apart is our Company-wide promotion of local employment; everyone who works at a plant is from the country in which the plant is located. We believe every renewable energy facility we develop, own and/or operate should be staffed by people who live in or close to the local community. This reflects Ormat’s responsibility to return benefits and generate positive impact for the local communities in proximity to our operations. We believe that being a good neighbor is the right thing to do and that hiring locally is the right way to operate. United States For many communities, geother.mal power plants provide ongoing employment and financial produc.tivity, particularly in areas that are remote or have limited employment opportunities. Ormat’s Ormesa Geothermal Complex, built in Cali.fornia’s Imperial Valley in 1988, became the second largest employer in an area that is impacted by severe unemployment. Part of Ormat’s commitment to job creation and quality education involves working in local U.S. commu.nities to train students in high-de.mand fields and instill technical skills that translate into career-building opportunities. For example, Ormat developed curricula for a power operator course at a local community college, which provided a successful pool of employees for our local plant. Ormat also sponsored a program to educate local teachers on renewable and geothermal energy through the Desert Research Institute (DRI), a non-profit environmental research arm of the Nevada System of Higher Education. Ormat also wrote curricula for a geothermal energy course for the U.S. public school STEM program58 and sponsors a geother.mal energy program for geoscientists at the University of Nevada. Guatemala Members of our local communities in Guatemala have expressed their desire that Ormat create more oppor.tunities for local employment to help alleviate the prevalent conditions of economic hardship. Unfortunately, in many cases this is not possible as our plants only require a limited amount of employees once they are constructed and operational. In order to partially address these needs, we have embarked upon a program in our Amatitlan and Zunil locations, which creates temporary employment for local residents, thus generating signif.icant economic value throughout our local communities. This has taken the form of approximately dozens of positions (about half in Amatitlan and half in Zunil) which provide an income well above the local average. Employees hold these positions for two months a year, following which another local resident is offered the opportunity. Kenya Ormat continues to provide training and capacity building opportunities for youth, as an engine for broader economic development and job creation in our communities. This includes vocational skill training (driving, hospitality courses, operating construction equipment, and business management and administration. In addition, providing employment to the local communities within the project facility, and learnership opportunities. 58 STEM is a curriculum based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — in an interdisciplinary and applied approach. 