CHAPTER II. ABOUT ORMAT Value for the Environment, Society and Our Key Stakeholders ORMAT AT A GLANCE US$3B US$719M Total Assets FY 2018 Electricity, Product Revenues & Other US$368M FY 2018 Adjusted EBITDA* ~1,350 Employees Worldwide 910 MW in 25 Plants owned & operated** Largest Geothermal power producer in the U.S. ORA traded on NYSE since 2004 ORMAT PRESENCE *Ormat owns 12.75% interest in the 330 MW Sarulla Complex Ormat power plants Capacity (MW) Ormat manufactoring facilities Countries in which Ormat supplied services and equipment over the years ORMAT: WHAT WE DO Ormat Technologies, Inc. (“Ormat” “We”, “Our”, “Us”, or “the Company”) is a leading renewable energy Company with over five decades of experience. Ormat is vertically integrated – engaged in the execution of all stages of development and energy generation – at our geothermal and recovered energy power plants. These stages include: exploration, development, drilling, design, manufacturing, construction, and operation. Our Ormat Energy Converter – a power generation unit that converts heat into electricity – is the basis for the solutions and services that we offer our diverse array of customers. ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Our business is divided into three main segments: 1. Electricity Segment – the power generation business, where we sell renewable energy generated to different entities. 2. Product Segment – sale of our geothermal and recovered energy-based power plants that we design and manufacture. 3. Other Segment -provision of energy storage, demand response and energy management-related services. Net Revenues1 by geographical location and business segments: Electricity 465 510 2017 2018 Drilling United States International Product Design224 202 2017 2018 United States International Other Segment 27 2017 2018 United States Geothermal Power Plants Ormat is a global leader in the geothermal market. Geothermal power is a clean, practically emission-free renewable energy resource generated from reservoirs of hot water that are heated by magma, deep beneath the earth’s surface thus producing steam and brine, which are used to turn our geothermal power plants’ turbines and produce electricity. Geothermal energy power plants harness a natural and locally available energy source and enables providing baseload electricity 24/7. Most importantly, geothermal energy offers an environmentally friendly energy alternative that produces practically no GHG emissions. Recovered Energy Power Plants Our Recovered Energy power plants produce electricity from recovered energy or “waste heat”. Recovered energy power plants utilize residual heat that is generated as a by.product from a variety of industrial processes (cement manufacturing, gas compression turbines, etc.), which would otherwise be wasted to generate electricity without burning additional fuel or generating emissions. Storage & Energy Management Energy storage systems use a variety of technologies, such as large scale batteries, to utilize surplus, or available electricity, which, in turn, allows the optimization of the electricity grid operations, run generators closer to full capacity for longer periods, and operate the grid more efficiently and effectively. Common applications for energy storage systems involve management of local capacity, frequency regulation, ramping, reactive power, black start and movement of energy from times of excess supply to times of high demand and more2. 1 Presented in USD$ thousands. Presented in Ormat’s Form 10-K as “Geographic Breakdown of Results of Operations”. 2 For more information on energy storage and related terminology, refer to the following link: https://www.ormat.com/en/renewables/storage/main/ OUR HISTORY AND KEY EXPERIENCE Ormat was established in 19653 for the principal purpose of developing equipment for the production of energy from clean, renewable and inherently sustainable sources. We have a total of fifty-four years of experience in the renewable energy sector pertaining to both technological development and the provision of products and services. Our first product, developed in 1966 and installed in the African country of Mali, was a solar pump, directly connected to a turbine that is rotated by vapor generated through solar panel heat. This pump was used to pump water from a well to provide members of the local community with access to water resources. Later, we engaged in the manufacturing, ownership and operation of solar ponds for energy generation in Israel and the United States (U.S.). Eventually, we ceased production of both products, but the technology and operational models are the basis for current day Ormat. In 1983, Ormat began to set up its first geothermal power plants in the U.S. state of Nevada. We began by selling our power plants to geothermal developers, which later evolved into the development, ownership and operation of our own power plants. Today, we continue to grow our business by selling power plants to developers worldwide and through the development and acquisition of additional geothermal power plants in the U.S. and internationally, with the goal of positioning Ormat as the largest producer of geothermal power in the U.S. and a leader in the international market. Since our establishment, Ormat has built over 180 geothermal and recovered energy power plants in a number of countries. As of 2018, Ormat owns and operates 910 MW of geothermal and recovered energy-based power plants, predominantly using equipment that we design and manufacture. With the acquisition of the Viridity4 business in 2017, we manage curtailable customer loads of over 875 MW across nearly 3,000 sites across the United States and own and operate 41MW of battery storage power plants. Our headquarters are located in Reno, Nevada and our major manufacturing facility is located in Yavne, Israel. As of the date of this report, Ormat operates power plants that are located in the U.S., Honduras, Indonesia, Kenya, Guatemala and Guadeloupe (French Caribbean). OUR CUSTOMERS Ormat’s main customers fall under two major categories: those who buy power plants and those who buy electricity. Ormat provides electricity from renewable energy solutions to customers worldwide. Most of the Company’s revenues arise from fully-contracted energy and/or capacity payments under long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs). In the U.S., the purchasers of power from our power plants are typically investor-owned electric utility companies or electric cooperatives including publicly-owned utilities. Outside of the U.S., our purchasers are either state-owned utilities or privately-owned entities and we typically operate our facilities pursuant to rights granted to us by a governmental agencies under concession agreements. In the sale of power plants, our customer base and contract scope differ. The scope varies from the supply of equipment to full, turn.key solutions. Our customers for the geothermal power units that we design, manufacture and sell include contractors, geothermal plant developers, owners and operators. The customers for our recovered energy solutions include companies engaged energy intensive industrial processes such as cement and glass production as well as gas processing. The target customers for our energy storage business are grid operators, retail energy providers and large commercial and industrial customers. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Ormat Technologies, Inc. was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1994 by our former parent Company Ormat Industries5. In February 2015, Ormat Technologies, Inc. completed the acquisition of Ormat Industries in an all-stock merger, eliminating its majority ownership and control of Ormat Technologies, Inc. In 2017, ORIX (a Japan-based financial services group) acquired approximately 11 million shares, representing a 22 percent ownership stake (purchased from FIMI ENRG limited partnership, FIMI ENRG and L.P. Bronicki Investments Ltd.). Ormat is a publicly traded Company. The Company’s common stock is dually listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker “ORA” since 2004 and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE) since 20156. The Company’s Board of Directors is fully independent (according to the NYSE definitions) and is made up of nine members. Beneficial Ownership No shareholder holds a controlling interest in the equity structure of the Company. As such, the below table presents our ten largest shareholders as of December 31st, 2018: Significant Shareholders  Percentage of Institutional Ownership  ORIX Asset Management Corp.  21.65%  Vanguard Group Inc.  7.73%  Clal Financial Management Ltd.  6.32%  Migdal Insurance & Financial  6.05%  BlackRock Inc.  5.61%  Phoenix Holdings Ltd.  4.93%  Menora Mivtachim Pensions & Gemel Ltd.  4.83%  Impax Asset Management Group plc  3.46%  Harel Insurance  3.32%  Dimensional Fund Advisors LP  3.03%  3 Ormat Technologies Inc. was initially established as a subsidiary of Ormat Industries in 1994. On February 12, 2015, Ormat Technologies Inc. completed the acquisition of Ormat Industries in an all-stock merger, eliminating its majority ownership and control of Ormat Technologies. 4 In March 2017, we entered the energy storage, demand response and energy management markets following the acquisition of substantially all of the business and assets of Viridity Energy, Inc., a Philadelphia-based Company. The acquired business and assets comprise our Other segment. We are using our Viridity business to accelerate long-term growth, expand our market presence in a growing market and further develop our energy storage, demand response and energy management services, including the VPower™ software platform. We plan to continue providing services and products to existing Viridity customers, while expanding our service offerings to include development and EPC into new regions and targeting a broader potential customer base. 5 Ormat Industries was originally established in 1965 as Ormat Turbines Ltd. The entity was later renamed Ormat Industries. 6 Ormat Industries was listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in 1991, but in February 2015, it was delisted and Ormat Technologies common stock began trading on the TASE under the ticker symbol “ORA”. AN ORGANIZATION goal that Ormat strives to achieve in propel Ormat forward as we seek an the spirit of environmental and social even larger platform and position inSHAPED BY VALUES responsibility. Sustainability has been the global renewable energy sector part of our corporate DNA since our of tomorrow. inception and continues to be the inspiration for the growing number These, the core values that Ormat At Ormat, sustainability is not just of renewable energy sectors that is built on, are reflected in the way another target we aim to achieve; we participate in and for the diverse we work and operate our Company, it is at the core of our business and array of products and services that every day, in every location. We our way of life. Ormat was founded we offer. This way of life is also believe that honesty, openness and and has flourished as a Company demonstrated in our core values fairness must be demonstrated by whose purpose is to continually as detailed below. Together, these every Ormat employee, manager or renew the earth’s energy future, a values sustain our organization and director, at all times. OUR FIVE CORE VALUES Constant renewal has kept Ormat at the forefront of renewable energy development since our first turbine design back in 1965. It’s a promise that we fulfill by continually seeking out new challenges, by advancing new technologies, entering new fields and testing out new business models - a promise that is the basis for our sustainable value proposition. STABILITY Stability is a core value that has helped establish and sustain our Company over the years. We strive to implement long.term action plans and to advocate for thoughtful, well-planned renewable energy developments supported by firm financial foundations. In addition, we believe that a stable workforce, technology, product and operations are all hallmarks of an organization with well-integrated sustainable management systems. FULL COMMITMENT Courage comes from leveraging our collective knowledge, experience, prudent risk management and unwavering focus to continually delivering the very best results for our customers. The main stakeholder groups that were identified as relevant for the organization KNOWING OUR IMPACTS – STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY As a global Company that understands the inherent value of sustainability as a business strategy, we work to assess our impacts on the environment, society and local communities, as well as relevant impacts for our key stakeholder groups. As a result, we have developed processes for identifying, communicating with and addressing grievances from our key groups of stakeholders. As part of this engagement strategy, and to better understand these risks and opportunities, we engage in on.going stakeholder dialogue and have developed an organization-wide Stakeholder Engagement Policy that can be accessed at the following link.7 STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED BY THE ORGANIZATION Ormat regularly engages with various groups of internal and external stakeholders in the context of our business operations. Ormat’s management and relevant representatives from our various business units who engage directly with stakeholder groups – for example representatives from the Human Resources Department and from the Legal Affairs Department -initially identified the stakeholder groups listed below. However, in order to better assess the methods of engagement and the material interests of these stakeholders, and as part of the Company’s materiality assessment that we conducted according to the best practice recommendations of the GRI, Ormat surveyed stakeholder groups to verify management’s and the various departmental representatives’ assessments of relevant stakeholder groups for Ormat.  Stakeholder Group  Methods of Communication  Employees  Employee communication portal and newsletters, periodical career and professional performance reviews, participation in employee health and safety committees, organized employee evaluations and open dialogue between employees, managers and human resources representatives, events and conferences for employees.  Customers  Communication through our website, customer service framework, and on.going sales and business development relationships.  Investors & Shareholders  Communication and updates delivered through the Investor Relations arm, investors conferences and non-deal road shows, general shareholder meetings, earnings calls and relevant updates, through the ‘Investor Relations’ page on Ormat’s website9, annual and quarterly reports, SEC filings and newsletters.  Financing Entities  Engagement through environmental and social impact assessments, compliance reviews and action plans, annual and quarterly reports and SEC filings, and on-going communication through our finance department, mostly through the Investor Relations arm.  Public Authorities, Policy Makers & Regulators  Engagement through industry organizations, lobbying activities, participation in workshops, conferences and events, compliance reviews and action plans, and on-going communication.  Local Communities  Communication through our global Stakeholder Engagement Policy and relevant local communication strategies, tours and meetings at Ormat’s local facilities.  Social & Environmental NGOs  Active participation in relevant events and conferences, donations, contributions and volunteering activities and cooperation in social and environmental projects and industry initiatives.  Media  Communication through Ormat’s website, press releases and informational notes, tours at Ormat’s various facilities, and on-going communication.  Academia  Cooperation with Ormat in conducting research and development activities specifically with our Resource Department, providing support for scientific initiatives and expansion of educational opportunities, and tours at Ormat’s various facilities.  are the following: Employees Customers Investors & Financing Entities Public Authorities, Policy Makers & Regulators Local Communities Shareholders OUR APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Ormat has developed a business strategy that places both environmental sustainability and social responsibility at the forefront of our activities. Our stakeholders play a central role in the realization of our sustainability strategy and it is our intent is to develop productive and fruitful relationships with these stakeholder groups while also expanding on the opportunities available for engagement with Ormat. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is demonstrated in our Stakeholder Engagement Policy that is publicly available on our website at the following link.8 Social & Environmental NGOS Media Academia The policy sets out our promise of productive, transparent and equitable relationships with stakeholders. In addition to these methods of communication, all stakeholders can submit their grievances, questions or comments concerning the Company’s activities to info@ormat.com. 7 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Stakeholder%20Engagement%20Policy.pdf 8 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Stakeholder%20Engagement%20Policy.pdf 9 https://investor.ormat.com/ OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ KEY INTERESTS AND CONCERNS We believe that an adequate and clear understanding of our stakeholders’ interests and concerns encourages closer and more productive relationships with our stakeholders. It also helps Ormat as an organization understand the needs and concerns of those closely affected by our activities where possible. This insight enables us and to refine our business strategy in order to meet these needs and concerns. As part of our materiality assessment conducted in 2018, our employees identified issues such as employment, career and professional development – including training opportunities, occupational health and safety, workplace diversity, employee well-being and local employment -as relevant to their stakeholder group. Our customers identified reliability of our product and/or service, customer service, innovation and data privacy and security of information as key issues of concern. Investors, shareholders, financing bodies, public authorities, policy makers and regulators identified economic performance, operational efficiency, corporate governance performance, risk management and local community engagement as key issues. Local communities and social and environmental NGOs identified issues such as local community engagement, local employment, corporate governance, philanthropy and volunteering as relevant issues. Finally, relevant stakeholders in the media and academia identified corporate governance, local community engagement, innovation and the encouragement of green energy as relevant issues. The topics identified by our stakeholders are addressed in the scope of this report, in our existing policies and engagement frameworks and in our on-going business activities. We consistently seek out opportunities for active engagement with our stakeholders and embrace every opportunity to hear their opinions and concerns regarding our organization and our business activities. OUR STRATEGY .DEFINING WHAT’S MATERIAL TO ORMAT Ormat began work to identify our material issues in 2018 by conducting a materiality assessment. Both the stakeholder survey (described above) and the materiality assessment were conducted with the assistance of independent consultants. This approach that enabled us to maintain objectivity in recording and analyzing the answers from our various groups of stakeholders. Ormat’s internal and external stakeholders were surveyed for their opinions and viewpoints regarding two aspects: the groups of stakeholders that are relevant to The materiality results presented below show the relative correlation between matters of interest to Ormat’s stakeholders and management in accordance with their significance to the Company’s impacts on the one hand and our business strategy on the other. These issues – addressed in the scope of this report -reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization together with their degree of influence on the assessments and decisions of our groups of stakeholders. The results of the materiality survey are presented below in two ways. In the first, the table where the material issues which are presented according to their level of significance to both our stakeholders and the Company, and are classified according to Economics & Governance, Environment and Social. In the second, in a graph matrix shows all the material issues together. Ormat’s business and the issues that are of critical interest or concern to the stakeholder group within the context of their specific relationship to the organization. With regards to the latter, stakeholders were asked to rank a range of material issues according to the level of importance of the issue to their specific stakeholder group. The list of issues presented to our stakeholders was compiled based on our understanding of relevant best practices and recommendations for compiling material issues for presentation to stakeholders, such as those indicated in the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) standards for Electric Utilities and Power Generators10, information from the news media and from benchmark studies on relevant issues for our business sector. MATERIAL ISSUES Economics & Governance •Ethical Business Conduct •Legal and Regulatory Compliance •Ormat’s Operational Efficiency •Innovation in Products & Services •Risk Management •Corporate Governance •Executive Compensation Social •Safety and Emergency Planning •Occupational Health and Safety •Reliability of Ormat's Service •Ormat’s Labor Relations •Customer Service • Local Employment & Development •Employee Training & Development •Human Rights in the Supply Chain •Workplace Diversity •Data Privacy & Security •Community Support •Employees’ Well-Being •Local Community Engagement •Philanthropy & Volunteering Environment •Brine & Steam Management •Encouraging Green Energy •Climate Change Mitigation •Water Management •Biodiversity •Waste Management •Energy Efficiency •Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations •Site Restoration and Preservation •Air Quality •Climate Change Risk 10 As per the “Electric Utilities & Power Generators Sustainability Accounting Standard,” Industry Standard Version 2018-10. Importance to Ormat's Management5.0 4.0 3.0 Executive Compensation Air Quality2.0 Climate Change Risk 1.0 0 Importance to Ormat's Stakeholders Legal & Regulatory Compliance Safety & Emergency Planning Ethical Business Conduct Brine & Steam Occupational Health & Safety Management Climate Change Mitigation Encouraging Green Energy Ormat s Labor Relations Local Employment and Development Ormat Operations Water Management Efficiency Corporate Governance Customer Service Risk Management Innovation Reliability Human Rights in Supply Chain (Products & of Ormat s Services) Service Employee Training DevelopmentWaste Management Biodiversity Workspace Diversity Employees’ Well-Being Local Community Engagement Community’s Support Energy Efficiency Site Restore & Preserve Data Privacy & Security Philanthropy and Volunteering Operations GHG Emissions Social Economics & Governance Environment EXTERNAL INITIATIVES We endorse a number of external initiatives that assist us in realizing our environmental, social and corporate governance commitments. We have reported on our GHG emissions to the CDP since 2010. We also report data on our carbon dioxide and GHG emissions to the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection’s voluntary business reporting initiative, a practice that we have engaged in since 2011. In addition, Ormat was part of  the  Frontier  Observatory  for  Research  in  Geothermal  Energy  (FORGE)  initiative  (in  partnership with Sandia National Laboratory and others) initiated by the U.S. Department of Energy. FORGE yielded new insights and techniques for characterizing potential enhanced geothermal system (EGS) sites as well as tested new techniques and tools in the field of geothermal drilling technologies. Currently, Ormat is partnering on several proposals to the Department of Energy for federally-funded research on drilling technology and machine learning. In the U.S., we sponsored the Women in Geothermal Program (Wing Program) that supports the role of women in the geothermal industry and works to promote gender equality in the sector. We shared information on the organization with our relevant groups of stakeholders and supported the organization’s mission at the 2018 Geothermal Resources Council Annual Meeting. ORMAT'S MEMBERSHIPS OF ASSOCIATION - The table below outlines the main organizations of which Ormat is a member and that are related to our various business and ESG activities. Type of Organization  Relevant Memberships  1 | Geothermal Organizations  • Geothermal Resources Council (GRC) – U.S. • International Geothermal Association (IGA) • Indonesia Geothermal Association • Jesder - Turkish Geothermal Association  2 | Energy Organizations  • California Energy Markets • California Energy Storage Alliance (CESA) • Energy Storage Association – U.S. • Society of Petroleum Engineers – U.S. • Utah Clean Energy • Green Energy Association of Israel • World Energy Council  3 | Health and Safety Organizations  • The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) • National Safety Council – U.S. • National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) – U.S. • Alliance for Industrial Efficiency • American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP) • CA OPC Engineers Board • California Community Choice Association (CalCCA)  4 | Chambers of Commerce  • CalChamber – California, U.S. • Churchill Economic Development Authority – Nevada, U.S. • Hawaii Island Chamber of Commerce • Elko Chamber of Commerce – Nevada, U.S. • Israel Export Institute • Manufacturers Association of Israel • Israel-Asia Chamber of Commerce • Israel Turkey Business Council • Israel Latin America Association  OUR STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS AND SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Ormat is committed  to  principles  of  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance-related  (ESG)  responsibility -commitments that are achieved through our business activities, policies, frameworks for stakeholder engagement and strategic objectives. We pursue sustainable innovation and leadership in renewable energy across several areas – namely geothermal energy, recovered energy generation and energy storage. Each of these directions allows our Company to advance existing practices and push forward to improve our performance in ways that minimize material and energy inputs, maximize energy output and our operational efficiency. For example, one of our established development practices involves the incremental increase of energy production capacity for geothermal plants. We work to better understand the specific properties of a geothermal reservoir and add new energy generation capacities progressively in stages. As such, we strive to deliver more renewable energy while maintaining substantially the same developmental footprint. Similarly, when it comes to developing new renewable energy plants, we work to fully understand the needs and concerns of the local stakeholder community and to build lasting relationships and specific community engagement programs designed to meet those needs and concerns. Ormat applies these and other sustainability principles to the way we evaluate opportunities and develop, manufacture and operate renewable energy facilities around the world. ORMAT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE UNITED NATIONS' SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) The United Nations (UN) adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (the “2030 Agenda”). The 17 SDGs and the related 169 targets were designed to address the world’s most pressing social and economic issues. More information on the SDGs is available at the following link11. Furthermore, businesses play a role in achieving the SDGs, while the goals simultaneously present businesses with unique opportunities for engaging in innovation, social impact projects, managing risks, improving relationships with stakeholders and for developing a common and shared language for their social and environmental sustainability programs. As a leading renewable energy Company with global operations, Ormat recognizes the role we play in achieving the SDGs and the related targets in our countries of operation and through our activities. We strive to address relevant SDGs through our business activities and social and environmental engagement plans for local communities. The following table details the most relevant SDGs and targets that we address through our business activities and social and environmental engagement plans. 11 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/ Sustainable Development Goal  Relevant Targets  Relevant Business Activities  Affordable and Clean Energy  • 7.2: Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix • 7.A: Enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology • 7.B: Expand infrastructure and upgrade technology for supplying modern and sustainable energy services for all in developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small island developing States, and land-locked developing countries, in accordance with their respective programs of support  • Ormat is one of the leading providers of geothermal energy generation solutions worldwide, thus helping countries and communities address their renewable energy targets. In addition, Ormat provides recovered energy generation solutions and solutions for energy storage, which contribute to the feasibility of renewable energy alternatives. • We work with governments and through international frameworks to promote our renewable energy solutions, including support for research and development in the geothermal and energy storage fields, collaborations with relevant industry organizations and with leading renewable energy companies. • Ormat works to develop its renewable energy technologies in developed and developing countries alike, with several plants in developing countries such as Indonesia, Guatemala and Honduras, among others. Many of these projects support national renewable energy goals and international commitments in developing countries.  Decent Work and Economic Growth  • 8.2: Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labor-intensive sectors • 8.3: Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services • 8.4: Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavor to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programs on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead • 8.5: Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value • 8.8: Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment  • Ormat prides itself on 100 percent local employment at all of our operational facilities and power plants. • We work to develop the skills and knowledge of our employees, including at our manufacturing facilities thus encouraging the upgrading of skills for labor-intensive sectors. • Through our renewable energy solutions, we seek to help countries decouple economic growth from environmental degradation caused due to the burning of fossil fuels and from the use of non-renewable resources for energy generation. • We promote equality in employment for all of our employees regardless of gender, race, cultural background, religion, physical disposition, or other irrelevant factors. • Ormat has an advanced health and safety framework that is implemented through our Quality, Environment, Health and Safety policy. We seek to uphold the highest level of health and safety standards at all of our sites. • We fully support the labor rights of all our employees and honor their basic rights to decent work and fair pay. We manage human resources at our Company with employees’ rights in mind.  Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure  • 9.1: Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all • 9.4: Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies • 9.A: Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development in developing countries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support to African countries, least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States  • Ormat’s power plants act as significant energy generation infrastructure in the countries where we operate. Often, the power plants are completely new infrastructure. In addition, the nature of renewable energy infrastructure works to increase the overall level of resilience in the country of operation. • Through our power plants and renewable energy solutions, we actively encourage the adoption of clean and environmentally-sound technologies, namely in developing countries that may have limited access to such solutions. • Our recovered energy power plants enable industries to produce clean electricity in-house without generating excess emissions.  Responsible Consumption and Production  • 12.2: Achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources • 12.4: Achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment • 12.5: Substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse  • Ormat encourages the sustainable use of materials and resources, including natural geothermal resources. • We encourage and track the generation of waste products and the use of materials (namely non-renewable materials) at our operational sites. • We actively promote and enforce practices for recycling, reclamation and reuse of materials at our operational sites, with a specific emphasis on our manufacturing facilities.  Life on Land  • 15.1: Ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements • 15.9: Integrate ecosystem and biodiversity values into national and local planning, development processes, poverty reduction strategies and accounts  • Throughout the development process of geothermal resources, we work to preserve and take the surrounding natural environment – including the native flora and fauna – into account. As such, we conduct environmental impact assessments to ensure that we have an adequate understanding of our impacts. • As part of the environmental impact assessments that we conduct, we consult with local communities and local government administrators.  