SOCIAL 41-69 › At Ormat, we foster an environment that encourages community involvement, individual growth, teamwork and innovation. As a global company, we are proud to employ and work closely with the communities that we serve. With nearly one power plant on every continent, we have a commitment to generating a stable and secure economic future for all, supported by the sharing of our knowledge and expertise regarding sustainable energy solutions. The promise of delivering renewable energy to our customers and stakeholders goes hand in hand with our commitment to local employment and skill development wherever we work. We are committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all genders, race, cultures and ethnic minorities. We recognize equal employment as a key part of our employment framework, as well as creating an inclusive work environment that is free from harassment and discrimination. Our employment framework, policies and initiatives are managed and headed by the SVP of Human Resources. Our Human Resources department sets the tone for employee management and opportunity-creation processes in the company, but the hiring, termination, and training areas are managed at each power plant, facility or office by a local manager who either reportsdirectly to the local head of the Human Resources department, or to a member of senior management on a regular basis. OUR PEOPLE 1,405employees19 1.1 total recordable injury rate (TRIR) 32,379 hours of training completed by employees 84% retention rate in 2021 100% of plant management was from local communities 37% of our employees in the U.S. in 2021 were from minority groups20 19 Including Indonesia. 20We do not track the specific diversityof our workforce in our locations outside of the U.S. With this, all overseas employees are locally hiredand thus are representative of thecommunities in which we operate. DIVERSITY & INCLUSION From Kenya to California, we work to uphold our obligation to provide our employees with a workplace that is fair, open, and free from discrimination or harassment. We encourage the engagement and the development of employee potential. We place the highest value on the diversity of our employees, while providing equal opportunities in the hiring process couples with access to career growth opportunities, regardless of race, sex, gender, color, religion, marital status, disability, and sexual orientation. This is clearly expressed in our commitment to anti-discrimination, seeking to eliminate the gender pay gap, and enabling the free association of labor organizations. As a vertically integrated company that provides a myriad of solutions in the energy industry, our employees are equipped with an array of professional skills and capabilities. When reviewing candidates, we look for these skills in addition to other factors, such as geographical location and ties to the local communities around our power plants. We view engagement with local communities around our facilities to be a central tenant of our business policy and important to our success. Respect for diversity, transparent communication and enriching professional and personal opportunities are central principles of our employment outlook. As such, we look to hire individuals who exemplify and implement these values in their work. At the end of 2021, 18% of our employees were female. There were nine female management members, which represented 30% of our broader management team.21 We actively seek opportunities to hire and promote female employees and managers across our company. This is a challenging goal due to the physical nature of the work at the plants and manufacturing facility. We are seeking to ensure the complete integration of women in our workplaces, including our various offices, in ouroperations around the world. In addition, we are working to encourage women to enter the field through our work in highschools and universities, with the goal of creating a female-empowered geothermal energy future. As of 2021, we have provided Diversity & Inclusion Training to all drilling department employees that addresses the importance of: (1) recognizing differences between people, (2) eliminating barriers that prevent the full participation of our team members, and (3) employees feeling a sense of belonging in the workplace. In 2022 and 2023, we are planning to provide such training to all employees. 21 The data published in theprevious report referred toVPs level only, without senior management. Empowering Women Ormat operates in the field of industry and energy, which traditionally has mostly been characterized by male employees. Because of this, we are constantly looking for ways to attract and promote women, with a deep understanding of the importance of the subject. In 2022, we plan to begin develop programs and goals to increase the percentage of women in Ormat, through scholarships and job opportunities for women seeking employment in engineering professions. Furthermore, female VPs located in Israel volunteer at the “Shavot” organization, which promotesleadership among women. Our plans for 2022 and 2023 include training and education through courses for our top leadership to increase awareness of ESG, including diversity and inclusion, and provide them with the tools to implement these aspects of the Company's strategy. We expect to have our goals supported by a statement from our top leadership, which will be followed by publishing a diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) statement. In addition, we are planning to revisit our core values to include diversity and inclusion among other ESG values. The efforts that we seek to implement in 2022 and 2023 are also focused on recruiting processes to identify and attract a more diverse talent pool. We believe that this can be achieved through (1) highlighting diversity in our job ads (2) leveraging diverse job boards, and (3) teaching recruiters and hiring managers how to avoid bias. Additionally, we are planning to continue to focus on increasing women in industrial technical, engineering, and leadership positions, and providing university scholarships to women in technical and engineering studies. Finally, we are planning to establish mentorship for females in technical, engineering and leadership positions, and are planning an ESG week for our employees that focus on DEI topics and activities. An Organization Shaped by Local Employment Ormat is an organization that prides itself on full local employment at all levels and in all our facilities, power plants and operational locations. 100% of management at our plants is from the local communities. We believe that local employment is essential to the success and vitality of our business as local employees and community members possess a keen understanding of the local geography, environment, social fabric, community, and stakeholders. At Ormat, we believe that cultivating the skills of the local workforce is important in fostering knowledge regarding renewable energy solutions, to ensure the long-term sustainability of our power plants and energy solutions. Furthermore, we believe that investment in the local workforce supports the local economy and enables community development where Ormat's local employees become part of a larger global organization and learn skills that contribute to their professional career and personal goals. In countries such as Kenya, Guatemala, Honduras and Guadeloupe, where local employment options are limited, Ormat offers our employees access to a broad range of professional employment opportunities, ranging from plant managers to local sustainability managers, power plant operators, maintenance workers, engineers, mechanics and more. Employees in these positions are hired based on their relevant experience, knowledge and education. In some locations where employment options are limited in the vicinity of the power plant, our plants also have agreements with local community councils and representatives to create additional job opportunities for the communities nearby. For example, in Guatemala Employees by Region: USA | 649 Ormat has agreements that provide preference for the employment of local employees in certain professions for a set number of hours. Thus, we increase the rate of local employment and Ormat's economic impact on local communities. This is the case not only in the developing countries, Israel | 532 but also in the U.S., where Ormat has some operations in areas with historically high unemployment rates. Therefore, we not only hire qualified local staff whereavailable, but also invest in creating career and advancement opportunities for the local staff. We do so by providing all our employees with access to educational opportunities, as outlined in the chapter “Training & Educational Opportunities”, as well as through curriculum for local community colleges and universities in Nevada, written by Ormat, that focuses on technical subjects such as plant operation and relevant academic subjects such as geoscience, which has helped promote a talented local employment pool. Honduras | 47 Kenya | 68 Turkey | 16 Total | 1,405 Guatemala | 61 Indonesia | 11 Guadeloupe | 21 ENSURING A HEALTHY & SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT Occupational Health and Safety at Ormat Safety is a key area of concern to us. We believethattheoptimal,mostefficient,and profitable performanceof ourpower plants can only be achieved by fostering a safe and healthy working environment. Therefore, at Ormat, we place extreme importance on this topic, ensuring that management and monitoring performance are at a global level for all sites. At every site, there is an appointed person that is in charge of health and safety on an operational level, who reports to the plant manager. The topic of the health and safety in the U.S. and international is managed by the VP EHS, who reports to the EVP Electricity Segment, and in the manufacturing facility in Israel it is managed by the VP QEHS, who reports to the President and the Head of Operations And Products. Reports are categorized according to the criteria and performance metrics of the Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA) of the U.S. Department of Labor. We are constantly working to manage and mitigate ongoing health concerns by allowing certain employees, who are able to work from home, to do so, and adopting separate shifts in its power plants, manufacturing facilities and other locations while working to continue operations at close to full capacity in all locations. We continue to promote our safety values and report, analyze, learn, and improve performance following every event with the goal to reduce the number of future incidents. We also work to continuously improve our safety performance and to instill a strong workplace safety culture. The countries where Ormat operates have local laws regulating the topics of health and safety that the Company aims to follow, and where possible and practical, we strive to go beyond the requirements of the legal regulations to promote the utmost level of health and safety for our employees and other relevant stakeholders. These include safety requirements such as ventilation, fireprotection, work at height regulations, personal protection/gear, railings, electric protection, and employee training on pertinent issues, among other topics that are outlined in the following chapter. Our EHS Program– Striving to Go Beyond Compliance First and foremost, we aim to follow the relevant health and safety rules and work regulations at each of our operational locations, but we aim to also go beyond compliance at the corporate level to ensure that the appropriate policies and initiatives are implemented wherever we operate. The goal of these efforts is to create an overall culture of safety for Ormat's employees at all our locations. In addition, we have an advanced online platform for recording, reporting and tracking safety and environmental incidents at our power plants and operational sites. Ormat’s occupational health and safety program is focused on four main components: 1 | Everyone, Everyday – all Ormat employees are integral to safe operations, where each employee is charged with the responsibility to work safely and create and maintain a safe work environment. 2 | Management of Hazards – Ormat strives to systematically identify hazards, and then manage them by elimination, isolation, or minimization. 3 | Safety as a Core Value – safety is a core value at Ormat. It requires a personal commitment at all levels in the organizations. 4| Continual Vigilance – our goal is to learn and improve our performance following every event to reduce the number of future incidents. This requires that all employees maintain constant vigilance to ensure that unsafe acts or work conditions are identified, addressed, regulated and prevented, wherever possible. The topic of Quality, Environment, Health and Safety (QEHS) is managed by Ormat's appointed VPs of the Electricity Segment and of Operations and Products. They are responsible for oversight and management of the health and safety budget and relevant policies, processes, training, and work practices across the organization. Plant managers at each of Ormat's operational sites and power plants are accountable for implementing relevant Company-level and local health and safety regulations and initiatives through the appointed Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) coordinator. On-site EHS coordinators are additionally responsible for upholding the local conditions, regulations, or other agreements, for ongoing record-keeping and reporting and for the training and certificationof employees. These EHS coordinators report to the plant and/or power plant manager and conduct work according to Company-wide EHS initiatives. Ormat has an Integrated Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy that sets out our general commitments toward health and safety principles at our sites and for all our stakeholders. We seek to ensure that our employees and managers comply with this policy so that it is enforced. Moreover, the policy is consistently monitored and evaluated by the company management as we strive to meet its high standards. The policy is publicly available on Ormat's website and outlines our commitments to providing high quality products, conducting our business with care for the environment and for integrating our QEHS system into our business strategy and work processes. In addition, our Human Rights and Labor Policy, which is also available publicly on our website, outlines our commitments to ensuring that essential health and safety standards and practices are enforced in the workplace, developing risk awareness, and encouraging responsible health and safety behavior among employees. Ormat's employees have representation on Company's health and safety committees. Ormat has two types of safety committees: one for management of health and safety aspects at our factories and manufacturing facilities and one for management of health and safety aspects in other operations, i.e. at Ormat's power plants and offices. The committees organize and assessOrmat's health and safety program at the corporate level. To expand employee involvement, the employee representatives are rotated each year. In 2021, 72 of Ormat’s employees and managers took part in the safety committees. These committees meet at least 8 times a year, and the participants consist of managers, employees, supervisors, and in US, EHS coordinators. The diversity in positions of the employees who take part in these committees ensures that all voices are heard and all areas of potential hazards are covered. Whether participating as an employee representative or not, all Ormat employees are encouraged to communicate their concerns or recommendations to the relevant committees. In 2021, we received over 7,400 health and safety observations and hundreds of safety suggestions from our employees through our health and safety management platform which are received and reviewed by the global head of health and safety in Nevada for the U.S. and international operations, and by the local safety manager in the manufacturing site in Israel. These observations show that not only are employees encouraged to share information or concerns that come up, but also that they are listened to and taken seriously. Furthermore, Ormat facilities have safety training programs, under the responsibility of each plant manager and the local EHS manager/coordinator, that are directed by our Company’s joint employee and management health and safety committees. The program seeks to ensure that safety expectations are clearly communicated and understood by all employees and subcontractors, and that comprehensive safety plans are maintained across all Company operations. We provide regular training in health and safety regulations and procedures at all our locations and have detailed guidelines in place, in case of emergency, to monitor health and safety standards on a continual basis. In 2021, we continued our Safety Leadership Training, also known as the ProAct safety training program, as well as expanded employee participation in our SafeStart® health and safety training and implementation program, including integration of the SafeStart® philosophies and practices into our health and safety key performance indicators (KPIs). In addition, we increased employee participation in our behavior-based safety programs, which contributes greatly to maturing and advancing a culture of safety at our organization. At Ormat, we seek to provide our employees who unfortunately experience an injury or illness as a result of their work for the Company with the utmost treatment and care for their ailment or affliction.As such, Ormat reports its health and safety data to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which is part of the U.S. Department of Labor, according to internationally accepted reporting standards such the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA), the agency of the United States Department of Labor, and operates according to OHSAS 18001, as well as through the filling out of forms thatrecord work-related injuries and illnesses. Ormat's manufacturing and office facilities in Israel operatein all material respects according to ISO 45001. In 2021, our Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) was 1.1, which we reduced significantly from 2.13 in 2020. We accomplished this reduction through rigorous safety trainings, committees discussions, and improvements that we strive to make yearly. The details of these efforts are further described throughout the chapter. Ormat has Company-wide KPIs for the implementation of our health and safety program for employees. Through adoption of KPIs, we seek to emphasize the importance of sound health and safety activities at all sites, as well as express our commitment to learning and improving our health and safety performance. The KPIs measure, track and compare performance regarding our existing Safety Participation Program and will report on the following indicators: ..Safety Suggestions: Number of safety suggestions generated and the number of overdue action items ..Safety Observations: Number of safety observations performed by employees ..Job Hazard Analysis (JHA): Number of JHAs completed or revised per quarter ..Pre-Job Safety Meetings (PJSM): Number of documented PJSMs per month ..Safety Inspections: Number of safety inspections per month ..Safety Work Orders (and/or Completion of Safety Tasks): Number of safety work orders generated, or safety tasks completed ..Safety Committee Meetings: Number of safety committee meetings conducted per quarter Based on these indicators, we operate a proactive safety plan for our employees, who are required to complete several different types of activities and to report on their “Safety KPI Scorecard”. Each of our sites is required to set goals regarding the KPIs and to report on their performance regarding above mentioned parameters. Employees are encouraged to take an active role in improving our health and safety performance through the global Safety Participation Program. The program is designed to encourage and recognize employees who are actively involved in all aspects of maintaining a safe and healthy work environment. Employees can earn “Ormat Bucks” by completing and participating in health and safety activities, such as safety work, taking proactive safety measures, demonstrating safety leadership, or increasing safety engagement. By submitting safety reports, reporting unsafe conditions, participating in JHAs or acting as a safety committee member, Ormat employees can collect their “Ormat Bucks” at the end of the month and select a prize. Safe Dealing with Hazardous Materials and Emergency Response Plans When it comes to hazardous materials, U.S. plants are subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), and Federal Risk Management Plan/Process Safety Management (RMP-PSM). In all cases, the regulated substance is the motive fluid inour power plants; pentane, isopentane, butane, or isobutane.22 We typically have small quantities of other regulated substances like solvents, but most do not reach the quantity relevant under theregulationforofficialtreatment.InIsrael, our manufacturing facility aims to adhere to the rules and regulations outlined in the Hazardous Materials Law (1993). Ormat upholds detailed and well-communicated emergency response plans at each of its sites for evacuation in cases of emergency, natural disaster or other hazards, such as chemical or pollutant spills and leakages. In general, the Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) are developed and adopted by each of the offices, operational facilities and power plants on a local and case-to-case basis. We believe that quality education and access to new economic, social, and environmental opportunities enrich our employees’ experience while working for Ormat and, in turn, contribute to the development and growth of the communities where we work. As a result, we also support our employees and their families in the pursuit of educational opportunities through various subsidy and scholarship packages that are aimed at updating employee skills and developing a devoted and experienced workforce in the countries where we operate. TRAINING & EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES We express our commitment to the professional and for relevant Health & Safety training, or the Company’s personal development of our employees out of the belief management for legal and corporate governance training. that it contributes to their career growth and trajectory In 2021, Ormat’s employees completed a total of 32,379 hoursin the Company, but also that it expands our Company’s of training globally. These included learning opportunities knowledge base. Therefore, we offer our employees a wide in marketing, communication skills, health and safetyarray of training and educational programs regarding training, team building, mentorships, critical thinking, relevant professional and soft skills to help them improve and more.their performance and expand their horizons. These opportunities help foster a creative mindset among In 2022 and 2023, we are planing to develop a VP program our employees that is conducive to our Company’s to set and communicate strategies and develop initiatives innovative and dynamic nature. Each area of training that support the company’s vision and plan. The mission and coursework is managed according to the relevant of the VP team is to promote our core values and support business unit, i.e. Quality, Environment, Health & Safety Ormat’s growth by setting the right organizational culture. 22 More information on our treatment of these regulated substances can be found in the "Waste and Materials" chapter. Training of our Operations Employees The diverse nature of our operations that span from the factory floor tothe power plant site require our employees to remain in the know regarding relevant technical and professional skills, health & safety requirements, and best business practices. These employees have training in different areas such as Fire Safety and Mechanical Integrity Test, High Voltage Electrical Safety, Fire Safety and OSHA trainings. These are skills that employees apply in their work for Ormat, but which also can be applied throughout their career path. Training of our office EmployeesFor business and administrative professionals, we provide access to courses on corporate governance and ethics topics – in addition to ethics training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics– as well as soft skills instruction to help improve their value offerings for Ormat and within their professional networks. We believe that these skills contribute to the atmosphere of creativity and innovation that we seek to encourage among all Company employees – no matter their educational background or geographical location. Additional Trainings In addition to necessary technical, professional and safety skills, our nature as a renewable energy project developer and operator bestows upon us a commitment that we are proud to implement educational programs for our employees and other relevant stakeholders, such as contractors and business partners, who are involved in the construction, operation and maintenance of our global power plants and in the management of environmental, health and safety risks on site and in the course of plant development. We factor management of health & safety risks into our site management policies and work with relevant stakeholders to inform them of potential risks and modes of operation. Other relevant training opportunities are professionally and administratively managed by the Learning and Development function within our Human Resources department, the plant managers, or initiated by managers and Vice Presidents of various business units. Finally, employees are welcome to suggest additional areas of expertise and coursework that are deemed necessary for the fulfillmentof their position, andwe areopen to considering integrating their suggestions into our training program and framework. Expanding Educational Horizons for Our Employees & Their Families We offer our employees access to educational grants and partial or full scholarship opportunities due to the belief that the best way to innovate our Company is through employee knowledge. For instance, at our power plants in Guatemala, we implement an Educational Assistance Program for local employees that is based on workforce planning and development. Employees are asked to submit a proposal for the course or degree that they wish to pursue as well as the name of the relevant academic institution. The plant managers then make considerations based on the employees’ overall performance and career trajectory at the plant. Other locations, like our power plant in Honduras, award educational scholarships based on the amount of time the employee has worked for the In addition, we encourage our employees to develop Company, and all employees in Honduras (as well as their career horizons within our Company through at various other locations) are provided with English management development learning platforms. language courses to better facilitate their work and At our administrative offices in Israel, employeescommunication within the organization. can “shadow” managers in their department, ORT Ormat High School ORT Ormat School has been working in collaboration with Ormat in Yavne, for over 40 years. Beinga technical high school, the students work at Ormat three times a week as part of their curriculum. In doing so, the students have the opportunity to learn about a profession and come to work in various departments of the factory. This collaboration expresses how we operate in the communitiesin which we are located and create shared value of opportunity to provide training for students and provides them with quality and lasting employment, alongside the employment of talented employees who know and appreciate the work at Ormat. Many of the school's students have been promoted over the years to managerial positions and have even gone on to study practical engineering and engineering with Ormat’s support. participate in soft skills courses, and exchange experiences with managers in other business units to help them grow as managers. Due to the diverse nature of our operations, and the tendency of our employees to develop specific areas of expertise, we highly encourageintra-organizational communication in our management development programs. However, managerial training is not a condition for employee promotion and is offered to employees interested in exploring their career growth opportunities within Ormat. Employees who are transitioning to a different position, ending or terminating their employment with Ormat, or who are in the process of retirement are also offered access to reskilling and upskilling opportunities to assist them by providing relevant information and tools to meet their next challenge. EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Our people are our most valuable resource. As such, Ormat strives to be a responsible employer by creating a supportive workspace that promotes the welfare and wellbeing of its employees. We believe that all our employment contracts are drafted in accordance with regulatory requirements in the country of operation, providingthebenefits thatareaffordedbythe law as well as additionalbenefits and employment considerations based on employees’needs, such as flexible working hours, paid maternity or paternity leave, and sponsorship of learning opportunities, among others. Labor and Employment Policies at Ormat Ormat has four key policies that concern all stakeholders and employees. The policies aim to ensure the protection of rights for all our employees while creating a safe and inclusive work environment: 1 | The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines our commitments to our employees regarding equal employment opportunity, diversity in employment and anti-harassment, and the ethical and behavioral expectations of employees in the workplace. 2 | The Human Rights and Labor Policy, adopted in 2018 by Ormat’s management, expresses our commitment to upholding international human rights and labor standards for all our employees, suppliers, business partners, and stakeholders. 3 | The Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety Policy outlines our compliance with relevant standards and regulations, as well as our commitment to the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees and other key stakeholders. 4| Certain aspects of the Stakeholder Engagement Policy, namely on issues that pertain to employees, subcontractors, and other stakeholders. These principles include our commitment to open communication and dialogue and sharing information to better instill our corporate values. Employee Engagement & Retention At Ormat, we view the long-term commitment and dedication exhibited by our employees as a testament to the strength and stability of our Company. Despite the global nature of our Company, our organizational values and commitment to employee growth, education and skill sets allow us to maintain workforce stability. This is exhibited in our high global employee retention rate, which was 84% in 2021. People Analytics People Analytics helps managers and senior talent leaders unlock the power of data—increasing rigor, reducing bias, and improving performance. The primary role of the People Analytics process is to provide the organization with insights that allow them to make better business decisions, thus improving business performance, while simultaneously improving the employees’ experience and wellbeing. Essentially, People Analytics focuses on people and the impact they drive. It provides an outside-in view of the value that HR delivers to the business. At Ormat, we implemented a Success Factors system to provide managers with a better understanding of their human capital data. The process started with implementing the Employee Central Human Resources Information Systems module, providing visibility to all employee information and allowing managers to use dashboards and reports. Our plan for 2022 is to implement the Success Factors recruiting module in order to have more integration and better manager involvement in the recruiting process. We plan to improve the compensation and annual processes, such as merit and bonus, by implementing a compensation system in 2022 that allows the processes to be more data-driven and integrated with our other systems. The system provides market data and compares the ratio for leaders to retain and manage their talented employees. Employer Branding Employer Brand plays a critical role not in only keeping our current talent aboard, but also appealing to the wealth of new talent exploring the job market. The stronger your employer brand, the better you can attract, retain, and engage your people, while also staying competitive and profitable as a business.An employee referral program was implemented to encourage greater brand awareness. The goal of the referral program was to get our current employees to reach out to their friends, family, and colleagues to tell them about the excellent opportunities at Ormat. Ormat improved its LinkedIn career page to drive brand awareness by showcasing our brand to attract top talent. In 2022 and 2023, we plan to focus on raising public awareness of Ormat’s business through providing lectures at various forums and universities, publishing articles for different media, and educating management on how to represent Ormat on social media platforms. Ormat HR plans to continue to partner with organizations to attract diverse talent. Additionally, Ormat plans to improve its career site with the goal of improving the candidate experience. Employee Benefits, Healthcare & Welfare FrameworksOur experience in working with a large group of diverse employees has taught us that the success of our business depends on employee satisfaction and stability. We therefore strive to provide employees at all levels with benefits and access to welfare frameworks that clearly express our appreciation and of care for employee wellbeing. We aim to ensure this by providing basic and competitive employment benefits,growth opportunities and a warm, positive work atmosphere for our full-time, part-time, and temporary employees. Most of our employees receive parental leave benefits,healthcareinsurance23, sick leave benefits,coveragein theevent ofdisabilityand/or infirmity, and vacation days.24 Additionally, at our locations of significant operation, ourfull-time employees are provided benefits that may include life insurance, healthcare, dental care coverage, disability and invalidity coverage, retirement provision, optical care and others. In somelocalities,benefitsaremadeavailabletopart-time and temporary employees.25 In 2021, 100% of our employees were eligible for parental leave, and we had a 100% return to work rate for both women and men who took parental leave. All our global employees are entitled to retirement and pension benefits26 at or beyond the legally required level of employer contribution in the relevant country of operation, including access to 401(k)27 pension schemes in the U.S. We fully cover retirement and pension plan liabilities in relevant countries of operation with our general resources. There is no limit on the number of years of service in the calculation of the benefitobligation. The Company has an obligation to partially fund the liabilities through regular deposits in pension funds and severance pay funds. Our retirement commitments are for both voluntary and mandatory frameworks, according to the regional or country-based schemes in our countries of operation. In Israel, and according to the law, all employees receive pension plan coverage, with the employer contributing 7.5% or more, depending on the personal employment contract with the employee.28 In Israel we are planning to instill a new retirement plan in 2022. The employees who come to the age of retirement will receive a 3-day training of content and guidance to prepare them for the transition into retirement. The employees who retired in 2021 will also be eligible to participate in this program. In addition to this, one year before retirement the employees reduce to 80% at Ormat’s expense. This extra day off is meant to help them get used to retirement. At several locations, we offer retiring employees the option to continue work after the retirement age or to enter retirement in phases. Due to our high employee retention rate, many of our retiring employees have worked with Ormat for years, if not decades, and we appreciate the potential difficulties to be felt in such a transition. As such, we usually work to include retirees and alumni in some of our employee events and continue to consult and engage with them on a regular basis. 23According to the relevant nationally mandatory or voluntary healthcare frameworks in the relevant significant location of operation.24 According to the relevant national framework for vacation days or the personal employment contract of the employee. The indication here is to the possibility for employees to take vacation days, as well as the possibility for extended vacation periods, based on requests and individual employee needs. 25Benefits are not provided to part-time or temporary employees at our significant locations of operation in the U.S..26At the national retirement or pension issuance age in the significant location of operation.27In the U.S., a 401(k) plan is the tax-qualified, defined-contribution pension account defined in subsection 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 28Through Ormat Systems, we provide limited non-pension benefits to all current employees in Israel who are entitled to benefits in the event of termination or retirement in accordance with the Israeli Government sponsored programs. These plans generally obligate the Company to pay one month’s salary per year of service to employees in the event of involuntary termination. There is no limit on the number of years of service in the calculation of the benefit of obligation.To facilitate a healthy work-life balance for our employees, we encourage them to take vacation days and our approach is flexible, allowing employees to choose their vacation period and to divide the period into intervals throughout the year. At some locations, we provide special holidays to mark the observance of religious holidays and cultural events. We also allow employees days off for major personal events such as weddings or deaths in the family. We also offer many of our employees' access to supplementary health benefits such as coverage for dental care payments, optical care payments, and, in some cases, support for mental health issues and personal care. The health and wellbeing of our employees are important to us, and we actively seek employee feedback in developing these benefits and offerings.Due to the dynamic nature of energy generation processes, some of our employees and contractors reside at our sites in housing facilities for certain periods of time. We do our best to provide that our facilities are up to their standards and that our employees are afforded a reasonable level of comfort and accessibility. In some cases, when we are not able to physically construct housing facilities, we provide employees with funds to support their living expenses while working for Ormat. At other locations, we provide our employees with access to transportation options, such as buses, to facilitate a smoother work experience. We offer healthy and fulfilling dining options for our employees at ourmanufacturing facilities. Finally, our manufacturing and power plant employees are proudly fitted with workplace uniforms and, in various locations, we support a replacement for necessary work items, such as and protective gear, and provide laundry services. In addition, we grant our employees access to gender-neutral family support programs, including parental leave for both new fathers and mothers. Typically, parental leave is granted within the regulatory framework in the country of operation, and in many cases, we also encourage our employees to embrace our flexible return-to-work policy so that they canspend time with their growing families. We believe that when our employees are happy and closer with their families, their quality of work and appreciation for the opportunities that Ormat has to offer increases, and we can build stronger relationships with the newest members of our local communities. Employee Engagement and Wellbeing Promoting Wellbeing in the Workplace Our employees are spread across the globe, which would seemingly create a challenge in connecting them. However, all our sites and departments work together on initiatives to create a sense of community and togetherness among our employees regardless of their location. This includes: ..Actively facilitate community events, employee gatherings (including virtual gatherings), or Company trips to facilitate open communication and healthy connections between employees, and other stakeholders across the globe. ..Actively engaging our employees through online portals, social media networks and online platforms. We have Ormat-sponsored Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn pages that document our factory and power plant activities, and have groups on WhatsApp for easy and accessible communication. ..Regularly distributing an employee newsletter with key updates and alerts and continue to use our intra-organizational communication platform "OrMeet" that allows employees in some of our locations to create professional and personal groups to share experiences, insights and provide professional support. Work-life Balance We offer employees several options to improve their work-life balance with the goal that they are fulfillingboththeirownpersonalandprofessionalgoals. We encourage our staff to enjoy the nature around our power plants and facilitate joint staff lunches and events outdoors, as well as holiday and team milestone celebrations. Bonding activities are a big hit, and some sites provide employees with opportunities for volunteering activities together with their local team and members of the community. Finally, we encourage our employees to remain active and support lectures on fitness, weight loss, yogapractice and running groups. In some locations, we sponsor summer camps and recreational activities for employees’ children and family members. We invite all our part-time employees and many of our temporary employees and subcontractors to participate and enjoy the health and wellbeing activities that we offer. Dialogue with our Employees We see great importance in creating an open dialogue with our employees.29 We seek to uphold our frameworks and policies in our dealings with employees. In addition, Ormat's management, the local head of the Human Resources department, and the local employment managers at each of our operational sites work to create and maintain an inclusive environment. In the case of questions or grievances regarding any of the above-mentioned policies or our general employment framework, employees can reach out to us through a number of avenues available for reporting feedback or concerns. Employees can report to their direct manager, the Human Resources department, the Secretary of the Corporation or to our whistleblower ethics hotline at the third-party managed website at www.ethicspoint.com or via telephone at 1-866-294-5535, which is reviewed by our Chief Compliance Officer.Employee Performance Reviews & Satisfaction Surveys As part of our commitment to providing our employees with a better employment experience, we invest significant time and resources in our program forperformance reviews. As of 2021, 99% of our permanent and temporary employees received regular career performance reviews, i.e. on an annual or biannual basis. Through career performance reviews, which occur between the employee and their direct manager, employees are able to provide their feedback on their position, share their career goals and receive feedback from their direct managers on their performance. Through these career performance reviews, the employee and the manager can set goals and milestones for assessing future performance and the employee can request a salary review if desired. We view employee performance reviews as an important avenue for engagement with our employees and work to obtain key insights from the content of their reviews to improve our employment and workplace experience. 29 Our Human Resources department is alsoresponsible for engaging with our temporaryemployees, which are defined as thoseemployees who are third parties, freelancers,and other service providers, who are employedaccording to a specific employment orengagement contract which may beconsidered as employees. SUPPORTING AND SHAPING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES Ormat views the communities in which it operates as partners. We aim to foster long.term relationships with them and help them develop. We do this in ways consistent with our both corporate values as well as with globally recognized social, environmental and economic development standards. We view this as a fundamental pathway to success and are inspired by the standards of various leading sustainability frameworks, including the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs). Specifically, weadvance SDG 8 which seeks to "Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment, and decent work for all." The jobs we offer in our plants are designed to create inclusive economic growth, drive local progress, and improve living standards. We strive to understand the unique cultural needs of the communities in which we operate on multiple levels, from village to the nation. Our core values are reflected in our communityinteractions, and we apply these same high standards in our community engagement wherever we operate, across the globe. We understand and perceive the unique cultural needs at each plant and the people who create the surrounding community, and it is a priority of Ormat’s to work with local communities in an open, transparent and engaged manner to maximize community impact. We work to continue activities that have been carried out in the past, as well as develop new ones through continuous community engagements. Our charitable giving is reviewed and overseen by our compliance department, with an emphasis that all community funds reach theintendedbeneficiaries,meetOrmat’scommunity engagement goals, and meet all compliance requirements, including due diligence analysis. In 2021, our community donations totaled more than $1.0 million USD in all of our locations. Children with special needs drive cars built especially for them by Ormat engineers to become racing drivers for a day, Israel Local Livelihood As part of our focus and emphasis on the unique cultural needs of each community, we want Ormat to become part of the fabric of the local community. Therefore, we place great importance on employing locally. The majority of employees in our renewable energy plants are from the country in which the plant is located and most live in nearby communities. This reflects Ormat’s responsibility to return benefits andgenerate positive impacts for local communities and be a good neighbor. Our areas of development are highly focused on consulting with the community to understand its expressed needs and how best to support it. United States For many communities, geothermal power plants provide ongoing employment and financialproductivity, particularly in areas that are remote or have limited employment opportunities. Ormat’s Ormesa Geothermal Complex, which was built in California’s Imperial Valley, became the second largest employer in an area with severe unemployment. Part of Ormat’s commitment to job creation and quality education involves working in local U.S. communities to train students in high-demand fieldsand support technical trainings that translate into career-building opportunities. Guatemala In the 2000s, when our plants entered development, members of the local communities expressed in stakeholder dialogue and focus groups their desire that Ormat create more opportunities for local employment to help alleviate the prevalent conditions of economic hardship. In order to address these needs we created a program in our Amatitlan and Zunil locations. We provide significant communityresources and offer employment opportunities, either permanent or temporary. For example, we offer local community members the opportunity to act as temporary plant maintenance employees thereby generating additional economic value and job training throughout our local communities. This has taken the form of dozens of positions which provide an income well above the local average. Employees hold these positions for up to two months a year, after which another local resident is offered the opportunity. Kenya Ormat continues to provide training and capacity building opportunities for youth, as an engine for broader economic development and job creation in the community. This includes vocational skill training (driving, hospitality courses, operating construction equipment, and business management and administration). In addition, Ormat provides employment to the local communities within the project facility, and leadership opportunities. Honduras In Honduras, instead of employing security service contractors to guard the power plants, we hired 16 local community members. We provided these employees with three months of professional security training, and three of them were provided with advanced training. In addition to the direct value from the employment, this connection enables us to understand better the needs of the community around us. Community Engagement Ormat knows each community reflects aconstellation of unique stakeholders and that no two communities are identical. Each has its specific needs,characteristics, constraints and challenges. We seek firsttounderstandandassessthelocalconditionsthrough our stakeholder engagement process, as outlined in our Stakeholder Engagement Policy. Our approach aims to be responsive and respectful to local customs, and sensitive to the specific needs and requests for contributions and assistance voiced by each community. Ormat recognizes that for successful interactions to occur, there must be a basis for meaningful communication, mutual respect, and trust. That’s why we create processes and feedback mechanisms that are specific to eachlocation and encourage all community members to speak openly and honestly about any concerns that our development activities may raise. Ensuring both positive and negative input is recognized, listened to, and, most importantly, acted upon, keeps communication channels clear, promoting a spirit of cooperation and our ability to address issues proactively. Ormat’s commitment to a community typically begins well before we start development in a new region. Every part of our connection with stakeholders – from pre-development and planning through and including our ongoing operations is characterized by an “open door” policy. Ormat uses several models to engage with local communities near our power plants to encourage open dialogue and address relevant issues and concerns. Ormat’s stakeholders in the community are able and invited to contact local plant managers and/or appointed representatives in their municipal or community council who regularly liaise with Ormat regarding any issue. In addition, we strive to be proactive in engaging with the surrounding communities. Stakeholders may also contact Ormat through the ‘Contact Us’ page on Ormat’s website, which lists mail, telephone, and email info through which they may communicate with the company. All received concerns and grievances are reviewed by Ormat’s Communications department and are directed to the relevant corporate department, including Ormat’s compliance department, for review and any necessary action and follow-up. Concerns can also be made through Ormat’s Whistleblower hotline or website, which is reviewed by Ormat’s Chief Compliance Officer.We are committed to achieving our goal of addressing and responding to 100% of relevant stakeholder requests received through our various channels of stakeholder engagement, as outlined in the “Our Strategy for Stakeholder Engagement” section. 61 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 Kenya In compliance with Ormat’s stakeholder engagement strategy, and to address requests from project funders, Ormat’s Olkaria III facility developed a number of mechanisms to engage with the local communities, handle grievances, and provide support to community members. The local sustainability manager reports annually on the status of each of these policies and implementation plans, while setting goals and recommending projects for future engagement. Guatemala Ormat’s community engagement efforts and action plans around our plants are designed to support positive value creation and improved quality of life. To develop our community engagement plans, Ormat communicates directly with five local communities. This is done througha committee, known as a “COCODES” that organizes and manages relevant stakeholder requests. Local officials from the municipality,regulators and local community members are all represented on the COCODES. Ormat works with the COCODES to identify annual community engagement projects and then processes such requests through its community engagement process. United Sates Ormat regularly shares information with the public and policy makers regarding the benefits of geothermal, energy storage, and recovered energy generation technologies. As a company, we employ several mechanisms to engage with local communities near our power plants in the U.S., encouraging open dialogue and seeking to address relevant issues and concerns. While the COVID-19 pandemic put a temporary hold on tours of our facilities and in-person speaking and networking activities, Ormat still managed to engage with our stakeholders in creative ways. Virtual conferences throughout the year allowed Ormat to maintain a community presence and network via video chat and video presentation, to further the industry and our company among prospective customers and members of our communities. 62 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 Guadeloupe In Guadeloupe, our power plant is in the center of the city of Bouillante. For this reason, we view community engagement as being especially important. To this end, we hold periodic meetings with residents and with association management to discuss and address the concerns of stakeholders. In 2021, as in previous years, we worked to support the social improvement of the neighborhood, the city at large, and other nearby communities. Honduras Israel GeoPlatanares has developed a Community Relations At Ormat, we take the impacts of the construction of our power plants Plan (PRC) which includes guidelines for the creation seriously and work diligently to reduce them. We are guided by Environmental of the social assistance fund for communities in the and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA), which are conducted according area. to local standards and requirements. We view this as an important way to reduce negative impacts and establish our relationship with the localThrough our plan, we work to engage the local community.community and local renewable energy actors in the area. We work in alliance with the Secretary of The social aspect of the impact assessment first collects data through dialogueStateintheOfficeofEnergy(SEN)throughtheUnit with the local community, then maps the needs of the local community and of Social and Environmental Responsibility (URSA), finally provides a framework for both addressing stakeholder grievances through which we carried out a social oversight and for generating positive impact through investment (philanthropic or program in GeoPlatanares. Through these processes, otherwise) in programs and/or funds. Often these assessments are reviewed the participation and inclusion of the different actors by relevant public authorities or by funding bodies, like institutional in the formulation, execution and evaluation of a investors, development banks and other relevant parties, and are often project was documented and audited. This document conducted prior to permitting processes. The initial ESIA is the basis to aimed to strengthen the process of community our relationship with the community, but we aim to maintain ongoing participation in renewable energy generation projects. dialogue and change according to their changing needs. CSR SEAL RECOGNITION GeoPlatanares is a member of FUNDAHRSE a non-profit, apolitical, non-religious organization whose main objective is the promotion of Corporate Social Responsibility(CSR). It involves a continuous commitment of companies to contribute to sustainableeconomic development, improve the quality of life of its employees and their families, as well as the local community and society in general. In 2021, Geotérmica Platanares was recognized for the second time in a row of theFUNDAHRSESealofSociallyResponsibleCompany,whichisarecognitiondesignedto annually recognize Honduran organizations that demonstrate ResponsiblePractices internally and externally to the company.With the highest rank of evaluation for the companies for 2021, GeoPlatanarescontinues to be the youngest company (4 years of production) to recieve suchrecognition. Community Involvement Fields Our various facets of community engagement allow us to understand what is truly needed in each and every community of which we are a part. The awareness and knowledge we gained through communication helps guide our social activity, and maximize our overall impact. Community Health and Welfare Ormat is involved in a variety of partnerships designed to promote health, wellbeing, dignity, and self-sufficiency in our host communities.We believe that improving access to healthcare is one of the most profound ways a company can exert a positive influence on individuals and communities, and as suchit is a major pillar of our community investment program. Our goal is to improve the most fundamental human condition, prevent disease and supports families. Guatemala In the rural village of El Cedro, Guatemala, near our Ortitlan plant, we fund a doctor and nurse that are available to residents three times a week. This is in additional to the health care program for children that we supply in Zunil, which includes medical check-ups, vitamins and anti-parasite medications for the approximately 350 students if the community. United States We carry out initiatives that work to reduce poverty and provide nutritional food, especially for children. Due to the global COVID-19 pandemic, 2021 saw a continued focus on community health and welfare to meet the unique needs created by the pandemic. Over the course of the year, employees in Imperial Valley, California, where several of our geothermal facilities are located, distributed over four tons of food to those affected by supply shortages in stores, in order to bridge the gap between need and the distribution of COVID-19 relief. We also supported the communities affected by the Caldor fire in California that displaced thousands of people and devastated neighborhoods and forests. Ormat made a $100,000 donation to the American Red Cross for wildfire relief efforts in the region. Honduras In Honduras, The Central American Medical Outreach is a foundation that provides medical brigades among other medical and social programs. We have made an alliance with them and provide medical brigades throughout the year to our communities. During 2021, this alliance provided the following benefits:..Audiology Brigades: Started with 30 audiometry tests for children and the elderly people of the community. ..Mammography Brigades: Provided 100 mammography tests to women from 35 years of age. ..Ophthalmologic Brigades: The Central American Medical Outreach in alliance with the Robles Ophthalmologic Centre, provided us the ophthalmologic brigades for our communities. This includes transportation for 100 beneficiaries from the communitiesto the Robles Ophthalmologic Centre that is about two hours away, where patients received a complete package of medical attention, tests, medicines, and eyeglasses when necessary. Some of them even received operation appointments that were covered by CAMO and the Robles Ophthalmologic Centre. Additionally, work with the Health Ministry Community Health Center of Azacualpa to rebuild and equip the health center for a period of 5 years. In 2021 we donated medical equipment, computer, and administration supplies in order to assist with the smooth running of the center. Kenya Orpower4 facility in Kenya, partners with the local Health Ministry to provide free mobile clinic services to the local communities adjacent to the project area. The health centers in these communities are not easily accessible and only have one medical dispensary in the area. During the free medical camp, locals are provided medical examinations and treatment for minor illnesses, eye services, dental care, cervical cancer and prostate cancer screening, ante-natal care, immunization, family planning, and VCT/HIV testing. We have also provided a trained peer educator from the local community who trains the locals on HIV/AIDS in the local language. The peer educator creates awareness among the youth in the community on the same issues. We also offered support to the one dispensary within the area by providing items such as a hospital stretcher beds, cleaning detergents and sanitizer. We constructed washrooms with hand washing areas for the local community schools. In addition, we supported the local community girls with sanitary products so that they can focus on school. Youth and Educational Empowerment Ormat understands the importance of fostering developing minds through secondary education and planting the seeds to develop a robust workforce for the renewable energy future. United States Between 2018 and 2021 we pledged over $130,000 to the Mammoth Lakes Foundation to support student scholarships for every Mono County senior planning to attend Cerro Coso Community College. In 2021, we renewed our commitment through an annual $20,000 scholarship program. In 2021, we also donated to the Eureka County High School Scholarship fund and the Te-Moak Tribe for cultural education programs. Employees in the Imperial Valley of California also refurbished and donated over 300 desks to students who were required to do online classes from home, as well as 400 pairs of new shoes for children in the community. Our Imperial Valley operations also provided a $5,000 contribution to the local Boys & Girls Club and $2,500 to Proyecto Heber to aid and support food security for disadvantaged youth and homebound seniors. In addition, Ormat helped develop curricula for a power operator course at a local community college, which provided a pool of employees for our local plant. Ormat also sponsored a program to educate local teachers on renewable and geothermal energy through the Desert ResearchInstitute(DRI),anon-profitenvironmentalresearch arm of the Nevada System of Higher Education. Ormat also wrote curricula for a geothermal energy course for the U.S. public school STEM program and sponsors a geothermal energy program for geoscientists at the University of Nevada. Israel Our community involvement focus in Israel includes supporting the “ORT Ormat” technical and vocational secondary school. It was established in 1970 at Ormat’s Yavne factory, as part of the ORT schools’ network and in cooperation with Israel’s Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Social services. ORT Ormat teaches students, many from disadvantaged backgrounds, essential industrial and technical subjects, such as electrical manufacturing, metalworking, and computer programming and operations. These professions are in high demand in the Israeli market and practically ensure the graduates' employment in the field if they so choose. This long.term initiative provides added value for Ormat as many of the graduates choose to work at Ormat. In 2021, as in previous years, Ormat financed a portion of the school’s activities, including meals for students and teachers and a Jewish heritage class trip to Poland, where several of Ormat’s engineers served as tutors. About 20% of the manufacturing employees are “ORT Ormat” graduates. Guatemala Children in rural areas often don’t have the facilities they need for school and after school activities. Near our facility in Amatitlan, Guatemala, we allocated funds in 2021 for several projects including a children's playground park in the villages of Pepinal, El Cedro and San Francisco, and a terrace for the elementary school in the village of El Bejucal. We also work to support the education and health of the children in the community by continuing projects that have been ongoing for the past several years, including scholarships for 25 students to attend mostly elementary school, providing nutritional breakfasts for 100 students in Orzunil, and providing school supplies and uniforms, as well as computers for the computer labs and for the teachers. Kenya To realize our Community Investment Policy in Kenya, Ormat has a well-established record of funding education programs in Kenyan communities near our operations, with an emphasis on scholarship opportunities for young girls. By doing so, we provide higher education pathways for girls that can open doors to careers as a viable alternative to early marriage. We support local communities in carrying out sustainable projects such as farming projects where the harvest facilitates a lunch feeding program for the pupils or selling the products from the farm with the proceeds deposited into a school development account. Orpower4 in partnership with Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) supported its local community by providing funds for construction of a medical dispensary to be accessed by all local communities. We also supported the youth in carrying out sport activities by providing sporting equipment because sports promotes a healthy lifestyle and has the capacity to reduce criminal activities within the community and project area. Honduras “English as a Second Language” is a project with nationwide importance that is being carried out in partnership with the Ministry of Education. It is the very first time a public-school centeris being transformed into a Public Bilingual School, as the bilingual schools existing in the country are all private institutions. As part of our collaboration to transform the school center to a bilingual school, we donated a complete classroom with surround sound and audiovisual equipment, computer, furniture, bookshelves, and desks, among other items. About 600 textbooks for the bilingual classes at the preschool center and primary school were donated so the children could receive English classes for the first timein their regular classes. We started with vocabulary, grammar, reading, phonics and spelling, science and math, among others. With limited access to internet, and a difficult learning year forstudents due to COVID-19, it has been extremely challenging for the students to be able to continue their studies, and in 2021 we assisted them by providing full scholarship program for nearly 50 high school and university level students from our communities in the aggregate amount of $42,000 USD. Recreation and Environment Ormat is committed to being a good neighbor in our host communities, and this includes the preservation of the environments in which we build our power plants. In addition to ensuring that our facilities are developed thoughtfully and cautiously for the preservation of biological and cultural diversity, our commitment extends to the enhancement of these areas for the enjoyment of the community. In past years, Ormat has had the opportunity to donate funds to support community parks, community centers, and trail systems. In 2021, we continued our corporate sponsorship of the Great Basin National Park Foundation. The Foundation’s mission is to enhance, preserve, and interpret the starry night skies, wide-open scenery, cultural heritage, and diverse native ecosystems of Great Basin National Park – the only national park in Nevada, and which also provides one of the darkest night skies in the U.S.. Sponsorship of the foundation helps pay for the Great Basin Observatory, the Park Astronomy Program, park trail access, park educational materials, and the park’s visitor center. The Great Basin National Park is open to visitors year-round and provides a myriad of educational and recreational opportunities for people of all ages. In 2021, we also sponsored Keep Truckee Meadows Beautiful, a Reno, Nevada non-profit organization dedicatedto creating a cleaner and more sustainable region through waste reduction, education and active community involvement. Road Building In rural areas, sometimes a paved road can make all the difference between being able to easily get to a family member in a nearby village, to work on your fields, or get to adoctor visit. Ormat supports the community by building doing construction near our facilities that need paved roads. In 2021, we allocated funds for the construction of a paved road between the villages of Calderas and Pepinal in Guatemala, and the project is scheduled to be completed in the first quarterof 2022. At our GeoPlatanares operation in Honduras, we paved a total of 13.5 kilometers that connects the plant and the major city of San Andres Minas. PROVIDING EXCELLENT AND RELIABLE CUSTOMER SERVICE Ormat is the world's only vertically integrated geothermal Company, and for most of our geothermal power plants we are responsible for exploration, development, drilling, design, manufacturing, construction, and operation. Our customers benefit from our modular, flexible approach and our extensiveexperience in applying a variety of different products and solutions – all designed for simple transportation, installation, operation, and ongoing maintenance. We manufacture most of the power generating unit equipment components used in our power plants. We acquire any equipment we do not build ourselves from selected, top-quality, trusted suppliers. Ormat is ISO 9001 and ISO14001 certified, with our manufacturingfacilities also meeting the standards of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and the European Pressure Equipment Directive (PED). Many electric utilities around the world have also recognized Ormat as an approved supplier. Ormat’s design and manufacturing standards meet the requirements of the applicable European Commission directives and therefore we are entitled to carry the CE marking that denotes conformity with health, safety and environmental protection standards for products sold within the European Economic Area. At Ormat, we offer a variety of short- and long-term unique services. Customer service at the Company is managed by our After sales and Product support Group, which is part of the Business Development and Sales Group. Our Product support department collects, addresses, and manages relevant requests from our various customers around the world. Ormat prides itself on its strong base of repeat customers, which is due to the strength of our energy solutions and technology and the quality of our customer service relations that is characterized by regular and productive communications with customers. As a Company that is both an operator as well as an equipment manufacturer, we have a unique advantage in the market to share our operational experience and provide a better experience for our customers. Some of these methods of communication include: ..Continuous contact with direct customer service representatives - each customer has a direct line of contact with the team regarding any issue that might arise and to maintain an ongoing dialogue. ..Newsletters – we publish newsletters in which we suggest recommendations for different types of improvements to products and services. ..Workshops and Webinars – Ormat organizes and hosts several different client workshops or webinars in different countries periodically. The workshop aims to share Ormat Operation and Maintenance experience, address different operations issues, discuss improvements and upgrades, and present innovations in Ormat’s technology. ..General customer service requests – we answer general requests submitted through other channels such as ones directed to our international Customer Service department through our website on the "Contact Us" page which offers an online form and other forms of contact. Ormat’s policy is to address all our customer service requests in a timely and suitable manner to promote the continued satisfaction of our global customer base.