CHAPTER III. ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT Ormat’s 2018 sustainability report highlights our environmental, social and governance (ESG)-related measures, initiatives and activities for the period of January 2018 through December 2018, i.e. the reporting period. This is the Company’s inaugural sustainability report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.12 To assist readers in locating relevant information throughout the report, we provide a GRI content index on pages 102-121 of this report. In addition, the report references the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) reporting standards for Electric Utilities and Power Generators.13 Previously, the Company generated sustainability briefs and/or updates for our stakeholders, based in principle on the GRI Standards, for the years 2010-2017. All previous sustainability publications are available on the Company’s website at the following link.14 The most recent sustainability report published covered the period of 2016-2017. This is the first sustainability report compiled in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option and there are no restatements of information that have to do with mergers or acquisitions, changes in base years or periods, changes in the nature of business, or changes in measurement methods. As such, the only significant and notable change from previous reporting periods is the application of the GRI Standards to the organization’s sustainability reporting framework. Specifically, there are no changes in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries as this is the first time that the organization is conducting a materiality assessment and defining topic Boundaries per the GRI Standards. Following this report, we intend to publish a sustainability report on an annual basis, as opposed to our former practice of publishing a sustainability brief and/or update on a biennial basis. In compiling this report, Ormat has followed the GRI’s requirements and recommendations in defining the reporting Boundaries, as outlined in the section below. We have taken into account our material entities over which the Company has control, including those in which we have significant influence over the activities that are material for the Company according to their economic, environmental and social aspects. For the purposes of this report, “Ormat” “We”, “Our”, “Us”, or “the Company” refer to the U.S.-based Company Ormat Technologies Inc. and its controlled entities that are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Details  regarding  the  entities  included  in  our  consolidated  financial statements  can  be found  in our Annual Report filed with the SEC at the following link.15 All of the entities included in our consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents are covered by this report, unless otherwise noted. Ormat obtains independent external assurance of its annual financial information, the annual accounts and management reports (individual and consolidated with those of its controlled entities) by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has served as the Company’s auditor since 1988. We did not receive external assurance for this, our first sustainability report compiled in accordance with the GRI Standards’ Core option, but we are considering to secure external assurance for the data reported in our forthcoming sustainability reports. INFORMATION BOUNDARIES OF THIS REPORT Unless otherwise noted, this report includes environmental and social data from internal systems and information from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 and is focused on our material operations that includes our operations in: the United States, Israel, Turkey, Honduras, Guatemala, Guadeloupe (French Caribbean) and Kenya. Ormat has operations or holdings in other locations such as Indonesia, which are not operationally material and hence the data/detailed analysis is not included in this report unless otherwise mentioned. All of the financial or economic information is disclosed according to our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which should be referred to in case of any discrepancies. This sustainability report focuses on the environmental and social topics that are material and relevant to Ormat’s operations and business, and which are of greatest interest to our stakeholders. The content presented in the report was prioritized through a process of research and consideration of a variety of sources including feedback from our groups of stakeholders, the GRI Standards, including its Reporting Principles for defining report content, which include: Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness, and the Reporting Principles for defining report quality, which include: Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness. In addition, we roughly consulted the SASB sector-relevant standards, and other relevant third-party sustainability reporting frameworks. We expect the content and data quality of our report to improve and evolve moving forward as we further develop our sustainability strategy and as we continue to receive relevant and worthy feedback from our stakeholders. CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS 12 According to the Global Reporting Initiative, “Consolidated Set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016.” The Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). The Standard applied is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018. 13 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, “Electric Utilities & Power Generators Sustainability Accounting Standard,” Industry Standard Version 2018-10. REGARDING THIS REPORT We have strived to provide all of the relevant data and information regarding our sustainability performance and activities for 2018 in the scope of this report. Stakeholders who are interested in understanding or clarifying the information presented, or who have questions regarding the content of the report, can contact us through one of the following channels: Mail requests: Ormat Technologies, Inc. 6140 Plumas Street Reno, NV 89519-6075 U.S. Requests for general information: info@ormat.com Requests for sustainability-related information: sustainability@ormat.com Online form: www.ormat.com/en/company/ contact/main FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may contain “forward.looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve estimates, expectations, projections, goals, objectives, assumptions and risks, and activities, events and developments that may or will occur in the future. When used in or during the course of this report, the words “may”, “will”, “could”, “should”, “expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “predicts”,  “projects”,  “thinks”,  “forecasts”,  “guidance”,  “continue”,  “goal”,  “outlook”,  “potential,”  “prospect” or “target”, or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements statements about our business strategy; statements about Ormat’s competitive strengths; statements about Ormat’s development and operation of electricity generation, storage and energy management assets, including distributed energy resources; statements about Ormat’s other plans, expectations, objectives and targets; statements about Ormat’s views on market and industry developments and economic conditions, and the growth of the markets in which Ormat conducts its business; and statements about the growth and diversification of Ormat’s customer base and Ormat’s future revenues, expenses, earnings, capital expenditures, regional market penetration, electricity generation, and other operational performance metrics, among others. All of these and other forward-looking statements made in or during the course of this report are made only as of the date hereof and Ormat undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the expectations, projections and other forward-looking statements made in or during the course of this report as actual future results and developments may differ materially from such expectations, projections and forward-looking statements due to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Ormat’s control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, the risks, uncertainties and other factors described in Ormat Technologies, Inc.’s Form 10-K filed with the SEC from time to time, in Ormat’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the SEC. contain such words  or  expressions.  Such  forward-looking  statements  include,  but  are  not  limited  to: 