CHAPTER VI. OUR HOLISTIC APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT MAKING SOUND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A PRIORITY Sound corporate governance is a top priority for Ormat due to our nature as a publicly traded and global renewable energy Company. Furthermore, as part of our web of global operations and due to the nature of our business, our success is also dependent on the approval of regulators and policymakers for issuing permits and approving the development, construction and operation of our power plants. In addition, we work with a number of major financing institutions in order to fund the construction of our plants, which necessitates that we maintain a transparent and open approach to disclosure regarding our corporate governance and economic management practices. Finally, we believe that sound corporate governance is important as it maintains our level of accountability and disclosure with our stakeholders. Therefore, at Ormat we devote significant resources to managing corporate governance and, where possible, toward improving our performance or our level of disclosure. The topic of corporate governance is managed and defined based on Ormat’s values, which are outlined at the beginning of this report in “An Organization Shaped by Values” chapter. The five values that define Ormat are fully reflected in the way that we do business and interact with our stakeholders every day and in every location. For us, corporate governance is defined by honesty, openness and fairness and we expect all of our employees, managers and directors to exhibit these qualities at all times. Nearly all of our employees and managers received at least one hour of focused training on relevant corporate governance practices, such as our Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and more. Ormat intends for 100 percent of our employees to receive training on relevant corporate governance practices. OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are made publicly available on our website at the following link80, outline the expectations from management and the Board of Directors to monitor and measure the effectiveness of policy and decision-making in order to enhance stockholder value for the long-term. The policy was adopted by Ormat’s Board of Directors and is periodically reviewed by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. The policy manages and outlines Ormat’s procedures on the following topics: board composition including guidelines for the selection, responsibilities and remuneration determination for the board members; guidelines for board meetings; management of committee matters; board responsibilities; and expectations from directors. The policy outlines Ormat’s criteria for determining director independence and the Company’s commitment to, at minimum, a majority of independent directors on the Board. The policy describes the responsibilities of the various Board of Directors’ committees: Audit Committees, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Each of these committees has their own separate charter that governs the topics and procedures of each of the committees, and which are publicly available on the “Governance” page of our website81. Finally, the policy describes the responsibilities of the Board of Directors, which include: evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), succession planning, reviewing and approving significant transactions and analysis of shareholder proposals, among other responsibilities. As of the publication of this report, Ormat’s Board of Directors did not have a Corporate Social Responsibility or Sustainability Committee on the Board of Directors. In addition, Ormat’s Board of Directors adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Executives in 2004, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and out of the belief that proper, honest and ethical employee conduct are essential to the success of our Company. The Code can be accessed on our website at the following link82. The Code applies to all of Ormat’s senior executives. The Code outlines our expectations of senior executives including a commitment to honest and ethical conduct and handling of affairs, to advance the Company’s business by legitimate means, to refrain from fraudulent or corrupt activities and to provide full disclosure regarding any of the Company’s reports or documents. Senior executives are requested to report any violations of the Code to the Secretary, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors, and violations of the Code are subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of service. Any revisions, changes or waivers to the Code must be approved by the Board of Directors or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Senior executives are required to sign and formally acknowledge the Code as part of their employment contract. Senior executives are also expected to follow Ormat’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applicable to all employees. ORMAT’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Ormat is a publicly traded Company managed by a fully independent 80 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines%20-%20Final.pdf 81 https://www.ormat.com/en/company/welcome/governance/ 82 www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/CODE%20OF%20ETHICS%20APPLICABLE%20TO%20SENIOR%20EXECUTIVES.pdf Board of Directors made up of nine members. The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, Investment Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Ormat has a dividend policy designed to distribute at least 20 percent of annual profits (available for distribution, if approved by our Board of Directors) by way of environmental and social topics are distributed amongst various senior executives,and not necessarily among the board of directors, according to their relevance to the executive role. For instance, our Executive Vice President of Market Development is responsible for assessing related risks and opportunities arising from Ormat’s engagement with economic, environmental and social topics. In addition, some senior roles are purely devoted to such issues, such as our Global VP Quality, Health, Environment & Safety and the newly established position of Sustainability Manager. These senior executives and relevant managers report to Senior Management and/or the Board of Directors on a periodic basis and as needed, based on their determination on the necessity of such updates regarding economic, environmental or social matters. quarterly  dividends  to  registered  shareholders.  Responsibilities  for  economic,  ORMAT’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ormat’s nine board members are comprised of two women and seven men and a diverse range of ages and nationalities are represented. The majority of Ormat’s directors are from the United States or Israel. Details on our directors are outlined below. Director  Position on Ormat’s Board of Directors  Membership in Committees  Gender  Date Joined  Todd C. Freeland  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Independent Director  Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance (Chair)  Male  July 2017  Stanley B. Stern  Independent Director  Audit  Male  November 2015  Yuichi Nishigori  Independent Director  Investment  Male  July 2017  Audit, Compensation, Nominating  David Granot  Independent Director  and Corporate Governance,  Male  May 2012  Investment (Chair)  Ravit Barniv  Independent Director  Compensation (Chair), Nominating and Corporate Governance, Investment  Female  November 2015  Dafna Sharir  Independent Director  Female  May 2018  Dan Falk  Independent Director  Audit (Chair), Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance  Male  November 2004  Byron Wong  Independent Director  Audit  Male  July 2017  Stan H. Koyanagi  Independent Director  Male  Juyl 2017  The Board of Directors’ main responsibility is to provide direction and oversight. The Board establishes Ormat’s strategic direction and oversees the performance of its business and management of any relevant economic, environmental and social impacts. The Chairman of the high governance body is not an executive officer in the organization. Ormat’s senior management is responsible for the development, approval, and updating of Ormat’s purpose, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics. For instance, management is responsible for approving Ormat’s corporate-level policies and periodically reviews environmental and social impact assessments and action plans for our power plants. In addition, the Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing strategies and goals relating to corporate governance, economic, environmental and social issues and for setting the level of expectation from the Company and its employees regarding these issues. The Board is occasionally and on a case-to-case basis updated on progress with regards to Ormat’s economic, environmental and social performance by the relevant managers and responsible parties within the Company. The Board is responsible for periodically, and at least annually, conducting a self-evaluation. The Board and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are responsible for establishing the evaluation criteria and overseeing the implementation of the process for such evaluation. If needed, actions are periodically taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. In 2018, no material actions were taken in response to evaluations of the highest governance body’s performance, particularly with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Ormat’s Board of Directors Committees As mentioned, Ormat’s Board of Directors has three committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. More information on the committees that make up Ormat’s Board of Directors can be found in our Annual Report at the following link.83 The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to: the integrity of Ormat’s financial statements; the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting; Ormat’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; the independence and qualifications of Ormat’s independent auditor; and performance of the Company’s internal audit functions. The committee is made up of at least three directors who meet the appropriate independence and experience considerations as outlined by the standards of the New York Stock Exchange. More information on the Audit Committee is available in the Company’s Audit Committee Charter at the following link.84 The Compensation Committee’s purpose is to be responsible for the Company’s overall compensation philosophy and assists the Board of Directors in its oversight responsibilities with respect to the compensation of Ormat’s Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers and directors, including all compensation plans, policies and programs that are subject to Board approval. The Compensation Committee is also responsible for annually reviewing and approving corporate goals and objectives relevant to the CEO and executive officers, for making recommendations to the Board with respect to the adoption, amendment, termination or replacement of incentive-compensation plans, equity-based plans, revenue sharing plans or other relevant plans maintained by the Company, and for overseeing the Company’s compliance with SEC rules and regulations regarding shareholder approval of certain executive compensation matters, among other topics. The committee is made up of at least three directors who meet the relevant independence considerations, as outlined per the regulations mentioned above. More information on the Compensation Committee is available in the Company’s Compensation Committee Charter at the following link.85 The purpose of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in identifying qualified individuals to become members of the Board, for selecting or recommending the Board director nominees, developing and recommending to the Board’s corporate governance guidelines and for overseeing the evaluation of the Board and executive management. The committee provides the Board with guidance with respect to their oversight of and involvement in shareholder engagement, reviewing the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and monitoring compliance with the guidelines, and making independence considerations regarding Board members, among other responsibilities. The committee is made up of at least three directors who meet the relevant independence considerations, as outlined per the SEC regulations detailed above. More information on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is available in the Company’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter at the following link.86 83 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 84 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Audit%20Committee%20Charter%20-%20Final.pdf 85 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Compensation%20Committee%20Charter%20-%20Final%20.pdf 86 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines%20-%20Final.pdf ORMAT’S EXECUTIVE  Ormat  prides  itself  on  a  highly  MANAGEMENT  qualified  and  experienced  executive  management team of seven members.  Each  position  on  the  executive  The following details information on our executive management team: Executive Officer  Position  Gender  Date Assumed Position  Isaac Angel  Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  Male  July 2014  Doron Blachar  Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  Male  April 2013  Zvi Krieger  Executive Vice President - Electricity Segment  Male  July 2014  Bob Sullivan  Executive Vice President - Business Development Sales & Marketing  Male  July 2015  Shlomi Argas  Executive Vice President - Product Segment and Operations  Male  January 2018  Nir Wolf  Executive Vice President - Market Development  Male  January 2015  Hezi Kattan  General Council & Chief Compliance Officer (CCO)  Male  February 2018  Ormat’s executive management team, including the Chief Executive Office and the Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for setting Ormat’s business strategy and direction together with the Board of Directors, for setting the Company’s performance goals and KPIs and for the general management of the Company’s employees, stakeholder matters and affairs. Each member of the executive management team is screened for the relevant experience and knowledge that is needed to perform their role fully. Similarly, all executive managers undergo performance reviews and are provided with training or access to educational opportunities on topics that are most relevant to their professional dealings. All executive managers have similar grievance and consultation mechanisms available to them as do Ormat’s employees, as outlined in the “Our People: Employment and Skill Development at Ormat” chapter. Remuneration Policies The responsibility of reviewing and recommending to the full Board the form and amounts of compensation and benefits for non-employee directors lies with Ormat’s Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee management team is designed to serve a designated function that addresses Ormat’s business needs and requests from our key groups of stakeholders. is comprised of at least three directors, each of whom meets the independence requirements under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. At least two members of the Committee will also qualify as “non-employee directors” within under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Members of the Committee, including the Chair of the Committee are appointed by the Board based upon the recommendations of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. In making its recommendations, the Compensation Committee seeks to fairly compensate directors at levels that are competitive with other companies in the industries in which Ormat competes and to align directors’ interests with the long.term interests of our stockholders. In its deliberations, the Committee and the Board consider whether the levels of director compensation could impair independence and critically evaluate any consulting, charitable contribution or other potentially indirect compensation arrangements. The Committee also approves and makes recommendations regarding the appropriate compensation for Board members, which may include equity-based rewards,87 retainers, committee chair fees, stock options and similar items. In addition, the Compensation Committee is responsible for setting corporate goals and objectives relevant to the CEO’s and executive managers’ compensation, including the responsibility of assessing their performance in light of the set goals and objectives. In determining their level of compensation, the Compensation Committee considers a number of factors such as the Company’s performance and relative shareholder return, the value of similar incentive awards to the CEO and executive officers at comparable companies and the awards bestowed by the Company to the CEO and executive offices in past years. In addition, the Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving aspects of the CEO and executive officers’ compensation based on incentive awards and opportunities, including cash-based and equity-based awards and opportunities, any employment agreements and severance agreements, change.in-control agreements, severance protection plans and change-in.control provisions affecting the level of compensation and benefits, and any special supplementary compensation and benefits for the CEO and executive officers. Furthermore, and as per SEC regulations, the Committee reviews and discusses the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) that is included in the Company’s annual proxy statement and Form 10-K at the following link.88 Finally, Ormat strives to provide a competitive compensation and benefits package to all our employees, including our executive managers. Benefits are tailored to the needs of our employees and their families at our global locations and may vary from country to country, but may include: • Health, Dental and Vision insurance Retirement • Short Term and Long Term Disability • Life Insurance • Wellness programs More information on employee benefits is outlined in the “ Our People: Employment and Skill Development at Ormat” chapter of this report. Stock-based Awards Ormat offers its employees stock-based awards according to its Incentive Compensation Plan. In May 2018, Ormat’s shareholders adopted the 2018 Incentive Plan, which provides for grants of certain kinds of awards including incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock units, performance awards, phantom stock, incentive bonuses and other possible related dividend payments to employees of the Company, directors and independent contractors. The 2012 Incentive Plan expired in May 2018 with the adoption of the 2018 Incentive Compensation Plan, except for stock-based awards that were outstanding under the 2012 Incentive Plan. The 2018 Incentive Compensation 87 Including pursuant to the company’s equity-based plans. 88 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 Plan was adopted and approved at the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The amended plan continues the majority of the benefits outlined in the 2012 plan. Under the 2018 Incentive Plan, a total of 5,000,000 shares of Ormat’s common stock were authorized and reserved for issuance, all of which could be issued as options or as other forms of awards. The term of stock-based awards typically ranges from six to ten years from the grant date. ENSURING A CORRUPTION.FREE WORK ENVIRONMENT As part of Ormat’s commitments to sound corporate governance and its values of Stability and Full Commitment, which are a central part of our mission, we work to ensure that all of our activities are free from corrupt practices and that our employees are well-informed of our expectations regarding ethical behavior. Ormat’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Executives, and Anti-Corruption Policy outline our relevant corporate governance practices regarding anti-corruption and the expectations our Company has for good governance and business practices. All of Ormat’s corporate governance policy documents can be found on our website on the “Governance” page.89 All new Ormat employees and senior officers of the Company must sign a compliance certificate stating their intention to uphold these standards, as a condition of employment. Ormat operates in many countries and conducts business around the world. Various laws require conduct in international business to meet certain standards. Ormat, including its personnel and agents (wherever they are located), is obligated to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Anti-Corruption Policy applies to Ormat directors, officers, employees, third-party representatives, partners, agents and any other providers of services to Ormat. The basic policy is simple: Ormat persons are not to receive, pay, nor to permit a third party conducting business on Ormat’s behalf to receive or pay, bribes from or to anyone, at any time, for any reason. Furthermore, the policy outlines definitions of key terms so that they are clear to employees, such as what “bribes” and “facilitation payments” are, what could be considered “knowledge” of corrupt practices and how relevant concerns should be reported, and guidelines regarding business gifts, travel and entertainment. The policy also describes Ormat’s procedures for providing training to employees on topics of anti-corruption, how Ormat’s directors, officers and employees can be certified for anti-corruption compliance in their various professional functions, relevant methods for conducting due diligence on anti-corruption measures with third parties and conditions for implementation of the policy. Ormat has an Anti-Corruption Committee composed of senior management representatives from various disciplines who oversee implementation of the Anti-Corruption Policy including the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Executive Vice President of Business Development and Sales and other members that are designated by Company management from time to time. Ormat’s Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the CEO and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for certain matters, including those that pertain to anti-corruption. Ormat’s Anti-Corruption Policy was initially adopted by the Board of Directors in 2016 and executive officers hold responsibility for daily implementation of the policy. Directors, executive managers, employees, contractors or other stakeholders are requested to report any suspected violations of the Anti-Corruption Policy to the Anti-Corruption Committee and failure to do so could result in termination of employment or of other contractual relationships. Retaliation is not taken against any actor who, in good faith, reports suspected policy violations. Ormat is committed to investigating and reporting all concerns according to the outlined grievance management mechanism. In addition, we offer a range of reporting tools for employees including escalating issues through management, whistleblowing mechanisms, and a dedicated telephone line and website for confidential reporting of concerns about unethical behavior (see below). COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMITMENTS Ormat’s Anti-Corruption Committee holds the principle responsibility for managing the anti-corruption training programs at the Company. Ormat communicates its Anti-Corruption Policy clearly to its employees as part of their employment contract and in dealings with the organization, and the policy is publicly communicated on Ormat’s website at the following link.90 All of Ormat’s new employees are required to undergo ethics and corporate governance trainings that include, among other topics, trainings on how to identify corrupt practices and/or bribery. The goal is to ensure that all of Ormat’s employees fully understand  what  constitutes  a  corrupt practice  or  a  bribe and to  become  aware  of  how  they  are  expected to behave or handle ethical dilemmas according to the Company’s guidelines and policies. 89 https://www.ormat.com/en/company/welcome/governance/ 90 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Anti-Corruption%20Policy.pdf Insider Trading Policy Ormat adopted an Insider Trading Policy in 2016 that is publicly available on our website at the following link.91 The Insider Training Policy was established in order to promote compliance with securities laws that prohibit individuals with material, non-public information from trading securities of the Company, providing such information to unauthorized persons who may trade securities of the Company based on the information and restrictions on making recommendations or expressing opinions as to buying, selling, holding or engaging in transactions with the Company’s securities. As such, the policy restricts certain kinds of transactions that involve Ormat’s securities and is considered a supplement to other confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements that the Company issues. The policy is administered and managed by Ormat’s Secretary, who is also the contact person for concerns or grievances regarding the policy. The policy applies to all of Ormat’s employees, officers, directors, family members or controlled entities of any employee, officer or director of Ormat companies, and consultants, advisors, agents, contractors, temporary, loaned, contracted or seconded employees or other persons who enter into a contractual agreement with Ormat. The policy relates to the kinds of information that can be considered material and non-public, as well as the prohibited activities for those whom are exposed to such information with regards to trading securities. Employees, directors and officers are required to sign and acknowledge the policy as a condition to their employment with Ormat. Ethical Conduct at Ormat Ormat upholds a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that was last amended in January 2013.92 The purpose of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is to promote and encourage honest and ethical conduct,  the Audit Committee of the Board of  to promote the protection and proper  Directors. For all other officers and  use of Ormat’s assets, to maintain the  employees, the Code of Ethics Contact  confidentiality of information that is  person is Ormat’s Secretary, except in  acquired in the course of business, to  cases when it is deemed inappropriate  promote compliance with applicable  to involve the Secretary, at which time  laws and regulations and to encourage  employees may file their requests with  timely reporting of any illegal or ethical  the Chairman of the Audit Committee.  behavior. All of Ormat’s employees,  Employees and officers are encouraged  directors and officers are subject to the  to consult with their direct manager  Code, and the employees are expected  regarding the appropriate course of  to adhere and comply with the Code  action to address an ethical dilemma or  and are required to sign a compliance  in addressing an instance of potential  certificate confirming they have  misconduct. Employees, directors and  understood all of Ormat’s expectations.  officers who fail to report unethical  conduct are in violation of the Code  In the Code, Ormat outlines its  and consequences may be taken by  expectations regarding honest  Ormat as a result, depending on the  and candid conduct, which are  severity of the incident.  cornerstones of the way that Ormat  conducts its business around the  Ormat upholds a policy of no  world. The Code outlines guidelines  retaliation on any director, officer, or  for handling of conflicts of interest  employee by any other actor at the  in the context of loans or corporate  Company for reporting existing or  opportunities, compliance with the  potential violations of the Code. Any  law, as well as regulations and laws  director, officer or employee who is  that govern Ormat’s internal business  involved in retaliation or who makes  practices, such as details on the  deliberately false reports may be  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The  subject to serious disciplinary action  Code also outlines how Ormat expects  or sanctions. However, Ormat does  its employees, directors and officers  seek to ensure that all such reports  to handle the disclosure of sensitive  are made in good faith.  Company information, engage in  We also maintain an anonymous  record-keeping and maintain an internal  whistleblower ethics hotline for  control structure, uphold restrictions  reporting concerns or real breaches  on the receipt of gifts, gratuities and  of the Code at a toll-free number (in  entertainment, as well as relevant  the U.S.): 1-866-294-5535 and at the  aspects relating to ethical conduct that  Company’s third-party whistleblower  are considered during the employment  website at www.ethicspoint.com.  and hiring processes.  Based on the information collected  Ormat’s full Code of Business Conduct  through these communications  and Ethics and the requirements and  channels, we received one grievance  expectations of employees and senior  during 2018. However, following  management outlined therein can be  internal investigation into the nature  93found at the following link.  of the grievance, it was determined  that it was nonmaterial and no further  Whistleblower Policy  action was taken.  The contact person for ethical concerns  varies for different employees according  to their position within the Company.  The contact person for directors and  senior executives is the Chairman of  91 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Insider%20Trading%20Policy.pdf 92 The guidelines for ethical conduct were originally set when Ormat was established in 1965 as Ormat Turbines Ltd. (later renamed Ormat Industries). They were formalized in 2004 when Ormat was officially listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 93 www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/CODE%20OF%20BUSINESS%20CONDUCT%20AND%20ETHICS.pdf OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS ABOUT OUR BUSINESS Ormat staunchly believes that as the provider of energy solutions, and namely renewable energy solutions, we have a central role in the global economy and in ensuring the sustainable development of communities. The energy market is one of the most significant factors within the global economy as it enables economic growth and development, creates jobs, develops critical infrastructure, generates long.term value and enables the very nature of our modern society. With traditional fossil fuel-based energy sources facing increasing regulation and scrutiny from governments, policymakers and the general public, the renewable energy market is becoming increasingly lucrative and in many respects is out.performing the “non-renewable” energy market economically. As a leading vertically integrated Company primarily engaged in the geothermal and recovered energy business, Ormat plays a significant role within the global renewable energy market generally, and the geothermal energy market particularly. Renewable energy is sustainable and clean, emitting negligible amounts of CO2 and not requiring the use of non-renewable energy sources. These environmental benefits have led major countries to focus their efforts on the development of renewable energy sources in general, and geothermal energy, specifically. As such, Ormat has and continues to see significant economic benefits from its business activities, allowing the Company to issue profitable stock offerings and become a publicly traded Company on leading stock exchanges, such as the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE) since 199194 and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) since 2004.95 In addition, Ormat is part of the following indices: CRSP, Dow Jones, FTSE, Morningstar, MSCI, NASDAQ, Russell 2000, 2500 and 3000, S&P, TASE, Wilshire 5000, WisdomTree and WisdomTree U.S. Our electricity segment is the core of our business, accounting for 71 percent of our total revenues. The vast majority of revenue from this segment originates in the United States – 60 percent -with the remaining 40 percent coming from the rest of the world. According to the International Geothermal Association (IGA), geothermal power is generated in 27 countries with a total installed power generation capacity of 14,600 MW as of the end of 2018.96 Having realized the importance of renewable energy, including geothermal alternatives, various governments have been preparing regulatory frameworks and policies, and providing incentives to develop the sector, which Ormat views as a positive opportunity for its business. In addition and in the United States in particular, a number of states and territories have renewable portfolio goals or laws that encourage or require utilities to generate or buy a percentage of their electricity from renewable energy or recovered energy sources. In addition to our geothermal power generation activities, we pursue relevant recovered energy-based power generation opportunities in North America and other locations. We believe recovered energy-based power generation (known as “REG” in other Company publications) will ultimately benefit from the efforts to reduce GHG emissions. We have built 23 power plants that generate electricity utilizing “waste heat” from gas turbine-driven compressor stations along interstate natural gas pipelines, from midstream and gas processing facilities, and from other applications. A number of U.S. states, and to a certain extent the federal government, have recognized the environmental benefits of recovered energy-based power generation, with a number of states allowing utilities to include recovered energy-based power generation in calculating their compliance with renewable portfolio goals and incentives. Generally, there is an increase in the use of renewable energy solutions due to various tax incentives for utilities, as well as the decline in the price of renewable solutions, such as for Solar PV. However, one of the biggest challenges in the deployment of effective renewable energy solutions is that the supply can be unstable (due to environmental or atmospheric conditions). As a result, energy management, and especially energy storage, is becoming a key component in the future electrical grid, which is why Ormat is actively investing in the deployment and development of energy storage and management solutions. The Company’s first real step into the energy storage and management market was the acquisition of Viridity Energy Inc. As a central player in the geothermal and renewable energy markets through our diverse global presence, we plan to continue to develop our business and seek out relevant opportunities to improve our economic performance for shareholders, while also making meaningful and effective contributions to the renewable energy market. Our business strategy is outlined below. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy is to continue building a geographically balanced portfolio of geothermal and recovered energy 94 Under the ticker “ORA”. 95 Under the ticker “ORA”. 96 https://www.geothermal-energy.org/beyond-electricity-geothermal-energy-development-is-picking-up/ assets, and to continue to be a leader in the geothermal energy market with the objective of becoming a leading global provider of renewable energy. Since 2015, we have implemented a number of the elements of a new multi-year strategic plan. The strategic plan was approved and is consistently reviewed in consultation with Ormat’s senior management team. The strategic plan is developed based on an understanding of our risks and opportunities – an assessment that is conducted with assistance from external consultants – and our professional expertise and knowledge about the renewable energy market. We expect the plan to evolve over time in response to market conditions and other factors. MANAGEMENT OF ECONOMICS AND FINANCE AT ORMAT The topics of economics and finance at Ormat is managed by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and the Finance Department’s managers and employees. These individuals are responsible for reporting to the Board of Directors and shareholders, through our Investor Relations department regarding Ormat’s economic performance and regarding any relevant financial issues. Furthermore, and together with management, these individuals are responsible for preparing Ormat’s annual, quarterly and periodic financial and annual reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All of our SEC filings, including the Company’s 10K, 10Q and other relevant documents are available to the public both on the SEC website97 and on our Investor Relations page.98 Our shareholders are consistently provided with current and exact information on our economic and financial performance. We regularly hold earnings calls that all of our global shareholders can access online along with the Company’s earnings call presentation. In addition, our Investor Relations team issues email notifications, alerts and news regarding Ormat’s financial performance or any major Company events on a regular basis through a list of registered subscribers. In all of our communication and interaction with shareholders, we aim to provide top.of-the-line service while adequately and appropriately addressing their requests. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 2018 In 2018, Ormat continued to experience strong revenues and operational growth. Overall, total revenues from all segments increased by approximately US$ 26 million – representing an increase of approximately 4 percent compared to our revenues in 2017. These advances are built on our well-established energy assets with long-term PPAs through which we sell electricity primarily to large utility clients and the provision of advanced energy management and storage solutions. During 2018, the electrical generating capacity of facilities that we own and operate expanded by approximately 115 MW from 795 MW at YE 2017 to 910 MW, representing a growth rate of nearly 15 percent in our generating capacity. The growth in the electricity segment is due to a number of factors, namely the completion of a number of expansion projects in our existing geothermal power plants, such 97 https://www.sec.gov/ 98 https://investor.ormat.com/Docs 99 https://investor.ormat.com/Doc/Index?did=50940528 as a major expansion of third phase at our McGinness Hills complex increasing the complex capacity by 48MW to a total of 140MW, expansion at our Olkaria III complex in Kenya that increased the generating capacity by 11 MW to a total of 150 MW, and the completion of the third phase at the Sarulla complex in Indonesia that allowed the plant to reach its full generating capacity of 330 MW. The expansion and improvement of our existing power plants contributes to helping us achieve our strategic goals, but also significantly contributes to our revenues and economic success over time. The data presented in the table below details the direct economic value generated, distributed and retained by the Company in 2017-2018. More information and data regarding our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report filed with the SEC for 2018, which can be accessed at the following link.99 Direct economic value generated, distributed and retained (USD$ thousands)  2018 (US$ thousands)  2017 (US$ thousands)  Revenue100 (sales and other income)  719,267  692,812  Operating costs (excluding employee–related expenses)101  269,323  260,383  Employee wages and benefits102  113,343  108,043  Payments to providers of capital103  80,698  60,995  Payments to governments, by country104  18,023  21,878  Community investments  726  236  Economic Value Distributed  482,118  451,535  Economic Value Retained  237,149  241,277  The following presents our net revenues for 2017-2018, comparatively, according to geographical location. Location  2018 (US$ thousands)  2017 (US$ thousands)  United States  328,606  301,132  Kenya  119,094  110,243  Turkey  168,699  125,166  Guatemala  27,975  27,991  Other foreign countries  74,893  128,280  Consolidated Total  719,267  692,812  100 “Revenue” is defined as net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets. For Ormat, revenues are generated from our electricity, product and other segments. Net sales is calculated as gross sales from products and services minus returns, discounts and allowances. 101 “Operating costs” refers to operating expenses including cost of revenues, research and development (R&D), selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. 102 “Employee wages and benefits” refers to total payroll and social benefits less non-operating expenses such as the amortization of employees’ stock options. 103 “Payments to providers of capital” refers to interest net of interest capitalized and cash dividends paid. 104 “Payments to governments, by country” refers to income taxes, net paid by Ormat. Ormat has not reported this data according to country in the current report, but plans to do so in forthcoming reports. Ormat did not pay any penalties in 2018 or 2017. OUR RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH As a global Company and publicly traded entity, we place equal weight on the management of pertinent risks and the pursuit of relevant revenue generation opportunities. Our executive management team works in close cooperation with all of our major operational locations to identify and deal with relevant risks and to implement appropriate methodologies for addressing such risks. As such, our risk management process has several key levels of analysis: by our project teams and major operations; by Company management and through assignment of responsibilities; through our management of know-how and skills relevant to the various disciplines that help us achieve our targets as a vertically-integrated Company; and through other relevant controls and measures for our business, such as audit and regulatory functions. Our methodology for identifying relevant risks involves mapping the control environment of our corporate and business infrastructure including the main activities that we pursue. Our business units are categorized and mapped into several tiers, and within these tiers we map relevant business processes. In order to understand relevant risks for each of these processes, we develop risk ranking criteria that look at both the level of impact and the likelihood of occurrence. Based on this system, we conduct our risk assessment among the various business units and operations through either meetings with the process owners or through questionnaires and distribution of a list of risks to relevant parties. The identified risks are further ranked and validated by the process owners and relevant members of management resulting in a risk profile and priorities (per business unit/business process), eventually resulting in our plan for management of those risks. Relevant Risks Our main business risks are detailed in our 10Q report filed with the SEC. Our 10Q report for 2018 can be accessed at the following link.105 We consider potential risks from climate change and to the environment according to the precautionary approach for risk management with regards to our products and services.106 In identifying relevant risks from climate change that could potentially result in substantive changes to our operations, revenue, and expenditures, we seek to minimize these risks and address them either through our model of engagement, physical infrastructure and operations, or in the on-going management and operations of our plants and our Company. Based on our assessment as of 2018, Ormat is not exposed to any special physical risk from climate change as the power plant’s productivity is not expected to be materially affected as a result of climate change. Our equipment is designed to withstand extreme weather events and is largely independent and isolated from weather-related impacts. Furthermore, as a resource, geothermal energy is not dependent on weather-related impacts as its heat source is located underground; however, rising ambient temperatures due to climate change-related impacts may have effects on electricity generation capacity in geothermal units. Additionally, Recovered Energy units may be affected when winter temperatures are higher than average as it reduces the gas flow and, like all structures, power plants are likely to be affected by extreme weather occurrences such as hurricanes and tornadoes, which are unavoidable. With regards to rising sea levels, almost all of our power plants are located in areas that are not expected to be affected by rising sea levels. In terms of risk management in the geothermal exploration process, Ormat’s Resource Department is comprised of an experienced team of geologists, geophysicists and engineers who are dedicated to assessing, exploring, developing and managing geothermal reservoirs in the context of our projects or potential projects. The risk management process for the exploration phase begins with in-depth research on the geothermal reservoir including where the reservoir is located in the potential plant area in order to identify and assess early in the process potential physical, social or environmental risks. If a site is deemed to be relevant, the Resource Department begins the surface exploration process at the site whereby they initiate drilling in slim holes to determine the exact location of the geothermal reservoir and where to locate the plant. At each stage of the process, the Resource Department and Business Development teams assess the level of anticipated risk from pursuit of the geothermal resource as compared to the actual geothermal resource available and the potential for energy generation. Name of Entity  Type of Financing  Project  OPIC  Project finance loan  Platanares, Honduras  OPIC  Senior secured project finance loan  Olkaria III & IV  DEG  Credit agreement  Olkaria III, Kenya  U.S. DOE  Project finance loan - ARRA Section 1603  Neal Hot Springs, Oregon, U.S.  U.S. DOE and John Hancock  Project finance loan ARRA Section 1705  OFC-2 Geothermal Portfolio, Nevada, U.S.  105 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/399112405.pdf 106 The precautionary approach was introduced by the United Nations in Principle 15 of ‘The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development’. It states: ‘In order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.’ LOANS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT BANKS Ormat interacts directly with governments, their agencies and development banks in the context of constructing and operating our power plants around the world. Our methods and types of communication and engagement with government entities varies based on the legal and regulatory framework in the relevant country, Details on the projects and the loans: Ormat does not directly receive government grants and benefits from governments. Instead the subsidiary companies that are established in order to run and operate our power plants are able to receive subsidies from governments. More information on the relevant incentives received by our subsidiary companies can be found in the Annual Report at the following link.109 In the vast majority of cases governments and governmental entities are not part of Ormat’s shareholding structure. As of 2018, the only case was the Zunil power plant, in as well as the economic structure of the electricity generation market in that country. There are a number of governmental incentives, such as tax benefits or subsidies, for renewable energy generation that contribute to the attractiveness of our solutions. Ormat is also granted relevant tax benefits due to its development of the renewable energy sector. More information and a full assessment of the relevant tax benefits is available in our Annual Report at the following link.107 which the national electrical Company of Guatemala, Instituto Nacional de Electrificación (INDE), owned three percent. DEVELOPING RENEWABLE ENERGY AND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE The presence of Ormat’s operations around the world, including in various developing countries, has an inherently positive impact on environmental, economic and social levels, in that the projects provide a valuable source of renewable energy to support the country’s infrastructure development, Aside from tax benefits, a number of Ormat’s projects are funded with financial incentives and loans from prominent government and multilateral backed development financial institutions, such as the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the German Investment Corporation (DEG.)108, the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”), and the Asian Development Bank. create jobs and strengthen the country’s energy sector by helping to diversify its energy sources and move away from fossil-fuel to renewable energy and non.renewable domestic sources. Furthermore, and as outlined in the “Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures” Chapter of this report, in every location where Ormat operates, our presence has generated significant positive impacts through the creation of economic opportunities, development and employment benefits. For instance, geothermal energy provides numerous benefits to the U.S. 107 https://investor.ormat.com/Doc/Index?did=50940528 108 Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft. 109 https://investor.ormat.com/Doc/Index?did=50940528 economy, as was outlined in a recent report by the Geothermal Energy Association (GEA).110 According to the report, the economic benefits of a typical 30 MW geothermal plant can provide about US$150-225 million in inbound capital investment, create about 50 long-term jobs in order to operate the plant, resulting in surpluses in property taxes and royalties to the land owners as well as other social and economic benefits for the local community. Furthermore, and starting from the exploration phase for geothermal resources, Ormat attempts to assess the level of critical infrastructure – including roads and electricity transmission lines – that is needed in order to implement the project. This infrastructure remains a valuable resource for local communities regardless of the existence of the project, such as is the case with the development of local roads, water and electricity distribution systems. In addition to these significant indirect economic impacts, we play an active role in communities local to all our operations, including through philanthropic contributions and various community development activities as detailed above in the “Supporting and Shaping Sustainable Communities and Futures” Chapter. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS SUPPORTING OUR BUSINESS As a renewable energy Company, Ormat adheres to and benefits from a number of regulations that promote renewable energy either through different incentive models, and increasingly, by requiring the use of renewable energy in countries’ energy mixes. Some of the relevant environmental laws, regulations and incentives in our countries of operation are outlined in the below table.111 Location  Relevant Environmental Regulations  United States  • Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA) • Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA) • Federal Power Act (FPA) • California Environmental Quality Act • National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)  Guatemala  • General Electricity Law of 1996, Decree 93-96 • Technical Norms for the Connection, Operation, Control and Commercialization of Renewable Distributed Generation and Self-producers Users with Exceeding Amounts of Energy  Kenya  • Kenyan Energy Act  Honduras  • Law of Electrical Industry (Decree 404-2013) • Law of Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects  ORMAT’S SUPPLY CHAIN & PROCUREMENT PRACTICES As a global Company with operations in a number of different countries, Ormat has a diverse and dispersed supply chain that we responsibly manage through our Procurement Department. The Procurement Department is responsible for selecting, managing and assessing our supply chain as well as determining the conditions for working with various suppliers. Ormat engages with suppliers and subcontractors for two main purposes: for provision of materials, parts and services in manufacturing through our Procurement Department and for the construction, operation and maintenance of our power plants around the world. In addition, Ormat engages a small amount of service providers – such as lawyers, consultants and accountants – who advise Company management and the Board of Directors on certain issues. As such, Ormat’s supply chain consists of four different types of suppliers: electrical parts suppliers, suppliers of materials, suppliers of parts and service providers. As of 2018, Ormat worked with approximately 4,800 different suppliers. Ormat did not experience any significant changes to the organization that affected its supply chain in 2018. Furthermore, our Company has operations in over ten different countries, and as a result, we work with suppliers from around the world. Where possible, Ormat encourages and seeks out opportunities to work with local suppliers. However, due to Recovered Energy power plants, we are often required to import materials, parts and supplies that are not typically manufactured locally. the  technical  specifications  that  are  inherent  in  the  construction  of  complex  geothermal  and  We categorize our work with suppliers according to the level of spend with the supplier over the fiscal year. As such, Ormat encourages work with smaller suppliers that are categorized by the Procurement Department according to the level of spend and volume of business. Our “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” outlines our guidelines for directors, officers and employees that deal with or come into direct contact with suppliers. Some of the conditions that we outline include avoiding conflicts of interest in dealing with suppliers, relevant anti-trust considerations and maintaining the confidentiality of our terms and conditions with suppliers and our expectation of directors, officers and employees to deal fairly with suppliers. Furthermore, in our “Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety System Policy”, we outline our commitment to treating our suppliers, subcontractors and business partners with the utmost respect, while also assessing, in general, that those suppliers, subcontractors and business partners uphold relevant social, environmental and health and safety standards for their employees. Ormat has adopted a Conflict Minerals Policy, in compliance with the SEC’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (known as “the Conflict Minerals Rule”). Our Conflict Minerals Policy, available at the following link112, defines principles, commitments and expectations that extend to Ormat’s partners, subcontractors and suppliers, with the intention of identifying, to the best of our ability and knowledge, sources of the relevant minerals under the Conflict Minerals Rule, i.e. tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, in the components and materials supplied to us and which are necessary to the production or functionality of our products. Our policy fully supports the intention of the Conflict Minerals Rule, which is not to economically disadvantage areas of conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries, but rather to significantly reduce or eliminate funding of armed groups that have a record of human rights abuses in the region. As such, we have an expressed commitment to human rights and our understanding of the impact of our activities is realized in our continued efforts to perform effective due diligence on the sourcing practices within our supply chain. Our due diligence  processes  are  materially  based  on  the  internationally- recognized  Conflict  Minerals  due  diligence framework introduced by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). A full description of our Conflict Minerals due diligence activities can be found at our website at the following link.113 112 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Ormat%20Conflict%20Minerals%20Policy.pdf 113 https://investor.ormat.com/Doc/Index?did=52115999 110 Source: http://www.geo-energy.org/reports/2017/GEOTHERMAL%20IS%20GOOD%20FOR%20AMERICA.pdf 111 More information on the environmental regulations that Ormat adheres to are outlined in our Annual Report (Form 10-K). PROVIDING EXCELLENT AND RELIABLE CUSTOMER SERVICE Ormat is the world’s only vertically-integrated geothermal Company and we are responsible for exploring, drilling, designing, building, manufacturing, owning, financing and operating geothermal power  plants.  Our  customers  benefit from  our  modular, flexible  approach  and  our  extensive  experience in applying a variety of different products and solutions – all designed for simple transportation, installation, operation and ongoing maintenance. Ormat has a proven, reliable track record of delivering on-time, on-budget and with optimal technical solutions. We manufacture most of the power generating unit equipment componentry used in our power plants. We acquire any equipment we do not build ourselves from selected, top-quality, trusted suppliers. Ormat is ISO 9001 and ISO14001 certified, with our manufacturing facilities also meeting the high standards of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and the European Pressure Equipment Directive (PED). Many electric utilities around the world have also recognized Ormat as an approved supplier. Ormat’s design and manufacturing standard meets the requirements of the applicable European Commission directives and therefore we are entitled to carry the CE marking that denotes conformity with health, safety and environmental protection standards for products sold within the European Economic Area. Due to Ormat’s nature as a vertically-integrated Company, we have a number of points of contact with our various customers and  Users Workshop, attended by over  we work to provide them at all  50 representatives (operational  times with excellent and reliable  managers, maintenance managers  customer service.  and senior operators) of the 35 power  plants Ormat supplied in the country.  Customer service at the Company is  managed by our Customer Service  • General customer service requests –  Group, which is part of the Business  we answer general requests submitted  Development and Sales Group.  through other channels such as  Our Customer Service department  ones directed to our international  collects, addresses and manages  Customer Service department  relevant requests from our various  through our website on the “Contact  customers around the world. It  Us” page which offers an online form  is important to note that Ormat  and other forms of contact:  prides itself on its strong base of  repeat customers, which is due to  Address | Ormat Technologies Inc.,  the strength of our energy solutions  6140 Plumas Street, Reno, NV 89519. and technology and the quality of  6075, U.S.  our customer service relations that  is characterized by regular and  Tel +1-775-356-9029  productive communications with  Fax +1-775-356-9039  customers.  Email info@ormat.com  Some of these methods of  Ormat’s policy is to address all of  communication include:  customer service requests in a timely  and adequate manner so as to ensure  • Continuous contact with direct  the continued satisfaction of our  customer service representatives - global customer base.  each customer has direct contact to  the team which they can contact at  any time for any issue that might arise.  Also, team members periodically  initiate contact with each of their  customers to maintain ongoing  dialog.  • Newsletters – we regularly publish  newsletters in which we suggest  recommendations for different types  of improvements to products and  services (for example, for increasing  the efficiency and generating  capacity of our plants).  • Workshops – Ormat organizes  and hosts several different client  workshops in different countries  periodically. The workshop aims  to address different issues such as  improvements in operations, project  management, construction and  trends and innovations in Ormat’s  technology. One example in 2018 was  our first annual Turkey Geothermal  DATA PRIVACY AND CYBERSECURITY FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Ormat is committed to ensuring the data privacy of all its directors, officers, employees, customers and other relevant stakeholders. We have data privacy and cybersecurity policies, as well as an “Electronic Communication Policy” that manages all of the security procedures for Ormat’s internal stakeholders. The referred to policy includes our expectations of employees regarding use of Company equipment, authorized use of identification information, password policies, and how electronic messaging and documents should be properly handled. The policy is enforced by our Information Technology department and all internal stakeholders are requested to acknowledge the policy in the context of their employment with Ormat. In addition, we work to ensure that all of our information technology systems are secured in terms of their cybersecurity aspects. Ormat has an advanced policy for managing cybersecurity risks that is overseen by the Company’s Information Technology department. In our risk management strategy, we take into account threats and vulnerabilities in information, information technology and communications systems that we use on a regular basis to deliver our products and services, facilities or other assets that are a part of our cyber-infrastructure, and outlines guidelines for cybersecurity management in the Company. As a result, Ormat did not experience any significant breaches or cybersecurity events, nor did the organization receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer data or privacy, in 2018. 