HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE SAFETY IS OUR #1 PRIORITY The health and safety of our employees, contractors, the public and the environment is an overarching priority at Ormat. We manage risks by identifying, assessing and controlling risks in every facility, office and workspace that we own and/or operate. We promote safety awareness and values so we can achieve our goal of zero casualties. We also work to continuously improve our safety performance and instil a strong workplace safety culture. The countries in which Ormat operates have local laws regulating these issues. These include safety and general requirements, including ventilation, fire protection, personal protection, railings, electric protection, and employee training on pertinent issues. Ormat’s Health & Safety Policy is focused on four components: • Everyone, Everyday - Ormat employees are integral to safe operations, each charged with the responsibility to work safely and helping to create and maintain a safe work environment. • Manage Hazards - Ormat strives to systematically identify hazards, and then manage them by elimination, isolation or minimization. • Safety as a Core Value - Safety is a core value at Ormat. We are committed to safeguarding employees and assets, customers, the community and the environment at all times. • Continual Vigilance - Our goal of zero incidents requires that all employees maintain constant vigilance to ensure that unsafe acts or work conditions are identified, addressed, regulated and prevented, wherever possible. TRAINING IMPROVES SAFETY Every Ormat facility has a safety-training program. Ormat’s company wide Safety Strategy Committee directs all safety training programs, working to ensure that Ormat’s Health & Safety Policy and its underlying components are clearly communicated to and understood by employees and contractors. To further reinforce safety across our operating facilities, Ormat has appointed in 2016 an Environment, Health and Safety Director, with responsibility for oversight of all safety policies, processes, training and work practices company-wide. Plant managers at each Ormat operating site are accountable for implementation of these safety initiatives at the local level. 