CHAPTER III. ABOUT THIS REPORT Ormat’s 2019 sustainability report highlights our environmental, social and governance (ESG)-related measures, initiatives and activities for the reporting period of January through December, 2019. This is the Company’s second sustainability report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.30 Our inaugural sustainability report was published in 2018; prior to this time we generated sustainability briefs and updates for stakeholders based in principle on the GRI standards. All previous sustainability publications are available on the Company’s website.31 Following the publication of our 2018 report, which represented a significant milestone for Ormat, we conducted an extensive dialogue with key stakehold.ers.  This report represents the results of this process and includes additions and improvements to last year’s report that are based on the feedback that we received. It is our intention to continually refine our sustainability reporting in the years ahead. To assist readers in locating relevant informa.tion throughout the report, we provide a GRI content index on page 114 of this report. There are no restatements of informa.tion that have to do with mergers or acquisitions, or changes in the nature of our business.  The only notable development from previous reporting periods is that, following significant changes in our systems and data collec.tion processes, we have decided to establish this year as our base year for calculating Ormat’s carbon footprint moving forward. We have not changed our list of material topics and topic Boundaries from our 2018 report and we intend to continue to publish a sustainability report on an annual basis. In compiling this report, Ormat has followed the GRI’s requirements and recommendations in defining the reporting Boundaries, as outlined in the section below. We have consid.ered our material entities over which the Company has control, including those in which we have significant influence over the activities that are material for the Company according to their economic, environmental and social aspects. For the purposes of this report “Ormat” (or the definitions presented herein on page 14 of this report) refer to: the U.S.-based Company Ormat Technologies Inc. and its controlled entities that are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Details regarding the entities included in our consolidated financial statements can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC and can be reached at the following link.33 All of the entities included in our consoli.dated financial statements or equiv.alent documents are covered by this report, unless otherwise noted. Ormat obtains independent external assurance of its annual financial information, the annual accounts and management reports (individ.ual and consolidated with those of its controlled entities). We did not receive external assurance for this report but we are considering securing external assurance for the data reported in our forthcoming sustainability reports. INFORMATION BOUNDARIES OF THIS REPORT Unless otherwise noted, this report includes environmental and social data from internal systems and information from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 and is focused on our material operations in the United States, Israel, Turkey, Honduras, Guatemala, Guadeloupe (French Caribbean) and Kenya. Ormat has operations or holdings in other locations such as Indonesia, which as of 2019 are not operationally material and hence the data/detailed analysis is not included in this report unless otherwise mentioned. All financial or economic information presented in this report is disclosed according to our 2019 Annual Report which should be referred to in case of any discrepancies. This sustainability report focuses on the environmental and social topics that are material and relevant to Ormat’s operations and business, and which are of greatest interest to our stakeholders. The content presented in the report was prioritized through a process of research and consideration of a variety of sources including feedback from groups of our stakeholders, the GRI Standards, including its Reporting Principles for defining report content, which include: Stakeholder Inclu.siveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness, and the Reporting Principles for defining report quality, which include: Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reli.ability and Timeliness. In addition, it is informed by the SASB sector-relevant standards, alongside other relevant third-party frameworks for sustainabil.ity reporting.  We expect the content and data quality of our reporting to improve and evolve moving forward as we further develop our sustain.ability strategy and as we continue to receive relevant and valuable feedback from our stakeholders. 30 According to the Global Reporting Initiative, “Consolidated Set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016.” The Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). The Standard applied is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018. 42 31  https://www.ormat.com/en/company/engagement/view/?ContentID=140 32  https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 Changes to this year’s report include a more prominent role for material topics, such as Diversity and Corporate Governance. We have also included information related to our recently acquired Energy Storage & Manage.ment segment. Lastly, in order to provide a fuller representation of our total emissions, we have added the emissions from our production, although it is included in our customers’ emissions disclosure. CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS REPORT We have strived to provide all the relevant data and information regarding our sustainability perfor.mance and activities in 2019 that fall within the scope of this report. Stake.holders who are interested in under.standing or clarifying the information presented, or who have questions regarding the content of the report, can contact us through one of the following channels: Mail requests Ormat Technologies, Inc. 6140 Plumas Street Reno, NV 89519-6075 U.S. Requests for general information: info@ormat.com Requests for sustainability-related information: sustainability@ormat.com Online form: www.ormat.com/en/company/ contact/main/ FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Information provided in this report may contain statements relating to current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events that are “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements concerning the completion of the offering and the use of proceeds therefrom. Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncer.tainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, see “Risk Factors,” in each case, included in Ormat’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 2, 2020, as amended by Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on March 3, 2020, and Ormat’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2020 filed with the SEC on November 5, 2020 and other risk factors detailed from time to time in filings with the SEC. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise the forward-look.ing statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 