CHAPTER VI. GENERATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE AND MEASURING OUR IMPACTS MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND WORKING TO REALIZE NEW OPPORTUNITIES Ormat is a global leader in the verti.cally integrated delivery of renewable energy solutions: geothermal energy, recovered energy and energy storage and management. We have developed and manufactured  geothermal and recovered energy power plants with a cumulative collective capacity of 2900 MW75 since our Company was established over 50 years ago and we are proud to note that all of our power plants operate without fossil fuel consumption as a general rule. However, some of our power plants may indirectly use fossil fuels as part of their grid electricity consump.tion. At Ormat, we are motivated to mitigate climate change risks, reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, advance energy efficiency and promote the use of renewable energy sources. These aims lie at the heart of our business and represent our key value proposition for our customers. They also have been identified as highest priority by the stakeholders who participated in our materiality assessment and the ongoing stake.holder engagement. EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS Our geothermal and recovered energy power plants have little emissions. That said, we actively work towards the reduction of the GHG emissions76 generated through our operations and business practices, which includes commitments to mitigate any subsequent climate change effects. The consolidation approach for the calculation of our carbon footprint is financial and oper.ational control. In order to improve the internal measurement of our GHG emissions, we have expanded our methods for data collection from our relevant operational sites this year, with the goal of estimating our level of impact and generated emissions. We make concerted efforts to both track and minimize all of our emissions including our direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2 and Scope 3) GHG emissions from our power plants and operations, and to regularly report on our progress to the CDP and the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection.77 We selected 2019 as our new base year for calculating Ormat’s carbon footprint, following a process of re-evaluation of our methodology. We re-examined our total production reporting and concluded we would also report on our net production this year.  Additionally, 2019 marks the first year that Ormat calculates Scope 3 emissions generated from employee personal and business travel. We have established a target for a 5% reduction per revenue in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by the end of 2021, measured against the 2019 base levels discussed above. Our progress towards this goal will be reviewed annually, and will be reported in the 2020 Sustainability Report. Our Carbon Footprint and GHG Emissions Mitigated Ormat’s operating activities from owned facilities and purchased elec.tricity (Scope 1 and 2)78 emissions, which include manufacturing facil.ities and machinery, offices, power plants, corporate automobile fleet, drilling rigs and electricity consump.tion at our facilities, among other sources, generated 156,962 tons CO2 (equivalent) (e)  in 2019. This year we have expanded our calculations to include employee transportation and business travel as part of our Scope 3 emissions, which totaled 3,802 tons CO2(e).79 More information on the breakdown of our carbon footprint calculations for 2019 is provided in the graphs and charts below.80 The Scope 1 emissions for 2019 totaled 121,214 tons CO2(e). MMost Scope 1 emissions arise from the generation of our geothermal energy, which is sold to our clients and consumed internally as the auxiliary power of our geother.mal power plants.  All of our recovered energy plants, and the majority of our geothermal power plants operate with 100% reinjection of the geother.mal resource and therefore do not generate emissions. A small number of our steam and binary plants, which are unable to conduct 100% reinjec.tion of the geothermal resource (due to operational and other constraints), do generate GHG emissions to a certain extent.  These emissions were calculated either through actually monitored emissions levels, or computed according to established US Department of Energy guidelines for steam power plants.81 Additional emissions under Scope 1 derived from the operation of drilling rigs used in the geothermal exploration and power plant construction phases, from our use of vehicles at our various facilities, which are employed for travel, mainte.nance, and logistics at our various sites, 75  As of the publication of this report. 76  “Greenhouse gases” are defined by the U.S. EPA as “gases that trap heat in the atmosphere. These gases include carbon dioxide(CO2),methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and fluorinated gases, or high global warming potential gases. 77 Through the voluntary GHG reporting framework. 78  Scope 1 is direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Company. S Scope 2 is indirect GHG emissionsfrom the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. Scope 3 is indirect other GHG emissions 79  The source of the emission factors and global warming potential is the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food &Rural Affairs (DEFRA). As such, the gases included in our carbon footprint calculation are CO2, CH4, and NH4. 64 80 All calculations include storage facilities data. 81 As published by the Office of ENERGY EFFICIENCY & RENEWABLE ENERGY, in:https://www.energy.gov/eere/geothermal/geothermal-power-plants-meeting-clean-air-standards#:~:text=When%20geothermal%20power%20plants%20do,than%20fossil%20fuel%20power%20plants. the use of diesel backup generators to provide power for ongoing operations in the event of planned or unplanned outages or maintenance shutdowns, and from air conditioning units used in our factories and offices. 82 The total Scope 2 emissions83 for 2019 from purchased electricity consump.tion off the grid at our operational sites, offices, and manufacturing facilities, was 35,748 tons CO2(e). At our manufacturing facility in Yavne, Israel, we generate solar electricity using rooftop Photovoltaic (PV) panels. The relevant emissions are calculated according to an emissions factor of zero. The electricity that we generate through the solar panels is used for self-consumption or is sold back to the local electrical utility. In 2019, self-con.sumption of solar energy at our manu.facturing facility totaled 1,725,172 kWh. The energy generated sold to the local electrical utility was 388,664 kWh and resulted in the avoidance of emissions totaling 210 tons of CO2 (e) in 2019.84 We continue to make efforts to improve the energy efficiency of our facilities, in line with our overarching mission and commitment to renewable energy. Our GHG emissions intensity calcu.lation, i.e. the relative intensity of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions divided by our revenues in FY201985  was 0.0002104 CO2 (e) / FY2019 revenues. Including Scopes 1, 2 and 3, our emissions intensity was 0.0002155 CO2 (e)/ FY2019 revenues. This calculation, which marks 2019 as the base year for comparison in future calculations, acts as a point of comparison for us to track the intensity of our emissions over time, assisting us in accurately accounting for the extent of our environmen.tal impacts. 82 These data were obtained from the majority of Ormat’s relevant sites; our Yavne (Israel) manufacturing facility is the primary producer of Ormat’s worldwide air conditioner related emissions. 83 Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the “market” based approach where possible by using the coefficient of utility used. When not possible, The “location” based calculation was done by using the coefficient based on the EPA’s ‘Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories’ (March 2020) document. 84 The presented data was not considered in the calculations of Ormat’s total Scope 2 CO2 emissions, i.e. deduction of the solar offset of 210 tons CO2 equivalents. 85 Ormat’s revenues in RY2019 total approximately USD $746,000,000, which was used as the basis for the energy intensity calculation. Total Emission by Source Scope 3Scopes Breakdown 3,802 2% Scope 2 35,748 22% 2% 2% 3% Scope 1 3% 121,214 76% Scope 1 | Emissions by Country Israel Guadeloupe 0.6% (France), Honduras,Guatemala Turkey7.0% ~0.1% Kenya 30.3% USA 61.9% Scope 2 | Emissions by Country Kenya, Guatemala, Turkey Guadeloupe USA 95% Geothermal plant emission- Net - sold to clients A/C - Used in O’ces and Factories Electrical Energy Consumption Heating Geothermal plant emission- Aux - internal use Generators Drilling RigsGas Used in Company Kitchen (LPG) Vehicles - others (used for company work) Vehicles - Heavy Duty Truck (used for company work) Machinery Owned & Leased by Company - Solar Energy Consumption Used in Factory (forklifts, cranes, welding machine etc.) Employee Transportation Business ﬂights EMISSIONS FROM in our calculations, though this avoided through the generation information is also included in our of renewable power at Ormat’sOPERATIONS customers’ emissions disclosures. owned power plants in 2019. The chart below shows the renewable Ormat’s contribution to global GHG In 2019, Ormat-owned power plant electricity offset recorded by Ormat mitigation is strengthened through facilities generated 6,238,272 MWh in 2019 conceptually compared with the avoidance of emissions in the (net) of electricity. As mentioned other common methods of base geothermal and recovered energy above, in order to provide a load electricity generation, such power plants that Ormat has sold to fuller representation of our total as conventional fossil fuel-based power producers and utilities over emissions, we have included the methods. These figures present the years, which have an installed emissions from our production only the emissions that were capacity of more than 2,900 MW. The below table compares the CO2 generated by Ormat plants with the amount generated by other technologies for an equivalent amount of power 86 87. 7.55 million tons of CO2 5.40 million tons of CO2 3.20 million tons of CO2 0.16 million tons of CO2 ORMAT PLANTS NATURAL GAS PLANTS FUEL OIL PLANTS COAL PLANTS 86 The emissions from Ormat’s power plants and the relevant calculation are explained above. The other electricity sources are from “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2019” International Energy Agency (IEA), 2019. 87 The electricity output from these products represents more than 1% of electricity output in the average of OECD member countries for the years 2011-2015. 68 ENERGY USE, The table below reflects our internal energy consumption, which includes the energy resources used in our global operations:EFFICIENCY AND FUEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AT ORMAT We strive to ensure optimization and ultimate efficiency in our use of energy resources throughout our value chain and in our internal operations. As an energy generator, we seek to improve our efficiency by using advanced technologies and equipment in order to optimize the energy generated by our power plants. As an energy consumer, we work to improve performance through designated action plans and by raising employee awareness regarding the use of energy in our operations; offices, buildings, facilities Energy consumption in the organization (GJ)  2018  2019  Fuel Consumption in the Organization89  Gasoline  119,784  78,127  Diesel  29,333  46,085  Red Diesel  35,419  74,135  Kerosene  477  090  FOD  484  479  LPG  461  892  Natural Gas  - 3,02891  Electricity Purchased for Consumption in the Organization  Electricity  88,835  315,99192  TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMP.TION IN THE ORGANI.ZATION (GJ)  274,793  518,736  and transportation. ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE The table below reflects the electricity and heating purchased, ORGANIZATION generated and consumed by the organization: The fuel consumption figure in terms of energy (GJ) is obtained from direct measurement of the fuel used at each facility based on its net calorific value (NCV), and applying the accepted units of fuel conversion from the “UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting”88. The internal electricity consump-Total Electricity and Heating Consumption (GJ)  2018  2019  Electricity Consump.tion (purchased and self-generated)  5,872,53293  6,679,461  Heating Consumption94  3,090  tion within the organization and the  total amount of electricity generated  and sold by the organization was calculated using inputs on energy purchased or generated, and using  The table below reflects the electricity generated in our power plants and sold by the organization:  the following formula: electricity (GJ) = electricity (MWh) x 3.6 GJ/MWh Electricity Sold by the Organization (GJ) 95  2018  2019  Electricity Sold by theOrganization  21,090,315  22,459,179  88 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2019 89 As of 2019, Ormat did not consume any renewable fuel, and therefore this metric is not reported. 90 Kerosene is used in the United States for drilling operations; none was necessary in 2019. 91 28,675 therms Natural Gas are included in the below figure, where it is used for heating in the United States. This figure reflects improved collection of data. 92 As above, the main drivers of this increase are Ormat’s improved collection of heating data, and our reconstruction efforts in our Puna plant and concomitant consumption of energy from the grid there. 93 2018 data has been updated and corrected since the 2018 report 94 Ormat does not generate and/or consume cooling or steam energy resources, and therefore only data on the electricity and heating consumption by the organization is reported. 95 Ormat does not sell heating, cooling or steam energy resources, and therefore only data on the electricity sold by the organization through generation in our power plants is reported. ENERGY INTENSITY We calculated the energy intensity for our organization, or the measure of the efficiency or inefficiency in the use of energy resources in the orga.nization, by dividing the absolute energy consumption by our organi.zation as presented above – 521,826 GJ96   by our revenues for 2019, i.e. USD $746,000,000, to reach an energy intensity ratio of 0.000699 GJ/US$. This is our organization-spe.cific metric that we plan to report on in a comparative fashion in forthcom.ing reports. EFFORTS TO IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY We make concerted efforts to monitor and reduce our energy consumption. Most of these efforts are implemented at our manufac.turing facilities through measures such as switching out outdated equipment and machinery for newer models with better energy efficiency and fuel consumption, among other initiatives. Each factory or workshop manager is responsible for assessing and mapping potential areas for energy efficiency improvements and then implementing the identified projects at their operational location. This is added to our Company-wide commitment to encouraging the responsible use of energy resources at all levels of the Company. Some of the Company-wide initiatives we have implemented in recent years include refurbishing our manufacturing facil.ities with LED lighting, installing more efficient air conditioning and cooling units and setting goals for improving the energy efficiency of our manufac.turing facilities. As a leading provider of clean geothermal energy, the Company prioritizes the reduction of energy consumption by our employees, plants, facilities, and associated entities. This is a continual, collab.orative, and often iterative process in which all our stakeholders must take part.  Ultimately, we believe that reductions in organizational energy consumption can have a significant positive downstream effect on the environmental and economic sustain.ability of our operations. The following are examples of initia.tives taken in 2019 to reduce the Company’s energy consumption: Migration to energy-efficient light bulbs: We have continued the process of replacing conventional incandes.cent light bulbs with energy-efficient LED bulbs in our power plants. Consumption of self-produced energy: In 2019, we completed building a solar plant generating 7 MWh of power at our Tungsten location, which will support the plant’s parasitic load (standby power). In October 2019, we reduced the energy consumption of a Well Pad at the Amatitlan location by migrating from energy sourced from the local electri.cal company to electricity generated by the plant itself. Improving air quality: In our Heber location, we took steps to mitigate fugitive dust emissions from unpaved roads at our plant and wellfields. Improving energy efficiency of equipment:  In our Israel location, we replaced older air conditioning units with newer ones bearing a Class A energy rating and replaced older water heaters that suffered from excess mineral deposits that harmed their efficiency. Similarly, we conducted a program of annual preventative maintenance of HVAC equipment at our Mammoth location, to ensure continued efficient func.tioning, and replaced older motors at our Kenya location with newer and more energy efficient models. Other initiatives promoting sustain.able practices:  At our Amatitlan, Israel, and Mammoth locations, we worked to reduce energy waste from unnecessary illumination. Strategies included staff education to turn off lights when not in use, and the instal.lation of photoelectric movement detection sensors. At our manufacturing facility in Israel, we have initiated a system for measuring energy consumption in different parts of the factory. Findings are analyzed to identify opportunities for increasing energy efficiency. This analysis led to an initiative to reorga.nize working shifts so that the daylight hours are maximized, resulting in reduced electricity consumption during the evening surge hours. Our largest vehicle fleet is in the United States, where most of our power plants are located. Our oper.ational locations there are taking strides to reduce the carbon footprint from vehicle use, while also decreas.ing our fleet expenses. To achieve this goal, Ormat has partnered with a third party fleet management company to not only manage the purchase and sale of vehicles, but to manage vehicle maintenance and fuel expenses by creating a system of “Green Scores” that rate the drivers in each group according to their average mileage per gallon and the number of “unfavorable” events on the road such as hard braking, hard acceleration, or speeding. In addition, Ormat’s drilling depart.ment works to improve optimization and increase energy efficiency by replacing aging semi-trucks with more efficient and safer vehicles. 96 This increase was mainly driven by improved collection of data, our Puna plant reconstruction efforts, and the concomitant purchase ofenergy purchased from the grid in that location. 70 MANAGEMENT OF GEOTHERMAL BY.PRODUCTS AND WATER RESOURCES The management of water resources are of key importance to Ormat and our stakeholders. This includes first, the geothermal water (or the geother.mal resources, which is composed of water, salts and minerals) required for geothermal energy generation, and water resources which are used in other processes. We work to manage our impacts on the local hydrology and natural environment both through our commitments to various regulatory requirements and in our environmental action plans. Geothermal by-products and water impacts are managed by the power plant managers at our operational sites, while the nature of their activities and initiatives is inspired by our commit.ment to minimizing environmental and health-related impacts as detailed in our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy. Management of the Geothermal Resource and its By-Products A key sustainability driver for geother.mal power generation is the conserva.tion and recycling of the geothermal resources that carry the heat from deep underground to the geothermal power plant on the earth’s surface. We strive to develop geothermal power plants that involve reinjection and recirculation of the geothermal resource in what are known as “closed loop” systems. This method continu.ously recharges geothermal systems by maintaining consistent geothermal fluid flow and pressures. Reinjection of brine and condensate help reduce production-related pressure drawdown and promote enhanced thermal energy extraction from the heated rocks within the reservoir. Importantly, reinjection also avoids by-products from emitted geothermal steam, mainly greenhouse gases, and the need for disposal of wastewater as well as visual impacts in the form of an emitted plumes from the cooling process. Management of Water Resources in Our Operations We engage with water resources from diverse sources to operate our power plants, manufacturing facilities and offices. We use water resources for various purposes, such as: • OPERATION OF OUR POWER PLANTS:  In our air-cooled plants water resources are used only for mainte.nance activities and for administrative and domestic purposes (cleaning, toilets, etc.). This provides a significant advantage in our plants that are located in areas of water scarcity, such as Nevada and Kenya,. Our water cooled plants are mostly in locations where that is the only option, mostly due to local weather and atmospheric conditions. There water is used for the cooling of the plant. • MANUFACTURING FACILITY: Water resources are used for various applica.tions by the factory staff and to facilitate the manufacturing process. The main use for water in our manufacturing facility is for testing the viability of our plants in the factory setting, wherein we use recycled water. • EXPLORATION AND DRILLING: Water is used in drilling activities mainly to generate the mud that is necessary for drilling a geothermal well, for environ.mental dust control and to maintain fluid for well control. The source of water used for drilling is different at each location and tanks are usually brought onto the drilling site. The water used meets relevant regulatory and environmental requirements that are enforced as condi.tions of our drilling permits97. As of 2019, we did not discover any material negative impacts on the local hydrology in the vicinity of our power plants and manufacturing facilities as a direct result from our operations. The following table details the volume of water consumptionaccording to its role in various aspects of our operations. Use of Water Resource98  Total Volume (m3) in 2018  Total Volume (m3) in 2019  Operation of power plant  Air cooled power plant  35,39599  24,409  Water cooled power plant  14,593,118100  14,630,984  Manufacturing facilities  21,028101  18,813  Drilling activities  43,527  8,082  Total water consumed  14,693,067  14,682,288  97  The quantity of water utilized in exploration and drilling activities varies year to year.  In 2019, the notable decrease in water consumption is explained because there was much less drilling carried out overall this year and most of the drilling was in existing plants so the water used is counted in the plant’s water consumption.  Additionally, our Puna operation did not report its water use data for 2019. 98 Most of our water usage data for 2019 (amount of water consumed) was derived from utility invoices paid at our various locations. 99 Reclassified 100 Reclassified 101  Reclassified Impacts of Our Operations on the Local Hydrology and Aquifers We conduct the necessary studies - including environmental impact assessments - to uncover and mitigate any potentially negative impacts on local hydrology and groundwa.ter systems. Ormat has entered into geother.mal resources leases with govern.ment entities, such as the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in the U.S., entailing the right to conduct geothermal development and oper.ations on government-owned or naturally protected lands. These leases legally require us to conduct operations in a manner that minimizes impacts on water and the geothermal resources. In 2019, our stakeholders did not submit any material grievances or concerns regarding the management of water resources in the vicinity of our power plants. In addition, and as part of our envi.ronmental monitoring efforts, we track the sources of withdrawal for the water resources that we consume. We consume water resources at our operational sites mainly through the local water utility, but in other cases we consume groundwater and well water resources. In very rare circum.stances, we consume water resources directly from local water sources. However, our interaction with such water sources is usually managed directly through our engagement with a local water utility. Country  Plant or Location Name  Total Volume Withdrawn (m3)  Source  Guadeloupe  Bouillante 110  7,900  Bay of Bouillante  Honduras  Platanares  2,378  Bufa River  Israel  Israel manufacturing facilityand offices  14,187  Israel Water Authority  Kenya  Olkaria III Complex  19,479  Lake Naivasha through the Lake LaivashaWater Resource Authority  Turkey  Turkey manufacturing facilityand offices  0.6  Izmir Water Company (IZSU)  Drilling opera.tions worldwide  Different locations worldwide  8,082  Various sources111  The following details the sources for various water resources used at our powerplants and at our manufacturing sites in 2019: Country  Plant or Location Name  Total Volume Withdrawn (m3)  Source  United States  Brady102  81  City of Reno  Don A. Campbell Complex  190  Gabbs, Nevada  Heber Complex 103  7,145,314  Colorado River through the ImperialIrrigation District  Jersey Valley  77  Battle Mountain  Mammoth Complex  194  Mammoth Community Water District  McGinness Hills Complex  887  Callahan Pond  Neal Hot Springs  211  Groundwater and on-site water well  Brawly Complex 104  1,507,191  Colorado River through the ImperialIrrigation District  OREG  0.76  Different sources  105  Ormesa Complex 106  3,406,507  Colorado River through the ImperialIrrigation District  Puna  31  Hawaii County Water Supply  Raft River 107  1,270,372  Groundwater and on-site water well  Reno offices  4,357  City of Reno  Reno workshop  269  City of Reno  San Emidio 108  933,168  Groundwater and on-site water well  Steamboat Complex  203  City of Reno  Storage facilities  Not available  Not tracked  Tungsten Mountain  58  Well water  Tuscarora 109  360,452  Spanish Springs Ranch  Guatemala  Amatitlan  245  Well water  Zunil  454  Water purchased from a third party  WASTE, MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION We actively work to improve our rela.tionship with the natural environment in the process of our business activ.ities and beyond. We work towards responsible waste and material management at all our global facili.ties and have put in place ambitious programs, based on the results of environmental impact assessments and feedback from stakeholders, to better control the impact of our activ.ities on local biodiversity. We strive to continuously improve our environmental performance, focusing on waste management and biodiver.sity impacts. We actively monitor facility performance and encourage our employees and other stakeholders to report on incidents as they occur. In the context of the plan, we take into consideration relevant legal and regulatory requirements governing the topics of waste management and biodiversity, and these standards are continually mapped and monitored at local and international levels. We uphold ISO 14001 at our main manufacturing facility and the standard is used as a guideline for other activities worldwide. In addition, we engage in thorough dialogue with stakeholders, environmental NGOs and local communities to under.stand their concerns regarding the natural environment and biodiversity surrounding our facilities. We have established grievance mechanisms in most of the communities in our areas of operation, enabling the local popu.lation to directly submit any issues of concern regarding also waste management or biodiversity impacts directly to responsible individuals or to the Company at large. We attempt to address any relevant such concerns in a timely and thorough manner. WASTE, MATERIAL MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING We seek to responsibly manage our waste and material streams and to reuse and reclaim materials in order to minimize our impact on the natural environment and ensure the sustain.ability of our business over time. 102  Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 103  Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 104 Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 105 Each REG plant uses a small amount of water, none for plant operation, each plant purchases from its own local utility 106 Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 107  Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 108 Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 109 Partially or fully water-cooled facility. 110 Partially or fully water-cooled facility. Our waste management efforts are constantly improving, as the topic is managed at a global scale in our Company through the Integrated Quality, Environment, Health & Safety System Policy that outlines our commitments to standards such as ISO 14001 and relevant environmen.tal and health and safety standards for the management of hazardous waste. Our VP of Quality, Health, Envi.ronment and Safety oversees corpo.rate-level policies for the management of waste, materials and recycling. At the local level, safe management of waste, including hazardous waste, materials and recycling efforts are managed on an ongoing basis by the plant managers, who establish the relevant procedures for waste and material management in order to comply with local regulations. Waste management at our manu.facturing facilities and geothermal power plants is managed through our material compliance with ISO 14001 and through the establishment of an Environmental Management System. Every aspect of the waste manage.ment process must be planned, implemented, measured, monitored and continuously improved through strategic objectives. This includes 111 The drilling work frequently changes locations and we did not record the different water sources that were used. If there is drilling in an existing plant then typically the water comes from the local utility from which the plant purchases water but in new locations water is usually trucked in containers and brought to the drilling site. properly handling, storing, labelling, and are outlined in our list of Environ-ciency and minimize our impact on The operation of geothermal power A by-product of the utilization of we are not able to prevent the scale transporting and disposing of waste mental Compliance Responsibilities. the environment. We provide our plants requires the use of some geothermal resource is scale, a build-up we must remove and dispose – namely hazardous waste products employees with access to recycling sensitive and hazardous materials, non-hazardous material which we are of it. This disposal is in alignment with or materials – through our health and At Our Manufacturing Facilities, receptacles across our operational including flammable materials such responsible for treating and disposing. regulatory requirements and our safety guidelines and Emergency Workshops and Offices locations, and actively encourage as industrial lubricants and organic Scale is commonly found to include expectations for sound environmental Action plans, training of our personnel the preservation of resources by motive fluids. These are treated calcium carbonate, amorphous silica management. and employees on issues related to Our manufacturing facilities, offices promoting recycling and the respon-according to local regulations and silicates, and mixed metal oxides waste and the handling of materials and workshops generate different sible use of materials. Where possible, governing storage and disposal of and sulfides. We actively monitor the and by keeping records of our waste types of hazardous and non-hazard-we encourage the reuse of materials these materials in the relevant country level of scale in our systems and if management efforts. ous waste. Most of the hazardous such as paper and cardboard, and of operation. waste arises from manufacturing our manufacturing facilities strive to The following table details the types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that were generated at our We also have expectations of practices, in which case we follow recycle and reuse materials such as power plants in 2019 and how the waste products and materials were disposed of or treated: our subcontractors for the sound and adhere to local regulations. In wood that can be used for packaging management of waste generated our offices, we work to recycle, reuse and shipping our products. through their activities, which are set and repurpose waste and materials out in our contractual agreements in order to increase our level of effi-The following table details the major categories of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that were generated at our manufacturing facilities, offices and workshops in 2019, including details on howthe waste products were disposed of or treated. Type of Waste  Waste Classifica tion (Hazardous or Non-Hazardous)115  Weight (kilograms) 2018113  Weight (kilograms) 2019114  Disposal Method  General Waste Streams and Construction Waste  Non-Hazardous  500,240  499,320  Landfill  Metal - General, Aluminum, Scrapand Carbon Steel  Non-Hazardous  942,290  1,184,370  Recycling  Nylon/Plastic Waste  Non-Hazardous  829,920  829,920  Recycling  Wood  Non-Hazardous  720,359  920,460  Recycling  Dichlorbenzene  Hazardous  16,000  0  Authorized Disposal Methods  Used Paint Containers and Paint Thinners  Hazardous  26,400  14,112  Authorized Disposal Methods  Used Oils  Hazardous  5,700  2,900  Authorized Disposal Methods  Lacquer  Hazardous  1,000  0  Authorized Disposal Methods112  Radiographic films  Non-Hazardous  250  300  Recycling  Paper and Cardboard  Non-Hazardous  501,712  501,592  Recycling  Acid (Nitric Acid, Sulfuric Acid),Anti-Freeze, Antiseize, OrganicDissolving Material  Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  9,156  Authorized Disposal Methods  Batteries, Electronic Waste and Lightbulbs  Non-Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  71,980  Recycling  Type of Waste  Waste Classifica tion (Hazardous or Non-Hazardous)115  Weight (kilograms) 2018113  Weight (kilograms) 2019114  Disposal Method  Used Oils, Petroleum Solids, OilyRags, Pads, Used Filters and Other OilContaminated Products  Hazardous  3,284,469  255,034  Landfill, Recycling, Authorized Disposal Methods, Recovery & Reuse116  Motive Fluid  117  Hazardous  984,744  632,250  Authorized Disposal Methods  Metal - General, Aluminum, Scrap and Carbon Steel  Non-Hazardous  119,550  157,819  Recycling  General Waste Streams and Construction Waste  Non-Hazardous  81,000  380,945  Landfill & Incineration  Wood  Non-Hazardous  5,700  5,063  Landfill, Recycling & Reuse  Paper and Cardboard  Non-Hazardous  569  8,233  Landfill, Recycling & Reuse  Acid (Nitric Acid, Sulfuric Acid), Anti-Freeze,  Antiseize, Organic Dissolv.ing Material  Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  10,317  Authorized Disposal Methods  Batteries, Electronic Waste and Lightbulbs  Non-Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  1,332  Recycling  Geothermal Drilling Mud(Liquid & Solid)  Non-Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  650,703  Landfill  Sand  Non-Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  925,183  Landfill  Nylon/Plastic Waste  Non-Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  459  Landfill  Used Paint Containers and Paint Thinners  Hazardous  Not reported in 2018  1,822  Authorized Disposal Methods & Recycling  Significant changes from 2018 bishment projects that began in pipes. In the United States, two sites At Our Global Power Plants providing renewable energy solutions In order to fulfill these objectives, we As can be seen in the above table, 2019. For example, at our Amatitlan underwent refurbishment projects is to ensure that material and waste uphold environmental action plans at there were several instances of location we produced approximately which produced cooling tower debris. At our various geothermal power management at our projects adheres nearly all our power plants, working changes in 2019 from the quanti-2,000 kg more non-hazardous In other cases, an increase in reported plants, there are relevant local regula-to our values, which means zero to meet stringent local and interna-ties of waste produced in 2018. In waste (metal products) due to our amount of paper and wood waste was tions and requirements governing the tolerance for leakages and other tional standards and regulations – a nearly all cases, increases in waste ongoing Amatitlan Enhancement the result of improved monitoring and management, disposal and storage potentially harmful environmen-process that is managed through local produced were the result of refur-Project and the resultant gathering of more precise record keeping. of waste. Part of our commitment in tal events. know-how by our plant managers. 113 Some of the weights of the waste provided are estimated based on data received from our operational sites. 114 Some of the weights of the waste provided are estimated based on data received from our operational sites.115 The classification of hazardous waste depends on the location of the operations and the legal or environmental regulations that govern the topic in that country and/or locality. Therefore, waste is indicated as ‘Hazardous’ when it is considered as such in at least one of the locations of operation included in the scope of this report. 116 The disposal methods for the oils and solids varies depending on the country of operation. 117 The categorization of ‘hazardous’ and ‘non-hazardous’ in the context of motive fluids depends on the nature of local regulations that govern the topic. The majority of the hazardous waste 112 “Authorized Disposal Methods” refers to authorized third parties that assist Ormat in disposing of certain types of hazardous waste according to relevant local regulations. 74 75 classifications pertain to state-level waste and by product regulations that govern the nature of our operations in the state of California. BIODIVERSITY Our renewable energy solutions are derived from nature itself, and as a result we place utmost significance on assessing the potential impacts on the local biodiversity and the natural and cultural environments surround.ing our power plants. Maintaining the natural biodiversity around our plants is important to a number of our key stakeholder groups, such as local communities, environmental NGOs and financing bodies, among others. Accordingly, we strive to design our power generation facilities to blend into the surrounding landscape, taking into consideration the actual physical location of each facility, the configu.ration of units that are used to build it, landscaping, and the surround.ing natural habitat, among other elements. MAINTAINING THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN THE CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF OUR POWER PLANTS Before we develop a new geothermal facility, we create a detailed environ.mental plan to minimize impacts to the surrounding natural lands and wildlife ecosystems. Our aim is to control and reduce the level of disruption to the surrounding natural environment in the development of the plant. Our care for the environment around our plants extends to the operation and maintenance phases of their lifecycle, keeping in mind our commitment to minimizing operational costs without compromising on meeting the highest safety and environmental standards. Furthermore, we seek to maintain the sustainable characteristics of geother.mal resources through the intensive geologic and hydrologic studies that we conduct during the exploration and drilling phases. In some cases, Ormat is required to conduct additional studies regarding potential impacts on the natural environment as part of its land and mineral rights lease agreements. During the construction of our  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  Though we conduct ESIAs for  geothermal power plants phase,  ASSESSMENTS AND  we require the site manager and  ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS  each of the power plants that  construction team to fulfil a list of  specified environmental compliance  At each of the sites where Ormat  we construct, own and those  responsibilities regarding biodiver. decides to construct a new power  sity preservation at various stages  plant, we conduct environmental and  for which we have turn-key  of the construction process. These  social impact assessments (ESIAs) or  responsibilities vary from site to site,  regular environmental audits of our  contracts, below we present  but in general include: attending a  activities as mandated by relevant  pre-construction meeting with Ormat  and local regulatory requirements.  a detailed description of the  to review the environmental manage. ment expectations; preparation of  Impacts analyzed in the context of  impact assessments and action  emergency response plans with  the environmental and social impact  contingencies for hazardous material  assessments are classified as those  plans that we generated for our  spills and disposal; monitoring of dust  related to ecology and nature conser. conditions on site during construc. vation, landscape and visual impacts,  fully-owned plants in 2019.  tion; ensuring the proper storage  traffic and transport, noise, socio-eco. of waste; recontouring of impacted  nomic impacts, health, safety and  areas to match the surrounding  public nuisance, ground, water and air  Kenya  terrain; providing a buffer around  emissions, archaeology and cultural  eligible and unevaluated cultural  heritage, electric and magnetic fields  Our Olkaria III power plant, located  sites that are close to project activ. and electromagnetic interference.  in Hells Gate National Park, was  ities; salvaging and stockpiling soils  Identified impacts are managed and  built in stages, starting with a 13  for use later in the construction  mitigated by Ormat in accordance  MW plant in 2000. Since then it  process; and ensuring that there is  with best commercial practices. The  has grown incrementally, and now  no use of construction paint on the  measures adopted include informing  holds a total generation capacity  natural surface.  the local population in a timely  of 150 MW. Hells Gate National  manner about construction activities  Park is managed by the Kenya  In addition, ongoing research into new  and repairing any damage to local  Wildlife Service, and is catego. equipment helps minimize the envi. access roads, as well as restoring any  rized as an International Union for  ronmental impacts from the operation  disturbed lands.  Conservation of Nature (IUCN)  of our facilities. For example, several  Category II national park118 and a  facilities have been reconfigured to  Our local site management team is  tentative UNESCO World Heritage  accommodate larger pumps that can  usually tasked with developing and  site. Furthermore, the geothermal  more efficiently extract and process  implementing an environmental  field is near Lake Naivasha and local  fluids from geothermal reservoirs.  action or management plan that  flower-growing farms, all of which  This, in turn, may reduce the number  addresses the actual and potential  necessitate careful examination of  of wells that are required to properly  impacts on an ongoing basis for regu. the potential environmental impact  exploit a geothermal reservoir,  lators and/or the local community.  of our operations. Last year (2018),  thereby reducing our overall land  Ormat entered into an environ- use while simultaneously enhancing  mental management agreement  overall facility operational capacity.  with the Kenyan Wildlife Service  The installation of more efficient,  (KWS) to effectively manage envi. air-cooling equipment in angled  ronmental resources in the Park  positions is another compelling  and to enhance conversation activ. improvement that has significantly  ities. The agreement mandates  reduced energy consumption and the  that all installed  infrastructure will  level of impact on the natural environ- not obstruct wildlife movements,  ment surrounding our facilities.  breeding or migratory patterns, that  no exotic animals or plants will be  introduced, that all rules and regu. lations of the Park will be followed,  and that local trees will be planted  (with preference for the Tarchon.anthus camphoratus species) in order to enhance the Park’s natural features.  As required by law, annual environmental audits have been undertaken for Olkaria III Geother.mal Power Project (the Project) since 2006, with environmental audit reports being submitted to NEMA for review of performance and for recordkeeping. The 2019 environmental and social audit of Olkaria III was undertaken over the period between January to February 2020 and encompassed a review of activities and opera.tions across all areas utilized within the Olkaria Geothermal Field and its surroundings. The adequacy of existing management controls to protect the environment within Hells Gate National Park and other surroundings was also assessed. The audit observed Ormat’s commit.ment to good environmental, health, and safety practices (including noise management), alongside a variety of ongoing initiatives to promote the social, economic, and environmental welfare of the surrounding communities.  It noted that all staff (including contrac.tors) are regularly trained on EHS issues, that investment decisions are guided by regular Environmental Impact Assessments of proposed reinjection and production wells, and that the project itself contrib.utes to economic development at the national and local level through the supply of cheaper renewable energy and the creation of direct and indirect employment and business opportunities. In the few circumstances where the audit found potentially problem.atic practices and impacts, we have developed a program to mitigate such concerns, and will continue to seek ways of improving our sustain.ability at the Olkaria III site in the future.  For example, our audits found that, while Ormat provides colored waste segregation bins within the plant, employees were not using them effectively.  We will implement a program of staff education to increase effectiveness of this effort and ensure that the bins are clearly labelled.  In another case, our audit discovered R22 (an ozone-depleting substance) in use as a refrigerant in our facility’s older air conditioning units. This problem will be mitigated through the decommissioning of older units and replacement of R22 refrigerant with ozone-friendly types, such as R410A and R407C. 118 International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Category II national park refers to large protected areas that play a role in the connectivity of the landscape or seascape in that they are the home to large ecological processes and are complemented with species and ecosystems that are characteristic of the natural area. United States Our McGinness Hills (Nevada) site is characterized by unique biodiver.sity factors that must be accounted for when conducting our opera.tions. Significantly, it is home to a population of greater sage-grouse, which inhabits a limited geographic range in the American Northwest and Canada and has been char.acterized as a “Near Threatened” species by the IUCN. Ormat has committed to carrying out measures that are aimed at preventing unnecessary negative environmental impacts during the construction, operation, and recla.mation phases. These measures have been in place over the lifetime of the project and are periodically reviewed in order to determine if they can be expanded upon. Requirements include coordina.tion of a Wildlife Working Group, the development of a Bird and Bat Conservation Strategy, and the implementation of an Adaptive Management Plan, which aims to mitigate the impact of our operations on local fauna with specific emphasis on the greater sage-grouse population. We have developed and now implement an Integrated Weed Management Plan to ensure that our materials do not promote the spread of invasive species of weeds, work to mitigate noise pollution through the installation of sound dampening barriers, and follow the guidelines of the Avian Power Line Interaction Committee when conducting our transmission lines.119  Employees and contractors are instructed to avoid disturbing local wildlife, especially during the greater sage grouse breeding season. Other measures include the planting of native species according to BLM guidelines, and painting equipment to blend better with the surrounding natural landscape. Additionally, In Nevada, where we are developing plans for a new power plant in the Dixie Valley Playa, local conservation groups have brought to our attention their concerns regarding the Dixie Valley toad, a rare type of toad which was only described by scientists in 2017. We have taken these concerns into account in our planning process and will work to mitigate the harmful effects of our geothermal plant on the toad’s habitat. Guatemala In our Zunil and Amatitlan locations (Guatemala), as elsewhere, identi.fied areas of concern are paired with detailed action plans to mitigate them. Our efforts in this field are informed by legal requirements, but also by the expressed needs of the surrounding community and Ormat’s wider corporate standards for ensuring environmentally sustainable operations.120 For example, in 2019 we conducted a water quality assessment at 119 “Avian Power Line Interaction Committee” leads the electric utility industry in protecting avian resources while enhancing reliable energy delivery. 78 our Amatitlan site, which was found to be well within accept.able parameters.  For instance, no negative impacts were detected in terms of pH level, and no nitrates were found. With regards to other environmen.tal factors, we have not discov.ered negative impacts resulting from our operations on local flora and fauna, and no noise pollution complaints were received from the local community over the last year. At Ormat’s power plant in Amatitlan, the staff hosts an annual reforestation program for local school children, which involves over a dozen local schools to promote awareness of the importance of local environmental conserva.tion efforts. 120 Per resolution number 156-2002-AB/ADB. CHAPTER VII. 