COMMUNITY INVESTMENT & STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT THINKING GLOBALLY, ACTING LOCALLY THE POWER OF A POSITIVE APPROACH Ormat values positive, long-term relationships and strives to create them wherever we operate. We do so by listening carefully to our stakeholders’ concerns and ideas. We create policies and protocols to guide stakeholder interaction and make these efforts in a timely, transparent and respectful manner. PARTICIPATION AND BENEFITS At Ormat, we believe in being an active participant in the communities in which our plants operate. We want the communities we interact with to benefit from our presence. We also believe that communities have the right to know how we operate to ensure that our employees, the public and the environment are protected. We recognize that every part of our connection with stakeholders – from pre-development and planning through to facility shutdown – is important. We have a diverse array of stakeholders. They include our employees, customers, shareholders, utilities, regulatory and governing authorities, lenders, suppliers, scientists and local community members residing near our power plants. WHO ARE ORMAT’S STAKEHOLDERS? Shareholders who own Ormat stock Lenders who lend us financial resources Local Government Officials at municipal, state and federal levels STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION TOOLS Website Facility tours Customers we sell equipment to and build power plants for Residents and Business Owners who live or operate near our power plants Environmental Regulators who develop policy and enforce regulations Utilities who buy the power we generate Employees of Ormat worldwide Scientific Researchers who supply products and services Community relations Civic engagement Buying locally OUR CONFLICT MINERALS POLICY AND SUPPLY CHAIN DUE DILIGENCE Ormat has adopted a Conflict Minerals Policy, in compliance with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (known as "the Conflict Minerals Rule"). Our Conflict Minerals Policy defines principles, commitments and expectations that extend to Ormat's partners, subcontractors and suppliers, with the intention of identifying, to the best of our ability and knowledge, sources of the relevant minerals under the Conflict Minerals Rule, i.e. tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, in the components and materials supplied to us and which are necessary to the production or functionality of our products. Our policy fully supports the intention of the Conflict Minerals Rule, which is not to economically disadvantage areas of conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries, but rather to significantly reduce or eliminate funding of armed groups that have a record of human rights abuses in the region. As such, we have a broad commitment to human rights and our understanding of the impact of our activities is realized in our continued efforts to perform effective due diligence on the sourcing practices within our supply chain. Our due diligence processes are materially based on the internationally-recognized Conflict Minerals due diligence framework introduced by the Organization for  Economic  Cooperation and  Development (OECD).  31  CREATING COMMUNITY BY SHARING TECHNICAL EXPERTISE AND SOLUTIONS Ormat sees the value that comes from looking at the long-term, bigger picture. That idea is embodied in the after-sales workshops Ormat regularly hosts for customers in different countries. Bringing renewable energy practitioners together to share insights, pose questions, discuss challenges and learn more about new advances is receiving enthusiastic uptake. In May 2017, Ormat hosted a two-day workshop in, New Zealand, where we are involved in 10 geothermal facilities with five key clients. Leaders from each of the client organizations made presentations, and the day culminated with an open forum for participants to review, explore and elaborate on what was learned. Similarly, Ormat also held its annual Geothermal Turkish Users Workshop in Izmir, Turkey in 2017, which was attended by over 50 representatives who are operating over 30 Ormat-supplied power plants. The forum covered a diverse array of projects from operational know-how to construction highlights to trends and innovations in Ormat’s renewable energy and power plant technology. Nir Wolf, Ormat’s Executive Vice President explains, “Hosting these client workshops enables Ormat to listen closely to our clients, gain fresh perspectives and, at the same time, facilitate a community of Ormat clients, where they can gather, share their experiences and learn from one another. We see it as a win-win.” ORMAT’S COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS – AROUND THE WORLD Ormat’s commitment to community support typically begins well before we begin development in a new region, as we strive to understand the relevant regulatory frameworks, and the cultural and socio.economic nuances of local community life. IN THE UNITED STATES A responsible citizenry, improved social conditions, economic self-sufficiency and the enrichment of individuals’ lives are just a few of the benefits delivered by public education. As such, Ormat is a supporter and promoter of universal access to education. Our company’s decision in late 2017 to commit  substantial funds over three years to the Mammoth Lakes Foundation underscores this corporate commitment. Publicly announced early in 2018, these funds will support student scholarships for Mono County students attending Cerro Coso Community College in the Eastern Sierra region of Southern California. Ormat’s Executive Director Paul Thomsen, says, “Ormat has been a part of the Mammoth community for more than 30 years and this partnership aligns with our ongoing efforts to support community development through funding scholarships and institutions that promote higher education.” The scholarship funding provided by the Mammoth Lakes Foundation cover student’s full tuition. In addition, throughout 2016 and 2017, Ormat continued to make our presence felt through other corporate and community partnerships designed to promote health, well-being, dignity and self-sufficiency. Ormat in the US is a proud supporter of the Food Bank of Northern Nevada. Ormat also contributed to the building of an adaptive children’s park in Mammoth Lakes, California. Later in 2017, Ormat was pleased to be one of the co-hosts supporting UtahCleanEnergy’s Embracing Clean Energy party and fundraising initiative. AN “OPEN DOOR” POLICY Opening doors is an integral facet of Ormat’s approach to community relations, which is why our company hosts hundreds of plant tours annually for visitors, including governmental and environmental regulatory officials, researchers and students who wish to learn more about renewable, and specifically geothermal, energy. Through 2016 and 2017, Ormat’s geothermal facilities have been visited by a diverse array of groups amounting to hundreds of visitors– from Indonesian Members of Parliament to members of the Sierra Club to fourth graders from St. Albert Catholic School. Our goal for every tour is to inform and engage our stakeholders, giving them a first-hand look at how geothermal and other renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly vital role in a cleaner energy future and contributing to the stability and affordability of the electricity grid. IN GUATEMALA Ormat operates two geothermal power plants in the Guatemalan communities of Zunil and Amatitlan and has been a partner in these communities since 1999 and 2007, respectively. Trust plays a significant part in these long-standing community relationships – both as a quality that characterizes interactions between Ormat and our stakeholders, and through two actual trusts – the Orpacaya Trust and the Tigo Foundations. All community involvement initiatives are funneled through these trusts, which are designed to facilitate community input and decision-making, with local community leaders. The Orpacaya Trust achieved great success with a reforestation event in July 2016, an annual effort to promote the natural forest habitat. AGRECA, a manufacturer of aggregate materials for the cement industry, donated 3,000 trees for replanting and the Orpacaya Trust Fund provided 600 backpacks filled with a healthy lunch to help fuel the volunteers, as well as donated an additional 3,500 trees. Other promotional items, including t-shirts, basketballs and an opening celebration helped instill enthusiasm and pride in this important greening effort. IN HONDURAS Since 2012, Ormat has actively participated in the development of Hondura’s geothermal energy capabilities, through involvement in the Geotermica Platanares geothermal project, in cooperation with ELCOSA, a privately owned Honduran energy company. Ormat’s consultation and relationship-building with local Honduran communities is designed to enhance quality of life, education and healthcare opportunities. Roadway improvements in Yarusin and Maicupa were major infrastructure improvements that Ormat underwrote during the past two years. The effort acknowledged roadway impacts made by heavy machinery during construction of the Geotermica Platanares and Ormat, together with project partners, worked to ensure that the roadways were restored to their pre-construction conditions. Ormat gifted schools in the area of direct influence close to transmission lines from the Geotermica Platanares geothermal facility with 100 school desks, to improve the educational learning environment. The beautifully carved wooden desks are durable, functional and more comfortable for the students and are intended to improve students’ overall learning experience. A donation of bicycles was also made these schools to enhance recreational opportunities for local school children. Family-oriented celebrations play a significant role and are an important aspect of local Honduran culture. In 2016 and 2017 Ormat contributed to a series of events honouring Children’s Day, Student’s Day, Mother’s Day and Christmas. Ormat underwrites the costs of basic food baskets, cakes and piñatas for these occasions. IN GUADELOUPE In 2016, Ormat purchased an ownership stake in Geothermie Bouillante SA, which operates a geothermal power plant on the French island of Guadeloupe, in the southern Caribbean. In Bouillante we applied our technology and expertise to optimize the facility, and after only six months we  increased the plant generating capacity by 50% to its current design capacity of 15 MW. Currently, we plan to expand the plant generating capacity by additional 10 MW by the end of 2020. One of Ormat’s first community investments in this new region was designed to help improve awareness of the importance of movement among office personnel, in a special event called “Je bouge pour ma sante” – translated meaning, “I move for my health”. Staged in July 2017, over 350 participants experienced several group exercise options – running, walking, cycling – and learned more about the importance of movement in daily life. IN KENYA Orpower 4, Inc. is the Ormat subsidiary operating in Kenya, where the Olkaria III geothermal complex continues to grow. Olkaria III has a unique location, inside Hellsgate national park, a wildlife sanctuary. Since 2001, Ormat has made annual contributions to the Kenya Wildlife Service, which helps facilitate the environmental and ecosystem management of the park. Ormat has a well-established program of funding education programs in the Kenyan communities near our operation, with a special emphasis on providing scholarship opportunities for bright young girls. Providing higher education opportunities presents new pathways for female students and opens doors to careers as an alternative to early marriage. In 2016 and 2017, Ormat contributed funds to help strengthen local educational infrastructure, funding the building of separate sanitary convenience stations for girls and boys, and providing new classroom desks, tables and chairs. In addition, Ormat has kept education a priority by continuing to provide funds that supplement salaries for additional teachers and extra-curricular learning opportunities, such as field trips for students. Ormat continues to respond to specific needs that arise in Kenyan communities, contributing to efforts such as feeding programs that provide porridge and lunch for students, furnishing water tanks for community groups and providing funding for a local orphanage. ORMAT'S OLKARIA 3 FACILITY CONTRIBUTION TO KENYE .TODAY 150 MW* LIGHT 300,000 KENYAN HOMES** Household accessing electricity in Kenya MW of Olkaria 3 * As of june 2018 ** USAID's Power Africa project 2013 annual report, see www.usaid.gov/powerafrica ORMAT’S SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT Information provided during this update may contain statements relating to current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company’s plans, objectives and expectations for future operations, and are based on management’s current estimates and projections of future results or trends.  Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, please see risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies, Inc.'s Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on June 19, 2018 and Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on August 8, 2018 and the other documents Ormat files with the SEC from time to time. In addition, during this report, statements may be made that include a financial measure defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The report of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Management of Ormat Technologies believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurement that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measures in assessing Ormat Technologies’ liquidity, and when planning and forecasting future periods. This non-GAAP financial measures may also facilitate  management’s  internal  comparison  to  the  company’s  historical  liquidity.  EBITDA  and  Adjusted  EBITDA  are  not  a  measurement of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities or as a measure of liquidity or an alternative to net earnings as indicators of our operating performance or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we b elieve they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a company’s ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. RECONCILIATION TO US GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION We calculate EBITDA as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted for (i) termination fees, (ii) impairment of long-lived assets, (iii) write-off of unsuccessful exploration activities, (iv) any mark-to-market gains or losses from accounting for derivatives, (v) merger and acquisition transaction costs, (vi) stock-based compensation, (vii) gain from extinguishment of liability, and (viii) gain on sale of subsidiary and property, plant and equipment. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not a measurement of financial performance or liquidity under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities or as a measure of liquidity or an alternative to net earnings as indicators of our operating performance or any other measures of performance derived in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are presented because we believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of a Company’s ability to service and/or incur debt. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The following table reconciles net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the twelve.month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net Income  147,109  96,294  Adjusted for:  Interest expense, net (including amortization of deferred financing costs)  53,154  66,418  Income tax provision  21,664  37,059  Adjustment to investment in an unconsolidated company: our porportionate share in interest expense, tax and depreciation and amortization in Sarulla  (265)  - Depreciation and amortization  108,693  99,141  EBITDA  $  330,355  $  298,912  Mark-to-market on derivative instruments  (1500)  319  Stock-based compensation  8,760  5,157  Gain on sale of subsidiary and property, plant and equipment  - (686)  Termination fee  - - Impairment of long-lived assets  - - Loss from extinguishment of liability  1,950  5,780  Merger and acquisition transaction costs  2,460  335  Settlement expenses  - 11,000  Write-off of unsuccessful exploration activities  1,796  3,017  Adjusted EBITDA  $  343,821  $  323,834  Copyright © 2018 Ormat Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This document contains information proprietary to Ormat Technologies, Inc. ReproductionCopyright © 2018 Ormat Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This document contains information proprietary to Ormat Technologies, Inc. Reproduction in any form without prior written permission is strictly prohibitedin any form without prior written permission is strictly prohibited. 