CHAPTER V. GENERATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE AND MEASURING OUR IMPACTS MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND WORKING TO REALIZE NEW OPPORTUNITIES Ormat is a global leader in delivery of renewable energy solutions: geothermal energy, energy storage, recovered energy and management. We have developed and manufac.tured geothermal and recovered energy power plants with a cumula.tive collective capacity of more than 3,200 MW16 since our Company was established over 50 years ago and we are proud to note that all of our power plants primarily operate without fossil fuel consumption. However, some of our power plants may indirectly use fossil fuels as part of their grid elec.tricity consumption. At Ormat, we are motivated to mitigate climate change risks, reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, advance energy efficiency and promote the use of renewable energy sources. These aims lie at the heart of our business and represent our key value proposi.tion for our customers. They also have been identified as highest priority by the stakeholders who participated in our materiality assessment and the ongoing stakeholder engagement. EMISSIONS FROM OUR POWER PLANTS AND OPERATIONS Our geothermal and recovered energy power plants do not have significant emissions. That said, we actively work towards the reduction of mainly CO2 emissions and other GHG emissions17 generated through our operations and business practices, which includes commitments to mitigate any subse.quent climate change effects. Our approach for the calculation of our carbon footprint is financial and operational control. To improve the internal measurement of our GHG emissions, we have expanded our methods for data collection from our relevant operational sites this year, with the goal of estimating our level of impact and generated emissions. We make concerted efforts to both track and minimize all of our emissions including our direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2 and Scope 3) GHG emissions from our power plants and operations, and to regularly report on our progress to the CDP and the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection. We had selected 2019 as our base year for calculating Ormat’s carbon footprint, as well as the first year that Ormat calculated Scope 3 emissions generated from employee personal and business travel. In 2020 we not only continued to calculate our carbon footprint and scope 3 emissions, but also increased the transparency by including the emissions related to freight by sea in our scope 3 emissions calcula.tions. We have established a target for a 5% annual average absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions measured against the 2019 base levels discussed above that we successfully achieved. Our progress towards this goal will be reviewed annually and will be reported in our Sustainability Reports. OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT AND GHG EMISSIONS MITIGATED The main emissions that were calcu.lated for Scope 1 and Scope2 emissions include activities from Ormat’s operating sites, from owned facilities, and from purchased electricity. These activities include manufacturing facil.ities and machinery, offices, power plants, corporate automobile fleet, drilling rigs and electricity consumption at our facilities, among other sources. This year, we expanded our Scope 3 emissions calculations to include freight by sea in addition to employee transportation and business travel that were first disclosed in 2019. We are evaluating additional opportunities for tracking and disclosing Scope 3 emissions. More information on the breakdown of our carbon footprint calculations for 2020 is provided in the graphs and charts below18. The Scope 1 emissions for 2020 totaled 95,741 tons. 89% of Scope 1 emissions and 72% of our total emissions arise from the generation of our geothermal energy. Of the 89% Scope 1 emissions, 68% is a result of the energy produced and sold to our clients, and 21% is from energy consumed internally as the auxiliary power of our geothermal power plants. In Honduras We developed and manufactured our geothermal power plant with a capacity of 38 MW and we are proud to note that our power plant operates without fossil fuel consumption as a general tule. At GeoPlatanares, we are motivated to mitigate climate change risks, reduce our greenhouse gas emmisions, advance energy efficiency, and promote the use of renewable energy sources. These aims lie at the heart of our business and represent our key value proposition for our customer. They also have been iden.tified as one of the highest priorities by the stakeholders who participated in our materiality assessment and the ongoing stakeholder engagement. IN 2020 ORMAT MITIGATED 46,458 TONS OF GHG EMISSIONS IN SCOPE 1 AND 2 COMPARED TO 2019, HELPING US IN OUR TRANSITION TO NET ZERO EMISSIONS 16 As of the publication of this report. 17 ”Greenhouse gases” are defined by the U.S. EPA as “gases that trap heat in the atmosphere. These gases include carbon dioxide(CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and fluorinated gases, or high global warming potential gases. 18 All calculations include storage facilities data. 54 All of our recovered energy plants, and the majority of our geothermal power plants operate with 100% reinjec.tion of the geothermal resource and therefore do not generate emissions. A small number of our steam and binary plants, which uses artesian wells are unable to conduct 100% reinjection of the geothermal resource (due to the non-condensed gases coming to the surface from the geothermal reservoir), do generate GHG emissions to a certain extent. These emissions were calculated either through actually monitored emissions levels, or computed according to established US Department of Energy guidelines for steam power plants.19 Additional emissions under Scope 1 derived from the operation of drilling rigs used in the geothermal exploration and power plant construction phases, from our use of vehicles at our various facilities, which are employed for travel, mainte.nance, and logistics at our various sites, the use of diesel backup generators to provide power for ongoing operations in the event of planned or unplanned outages or maintenance shutdowns, and from air conditioning units used in our factories and offices20. The Scope 2 emissions21 for 2020 totaled 14,763 tons. At our manu.facturing facility in Yavne, Israel, we generate solar electricity using rooftop Photovoltaic (PV) panels. The relevant emissions are calculated according to an emissions factor of zero. The electricity that we generate through the solar panels is used for self-consumption or is sold back to the local electrical utility. In 2020, self-consumption of solar energy at our manufacturing facility totaled to 1,547 MWh. The energy generated sold to the local electrical utility was 405 MWh. The production, consump.tion and selling of the solar energy in 2020, resulted in the avoidance of 1,064 tons of carbon dioxide emissions. The total Scope 3 emissions for 2020 totaled 8,378 tons. 2019 was the first year in which we began to calculate and disclose Scope 3 emissions. Scope 3 emissions, indirect emissions, are one of the more important catego.ries of emissions to calculate as they can represent the largest source of emissions for companies. Ormat under.stands that as a renewable energy company there can still be many indirect emissions that are related to our operations throughout the supply chain. We understand our responsi.bility, and despite the complexity of collecting and calculating the data, we plan to continue explore the expanding and improving of our disclosures in order to enhance transparency. With the addition of disclosures in Scope 3 data for 2020, we identified a rise in our total scope 3 emissions, yet this is due to an improvement in our transparency and one we intend to continue in the coming years. Even with the additional Scope 3 emissions that were added, our total emissions and carbon footprint went down between 2019 and 2020. This is due to a couple things: • Conversion of artesian wells to pumped wells and steam turbine decommissioning, which eliminated the non-condensed gases emitted to the atmosphere – reduces Scope 1 • Reduction of energy use due to COVID-19 – reduction of Scope 2 • Reduction of flights due to COVID-19 – reduction of emissions associated with flights within the calculation of Scope 3 Although some of these reductions were a result of the pandemic, we intend to continue reducing overall and creating more efficiencies by adopting practices and utilizing technology solution to reduce the non-condensed gases at our power plants. In 2019, we set the goal of reducing our emissions in Scope 1 and 2 by 5% per revenue by 2020. We accomplished this goal and beyond as we reduced total emissions in Scope 1 and 2 by about 29% absolute carbon footprint. Looking to our planned, ongoing and future projects in 2020, we have estimated that we Will maintain an annual 5% reduction in the next years compare to 2019 base level. Absolute and Percentage Reduction CO2 tons Scope  2019  2020  YoY Change  Scope 1  121,214  95,741  -21%  Scope 2  35,748  14,763  -59%  Scope 3  3,802  8,378  120%  19 As published by the Office of ENERGY EFFICIENCY & RENEWABLE ENERGY 20 This data was obtained from the majority of Ormat’s relevant sites; our Yavne (Israel) manufacturing facility is the primary producer of Ormat’s worldwide air conditioner related emissions. 21 Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the “market” based approach where possible by using the coefficient of utility used. When not possible, The “location”based calculation was done by using the coefficient based on the EPA’s ‘Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories’ (March 2021) document. Scopes Breakdown and Amount (COe tons) Scope 3, 8,378, 7%Scope 2, 14,763, 12% Scope 1, 95,741, 81% Scope 2 | Country Guadeloupe (France) Kenya Guatemala TurkeyHonduras 1.2%~0.1% Israel 10.3% USA 88.4% Total Emission by Source Scope 1 | Country Guadeloupe 1% (France) 0.1%Israel Turkey ~0.1% 2%0.7% HondurasGuatemala 9.4% 0.1% ~0.1%3%3% USA 57.4% Kenya 32.3% Scope 3 | Country Guatemala, 1% Guadeloupe (France), .Kenya Turkey Honduras, USA, 22% ~0.1% Israel, Heating Geothermal plant emission- Aux - internal use 77% Generators Electrical Energy Consumption Gas Used in Company Kitchen (LPG) Employee Transportation Drilling Rigs Business ﬂights Machinery Owned & Leased by Company .Freight (sea) Used in Factory (forklifts, cranes, welding machine etc.) AC used in o›ces and factories Vehicles - others (used for company work) Geothermal plant emission- Net - sold to clients EMISSIONS EMISSIONS FROM in our calculations, though this avoided through the generation information is also included in our of renewable power at Ormat’sCOMPARISON OPERATIONS customers’ emissions disclosures. owned power plants in 2020. 2019-2020 The chart shows the renewable Ormat’s contribution to global GHG In 2020, Ormat owned power plant electricity offset recorded by Ormat mitigation is strengthened through facilities generated 6,043,993 MWh in 2020 conceptually compared the avoidance of emissions in the (net) of electricity. As mentioned with other common methods of geothermal and recovered energy above, in order to provide a base load electricity generation, power plants that Ormat has sold to fuller representation of our total such as conventional fossil fuel-power producers and utilities over emissions, we have included the based methods22. These figures the years, which have an installed emissions from our production present only the emissions that were capacity of more than 3,200 MW. The below table compares the CO2 generated by Ormat plants with the amountgenerated by other technologies for an equivalent amount of power.28 7.44 million tons of CO2 5.32 million tons of CO2 3.15 million tons of CO2 0.04 million tons of CO2 ORMAT PLANTS NATURAL GAS PLANTS FUEL OIL PLANTS COAL PLANTS Our GHG emissions intensity calculation, i.e. the relative intensity of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions divided by our revenues, which uses 2019 as the base year for comparison in future calculations, acts as a point of comparison for us to track the intensity of our emissions over time, assisting us in accurately accounting for the extent of our environmental impacts. In addition, we have worked to reduce emissions through the following projects: Steam Turbine Decommissioning and conversion of artesian wells to pumped wells: • Ormesa facility - we decommissioned the last steam turbine in the first quarter of 2020. Thisallowsforthe binarycycle that will reduce completely the emissions. • Heber facility – has one steam turbine still in use -RTO generator installed to reduce emissions almost completely -There are carbon footprint readings – not estimated -The steam turbine is planned to be replaced soon – toa binaryunit,andwithin the 2022 time-frame will go down to almost nothing. 22 The emissions from Ormat’s power plants and the relevant calculation are explained above. The other electricity sources are from “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2019” International Energy Agency (IEA), 2019. ENERGY USE, EFFICIENCY AND FUEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AT ORMAT We strive to ensure optimization and ultimate efficiency in our use of energy resources throughout our value chain and in our internal operations. As an energy generator, we seek to improve our efficiency by using advanced technologies and equipment in order to optimize the energy generated by our power plants. As an energy consumer, we work to improve performance through designated action plans and by raising employee awareness regarding the use of energy in our operations; offices, buildings, facilities and transportation. ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE ORGANIZATION The fuel consumption figure in terms of energy (GJ) is obtained from direct measurement of the fuel used at each facility based on its net calorific value (NCV) and applying the accepted units of fuel conversion from the “UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting”23. The internal electricity consump.tion within the organization and the total amount of electricity generated and sold by the organization was calculated using inputs on energy purchased or generated, and using the following formula: electricity (GJ) = electricity (MWh) x 3.6 GJ/MW. EFFORTS TO IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY We make concerted efforts to monitor and reduce our energy consumption. Most of these efforts are implemented at our manufac.turing facilities through measures such as switching out outdated equipment and machinery for newer models with better energy efficiency and fuel consumption, among other initiatives. Each factory or workshop manager is responsible for assessing and mapping potential areas for energy efficiency improvements and then implementing the identified projects at their operational location. This is added to our Company-wide commitment to encouraging the responsible use of energy resources at all levels of the Company. Some of the Company-wide initiatives we have implemented in recent years include refurbishing our manufacturing facil.ities with LED lighting, installing more efficient air conditioning and cooling units and setting goals for improving the energy efficiency of our manufac.turing facilities. As a leading provider of clean geothermal energy, the Company prioritizes the reduction of energy consumption by our employees, plants, facilities, and associated entities. This is a continual, collab.orative, and often iterative process in which all our stakeholders must take part. Ultimately, we believe that reductions in organizational energy consumption can have a significant positive downstream effect on the environmental and economic sustain.ability of our operations. The following are examples of initia.tives taken in 2020 to reduce the Company’s energy consumption. • Educating and training our employees on energy.effec-tive practices • The lighting systems have been replaced to LEDs and continue to show improvement • Old air conditioners have been 23 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2019 60 replaced for ones that are more energy efficient • Smart lighting and cooling systems that automatically turns off when there is no movement and ensures that we are saving energy • Installation of solar water heaters to heat water in the machining department MANAGEMENT OF GEOTHERMAL BY.PRODUCTS AND WATER RESOURCES The management of water resources are of key importance to Ormat and our stakeholders. This includes first the geothermal water (or the geother.mal resources, that is composed of water, salts and minerals) required for geothermal energy generation, and water resources that are used in other processes. We work to manage our impacts on the local hydrology and natural environment both through our commitments to various regulatory requirements and in our environmental action plans. Geothermal by-products and water impacts are managed by the power plant managers at our opera.tional sites, while the nature of their activities and initiatives is inspired by our commitment to minimizing envi.ronmental and health-related impacts as detailed in our Integrated Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy. Management of the Geothermal Resource and its By-Products A key sustainability driver for geother.mal power generation is the conserva.tion and recycling of the geothermal resources that carry the heat from deep underground to the geothermal power plant on the earth’s surface. We strive to develop geothermal power plants that involve reinjection and recirculation of the geothermal resource in what are known as “closed loop” systems. This method continu.ously recharges geothermal systems by maintaining consistent geothermal fluid flow and pressures. Reinjection of brine and condensate help reduce production-related pressure drawdown and promote enhanced thermal energy extraction from the heated rocks within the reservoir. Importantly, reinjection also avoids by-products from emitted geothermal steam, mainly greenhouse gases, and the need for disposal of wastewater as well as visual impacts in the form of an emitted plumes from the cooling process. Management of Water Resources in Our Operations. Management approach The goal of Ormat’s water sustainability vision is to proactively seek to use water resources in the most environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Preservation of and care for the environ.ment are at the core of what we do at Ormat, and as such we are committed to all principles of environmental sustainabil.ity. We actively work to control impacts and opportunities, and this includes water use and management. As such, we have developed a Water Management Policy to support and uphold our water sustainabil.ity vision of proactively seek to use water resources in the most environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. We engage with water resources from diverse sources to operate our power plants,manufacturingfacilitiesandoffices, and as such have established ambitious objectives to guide our water use and aim in order to reach our goal of maximum recycling by 2025 in all locations. The objectives of the Policy are to lead the sector and actively managing our water resources, tracking and controlling data to ensure transparency, analyze and monitor water usage and performance, minimize the use of water and to engage stakeholders in all activities. The Policy will accompany the various purposes for use of water resources, such as the following aims: • Operation of our power plants: In our air-cooled plants, water resources are used only for maintenance activities and for administrative and domestic purposes (cleaning, toilets, etc.). This provides a significant advantage in our plants that are located in areas of water scarcity, such as Nevada and Kenya. Our water-cooled plants are mostly in locations where that is the only option, mostly due to local weather and atmospheric conditions. There, water is used for the cooling and condensing of the motive fluid. • Manufacturing and office facility: Water resources are used for various applica.tions by the factory staff and to facilitate the manufacturing process. The main use for water in our manufacturing facility is for testing the viability of our power plant equipment in the factory setting, wherein we use recycled water. • Exploration and drilling: Water is used in drilling activities mainly to generate the mud that is necessary for drilling a geothermal well, for environmental dust control and to maintain fluid for well control. Until 2020, the source of water used for drilling was different at each location and tanks were usually brought onto the drilling site. As of 2020, all drilling activities are done by and within the operating plants, and therefore thewater usedisinternaland notregistered in the amounts of water used. The water used meets relevant regulatory and envi.ronmental requirements that are enforced as conditions of our drilling permits24. 24 The quantity of water utilized in exploration and drilling activities varies year to year. In 2020, the notable decrease in water consumption is explained because there was much less drilling carried out overall this year and most of the drilling was in existing plants so the water used is counted in the plant’s water consumption. Additionally, we have corrected our Puna operation water use data for 2020. Impacts of Our Operations on the Local Hydrology and Aquifers We strive to conduct the necessary studies -including environmental impact assess.ments - to uncover and mitigate any poten.tially negative impacts on local hydrology and groundwater systems. Ormat has entered geothermal resources leases with government entities, such as the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in the U.S., entailing the right to conduct geother.mal development and operations on government-owned or naturally protected lands. These leases legally require us to conduct operations in a manner that minimizes impacts on water and the geothermal resources. In 2020, our stakeholders did not submit any material grievances or concerns regarding the management of water resources in the vicinity of our power plants. In addition, and as part of our envi.ronmental monitoring efforts, we track the sources of withdrawal for the water resources that we consume. We consume water resources at our operational sites mainly through the local water utility, but in other cases we consume groundwater and well water resources. In very rare circum.stances, we consume water resources directly from local water sources. However, our interaction with such water sources is usually managed directly through our engagement with a local water utility. As of 2020, we did not discover any material negative impacts on the local hydrology in the vicinity of our power plants and manufacturing facilities as a direct result from our operations. The following table details the sources for various water resources used at our power plants and at our manufac.turing sites in 2019 and 2020: WATER EFFICIENCIES IN PLATANARES POWER PLANT, HONDURAS In 2020, 1,420 m3 of water was used for the use of Platanares employees in the control room and 116 m3 of water for maintenance of the power plant, adding up to a total of 1,536 m3 of water used. it was contemplated for 2020 to be used more efficient water and we lowered it a 41% from 2018 baseline. The following details the sources for various water resources used at our power plants and at our manufacturing sites in 2019 and 2020: Country  Plant or Location Name  Total Volume Withdrawn (m3)  Source  2019  2020  United States  Brady102  81  76  City of Reno  Don A. Campbell Complex  190  202  Gabbs, Nevada  Heber Complex 103  7,145,314  7,011,100  Colorado River through the ImperialIrrigation District  Jersey Valley  77  77  Battle Mountain  Mammoth Complex  194  53  Mammoth Community Water District  McGinness Hills Complex  887  883  Callahan Pond  Neal Hot Springs  211  229  Groundwater and on-site water well  Brawly Complex 104  1,507,191  2,026,487  Colorado River through the ImperialIrrigation District  OREG  0.76  2  Different sources 105  Ormesa Complex 106  3,406,507  4,307,319  Colorado River through the ImperialIrrigation District  Puna  31,051  21,160  Hawaii County Water Supply  Raft River 107  1,270,372  1,361,018  Groundwater and on-site water well  Reno offices  4,357  1,855  City of Reno  Reno workshop  269  579  City of Reno  San Emidio 108  933,168  1,277,386  Groundwater and on-site water well  Steamboat Complex  203  76  City of Reno  Storage facilities  NA  NA  Not tracked  Tungsten Mountain  58  58  Well water  Tuscarora 109  360,452  270,736  Spanish Springs Ranch  Guatemala  Amatitlan  245  190  Well water  Zunil  454  409  Water purchased from a third party  Guadeloupe  Bouillante 110  7,900  9,500  Bay of Bouillante  Honduras  Platanares  2,378  2,179  Bufa River  Israel  Israel manufacturing facilityand offices  14,187  14,021  Israel Water Authority  Kenya  Olkaria III Complex  19,479  27,055  Lake Naivasha through the Lake LaivashaWater Resource Authority  Turkey  Turkey manufacturing facilityand offices  0.6  0.9  Izmir Water Company (IZSU)  Drilling opera.tions worldwide  Different locations worldwide  8,082  see text  Various sources111  WASTE, MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION We actively work to improve our rela.tionship with the natural environment in the process of our business activities and beyond. We work towards respon.sible waste and material management at all our global facilities and have put in place ambitious programs, based on the results of environmental impact assessments and feedback from stake.holders, to better control the impact of our activities on local biodiversity. We strive to continuously improve our environmental performance, focusing on waste management and biodi.versity impacts. We actively monitor facility performance and encourage our employees and other stakeholders to report on incidents as they occur. In the context of the plan, we aim to take into consideration relevant legal and regulatory requirements governing the topics of waste management and biodiversity, and these standards are continually mapped and monitored at local and international levels. We uphold ISO 14001 at our main manufacturing facility and the standard is used as a guideline for other activities worldwide. In addition, we engage in thorough dialogue with stakeholders, environmental NGOs and local commu.nities to understand their concerns regarding the natural environment and biodiversity surrounding our facilities. We have established grievance mech.anisms in most of the communities in our areas of operation, enabling the local population to directly submit any issues of concern regarding also waste management or biodiversity impacts directly to responsible individuals or to the Company at large. We attempt to address any relevant such concerns in a timely and thorough manner. WASTE, MATERIAL MANAGEMENT  their activities, which are set out in  AND RECYCLING  our contractual agreements and are  outlined in our list of Environmental  We seek to responsibly manage our  Compliance Responsibilities.  waste and material streams and to  reuse and reclaim materials in order to  AT OUR MANUFACTURING  minimize our impact on the natural envi- FACILITIES, WORKSHOPS AND  ronment and ensure the sustainability  OFFICES  of our business over time. Our waste  management efforts are constantly  Our manufacturing facilities, offices  improving, as the topic is managed at  and workshops generate different  a global scale in our Company through  types of hazardous and non-hazard. the Integrated Quality, Environment,  ous waste. Most of the hazardous waste  Health & Safety System Policy that  arises from manufacturing practices,  outlines our commitments to standards  in which case we follow and adhere  such as ISO 14001 and relevant environ- to local regulations. In our offices, we  mental and health and safety standards  work to recycle, reuse and repurpose  for the management of hazardous  waste and materials in order to increase  waste. Our VP of Quality, Health, Envi. our level of efficiency and minimize  ronment and Safety oversees corpo. our impact on the environment. We  rate-level policies for the management  provide our employees with access to  of waste, materials and recycling. At the  recycling receptacles across our opera- local level, safe management of waste,  tional locations, and actively encourage  including hazardous waste, materials  the preservation of resources by  and recycling efforts are managed  promoting recycling and the responsi. on an ongoing basis by the plant  ble use of materials. Where possible, we  managers, who establish the relevant  encourage the reuse of materials such  procedures for waste and material  as paper and cardboard, and our manu. management in order to comply with  facturing facilities strive to recycle and  local regulations.  reuse materials such as wood that can  be used for packaging and shipping  Waste management at our manufac. our products.  turing facilities and geothermal power  plants is managed through our material  compliance with ISO 14001 and through  the establishment of an Environmental  Management System. Every aspect of  the waste management process must  be planned, implemented, measured,  monitored and continuously improved  through strategic objectives. This  includes properly handling, storing,  labelling, transporting and disposing  of waste – namely hazardous waste  products or materials – through our  health and safety guidelines and  Emergency Action plans, training of  our personnel and employees on issues  related to waste and the handling of  materials and by keeping records of our  waste management efforts.  We also have expectations of our  subcontractors for the sound manage. ment of waste generated through  The following table details the major categories of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that were generated at our manufacturing facilities, offices and workshops in 2020, including details on how the waste products were disposed of or treated. Category of Waste  Waste Classifica tion (Hazardous or Non-Hazardous)  Weight (kilograms) 2019  Weight (kilograms) 2020  Disposal Method  General Waste Streams and Construction Waste  Non-Hazardous  1,329,240  88,234  Landfill  Metal - General, Aluminum, Scrapand Carbon Steel  Non-Hazardous  1,184,370  1,171,875  Recycling  Wood  Non-Hazardous  920,460  586,960  Recycling  Used Paint Containers and Paint Thinners  Hazardous  14,112  20,312  Authorized Disposal Methods  Used Oils  Hazardous  2,900  6,260  Authorized Disposal Methods  Radiographic films  Non-Hazardous  300  300  Recycling  Paper and Cardboard  Non-Hazardous  501,592  120  Recycling  Acid (Nitric Acid, Sulfuric Acid),Anti-Freeze, Antiseize, OrganicDissolving Material  Hazardous  9,156  Not reported in 2020  Authorized Disposal Methods  Batteries, Electronic Waste and Lightbulbs  Non-Hazardous  71,980  2,000  Recycling  AT OUR GLOBAL POWER PLANTS environmental action plans at nearly all our A by-product of the utilization of geother.power plants, working to meet stringent mal resource is scale, a non-hazardous At our various geothermal power plants, local and international standards and regu-material which we are responsible for there are relevant local regulations and lations – a process that is managed through treatingand disposing.Scaleiscommonly requirements governing the manage-local know-how by our plant managers. found to include calcium carbonate, ment, disposal and storage of waste. Part amorphous silica and silicates, and mixed of our commitment in providing renewable The operation of geothermal power plants metal oxides and sulfides. We actively energy solutions is to ensure that material requires the use of some sensitive and monitor the level of scale in our systems and waste management at our projects hazardous materials, including flammable and if we are not able to prevent the scale adheres to our values, which means striving materials such as industrial lubricants and build-up we must remove and dispose of for zero tolerance for leakages and other organic motive fluids. These are treated it. This disposal is in alignment with regu.potentially harmful environmental events. according to local regulations governing latory requirements and our expectations storage and disposal of these materials in for sound environmental management. In order to fulfill these objectives, we uphold the relevant country of operation. The following table details the types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that were generated at ourpower plants in 2019 and how the waste products and materials were disposed of or treated: Type of Waste  Waste Classifica tion (Hazardous or Non-Hazardous)  Weight (kilograms) 2019  Weight (kilograms) 2020114  Disposal Method  Used Oils, Petroleum Solids, OilyRags, Pads, Used Filters and OtherOil Contaminated Products  Hazardous  255,034  170,209  Landfill, Recycling, Authorized Disposal Methods, Recovery & Reuse84  Motive Fluid85  Hazardous  632,250  206,729  Authorized Disposal Methods  Metal - General, Aluminum, Scrapand Carbon Steel  Non-Hazardous  157,819  378,430  Recycling  General Waste Streams and Construction Waste  Non-Hazardous  380,945  1,283,875  Landfill & Incineration  Wood  Non-Hazardous  5,063  4,345  Landfill, Recycling & Reuse  Paper and Cardboard  Non-Hazardous  8,233  4,651  Landfill, Recycling & Reuse  Acid (Nitric Acid, Sulfuric Acid),Anti-Freeze, Antiseize, OrganicDissolving Material  Hazardous  10,317  14,816  Authorized Disposal Methods  Batteries, Electronic Waste and Lightbulbs  Non-Hazardous  1,332  158,873  Recycling  Geothermal Drilling Mud(Liquid & Solid)  Non-Hazardous  650,703  13,794,197  Landfill  Sand  Non-Hazardous  925,183  84,617  Landfill  Nylon/Plastic Waste  Non-Hazardous  459  1,570  Landfill  Used Paint Containers and Paint Thinners  Hazardous  1,822  2,087  Authorized Disposal Methods & Recycling  At our subsidiary in Honduras, GeoPlatanares, we have our own treatment plant for wastewater. During 2020 an approximated 1,518m3 of water was returned to the natural environment after being properly treated. 66 67 BIODIVERSITY Our renewable energy solutions are derived from nature itself, and as a result we place utmost significance on assessing the potential impacts on the local biodiversity and the natural and cultural environments surround.ing our power plants. Maintaining the natural biodiversity around our plants is important to a number of our key stakeholder groups, such as local communities, environmental NGOs and financing bodies, among others. Accordingly, we strive to design our power generation facilities to blend into the surrounding landscape, taking into consideration the actual physical location of each facility, the configuration of units that are used to build it, landscaping, and the surrounding natural habitat, among other elements. MAINTAINING THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN THE CONSTRUC.TION AND OPERATION OF OUR POWER PLANTS Before we develop a new geothermal facility, we create a detailed environ.mental plan to minimize impacts to the surrounding natural lands and wildlife ecosystems. Our aim is to control and reduce the level of disruption to the surrounding natural environment in the development of the plant. Our care for the environment around our plants extends to the operation and maintenance phases of their lifecycle, keeping in mind our commitment to minimizing operational costs without compromising on meeting the highest safety and environmental standards. Furthermore, we seek to maintain the sustainable characteristics of geother.mal resources through the intensive geologic and hydrologic studies that we conduct during the exploration and drilling phases. In some cases, Ormat is required to conduct additional studies regarding potential impacts on the natural environment as part of its land and mineral rights lease agreements. During the construction of our geothermal power plants phase, we require the site manager and construc.tion team to fulfil a list of specified environmental compliance responsibil.ities regarding biodiversity preserva.tion at various stages of the construc.tion process. These responsibilities vary from site to site, but in general include: attending a pre-construction meeting with Ormat to review the environmental management expec.tations; preparation of emergency response plans with contingencies for hazardous material spills and disposal; monitoring of dust conditions on site during construction; ensuring the proper storage of waste; recon-touring of impacted areas to match the surrounding terrain; providing a buffer around eligible and unevaluated cultural sites that are close to project activities; salvaging and stockpiling soils for use later in the construction process; and ensuring that there is no use of construction paint on the natural surface. In addition, ongoing research into new equipment helps minimize the envi.ronmental impacts from the operation of our facilities. For example, several facilities have been reconfigured to accommodate larger pumps that can more efficiently extract and process fluids from geothermal reservoirs. This, in turn, may reduce the number of wells that are required to properly exploit a geothermal reservoir, thereby reducing our overall land use while simultaneously enhancing overall facility operational capacity. The installation of more efficient, air-cool.ing equipment in angled positions is another compelling improvement that has significantly reduced energy consumption and the level of impact on the natural environment surround.ing our facilities. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS AND ENVIRON.MENTAL AUDITS At each of the sites where Ormat decides to construct a new power plant, we conduct environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) or regular environmental audits of our activities as mandated by relevant and local regulatory requirements. Impacts analyzed in the context of the environmental and social impact assessments are classified as those related to ecology and nature conser.vation, landscape and visual impacts, traffic and transport, noise, socio-eco.nomic impacts, health, safety and public nuisance, ground, water and air emissions, archaeology and cultural heritage, electric and magnetic fields and electromagnetic interference. Identified impacts are managed and mitigated by Ormat in accordance with best commercial practices. The measures adopted include informing the local population in a timely manner about construction activities and repairing any damage to local access roads, as well as restoring any disturbed lands. Our local site management team is usually tasked with developing and implementing an environmental action or management plan that addresses the actual and potential impacts on an ongoing basis for regu.lators and/or the local community. Though we conduct ESIAs for each of the power plants that we construct and own, those for which we have turn-key contracts we know that it is typical for it to be conducted. Below we present a detailed description of the impact assessments and action plans that we generated for our fully-owned plants in 2020. REFORESTATION MANAGEMENT IN HONDURAS Platanares power plant reforested 6,000 trees of various native species in 2020, thus contributing to the restoration of the natural ecosystem of the western region of Honduras. CASE STUDY: NEW SAGE.GROUSE CONSERVATION PARTNERSHIP WILL ENHANCE WILDLIFE HABITAT AND STRENGTHEN NAVADA’S CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMY In 2020, The Navada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources partnered with Ormat and Crawforf Cattle LLC to help protect the iconic Greater Sage-grouse species, while compli.menting the state’s climate  and sustainability goals through leveraging Navada’s abundant renewable energy resources. Guatemala In our Zunil and Amatitlan locations (Guatemala), as elsewhere, identi.fied areas of concern are paired with detailed action plans to mitigate them. Our efforts in this field are informed by legal requirements, but also by the expressed needs of the surrounding community and Ormat’s wider corporate standards for ensuring environmentally sustainable operations25. With regards to other environmen.tal factors, we have not discov.ered negative impacts resulting from our operations on local flora and fauna, and no noise pollution complaints were received from the local community over the last year. At Ormat’s power plant in Amatitlan, the staff hosts an annual reforestation program for local school children, which involves over a dozen local schools to promote awareness of the importance of local environmental conserva.tion efforts. 25 Per resolution number 156-2002-AB/ADB. 