CHAPTER VII. OUR HOLISTIC APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAKING SOUND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A PRIORITY Sound corporate governance is a top priority for Ormat, in light of our nature as a publicly traded and global company with operations and activities across the globe. At Ormat, not only do we believe that transparent corporate governance practices contribute to the financial success of our business, they ensure that our Company remains resilient and strong in the face of challenges, while also creating space for new business oppor.tunities and engagement. Furthermore, corporate governance has been identi.fied as one of our key sustainability issues by our stakeholders, and therefore, we remain steadfast in our commitment to devoting resources to and improving our governance performance and our level of disclosure on related topics, such as anti-corruption, executive remuneration and regulatory compliance. Ormat utilizes an anti-corruption training system, GAN Integrity, which categorizes employees into one of categories based on risk, and as such determines the level of training along with what is required for their role. There are two modules for training, Basic ABAC and Advanced ABAC, which are both offered in multiple languages to better fit the needs of our employees. Basic ABAC is a review of Ormat’s ant-corruption policy and the accompanying ABAC presentation. Within the advanced ABAC training, we include a review of the policy, the presen.tation, with an additional completion of a hypothetical dilemma and a test. 2020 marks the first year in which Ormat has begun to record the amount of employees that have received anti-corruption training, and intends to start disclosing such data in its 2021 report.  By doing so, we are seeking to show year on year improvement, as well as developing and enhancing disclosures. In terms of our corporate values, our corporate governance practice is defined by honesty, openness and fairness, and we expect all our employees, and espe.cially our leaders to exhibit these qualities at all times. By integrating these values and more into our corporate governance practices, we work towards ensuring the stability of our company as well as expressing our full commitment towards transparency, fairness and good business practices with our stakeholders. Further.more, and as outlined below, we have several corporate governance mecha.nisms for management and oversight that ensure that thesevalues andour integrity are upheld on an on-going basis. ORMAT’S CORPORATE GOVER.NANCE STRUCTURE Ormat’s Board of Directors The Board of Directors’ main responsibil.ity is to provide direction and oversight. The Board establishes Ormat’s strategic direction and oversees the performance of its business and management of any relevant economic, environmental and social impacts. 59The Chairman of the Board of Directors does not hold any addi.tional executive roles in the company. We strive to promote diversity of repre.sentation at all levels of our company. At present, our Board has one Director members who is female (One female director decided not stand for reelec.tion in the last meeting we held in May 2021), while three Director members are of racially diverse backgrounds. As an American company with significant business operations based in Israel, most of our Board of Directors’ members are of American or Israeli nationality. Addition.ally, the Board of Directors has members of Japanese and Dutch nationality. The company/Board is committed to bring at least one more female director for election in the next Annual General Meeting in 2022. Ormat’s Board of Directors’ Committees Our Board of Directors conducts its business and affairs through meetings of the Board and through the four standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Invest.ment, and Nominating and Corporate Governance. As of the publication of this report, Ormat did not have a desig.nated Corporate Social Responsibility or Sustainability Committee on the Board of Directors60,61. The Board is responsible for periodi.cally, and at least annually, conducting a self-evaluation. The Board and the Nominating and Corporate Gover.nance Committee are responsible for establishing the evaluation criteria and overseeing the implementation of the process for such evaluation. If needed, actions are periodically taken in response to evaluation of the Board of Director’s performance with respect to gover.nance of economic, environmental, and social topics. The Board maintains the flexibility to determine whether the roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO should be combined or separated, based on what it believes is in the best interests of the Company at a given point in time. The Board believes that this flexibility is in the best interest of the Company and that a one-size-fits-all approach to corporate governance, with a mandated independent Chairman, would not result in better governance or oversight. Currently, the CEO position is separate from the Chairman of the Board position. 59  On July 26, 2017, ORIX purchased approximately 22% of our shares of common stock outstanding. Pursuant to the Governance Agreement between us and ORIX entered into in connection with this stock purchase transaction, ORIX has the right to designate three directors to our Board for as long as ORIX and its affiliates collectively hold at least 18% of the voting power of all of our outstanding voting securities, the right to representation on certain committees of our Board as well as preemptive rights pursuant to the Governance Agreement. 60 More information on the committees that make up Ormat’s Board of Directors can be found in our Annual Report at the following link: https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792. PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 61  On May 4, 2017, the Company entered into a governance agreement with ORIX in connection with an agreement between ORIX. More details are provided on the Governance Agreement below. 102 We believe that the separation of the Chairman and CEO positions is appropri.ate corporate governance for us currently. Our Board believes that, currently, this structure best encourages the free and open dialogue of competing views and provides for strong checks and balances. Additionally, the Chairman’s attention to Board and committee matters allows the CEO to focus more specifically on over.seeing the Company’s day-to-day oper.ations as well as strategic opportunities and planning62. Ormat’s Board of Directors members have relevant education and professional expe.rience in the following areas and regarding the following topics: economics, business, banking, construction, infrastructure, renewable energy, telecommunications, international law, regulatory compliance, and governance matters63. As Ormat’s delegating authority, the Board of Directors assigns responsibili.ties for economic, environmental and social topics to various senior exec.utives according to the relevance of the topic to the nature of their role. For instance, our Executive Vice President of Business Development is responsible for assessing related risks and opportu.nities arising from Ormat’s engagement with economic, environmental and social topics while developing projects. In addition, some senior roles are mainly devoted to relevant risk management issues, such as our Global VP Quality, Health, Environment & Safety, who is responsible for shaping our global health, safety and emergency preparedness processes, and our Sustainability Manager, who reports directly to our General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer on issues of environmental, social and governance performance. These senior executives and relevant managers report to the management and/or the Board of Directors and its committees on a periodic basis and as needed, based on their deter.mination on the necessity of such updates regarding economic, environmental or social matters. Furthermore, relevant employees are involved and consulted in strategic thinking on the management of economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities that we identify as key focus areas. We consult with relevant stakeholders regarding the proper management of key economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities, including: our financial auditors, corporate sustainability consul.tants, legal advisors, employees and others. Ormat is committed to upholding our Stakeholder Engagement Policy expressing our commitment to maintain.ing systematic and proactive channels of dialogue in order to take key interests, concerns and needs into account. In 2020, no material actions were taken in response to evaluations of the Board of Director’s performance, nor those pertaining to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Ormat’s Management As of the date of this report, Ormat prides itself on assembling a highly qualified and experienced senior management team of nine members, four of whom joined our team during 2020. Each position on the management team is designed to serve a designated function that addresses Ormat’s business needs and the needs of our key stakeholders. Ormat’s management team is led by the Chief Executive Officer. Together with the Board of Directors, the management team is responsible for setting Ormat’s business strategy and direction, for setting the Company’s performance goals and KPIs, and for the general management of the Company’s employees, stakeholder matters and other business affairs. The following table shows the members of our current senior management team, as of the writing of this report. Senior Manager  Position  Date Current Assumed Position  Doron Blachar  Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  June 2020  Assi Ginsburg  Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  May 2020  Shimon Hazir  Executive Vice President – Electricity Segment  April 2021  Bob Sullivan  Executive Vice President – Business Development  July 2015  Shlomi Argas  Executive Vice President – Product Segment and Operations President  January 2018 January 2021  Jessica Woelfel  Interim General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer  March 2021  Ofer Ben Yosef  Executive Vice President - Energy Storage and Business Development Management  April 2020  Liat Inbar Arad  Senior Vice President – Human Resources  July 2020  62 More information can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d.db5e1032b447.pdf 63  A complete description of director member experience can be found in Ormat’s 2020 Proxy Statement at the following link: http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK.0001296445/5a906a1b-66cc-4cd2-892d-db5e1032b447.pdf Each member of the management team is screened for the relevant experience and knowledge that is needed to fully perform their role. Similarly, all executive managers undergo performance reviews and are provided with training or access to educa.tional opportunities on topics that are most relevant to their professional role. Ormat is committed to achieving a diverse management team that is representative of our workforce and of the communi.ties that we serve. To that end, we are committed to ensuring that all employees at our worldwide locations including the senior management of those locations, are hired locally. Our commitment to diverse hiring and employment practices are discussed in greater detail in Section VI:Our Impact and Engagement with Our Employees. Ormat’s senior management is respon.sible, among others, for the develop.ment, approval, and updating of Ormat’s purpose, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics. For instance, management is responsible for approving Ormat’s corporate-level policies and periodically reviews environmental and social impact assessments and action plans for our power plants. Management Transition In December 2020, we announced several departures and appointments in our executive management team: • Zvi Krieger announced that he will step down from his role as Executive Vice President—Electricity Segment on March 31, 2021 and will continue to perform certain duties until his June 30, 2022 retirement date. • Shimon Hatzir was appointed to the role of Executive Vice President— Electricity Segment, effective April 1, 2021. • Shlomi Argas, Executive Vice President—Operations and Products of Ormat, was appointed to serve 64 Including pursuant to the Company’s equity-based plans. 104 as a President of Ormat, effective January 1, 2021. In March, 2021, the Company and Hezi Kattan, the General Counsel the Company, agreed that he will take a leave of absence from the Company to allow Mr. Kattan to focus on defending certain claims against him in Israel, which are unrelated to Ormat. Jessica Woelfel, who served as Vice President, U.S. Legal for Ormat’s business in the United States, since January 2019 agreed to serve as the Company’s Interim General Counsel. Remuneration Policies hThe responsibility of reviewing and recommending to the full Board of Directors the form and amounts of compensation and benefits for board of director’s members (which may include equity-based rewards64, retainers, committee chair fees, stock options and similar items), lies with Ormat’s Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee is comprised of at least three directors, each of whom meets the indepen.dence requirements under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. At least two members of the Compensation Committee will also qualify as “non-employee directors” within under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Members of the Compensation Committee, including its Chair, are appointed by the Board based upon the recommendations of the Nomi.nating and Corporate Governance Committee. In making its recommendations, the Compensation Committee seeks to fairly compensate directors at levels that are competitive with other companies in the industries in which Ormat competes and to align directors’ interests with the long-term interests of our stockholders. In its deliberations, the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors consider whether the levels of director compensation could impair independence and critically evaluate any consulting, charitable contri.bution or other potentially indirect compensation arrangements. In addition, the Compensation Committee is responsible for setting corporate goals and objectives relevant to the CEO’s and executive managers’ compensation, including the responsibility of assessing their performance considering the set goals and objectives. In determining their level of compensation, the Compen.sation Committee considers a number of factors such as the Company’s performance and relative shareholder return, the value of similar incentive awards to the CEO and executive officers at comparable companies and the awards bestowed by the Company to the CEO and executive offices in past years. In addition, the Compensation Committee is respon.sible for periodically reviewing and approving aspects of the CEO and executive officers’ compensation based on incentive awards and opportunities, including cash-based and equity-based awards and oppor.tunities, any employment agreements and severance agreements, change.in-control agreements, severance protection plans and change-in-con.trol provisions affecting the level of compensation and benefits, and any special supplementary compensa.tion and benefits for the CEO and executive officers. Furthermore, the Compensation Committee reviews and discusses the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) that is included in the Company’s annual proxy statement and 2019 Annual Report at the following link65. Finally, Ormat strives to provide a competitive compensation and benefits package to all our employees, including our executive managers. Benefits are tailored to the needs of our employees and their families at our global locations and may vary from country to country, but may include: • Health, Dental and Vision Insurance • Retirement • Short-Term and Long-Term Disability • Life Insurance • Wellness programs More information on employee benefits is outlined in the “ Our People: Employment and Skill Development at Ormat” chapter of this report. Stock-based Awards On May 2018, Ormat’s shareholders adopted the 2018 Incentive Plan, which provides for grants of certain kinds of awards including incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock units, performance awards, phantom stock, incentive bonuses and other possible related dividend payments to employees of the Company, directors and independent contrac.tors. Under the 2018 Incentive Plan, a total of 5,000,000 shares of Ormat’s common stock were authorized and reserved for issuance. Our Corporate Governance Policies and Guidelines Our Corporate Governance Guide.lines, which are publicly available on our website at the following link66, outline the expectations from senior management and the Board of Directors to monitor and measure the effectiveness of policy and deci.sion-making in order to enhance stockholder value for the long-term. The Guidelines are periodically reviewed by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and by the Board of Directors. The Guidelines manage and outline Ormat’s procedures on the following topics: board composition including guidelines for the selection, respon.sibilities and remuneration deter.mination for the board members; guidelines for board meetings; management of committee matters; board responsibilities; and expec.tations from directors. The policy outlines Ormat’s criteria for deter.mining director independence and the Company’s commitment to, at minimum, a majority of independent directors on the Board. The policy describes the responsibilities of the various Board of Directors’ commit.tees: Audit Committees, the Compen.sation Committee and the Nomi.nating and Corporate Governance Committee. Each of these committees has their own separate charter that governs the topics and procedures of each of the committees as well as our Investment Committee, and which are publicly available on the “Gover.nance” page of our website67. Finally, the policy describes certain respon.sibilities of the Board of Directors, which include: evaluation of the CEO, succession planning, reviewing and approving significant transactions and analysis of shareholder proposals, among other responsibilities. In addition, Ormat’s Board of Directors adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to Senior Executives, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and out of the belief that proper, honest and ethical employee conduct is essential to the success of our Company. The Code can be accessed on our website at the following link68. The Code applies to all of Ormat’s senior executives including the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Controller, the Company’s Secretary and the Chief Operating Officer. The Code outlines our expectations of senior executives including a commit.ment to honest and ethical conduct and handling of affairs, to advance the Company’s business by legitimate means, to refrain from fraudulent or corrupt activities and to provide full disclosure regarding any of the Company’s reports or documents. Senior executives are requested to report any violations of the Code to the Secretary, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors, and violations of the Code are subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of service. Any revisions, changes or waivers to the Code must be approved by the Board of Directors or the Nominating Corporate Governance Committee. Senior executives are required to sign and formally acknowledge the Code as part of their employment contract. Senior executives are also expected to follow Ormat’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is applica.ble to all employees. 65 https://investor.ormat.com/Cache/1001250792.PDF?O=PDF&T=&Y=&D=&FID=1001250792&iid=4087066 66 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines.pdf 67 https://www.ormat.com/en/company/welcome/governance/ 68 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/ABAC%20Revised%20Policy%20-%20final%20July%2021%202020%20-%20English.pdfESIA ENSURING A CORRUPTION.FREE WORK ENVIRONMENT As part of Ormat’s commitments to sound corporate governance and its values of Stability and Full Commitment, which are a central part of our mission, we work to ensure that all of our activities are free from corrupt practices and that our employees are well-informed of our expectations regarding ethical behavior. Ormat’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Executives, and Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy outline our relevant corporate governance practices regarding anti-corruption and the expectations our Company has for good governance and business practices. All of Ormat’s corporate governance policy documents can be found on our website on the “Governance” page69. Relevant new Ormat employees and officers must sign a compliance certificate stating their intention to uphold these standards. Ormat conducts business around the world. To that end, Ormat is obligated to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Beyond this, we have instituted a corporate Anti-Corruption and Anti Bribery Policy70 which seeks to ensure that our Company will uphold not only the letter, but also the spirit, of all relevant legal and ethical standards in place for the conduct of trans.national business activities. The standard that we set is clear: Ormat persons (and associated third-parties conducting business on Ormat’s behalf) are forbidden to promise, provide, or authorize provision of anything of value to anyone at any time for the purpose of retaining business, obtaining business, or gaining business advantage. The supposed cultural prevalence of such corrupt practices in a location is never a valid excuse or defense. Our policy clearly defines key terms so that they are easily understandable to employees, `and provides guidelines for the reporting of relevant concerns and for coping with potential hazards. The policy also describes Ormat’s proce.dures for providing training to employees on topics of anti-corruption, the ways that Ormat employees and leaders can be certified for anti-corruption compliance, and relevant methods for conducting due diligence on anti-corruption measures with third parties. Ormat has an Anti-Corruption Committee composed of senior management representatives from various disciplines who oversee implementation of the Anti-Corruption Policy including the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, Executive Vice President of Business Development and Sales and other members that are designated by Company management from time to time. Ormat’s Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the CEO and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for certain matters, including those that pertain to anti-corruption. Ormat’s Anti-Corruption Policy was initially adopted by the Board of Directors in 2016 and was last updated in 2020 and executive officers hold responsibility for daily implementation of the policy. Directors, executive managers, employees, contractors or other stakeholders are requested to report any suspected viola.tions of the Anti-Corruption Policy and failure to do so could result in termination of employment or of other contractual relationships. Retaliation is not taken against any actor who, in good faith, reports suspected policy violations. Ormat is committed to investigating and reporting all concerns according to the outlined grievance management mechanism. In addition, we offer a range of reporting tools for employees including escalating issues through management, whistleblowing mechanisms, and a dedicated telephone line and website for confidential reporting of concerns about unethical behavior (see below). POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOBBYING ACTIVITIES Due to our global nature and operations in various countries around the world, we are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen wherever we do business and more so, to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. To demon.strate our commitment and to solidify our approach within the company, in 2021 Ormat developed a Political Contributions and Activities Policy. Political contributions are the provision of money, venues, equipment, personnel time, or any other form of financial aid to support a political goal. The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for the offering and/or giving of political contri.butions in association with or on behalf of the company. This policy is directly in line with, and acts complimentary to, our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. In the Policy, we outline what are the prohib.ited and permitted political contributions and activities according to all jurisdictions as well as specific ones. It also serves to guide and oversee the approval and documentation requirements for political contributions and lobbying activities that are defined as permitted by the Policy. It is important to note that at Ormat we encourage our employees to take an active interest in fostering the principles of good government in the communities in which they live and work in. As such, employees may engage in personal political contribu.tions during their own private time and on a private and individual capacity. Communication and Training on Anti-Cor.ruption Commitments Ormat communicates its Anti-Corruption Policy clearly to its employees as part of their employment contract and in dealings with the organization, and the policy is publicly communicated on Ormat’s website at the following link71. Ormat’s relevant employees are required 69 https://www.ormat.com/en/company/welcome/governance/ 70 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/ABAC%20Revised%20Policy%20-%20final%20July%2021%202020%20-%20English.pdf 106 71     https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Anti-Corruption%20Policy.pdf to undergo periodic ethics and corporate governance training sessions that are targeted at identifying and dealing with potential bribery. The goal is to ensure that all Ormat’s employees fully understand what constitutes a corrupt practice or a bribe and to become aware of how they are expected to behave or handle ethical dilemmas according to the Company’s guidelines and policies. INSIDER TRADING POLICY Ormat’s Insider Trading Policy, publicly available on our website72, was established in order to promote compliance with laws that prohibit a company’s securities from being traded on the basis of material, non-public information. Our Policy is applicable to all Ormat employees, officers, directors, family members and their controlled entities, as well as consultants, advisors, agents, contractors, temporary, loaned, contracted or seconded employees or other persons who enter into a contractual agreement with Ormat. It clearly defines what kinds of information can be considered material and non-public, as well as the activities that are prohibited to those that have been potentially exposed to such infor.mation. Employees, directors and officers are required to sign and acknowledge the policy as a condition of their employ.ment with Ormat, alongside other types of confidentiality agreements in use by the Company. Nearly all of our employees and managers, and all of our new hires, have received focused training on relevant corporate governance practices, such as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics73, Anti-brib.ery and Anti-corruption Policy74 and more. Ormat intends for 100% of our employees to receive training on relevant corporate governance practices. MAJOR ONGOING LITIGATION The Company is involved in several ongoing legal proceedings both in and out of court, which relate to corporate governance matters. The material legal proceedings are described in our 2020 Annual Report and other reports. ETHICAL CONDUCT AT ORMAT Ormat upholds a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that was last amended in January 201375. The purpose of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is to promote and encourage honest and ethical conduct, to promote the protec.tion and proper use of Ormat’s assets, to maintain the confidentiality of information that is acquired in the course of business, to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to encourage timely reporting of any illegal or ethical behavior. All Ormat employees, directors and officers are subject to the Code, and are expected to adhere and comply with the Code and are required to sign a compliance certifi.cate confirming they have understood all of Ormat’s expectations. In the Code, Ormat outlines its expec.tations regarding honest and candid conduct, which are cornerstones of the way that Ormat conducts its business around the world. The Code outlines guide.lines for handling of conflicts of interest in the context of loans or corporate opportu.nities, compliance with the law, as well as regulations and laws that govern Ormat’s internal business practices, such as details on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Code also outlines how Ormat expects its employees, directors and officers to handle the disclosure of sensitive Company infor.mation, engage in record-keeping and maintain an internal control structure, uphold restrictions on the receipt of gifts, gratuities and entertainment, as well as relevant aspects relating to ethical conduct that are considered during the employ.ment and hiring processes. Ormat’s full Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the requirements and expecta.tions of employees and senior manage.ment outlined therein can be found at the following link76. WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY The contact person for ethical concerns varies for different employees according to their position within the Company. The contact person for directors and senior executives is the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. For all other officers and employees, the Code of Ethics Contact person is Ormat’s Secretary, except in cases when it is deemed inappropriate to involve the Secretary, at which time employees may file their requests with the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Employees and officers are encouraged to consult with their direct manager regarding the appropriate course of action to address an ethical dilemma or in addressing an instance of potential misconduct. Employees, directors and officers who fail to report unethical conduct are in violation of the Code and consequences may be taken by Ormat as a result, depending on the severity of the incident. Ormat upholds a policy of no retaliation on any director, officer, or employee by any other actor at the Company for reporting existing or potential violations of the Code. Any director, officer or employee who is involved in retaliation or who makes deliberately false reports may be subject to serious disciplinary action or sanctions. However, Ormat does seek to ensure that all reports are made in good faith. We also maintain an anonymous whis.tleblower ethics hotline for reporting concerns or real breaches of the Code at a toll-free number (in the U.S.): 1-866-294.5535 and at the Company’s third-party whistleblower website at www.ethic.spoint.com. Based on the information collected through these communications channels, we received only a few grievances during 2020. However, following internal investi.gation into the nature of these grievances, it was determined that they were nonma.terial and required no further action. 72 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Anti-Corruption%20Policy.pdf 73 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/CODE%20OF%20BUSINESS%20CONDUCT%20AND%20ETHICS.pdf 74 https://www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/Anti-Bribery%20and%20Anti-Corruption%20Policy.pdf 75  The guidelines for ethical conduct were originally set when Ormat was established in 1965 as Ormat Turbines Ltd. (later renamed Ormat Industries). They were formalized in 2004 when Ormat was officially listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 76 www.ormat.com/Warehouse/userUploadFiles/Image/CODE%20OF%20BUSINESS%20CONDUCT%20AND%20ETHICS.pdf CHAPTER VIII. 