CHAPTER I. A MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS This report demonstrates better analyze and improve our • Legal Regulatory Compliance and ormat.com) for updates on our our Company’s sustainability performance over time. Risk Management: sustainability progress. proposition, which is based on our Ormat places high value in compliance dispersed portfolio of geothermal, Furthermore, this year’s report with all relevant regulations. Applying In summary, Ormat is pleased to solar, recovered energy and energy represents our Company’s best practices in risk management submit this sustainability report storage facilities that provide response to requests from our throughout our business is key to to you, our stakeholders. Our clean and renewable energy. Our stakeholders to broaden our helping us achieve this goal. commitment to encouraging renewable assets, which have disclosure on sustainability and the use of renewable power and practically no emissions, mitigated environmental initiatives and • Geothermal Resource (Brine and to reducing GHG emissions are 5.5 million tons of GHG emissions adopt a global perspective on Steam) Management: embedded in Ormat’s corporate in 2018, with electricity generation sharing that information. Ormat employs sound, environmentally DNA. We are firmly committed to totalling 5.9 million Megawatt prudent strategies to manage the these goals as a Company and as hours (MWh). As such, a materiality assessment geothermal resource, made up of brine concerned members of the global was among the first activities carried and steam. We use predominantly closed society. We believe this report, and out as part of our GRI-reporting loop systems to minimize brine by-the effort our Company makes in ADOPTING THE GRI REPORTING pathway in 2018, which was carried products (as almost all of the geothermal collecting and analyzing the data STANDARDS out through a survey distributed fluid is re-injected into the geothermal it contains will help accelerate GENERATING FOR GENERATIONS revenues of US$719 million, due to to key stakeholders. This exercise formations) and we support research and learning, engagement and support our renewable energy abilities and Ormat believes that consistent enabled Ormat to “hear” what development to further reduce impacts. meaningful change. Dear Stakeholders, activities. These results speaks to the and rigorous performance stakeholders identify as the most growing demand for clean, renewable measurement yields meaningful important environmental, social and • Local Employment and Ormat puts the earth and the energy power. It reflects the hard work our and ongoing improvement. economic issues that we impact. Development: Thank you for your interest. needs of its people first. It’s who we people do in providing renewable Ormat applies these principles in These insights enabled us to align Ormat believes local people and are; it’s what we do. energy safely, economically and the management of its business our sustainability report content communities should benefit from Sincerely, in an environmentally responsible operations and we seek to apply more closely with these expressed having Ormat as a neighbor. That’s Ormat’s employees, their passion manner. Our Company recognizes them as the basis for further viewpoints, ensuring that each why we have a policy of hiring locally, and relentless pursuit of excellence the importance of the fight against elevating our sustainability performance area is objectively and as well as providing training programs generates valuable energy from climate change and the imperative reporting practices. This thoroughly evaluated, and that the to increase local employment and renewable sources, fueling economic, of lowering greenhouse gas (GHG) sustainability report for 2018 is data presented is material, clear, economic opportunities. social and environmental progress emissions, as well as how critical Ormat’s first report developed consistent and readily comparable. and a stronger, more sustainable it is to address poverty and social in alignment with the Global Ormat’s materiality assessment • Occupational Health and Safety, Isaac Angel future for all. inequality by encouraging local Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) process identified the following key Operations and Emergency Planning: Chief Executive Officer economic growth and employment Sustainability Report Standards content priorities: Wherever Ormat’s people work, We are proud of the impact that our opportunities. This is evident in the (SRS). Adopting this well-we recognize our responsibility to activities generate for people and the sustainable value Ormat generates established global reporting • Climate Mitigation: provide the appropriate health and planet. This sustainability report aims by employing a global workforce that standard for sustainability Ormat believes that fighting climate safety training, personal protective to reflect the sustainable aspects of contributes to the social fabric of the disclosure on environmental, social change is of the utmost importance equipment and safety awareness our activities in 2018, what we do and communities in which we operate. and governance (ESG) issues is and that CO2 emissions must be programming to achieve a how we do it. an important step forward for addressed and significantly lowered, zero harm and an incident-free Another aspect of this strong us. Up until this report, and since largely by making renewable workplace. Safety is a top priority performance is rooted in 2010, we regularly shared with our energy options more accessible for Ormat and its stakeholders. AT THE FOREFRONT OF Ormat’s business structure. As stakeholders bi-annual updates on and by developing new strategies Ormat continually works to ensure DEVELOPING AND DELIVERING a vertically integrated Company our general sustainability progress and technologies to increase the all our facilities are operated in RENEWABLE ENERGY with significant involvement in and environmental and social adoption of lower or even emissions-a safe and responsible manner every aspect of the energy value initiatives. Through this, our first free renewable energy solutions. in order to protect employees, For more than five decades, Ormat chain, we are able to envision the sustainability report compiled contractors, local community has demonstrated unique vision challenges and opportunities according to the GRI Standards’ • Ethical Business Conduct and members and others. and leadership when it comes in the renewable energy sector Core reporting option, and paired Transparent Corporate Governance: to developing renewable energy from the vantage point of an with our commitment to continue Ormat employees, management We invite you to read in this solutions. We understand what it inventor, explorer, developer, reporting annually according and Board members must comply report more about the specific takes to build resilient, world-class operator and manufacturer. to internationally-recognized and adhere with all regulations achievements Ormat has made renewable energy capacity and Leveraging these perspectives reporting standards, we seek for corporate financial disclosure, in these areas throughout in 2018 capabilities that endure. gives our Company and our to ensure that our data is more sound business practices, ethics and across our operational portfolio. stakeholders superior insight comprehensive, and transparent. corporate governance, everywhere We also invite you to regularly In 2018, Ormat achieved record and agility. We believe this will enable us to we operate.