OXY'S POSITIONS ON CLIMATE-RELATED POLICIESOXY'S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTPOLICY POSITIONS, ADVOCACY ANDENGAGEMENTOXY’S POSITIONS ON 
CLIMATE-RELATED POLICIESOUR POLICY BELIEFS•	Policy is needed in the short term to accelerate the deployment of technologies, including CCUS and DAC, that reduce or eliminate GHG emissions and atmospheric concentrations of CO2.•	Policy should be designed to support the commercial application of technologies and be sufficient, certain and financeable. •	Policy should support the development of chemistries and technology for innovative products such as low global warming potential (GWP) refrigerants and those that use CO2 as a feedstock.

•	Policy should promote advantages of using durable products to achieve a lower carbon lifecycle analysis (LCA). •	Longer term, we believe compliance and voluntary markets will provide commerciality.•	Electrification will continue to grow favoring zero-emissions sources but will not eliminate the need for CCUS.•	CCUS and DAC will remain essential over the long term for hard-to-abate emissions, to address elevated concentrations of atmospheric CO2, and to provide CO2 feedstocks for low-carbon or net-zero fuels 
and feedstocks.At Oxy, we recognize the scientific consensus on climate change and the need to lower both GHG emissions and atmospheric concentrations of CO2. We also recognize the importance of impactful public policy to achieve the climate goals set forth by the Paris Agreement. As such, we offer a few observations on our climate-related policy beliefs:OXY’S POSITIONS ON CLIMATE-RELATED POLICIESCLIMATE PUBLIC POLICYWe believe effective public policies are a key catalyst to enhance the implementation of our net-zero pathway. To advance our vision from a policy perspective, we advocate and engage on climate issues individually and through trade associations, coalitions and other organizations of which we are members. For example, we are an active member of the Carbon Capture Coalition (CCC), comprised of over 80 diverse stakeholder members from industries, unions and NGOs working to support federal legislation, regulations and policies to incentivize CCUS. Through our membership, we helped develop the CCC’s Federal Policy Blueprint for carbon capture.We support policies that incentivize investment in and development of these carbon capture technologies, including carbon sequestration tax credits, such as the federal Section 45Q tax credit; the direct payment of these credits; grants and loans for CCUS and DAC technologies and CO2 infrastructure; and public investments in RD&D of these technologies. We also support policies that advance the expanded production and use of hydrogen, low GWP refrigerants and products made from captured CO2. Because these policy positions were included in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) of 2021 and the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022, we advocated for the passage of these important pieces of legislation.We recognize the growing consensus of international organizations and scientists regarding the need for significant removal of atmospheric CO2 over the next 10 years to meet the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Initiatives to eliminate emissions are essential factors in reaching the Paris Agreement goals, but without removal of CO2 from the atmosphere the consensus of international organizations and scientists agree those goals cannot be achieved by 2050. We do not take a prescriptive view as to which policy approach could most efficiently meet society’s climate goals. Rather, we support a range of policies aimed to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement and focus our efforts on the design of proposed policies seeking to advance technological solutions that can deliver significant rapid reductions in current CO2 emissions and atmospheric CO2 concentrations by leveraging existing infrastructure while continuing to supply consumers with affordable, reliable energy sources and essential products. We believe both DAC and CCUS can, with targeted and certain incentives early in their full-scale development and deployment, enable rapid cost and scale improvements that turn commercial in the medium term supported by an emerging global voluntary and compliance market.  While broader societal changes to national electric grids and transportation systems could – with trillions of dollars of investment – significantly help reduce emissions in the long term, CCUS will remain necessary for manufacturing, mining and other industrial facilities and DAC will be essential to reduce and maintain appropriate atmospheric CO2 levels. THE U.S. HAS EXPANDED NET-ZERO POLICY SUPPORTThe U.S. government has dramatically expanded its net-zero policy support through the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 (IIJA) and the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA).The IIJA focuses on carbon management funding in four major policy areas:•	CCUS research, development, 
and demonstration (RD&D);•	carbon transport and storage infrastructure and permitting;•	carbon utilization market development; and•	carbon removal.The IRA significantly enhances the 45Q tax credit for both DAC and CCUS, and incentivizes the market to invest in carbon management projects and infrastructure well into the future.   These laws together reflect the largest investment in commercializing carbon capture to date, and illustrate the United States' commitment to meeting net-zero goals of the Paris Agreement.OXY’S POSITIONS ON CLIMATE-RELATED POLICIESPARIS AGREEMENTWe endorse the goals of the Paris Agreement – including its aim to substantially reduce global GHG emissions in an effort to limit the global temperature increase in this century to 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, while pursuing the means to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees. More importantly, we have developed our net-zero pathway and strategy specifically to align with those goals. Putting our pathway into action, we have started construction on our first commercial-scale DAC plant and have applied for permits for sequestration hubs in multiple locations.NET-ZERO EMISSIONSIn Chapter 4 of its Sixth Synthesis Report released in September 2021, the IPCC notes that “to compensate for greenhouse gas emissions from sectors that cannot completely decarbonize or which may take a long time to do so,” the deployment of carbon dioxide removal (CDR) technologies, such as DAC, is necessary to achieve the aggregate emissions reductions called for in the Paris Agreement. Oxy believes that the quickest and most efficient path to net zero will be the development of technologies that reduce or eliminate emissions and facilitate the use of negative emission credits. TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION INCENTIVESJust as governments have supported the growth of renewable energy, we believe that public policy incentives and investments are critical for enabling the early deployment and scale-up of DAC and other CCUS technologies and supporting infrastructure. This is true even where broader emissions reduction policies exist. Therefore, we continue to support incentives for DAC and other CCUS technologies that reduce and eliminate CO2 emissions, create negative emissions and help multiple industry sectors to achieve net zero.•	Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS): We strongly support CCUS, which is a proven solution for reducing CO2 emissions from point sources. We advocate for policies that incentivize its widespread deployment. •	Direct Air Capture (DAC): DAC is a vital technology necessary to remove CO2 directly from the atmosphere and will play a key role in Oxy’s net-zero pathway. We strongly support policy incentives to make the technology more economical and to accelerate its widespread deployment.•	Hydrogen: Hydrogen is a key byproduct and growing zero-carbon fuel source in our chemical operations. We support incentives in the IRA that encourage the production and use of hydrogen from all sources.  EMISSIONS REDUCTION POLICIESWe support proposals that reduce GHG emissions, stimulate investment in DAC and other CCUS technologies and help develop the infrastructure needed for economy-wide CCUS deployment. We also continue to support regulations that improve environmental quality and promote the health and well-being of communities and the environment.


•	Carbon Pricing and Implementation: Oxy believes that, while a variety of policies can enable emissions reductions to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement, a market-based mechanism should complement a functional regulatory framework. We are focused on the design of proposed policies seeking to ensure technological solutions, like carbon capture, removal, utilization, and storage, are included and adequate measures to ensure the rapid deployment of these technologies are addressed. We also believe that any approach for establishing a carbon price should be developed in collaboration with interested stakeholders and revenue raised should be invested in technologies to eliminate and reduce emissions.•	Carbon Tax: With proper design, we believe that a carbon tax could complement the technology-based incentives discussed above. However, we believe that revenues raised from any carbon tax should primarily be invested in the development of CCUS and DAC technologies and infrastructure to optimize the rapid development of these technologies, particularly in energy-producing communities to promote an equitable transition. The IPCC and the International Energy Agency (IEA) have recognized the importance of pursuing these technologies to achieve significant GHG emissions reductions, which we believe could, in turn, render the tax no longer necessary. We also believe that any tax should not limit the availability of reliable, affordable energy to those who need it most, particularly to farmers, businesses producing essential goods, and disadvantaged communities.

•	 Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism: We believe that international trade and climate policies should reward less carbon intensive products as determined by transparent lifecycle analyses and uniform reporting protocols. We also believe that these policies should be aligned around the common goals of the Paris Agreement and must be carefully developed to prevent carbon leakage to non-participating nations while ensuring that U.S. manufacturers and exporters are not disadvantaged and remain competitive.    •	Cap and Trade System: We believe that a trading system for GHG emissions must account for emissions avoided through CCUS and for negative emissions created by technologies like DAC and nature-based solutions.•	Clean Energy Standard (CES): We believe that a CES which incorporates DAC and other CCUS technologies can be an effective policy for reducing CO2 emissions within the power sector. Oxy’s investments in solar power and NET Power, a zero-emissions technology for generating electricity from natural gas, strongly align with a CES.
OXY’S POSITIONS ON CLIMATE-RELATED POLICIES•	Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS): We believe a LCFS regulatory approach for reducing emissions in the transportation sector must include DAC and other CCUS technologies. We believe LCFS programs, like the one established in California, are a very effective way to incentivize DAC and CCUS technologies, which are necessary for these programs to successfully achieve their emissions reduction goals.    •	American Innovation and Manufacturing (AIM) Act:  We support the phasedown of hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) production and consumption as a means to facilitate the conversion to the next generation of low GWP refrigerants.•	Clean Hydrogen Production Standard (CHPS):  We support policies that accelerate the production and use of hydrogen from all sources as a key advancement in reducing CO2 emissions.  We believe any CHPS regulatory approach should incorporate transparent lifecycle assessment of carbon emissions using carbon analysis tools that align with ISO Standard 14040 and 14067 methodologies while allowing producers and industrial facilities the flexibility to use a carbon accounting model that best fits their internal processes.ENERGY TRANSITIONOxy was the only U.S.-based energy producer to join a group of multi-national energy companies who jointly developed and agreed upon six Energy Transition Principles and who support incentives that encourage the transition to a net-zero economy. We believe this transition will occur more quickly by deploying DAC and other CCUS technologies at scale.  The six Energy Transition Principles are:•	Public Support for the Goals of the Paris Agreement: publicly support the goals of the Paris Agreement, including international cooperation as a vehicle to ensure these goals can be achieved at the lowest overall cost to the economy.•	Industry Decarbonization: in line with each company’s individual strategy, ambitions and aims, work to reduce emissions from their own operations and strive to reduce emissions from use of energy, together with customers and society. Companies may measure their contributions using carbon intensity and/or absolute metrics at different points in the value chain as determined by their approach.•	Energy System Collaboration: collaborate with interested stakeholders, including energy users, investors and governments, to develop and promote approaches to reduce emissions from use of energy, in support of countries delivering their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) towards achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.•	Development of Carbon Sinks: continue to support and promote development of emissions sinks, such as CCUS technology and natural sinks.•	Transparency: provide disclosure related to climate change risks and opportunities consistent with the aims of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).•	Industry and Trade Associations: report information about their memberships of main industry and trade associations and their alignment with the companies’ key climate advocacy and policy positions.
TARGETED POLICIESFlaring: We believe that the routine flaring of natural gas represents a gap in the value chain that must be filled through targeted infrastructure to convey natural gas from field locations to transmission pipelines or gas processing plants or expanded beneficial use of field gas for operational purposes, such as reinjection for gas lift or pressure maintenance, compression into a compressed natural gas fuel, or on-site power generation. We were the first U.S. company to join the World Bank’s pledge to achieve Zero Routine Flaring by 2030. We also support regulations, like those in Colorado and New Mexico, that encourage infrastructure design and development that eliminate or reduce the need for flaring of natural gas. Methane Regulation: Methane is a greenhouse gas that should be regulated. While we believe that voluntary efforts, including the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program, the Global Methane Initiative and The Environmental Partnership (TEP), help achieve significant reductions in methane emissions by sharing best management practices, regulations create a baseline to consistently control emissions. Our industry can help regulators by sharing data and operating information so that effective regulations are promulgated that ensure producers and their customers, such as utilities, refineries and industrial facilities, use the vast majority of methane for beneficial uses and reduce unnecessary emissions. We supported the efforts by the U.S. Congress in 2021 to restore federal methane regulations under the Congressional Review Act and submitted a comment letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) supporting and offering constructive input on its proposed framework for additional methane regulation.COLLECTIVE CLIMATE ADVOCACYFrom time to time, Oxy joins with environmental, business and labor groups, other non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other companies to advocate for climate policies aimed at achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement. In addition to the Energy Transition Principles that Oxy endorsed with other leading energy companies (see above), Oxy is a member of the Carbon Capture Coalition and the Carbon Utilization Research Council, organizations focused on policies that support the development and deployment of DAC and other CCUS technologies, as well as other organizations that support broader climate policies consistent with our climate positions. National efforts including the U.S.-UAE Partnership to Accelerate Transition to Clean Energy (PACE) are also important opportunities to implement policies that enable net zero. Where the positions held by the associations, coalitions and other organizations with which we participate differ from our own, we offer our views and engage in constructive conversations to encourage those organizations to incorporate or reflect our views. For further detail on the associations, coalitions and other organizations with which we participate and their related positions or public statements on climate change, please refer to our Climate Advocacy and Engagement.TRANSPARENCYTransparent approaches to emissions and negative emissions accounting, robust lifecycle analyses, public reporting and external verification are important to maintain public trust, as are the transparency of GHG accounting systems, and the implementation of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. Since 2018, Oxy has published a report on climate-related risks and opportunities informed by the recommendations of the TCFD and supports TCFD-aligned reporting. GOVERNANCEThe policies and guidelines above have been established by Oxy’s management and are overseen by the Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement Committee of Oxy’s Board of Directors. They are intended to help ensure alignment with Oxy’s corporate strategy and core values.OXY’S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENT
Oxy recognizes the significant challenge that climate change poses to our society and is fully committed to be part of the solution. AS OF NOVEMBER 2022We believe that public policy is a critical tool to catalyze the deployment of state-of-the-art technologies needed to address the urgency and scale of climate change. To that end, we advocate and engage on a range of climate issues individually and through trade associations, coalitions, environmental organizations, and other groups of which we are members. Our aim with these organizations is to promote positive engagement with policymakers and other interested stakeholders to achieve durable public policy measures that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, support community welfare, and safeguard human health and the environment.  Our climate positions are generally consistent with the positions held by the associations, coalitions and other organizations with which we participate and that are listed below. While Oxy does not control, and may not always agree with, positions taken by trade associations, coalitions and other organizations of which we are a member, we believe membership is important in order to engage other companies and industry experts in discussing industry practices and standards across a wide breadth of issues, including, but not limited to, climate-related standards and policies. We are committed to sharing our views and positions with the organizations of which we are members. Where positions differ, we encourage those organizations to incorporate or reflect our views and inform key stakeholders, including policymakers, of our positions. The positions of the organizations stated below, and our assessment of consistency with our climate policy positions, are summarized as of November 2022 and are subject to change.We routinely compare our views with the positions of associations and coalitions in which we participate and take action, including expanding our participation or, conversely, terminating our membership, where appropriate. Oxy’s policies and guidelines relating to climate advocacy and engagement – including related trade association and coalition memberships – have been established by Oxy’s management and are overseen by the Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement Committee of Oxy’s Board of Directors.ORGANIZATIONSAMERICAN CHEMISTRY COUNCIL (ACC) AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (API) CARBON CAPTURE COALITIONCARBON UTILIZATION RESEARCH COUNCIL (CURC) OIL AND GAS CLIMATE INITIATIVE (OGCI) U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCEOXY’S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTASSOCIATION, COALITION OR OTHER ORGANIZATION  ALIGNMENT
 ORGANIZATION’S POSITIONS OR PUBLIC STATEMENTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE American Chemistry Council (ACC) Generally Consistent Chemistry is a crucial element in enabling the energy transition and combating climate change. To combat negative impacts on climate, the chemical industry will need to work together to develop effective solutions that will reduce GHG emissions. American chemistry is taking action to address climate change. First and foremost, industry is exploring, developing, and deploying new technologies to reduce our own emissions. These include carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS); lower-emission hydrogen, steam, and electricity; the use of biomaterials and circular feedstocks instead of virgin materials; cracker electrification; and industrial energy efficiency programs. As Congress develops policies to address climate change, the ACC has developed a set of policy recommendations to enable dramatic reductions in GHG emissions while preserving U.S. chemical industry competitiveness. To support climate progress, ACC calls on Congress to enact legislation to:•	Increase government investment and scientific resources to develop and deploy low emissions technologies in the manufacturing sector;•	Adopt transparent, predictable, technology- and revenue-neutral, market-based, economy-wide carbon price signals; and•	Encourage adoption of emissions-avoiding solutions and technologies throughout the economy to achieve significant emissions savings. Learn more about ACC’s official policy position on climate change. OXY’S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTASSOCIATION, COALITION OR OTHER ORGANIZATION  ALIGNMENT
 ORGANIZATION’S POSITIONS OR PUBLIC STATEMENTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE American Petroleum Institute (API) Generally Consistent API shares with global leaders the goal of reduced emissions across the broader economy and, specifically, those from energy production, transportation and use by society. To achieve meaningful emissions reductions that meet the climate challenge, it will take a combination of policies, innovation, industry initiatives and a partnership of government and economic sectors. The objective is large enough that no single approach can achieve it. API’s Climate Framework consists of five industry actions:  1.	Accelerate technology and innovation to reduce emissions while meeting growing energy needs •	Advocate for federal funding for low-carbon RD&D •	Fast-track the commercial deployment of carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) •	Advance hydrogen technology, innovation, and infrastructure2.	Further mitigate emissions from operations(1)  to advance additional environmental progress •	 Advance direct regulation of methane from new and existing sources •	 Develop methane detection technologies •	 Promote reductions in refinery GHG emissions and mitigate upstream flaring emissions3.	Endorse a carbon price policy(2)  by government to drive economywide, market-based solutions •	 Potential approach would price carbon dioxide emissions across the economy •	 Support policies that provide transparency for consumers •	 Minimize duplicative regulations and help maintain U.S. competitiveness•	 Avoid carbon leakage and integrate with global carbon markets, while focusing on net emissions4.	Advance cleaner fuels to provide lower-carbon choices for consumers •	 Develop markets for differentiated U.S. natural gas •	 Support policies to advance lower-carbon electricity •	 Reduce lifecycle emissions in the transportation sector5.	Drive climate reporting to provide consistency and transparency •	 Expand use of ESG reporting guidance for the natural gas & oil industry •	 Report comparable climate-related indicators in new template •	 Build on the API compendium of greenhouse gas emissions methodologies for the natural gas and oil industryLearn more about the API’s Climate Action Framework.    (1) Oxy is a member of The Environmental Partnership (TEP). TEP is committed to the continued improvement of the oil and gas industry’s environmental performance and the reduction of methane and other greenhouse gases in operations.   (2) Oxy believes that, while a variety of policies can enable emissions reductions to achieve the aims of the Paris Agreement, a market-based mechanism should complement a functional regulatory framework. We are focused on the design of proposed policies seeking to ensure technological solutions, like carbon capture, removal, utilization, and storage, are included and adequate measures to ensure the rapid deployment of these technologies are addressed. We also believe that any approach for establishing a carbon price should be developed in collaboration with interested stakeholders and revenue raised should be invested in technologies to eliminate and reduce emissions. Please see Oxy’s Positions on Climate-Related Policies.  OXY’S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTASSOCIATION, COALITION OR OTHER ORGANIZATION  ALIGNMENT
 ORGANIZATION’S POSITIONS OR PUBLIC STATEMENTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE Carbon Capture Coalition  Generally Consistent Members of the Carbon Capture Coalition work together to achieve a common goal: economywide deployment of carbon capture, removal, transport, utilization, and storage. The mission of the Coalition is to reduce carbon emissions to meet midcentury climate goals, foster domestic energy and industrial production, and support a high-wage jobs base through widespread adoption of carbon capture technologies.  The Coalition supports the mission by advancing a comprehensive agenda of federal policies and actions that will accelerate deployment of:  •	Capture of carbon dioxide (CO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) from power plants and industrial facilities. •	Carbon removal technologies, including DAC, bioenergy with carbon capture and storage and other advanced technologies that remove CO2 already in the atmosphere. •	Transport infrastructure to carry CO2 from where it is captured to where it can be geologically stored or put to beneficial use.  •	Utilization of captured CO2 and CO to produce low-carbon fuels, chemicals, materials, and other useful products.  •	Storage of CO2 in secure geologic reservoirs, such as saline geologic formations and oil and gas fields.  Learn more about federal policy actions the Carbon Capture Coalition supports.  Carbon Utilization Research Council (CURC) Generally Consistent The Carbon Utilization Research Council recognizes that carbon capture (CCUS) is an ecosystem of several distinct processes, all of which are critical to reduce emissions. According to international and domestic climate authorities, substantial deployment of CCUS technologies is required to meet global emissions reduction objectives in the electric power and industrial sectors. CCUS is also necessary to produce low-carbon fuels and will help to maintain and create good-paying jobs. Any policy designed to reduce GHG emissions gases must:•	Recognize the need for CCUS and provide for a robust and complementary set of incentives to develop and deploy cost-effective CCUS technologies. •	Ensure energy consumers continue to have access to secure, low-cost, and accessible forms of energy.•	Have a clear and harmonized set of requirements and incentives needed to support CCUS infrastructure, including CO2 transport and storage.•	Provide the additional policy support required to expand regional geological characterization, collect and analyze data, address regional monitoring, permitting, and policy challenges, and assure environmental integrity in storage projects.Learn more about CURC’s vision for technology to meet emissions reduction objectives.   OXY’S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTASSOCIATION, COALITION OR OTHER ORGANIZATION  ALIGNMENT
 ORGANIZATION’S POSITIONS OR PUBLIC STATEMENTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) Generally Consistent OGCI member companies work individually and collectively to accelerate action towards a net zero emissions future. A condition of membership is company support for the Paris Agreement. OGCI has developed a set of principles and a strategy to guide our action. The principles are as follows: •	Accelerate action towards a net zero emissions future consistent with the Paris Agreement. •	Reduce the methane and CO2 intensity of our operations towards net zero.•	Strive to reach near zero methane emissions and zero routine flaring from operated oil and gas assets by 2030.•	Work proactively with the entire oil and gas industry towards net zero operations. •	Act to help decarbonize society by supporting and implementing a wide range of low carbon solutions.•	Publish accurate, consistent, and transparent data, backed by third-party review.•	Support government policies that consider a value for carbon, explicitly or implicitly.•	Support the implementation of regulations tackling methane emissions.•	Engage responsibly with stakeholders and foster candid and constructive dialogue. •	Invest in and support OGCI Climate Investments’ $1bn+ fund over a 10-year period. Learn more about OGCI’s strategy and principles.  U.S. Chamber of Commerce Generally Consistent The climate is changing and humans are contributing to these changes. The Chamber believes that there is much common ground on which all sides of this discussion could come together to address climate change with policies that are practical, flexible, predictable, and durable. The Chamber believes in a policy approach that acknowledges the costs of action and inaction and the competitiveness of the U.S. economy.The Chamber believes that an effective climate policy should:•	Support a market-based approach to accelerate GHG emissions reductions across the U.S. economy: The Chamber believes that durable climate policy must be made by Congress, and that it should encourage innovation and investment to ensure significant emissions reductions, while avoiding economic harm for businesses, consumers and disadvantaged communities..This policy should include well designed market mechanisms that are transparent and not distorted by overlapping regulations. U.S. climate policy should recognize the urgent need for action, while maintaining the national and international competitiveness of U.S. industry and ensuring consistency with free enterprise and free trade principles.•	Leverage the power of business: It will be largely up to the business community to develop, finance, build, and operate the solutions needed to power economic growth worldwide, mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, and build resilient, lower-carbon infrastructure. Thousands of businesses already are taking action in their own operations and along their value chains by investing in technology solutions and enhancing their efficiency.  OXY’S CLIMATE ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENTASSOCIATION, COALITION OR OTHER ORGANIZATION  ALIGNMENT
 ORGANIZATION’S POSITIONS OR PUBLIC STATEMENTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
(Cont.) Generally Consistent •	Maintain U.S. leadership in climate science: Climate policy should be informed by the best science and observations available. The U.S. should continue to be the world leader in climate change science and the major sponsor of the research used in multi-lateral scientific forums.
•	Aggressively pursue greater energy efficiency: Improving energy efficiency on both the supply and demand sides can bring almost immediate benefits to business operations and the environment.
•	Promote climate resilient infrastructure: Adaptation and resilience is critical to minimizing the risk and impacts of climate change. Business is ready to design and build the resilient, low-carbon infrastructure of the future. 
•	Support trade in U.S. technologies and products: Demand for advanced technologies will offer opportunities for growing exports of American technologies, products, and services. Technology cooperation, public-private partnerships, innovative financing, and capacity building are necessary for facilitating commerce in climate solutions stamped “Made in the USA.” Trade rules should protect intellectual property. 
•	Encourage international cooperation: The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s (UNFCCC) Paris Agreement established a comprehensive framework for international action. Greater collaboration between governments and businesses is essential to build the best models to tackle climate challenges, which is why the Chamber supports U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement. The Chamber is an official UNFCCC observer, and it will continue to work with its overseas business partners to pursue a formal channel to push for greater business input to the UNFCCC. Business must be at the table to be part of the solution.•	Inaction is not an option:  We call on policymakers to seize on an approach that rises to the challenge of climate change, leveraging business leadership and expertise, America’s energy edge and our ability to innovate.
Learn more about the U.S. Chamber’s approach to climate change.  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTOxy builds trust through regular and transparent communication and engagement with stakeholders including our shareholders, employees, leaders in the communities in which we operate, policy makers, environmental organizations, and our business partners. Our goal is to understand and proactively address issues to develop beneficial outcomes. The Board’s independent directors regularly meet with shareholders to hear their views on Oxy’s climate strategy, among other topics. We look forward to continuing this dialogue on emissions and climate-related risks and opportunities.Oxy President and CEO Vicki Hollub and other executives are visible leaders in climate-related forums promoting the essential role of energy producers like Oxy in reducing global GHG emissions and achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement, while ensuring a robust and reliable supply of energy and essential products. Oxy is a member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) , a voluntary CEO-led initiative of 12 major international oil, gas and energy companies taking actions to mitigate climate change. OGCI members continue to leverage their collective strength to lower carbon footprints of energy, manufacturing and transportation value chains via engagements, policies, investments and deployment. Two key examples of OGCI’s work are: the Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions initiative that has garnered endorsements across the industry; and OGCI’s Climate Investment Fund.  Oxy executives hold several leadership positions within OGCI, including Ms. Hollub on the CEO Steering Committee and Richard Jackson, President, U.S. Onshore Resources and Carbon Management, Operations, on the Board of OGCI’s Climate Investments Fund. Since its formation in 2017, the fund has invested in 23 entities developing innovative technologies to detect, capture, recycle, beneficially use and sequester GHG emissions. To date, these entities have achieved a cumulative impact of over 30 million metric tons of CO2e in emissions reduction. Annual reductions related to these efforts exceed 15 million metric tons of CO2e. The Climate Investment Fund’s latest report can be accessed here.Ms. Hollub, members of Oxy’s Board of Directors and representatives of investor relations and the environmental and sustainability team regularly engage with stakeholders on ESG matters and opportunities pertinent to Oxy, including our carbon management strategy and the policies, technologies and market mechanisms that advance our net-zero goals and those of a wide range of other industry sectors. Ms. Hollub is a member of the World Economic Forum, where she is chair of the Forum’s Oil and Gas Community. The Forum engages political, business, cultural and other leaders of society to shape global, regional and industry agendas. Oxy is a signatory to the Forum’s Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics as well as the Forum’s pledges to develop sustainable aviation fuels and reduce maritime emissions.
•	In December 2021, Ms. Hollub was a keynote speaker at the World Petroleum Congress plenary session on “Building Partnerships,” where she highlighted how Oxy is working with vendors and partners to develop and build our DAC and CCUS projects.•	In March 2022, the Low Carbon Ventures Investor Update provided detailed progress on Oxy’s net-zero strategy, focusing on technology, commercialization, capitalization and development of low-carbon CCUS technologies such as DAC, Point-Source Capture and Sequestration Hubs.•	In March 2022, Ms. Hollub held a fireside chat at CERAWeek on the “New Business Strategies for Net Zero” panel. Mr. Jackson participated on a panel discussing the growing support for carbon removals. Dr. Robert Zeller, Vice President of Technology for OLCV, also presented that week, discussing DAC technology in his feature talk titled “Direct Air Capture: What will it take to scale up enough?” •	In March 2022, Ms. Hollub spoke at IPIECA Week in Houston on Oxy’s 
Pathway to Net Zero, the policy support needed to accelerate carbon capture, and how Oxy is focusing on reducing methane emissions.•	In May 2022, Ms. Hollub attended the World Economic Forum Annual 
Meeting in Davos, Switzerland, where she stressed the importance of CCUS’s place in the energy transition on a panel titled “Energy Outlook: Overcoming the Crisis.”•	In June 2022, Ms. Hollub spoke at The Global Carbon, Capture and Storage Institute’s 10th Annual DC Forum on CCS. She discussed Oxy’s focus on DAC, as well Oxy’s plans to help other industries achieve decarbonization.•	In July 2022, Ms. Hollub participated in the Sustainability Summit’s 
fireside chat at SEMICON-V in San Francisco, California.•	In September 2022, Ms. Hollub participated in the International Emissions Trading Association’s (IETA) NY Climate Week CEO Roundtable – “What Does Climate Leadership Look Like in 2022?” discussing the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act and what this means for business operations and investments.•	In September 2022, Ms. Hollub spoke on the CEO panel at the Denver 
Museum of Nature and Science – “Colorado Business Roundtable: View from the Top 2022.”•	In October 2022, Ms. Hollub spoke at the Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition of the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ Opening General Session – “Sustainable Recovery – Transforming the Industry for the Future” on how the energy industry can transform itself and bolster the global economy.•	In October 2022, Ms. Hollub spoke at the Energy Intelligence Forum in
London on low-carbon oil and the importance of incentives to develop DAC technology, as well as a Breakfast Briefing hosted by OGCI on emissions reduction entitled “Why we are aiming for zero: OGCI perspectives on the methane emissions challenge.”•	In October 2022, Ms. Hollub attended Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (ADIPEC) in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, where she spoke on the ADIPEC Strategic Panel and addressed the need for countries to focus on delivering low carbon intensity energy through the transition to meet global demand and highlighted the success of our partnerships in the Middle East.•	In November 2022, Ms. Hollub spoke at COP27 on a panel titled “Reimagining Global Energy Markets for a Zero-Carbon Future” where she discussed how to decarbonize global energy markets.•	In November 2022, Ms. Hollub was interviewed by Fortune CEO Alan Murray at Fortune’s Impact Initiative 2022 – Realizing The Energy Transition, where she discussed DAC and the key role of the oil and gas industry in advancing the transition to a net-zero economy.•	In November 2022, Ms. Hollub was a keynote speaker on low-cost energy and the environment and participated in an ESG panel discussion at the 2022 Executive Conference of the Federation of Houston Professional Women.HIGHLIGHTS OF RECENT EXECUTIVE ENGAGEMENT 