PLANETAPPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPOxy is committed to responsible environmental stewardship. We have a long-standing policy to seek continuous improvement in resource conservation and recovery, pollution prevention and energy efficiency and to responsibly remediate impacts from legacy operations or waste management practices. Oxy consistently integrates these activities through policies and procedures that promote rigorous compliance with environmental laws, regulations and internal standards. We apply technologies to conserve or reuse resources, design facilities to minimize our impact on communities and ecosystems and work with stakeholders to preserve habitat and biodiversity. Oxy understands its dependencies on the environment 
need to be managed effectively to help ensure business continuity. This Planet section describes our environmental stewardship practices and performance, with a focus 
on climate change, energy use and GHG emissions management, biodiversity and habitat conservation 
and water and waste management.PLANETCLIMATE POLICY POSITIONSOxy recognizes the scientific consensus on climate change and the need to lower both GHG emissions and atmospheric concentrations of CO2. Our Climate Report: “Pathway to Net-Zero” underscores our commitment to advance solutions to mitigate climate change. It is our core net-zero strategy to develop and commercialize technologies that lower both GHG emissions from industrial processes and atmospheric concentrations of CO2. We believe effective public policies are a key catalyst to early implementation 
of our Pathway to Net Zero.We do not take a prescriptive view as to which policy approach could most efficiently meet society’s climate goals. Rather, we support a range of policies aimed to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. As noted in Oxy's Climate Policy Positions, our efforts are focused on policies seeking to advance technological solutions that can deliver significant reductions in current CO2 emissions and atmospheric CO2 concentrations by leveraging existing infrastructure while continuing to supply consumers with affordable, reliable energy sources and essential products.OLVC and its development company, 1PointFive LLC, are working to commercialize carbon removal technologies including Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) and Direct Air Capture (DAC). We believe that these technologies can, with incentives necessary for their development and deployment, provide essential CO2 reductions in the medium term, while governments evaluate proposals to upgrade or replace electricity infrastructure and transportation systems over the 
long term. Oxy endorses the goals of the Paris Agreement— including its aim to limit the global temperature increase to less than 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels —and has developed our Net-Zero Pathway to align with those goals.Oxy is committed to being part of the solution to climate change, and developed our Net-Zero Pathway in alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement.Artist Rendering of first industrial-scale Direct Air Capture facility expected to commence construction in the second half of 2022.PLANETCLIMATE STRATEGY: PATHWAY TO NET-ZEROOxy recognizes the significant challenge climate change poses to our society and is resolved to be part of the solution. We are dedicated to applying our carbon management expertise to develop and implement practical innovations that can be deployed at scale to improve the environment and achieve net-zero GHG emissions within our business, our industry and across the global economy. Oxy is committed to advancing the Paris Agreement’s vision for a low-carbon future. Oxy was the first major U.S. oil and
gas producer to establish net-zero goals for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and, through our licensed DAC technology, we have an ambition to deploy carbon removal technologies at industrial scale. Our Net-Zero Pathway outlines key milestones to achieving important targets, including:»	Elimination of routine gas flaring by 2030;»	Net-zero for our operational and energy use emissions (Scope 1 and 2) before 2040, with the ambition to accomplish before 2035;»	Net-zero emissions for our total emissions, including product use (Scope 1, 2 and 3) before 2050; and,»	Total carbon impact through carbon removal and storage technologies and deployment beyond 2050.In December 2021, Oxy became the first U.S. upstream oil and gas company to incorporate an ESG key performance indicator into its credit facilities, including its $4 billion revolving credit facility and $400 million receivables securitization facility. Under these facilities, the interest rate margin and facility fee rates are subject to adjustments based on our performance on specified sustainability target thresholds with respect to absolute reductions in our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our worldwide operated assets from 2022 through 2024, which will be subject to limited assurance verification performed annually by a qualified independent external reviewer. This sustainability metric focuses on near-term actions in Oxy’s oil and gas, midstream and chemical operations towards our 2040 net-zero goal and 2035 net-zero ambition for Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The metric targets absolute reductions for 2022 through 2024, calculated as a percentage of Oxy’s 2019 baseline Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for which ERM CVS’ Independent Assurance Statement is included in Appendix 2, GHG Emissions Estimates. Performance will be compared incrementally to 2021 emissions, without taking carbon offsets into account, 
and will undergo independent limited assurance verification each year. 2019 serves as our baseline 
because it was the year of Oxy’s merger with Anadarko 
and the year immediately preceding our establishment 
of industry-leading net-zero goals. We believe that Oxy’s proactive GHG emission reduction projects under the new sustainability metric will complement our development of innovative CCUS, Direct Air Capture, zero-emissions power and other technologies to further accelerate our pathway to net-zero. These goals reflect Oxy’s strategy to grow our carbon management value chain significantly in coming years as
we further integrate the competitive advantages of the expertise, infrastructure, property holdings, technologies and workforce in our oil and gas, midstream and chemical businesses with our low carbon ventures. Our leading position as the first U.S. oil and natural gas producer to endorse other international commitments, like the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative and the Energy Transition Principles, illustrates our commitment to promote policies that will successfully accelerate a lower-carbon economy while meeting the needs and aspirations of a growing, energy-dependent global population.Oxy was the only U.S.-based energy company to join a group of multi-national energy companies that developed and agreed upon six Energy Transition Principles and that support incentives that encourage the net-zero transition. We believe this transition will occur more quickly by deploying carbon removal technologies at scale. A key differentiator in Oxy’s climate strategy is our ability 
to leverage our unique capabilities in CO2-Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) and CCUS. Our deep understanding of the subsurface and our proven ability to operate mature fields responsibly at a low cost enables us to maximize the use of existing infrastructure and reduce the need for greenfield development. Oxy’s long history and expertise in EOR 
have proven resilient in low commodity price environments and underpin our Pathway and our development of new business opportunities in a low-carbon future. We credit our success to the multidisciplinary skillset of our workforce, who have diverse experience in geology and geophysics, petroleum, chemical and environmental engineering, project management, finance, and vetting and commercializing technologies. We launched OLCV in 2018 to leverage our industry-leading experience in managing CO2 and provide impactful global solutions to advance net-zero emissions. The core of OLCV’s strategy is to design and implement innovative, scalable solutions that help society achieve carbon neutrality and accelerate the transition to an equitable net-zero economy. OLCV's 1PointFive development company focuses on commercializing and deploying CCUS and DAC technologies at scale to remove CO2 from industrial processes and the atmosphere, using the captured CO2 to help create less carbon-intensive products, like fuels, chemicals and concrete, and injecting residual CO2 in secure underground oil and gas or saline formations for long-term sequestration to meet our ambitious net-zero goals. Putting our Net-Zero Pathway into action, we are actively pursuing initiatives to reduce emissions associated with
our operations. We expect 1PointFive to drive our progress to net-zero emissions by 2050. With successful commercialization and deployment of CCUS and DAC technologies using anthropogenic CO2, 1PointFive intends to help a range of other industry sectors that are hard to decarbonize such as shipping, aviation, cement and industrial manufacturing.THE SIX ENERGY TRANSITION PRINCIPLES1PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR THE GOALS 
OF THE PARIS AGREEMENT: Publicly support the goals of the Paris Agreement, including international cooperation as a vehicle to ensure these goals can be achieved at the lowest overall cost to the economy.2INDUSTRY DECARBONIZATION: In line with each company’s individual strategy, ambitions and aims, work to reduce emissions from their own operations and strive to reduce emissions from use of energy, together with customers and society. Companies may measure their contributions using carbon intensity and/or absolute metrics at different points in the value chain as determined by their approach.3ENERGY SYSTEM COLLABORATION: Collaborate with interested stakeholders, including energy users, investors and governments, to develop and promote approaches to reduce emissions from use of energy, in support of countries delivering their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) towards achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.4DEVELOPMENT OF CARBON SINKS: Continue to support and promote development of carbon removal technologies such as DAC and natural carbon sinks.5TRANSPARENCY: Provide disclosure related to climate change risks 
and opportunities consistent with the aims of 
the recommendations of the Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).6INDUSTRY AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS: Report information about their memberships of 
main industry and trade associations and their alignment with the companies’ key climate advocacy and policy positions.HIGHLIGHTArtist Rendering 
of first industrial-scale 
Direct Air Capture facilityDIRECT AIR CAPTURE TECHNOLOGYOxy is a strong proponent of DAC technology, which removes CO2 directly from the atmosphere for safe, permanent geologic storage in subsurface oil and gas or saline formations. Oxy formed 1PointFive to finance and deploy DAC technology and develop the world’s first industrial-scale DAC facility in the Permian Basin to remove 1 million metric tons of atmospheric CO2 per year when fully operational. This plant will be a key step to deploy DAC technology globally on an industrial scale.OLCV and bio-engineering startup Cemvita Factory announced a plan to construct and operate a
bio-ethylene pilot plant, applying jointly developed technology using CO2 instead of hydrocarbon-sourced feedstocks. The technology provides an opportunity
to offer a new, non-hydrocarbon-sourced ethylene product to the market, reducing carbon emissions.
The bio-synthesis process only requires CO2, water and light to produce bio-ethylene, reducing both feedstock needs and emissions. PLANETGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, METHANE AND FLARING Our commitments and ongoing initiatives to reduce GHG
and methane emissions and to eliminate routine flaring will help us to achieve our net-zero goals and accelerate our carbon management business. Our workforce is empowered to generate and implement ideas and products to reduce our operational emissions. Carbon dioxide and methane are both valuable products
and raw materials for Oxy’s oil and gas and chemicals operations and our growing low carbon ventures business. The 1PointFive team is actively developing projects to capture and sequester GHGs directly from the atmosphere and from industrial sources, and to enable zero or low-carbon production of oil, electricity, fuels, chemicals and
other products.SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS As defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 1 or direct emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or operated by Oxy. Examples of our Scope 1 emissions sources include combustion from engines and flaring and venting of natural gas from facilities, wells, pipelines or other equipment.Scope 2 or indirect GHG emissions are those associated with the consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, steam, heating or cooling. Examples of Scope 2 emissions are those generated by the supply of electricity from third parties to operate Oxy’s facilities and equipment such as electric motors, vapor recovery units, pumps and air compressors.SCOPE 3 EMISSIONSAs defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 3 emissions are those associated with our supply chain, such as emissions from the production of purchased supplies 
and services, third-party transport-related activities, waste disposal, and those associated with the transportation, distribution and lifecycle processing and use of our products. The most relevant categories of our Scope 3 emissions include the transportation, processing and use of our sold oil and gas products, to which we have applied conservative assumptions including that our sold products are refined on a BOE basis as oil and are 100% combusted, with no non-emissive uses. Oxy’s 2050 net-zero ambition includes removing from the atmosphere and capturing from industrial sources volumes of CO2 that equal or exceed the emissions associated with our sold products, as well as Scope 1 and 2 emissions.EMISSIONS ESTIMATION 
AND REPORTING Oxy values transparency, and we are committed to disclosing key environmental metrics important to our stakeholders. To this end, we report our estimated GHG emissions and intensity data on an operated and equity basis in our Annual Performance Summary Table. We
also disclose our estimated GHG emissions and energy 
use data in annual CDP reporting. We have reported to 
the CDP since its inception in 2003. Oxy formed an Environmental and Sustainability department that includes, among other functions:»	An Air Quality team to promote timely permitting, reporting and compliance of our operations and to facilitate emissions reduction projects; and, »	A Carbon Accounting team to oversee review, auditing and verification of our operational emission estimates, prepare lifecycle analyses of our Scope 3 emissions estimates and support the market for differentiated low-carbon fuels, products, credits and offsets. OTHER AIR EMISSIONSOxy’s oil and natural gas, chemical and midstream operations generate air emissions including sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulfide and particulate matter (such as PM10 and PM2.5), among other substances. We continually monitor operating conditions to control these air emissions from our facilities and oil and gas activities in compliance with federal, state and local regulations. These air emissions are typically generated from boilers, heaters, engines, flares, compressors and other process sources such as storage tanks, flaring, venting, gas boosting activities and pneumatic devices.METHANEWe devote significant resources to capturing emissions of methane and other organic compounds by retrofitting existing facilities and designing and constructing new facilities that inherently reduce emissions. Pursuant to federal and state regulations for control of VOCs, Oxy conducts monitoring surveys at its affected field facilities (e.g., tank batteries 
and compressor stations) typically on a quarterly basis. Oxy is implementing additional programs to mitigate fugitive emissions beyond current regulatory requirements and to enable us to detect and address emission sources more rapidly:»	Oxy's Find It, Fix It, Measure It Program integrates leak detection and emission surveys more directly with operators and maintenance crews; and,»	The Emissions Technology Team, whose purpose is to identify and implement technologies to detect, monitor and predict emissions.These programs support efforts to obtain direct, real-time measurement or estimation of emissions, enabling Oxy’s operational staff to deploy resources effectively and to capture methane and other hydrocarbons for sale to customers or for beneficial use in our operations.Oxy is working toward building the necessary infrastructure and permanent centralized production equipment in advance of well completion activities so that production fluids, including methane and other VOCs, are sent to gas handling facilities and sales pipelines from the moment production begins. These “green completion” practices are designed to prevent release of gas directly to the atmosphere. Prior to any regulatory requirement, Oxy’s U.S. oil and gas operations began performing reduced emissions completions for hydraulically fractured wells. We use infrared monitoring devices, including optical gas imaging (OGI) and forward looking infrared (FLIR) cameras, to monitor fugitive emissions of methane or VOCs from equipment and components such as pneumatic valves, plunger lift systems, storage tanks, compressors, glycol dehydrators and similar components. These devices are particularly helpful where the equipment or components
are geographically dispersed or difficult to access, and supplement auditory, visual and olfactory inspections by operators by using the infrared spectrum. Equipment exhibiting possible leaks identified by OGI and FLIR cameras are further inspected and components are repaired or replaced, as appropriate.FLARINGOxy is committed to reducing natural gas flaring, and we have set a target to eliminate all routine flaring from our operations by 2030. Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company to endorse the World Bank’s “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” Initiative to reduce GHG emissions and optimize use of methane as a valuable hydrocarbon resource. The World Bank defines routine flaring as “flaring that occurs during the normal production of oil, and in the absence of sufficient facilities to utilize the gas on-site, dispatch it to a market, or re-inject it.” We are striving to eliminate routine flaring, and limit our flaring to non-routine situations when gas processing plants or pipelines have unplanned outages or planned shutdowns or turnarounds for inspections, repairs and maintenance activities that require gas from wells, lines and plant equipment to be flared. We are designing new production facilities to mitigate flaring. In areas where gas gathering systems are not accessible, we evaluate reinjection of natural gas for gas
lift or to maintain reservoir pressure, as well as the use of microturbines to generate electricity or facilities to generate a compressed natural gas liquid that can be used for fuel. In our New Mexico operations, we installed a new gas gathering system that has significantly reduced volumes of flared gas. This gathering system reduces our reliance on third-party takeaway capacity and avoids unscheduled flaring events by facilitating the transfer of sales gas to multiple third-party midstream companies. This system design includes a closed-loop flowback that captures gaseous vapors released from flowback fluids directly into 
the gathering system via vapor recovery units. Equipment upgrades also included in this system design increase the reliability and redundancy of our production systems, leading to reduced downtime and lower flaring volumes at the facility level. We estimate that this gathering system has reduced annual carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) flaring emissions by more than 60 percent, relative to flaring emission projections had the gathering system not been constructed..11.5%Oxy reduced total operated GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2, measured in MTCO2e) 
by nearly 11.5% between 2019 and 2020.HIGHLIGHTFLIR CAMERASWe have also significantly expanded our use of FLIR cameras to complement our regulatory monitoring programs and expedite leak detection and repair, particularly from equipment or components that are difficult to access. For example, in our Gulf of Mexico operations, we are training employees to reduce flaring using FLIR cameras. This is not a regulatory requirement, but our Operational Excellence Manager initiated this project to increase the number of people trained in this technology. We have one camera operating at each of our offshore locations, which serves multiple uses other than monitoring flaring. This technology can also be used to help monitor gas releases, help identify where repairs need to be made and determine when a release has stopped. In addition to monitoring for emissions, this imaging technology can be used to observe the status of lines and equipment. Oxy joined The Environmental Partnership (TEP) in 2017, which aims to reduce methane emissions from production operations. Oxy’s participation in TEP encompasses Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) procedures and equipment upgrades, such as replacing, removing or retrofitting high-bleed pneumatic controllers.Oxy is also a member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), a group of global energy industry leaders. In addition to setting collective methane reduction targets, OGCI is focused on lowering the carbon footprints of energy, industry and transportation value chains via engagements, policies, investments and deployment. OGCI Climate Investments is a $1 billion-plus fund to which Oxy and other OGCI members contribute to invest in technologies, projects and business solutions with potential to significantly reduce emissions in the energy and industrial sectors. OGCI is also committed to advancing the Global Methane Alliance Programme, launched by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to support the inclusion of methane emission reduction 
targets in countries’ Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement..15%Oxy reduced total flare-related volumes (measured in MMscf) by more than 15% between 2019 and 2020.PLANETENERGY UTILIZATION 
AND EFFICIENCYOxy seeks continuous improvement in energy efficiency. Oxy has for many years utilized cogeneration, energy efficiency improvements and focused integration of renewable energy to advance our strategy of sustaining both lower costs and lower emissions. Power consumption is the largest driver of Oxy’s operating costs. Oxy applies several strategies to improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions while sustaining our production. As a result of hands-on, employee-driven innovations, we have invested in efficiency improvements, process changes and use of lower-carbon power and feedstocks. Guided by the principles of the ACC’s Responsible Care® Energy Efficiency program, our OxyChem plants have successfully implemented innovative energy efficiency enhancements. In addition, OxyChem partnered with the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Plants® program to apply best practices in energy management to help OxyChem achieve its 2025 sustainability goals. Another example 
of our energy innovation is the production and use of hydrogen as a non-carbon based fuel source in OxyChem’s operations to reduce energy consumption and lower our carbon emissions.In the Texas electricity market, Oxy is one of the leading providers of Responsive Reserve Service, which helps improve reliability of the electric grid. By offering to reduce power consumption at specific facilities, when called upon by the grid operator, Oxy provides the Texas electrical grid with a demand response tool that helps maintain grid reliability for industrial, commercial and residential consumers. We continually evaluate opportunities to reduce the company’s electricity costs by instituting practices
to consume less electricity in high-demand hours, by minimizing electric transmission costs and by increasing participation in the Responsive Reserve Service market.COGENERATION Oxy’s cogeneration facilities are highly efficient power plants that co-produce electricity and steam for our adjacent chemical plants, while also providing surplus electricity into the wholesale market. Cogeneration, or combined heat and power (CHP), significantly increases electrical power generation efficiency compared to traditional methods while also reducing emissions. Cogeneration is more than just an energy-efficient method of generating electricity and thermal energy. It can deliver lower overall system costs, more integrated and resilient infrastructure and improved grid reliability.The GHG emission-reduction benefits from Oxy’s natural gas CHP facilities are substantial. At OxyChem manufacturing facilities, utilizing CHP is estimated to reduce GHG emissions by 4.3 million metric tons of CO2e per year compared to equivalent power supplied from the electrical grid. The hydrogen-fired boilers and CHP units offset natural 
gas consumption and lower our CO2 emissions by approximately 490,000 metric tons of CO2e per year.HIGHLIGHTRENEWABLE ENERGYOxy operates a solar photovoltaic facility near Odessa, Texas. The Goldsmith solar facility expands on the company’s commitment to economically lower its carbon footprint by using emissions-free power sources in its operations. The 120-acre field is the first large-scale solar facility of its kind that directly powers oil and gas operations in Texas and features 174,000 photovoltaic panels with a total capacity of 16 megawatts—enough 
to power the Goldsmith EOR field.Oxy is exploring the utilization of additional renewable energy supply, including installing renewable energy systems or purchasing renewable energy, such as wind 
and solar, to provide electricity for our oil and natural gas and chemical operations.HIGHLIGHTENERGY UTILIZATION AND EFFICIENCY AT OXYCHEMOxyChem operates a billion pound-per-year capacity ethylene cracker at its plant in Ingleside, Texas. OxyChem incorporated significant energy efficiency features, such as the use of byproduct hydrogen gas as fuel and recovery of surplus heat from the process and flue gas outlet of the cracking furnaces. Another unique aspect of this project is the use of two thermal oxidizers equipped with boilers to combust low pressure gases from process equipment and storage vessels. These thermal oxidizers are designed to provide high emissions control and generate steam from the surplus heat. OxyChem estimates that it is eliminating approximately 970,000 metric tons per year of total CO2e due to the highly efficient design.OxyChem’s New Johnsonville facility in Tennessee recovers hydrogen as a byproduct in the membrane chlor-alkali production process to generate steam in a dedicated boiler, replacing steam generated from natural gas.At its Geismar, Louisiana facility, OxyChem produces an advanced feedstock known as 4CPe. Based on patented 
research and development by OxyChem, 4CPe enables our customers to produce next-generation refrigerants, which have low global-warming and ozone depletion potential. These refrigerants are approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and meet the European Union regulatory requirements for automobile air conditioning systems. Importantly, this product can safely and effectively replace existing chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants that are being phased out by many governments.PLANETWATER STEWARDSHIP The production of oil and natural gas, electricity and chemicals requires water, and we recognize the importance of managing water resources responsibly. Oxy’s water stewardship program, including our use of treatment technologies for water recycling and reuse and our principles of conservation, is part of our demonstrated support for and alignment with the UN SDGs 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), 13 (Climate Action), 14 (Life Below Water) 
and 15 (Life on Land). We are also aligned with the 
IPIECA Impact Pathway 51 (Resource Management and Biodiversity, Land, and Water Stewardship) to adopt 
water stewardship strategies that include: collaboration around integrated water resources management; local participation in the collective management of water, particularly in areas of water scarcity; the improvement of water quality; and recycling and reuse of water, wherever feasible, to reduce Oxy’s freshwater use.Oxy’s water management focuses on the unique characteristics of the regions where we operate. Through practices that include the treatment and use of produced water, water recycling, and the limited use of freshwater 
and potable water supplies, Oxy strives to ensure our water use does not affect the ability of cities, towns, farmers 
and other water users near our operations to secure access to water resources. We routinely assess our water management practices, including those relating to water supply, treatment and discharge, to identify water-related risks and opportunities for improvement. We have a centralized team of engineers and hydrologists that champions best management practices, engages with stakeholders and water users
on water management and conservation practices and designs water treatment and recycling projects across
our global operations.OxyChem, as an American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care® company, is committed to reporting on our water management practices and water stewardship. OxyChem prioritizes engagements in our value chain that align with our sustainability guiding principles and goals around water conservation and stewardship. OxyChem is a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, which seeks to help eliminate plastic waste in the environment, especially in the oceans. The Alliance aims to develop and bring to scale innovative solutions that will minimize and manage plastic waste and promote solutions for used plastics by helping to enable a circular economy. This global effort consists of companies in the plastics value chain, including chemical and plastic manufacturers, consumer goods companies, retailers, converters and waste management.Oxy reports water metrics on our global operations, including total freshwater withdrawals and consumption, wastewater discharges and recycling of produced water
in the Annual Performance Summary Table.As Oxy develops projects in new operating areas, our Operational Management System requires an assessment of potential environmental impacts, including those related to water resources. Our approach encompasses programs, standards and operational practices designed to conserve freshwater and improve the efficient use, recycling, reuse of water resources and the quality of water being treated and discharged to surface water bodies. Oxy discharges water to surface water bodies after treatments that meet local, state and federal requirements. Oxy also considers the longer-term patterns of integrated water resources management, regenerative capacity of groundwater and aquifers, population growth/demand shifts and the potential for weather-related impacts as we evaluate and mitigate the effects of water risks on key operations, the safety and well-being of employees and contractors and our host communities. When evaluating a new site or asset, we review legal and regulatory issues and hydrological yield in terms of the reliability and proximity of water supplies for Oxy and other water users during exploration and production activities.Our analysis of water-related risks includes an information-gathering process, environmental due diligence, participation in industry association technical groups (for example, IPIECA Water Working Group and ACC Responsible Care®) and external stakeholder engagements to inform 
and refine our risk management and strategic planning processes. Oxy reflects local conditions such as droughts, water supply shortages or flooding in our business plans and water management strategy to operationalize and mitigate risks, reduce our costs of water handling and help to sustain water resources for local communities. We leverage various water risk tools to assess water scarcity and to evaluate water use and discharge at key operations, taking into account factors such as: »	Physical and climatic characteristics;»	Future supply reliability;»	Population growth and industrial growth trends;»	Affected ecosystems;»	Regulatory issues; and,»	Social context.This approach, with the use of other water assessment tools, helps us validate the efficacy of existing water-related safeguards and identify new opportunities to enable the protection of water sources and receiving water bodies. UPSTREAM OIL AND GAS 
WATER MANAGEMENTOur oil and gas operations extract significant quantities 
of saline produced water from oil and gas formations. We seek to use this produced water and other recycled water streams wherever feasible in our operations instead of freshwater. Oxy also obtains water from other non-potable sources, seeking to use the lowest-quality water acceptable for operational activities. The volumes and sources of water required by Oxy vary considerably by local basin and well to well. Throughout our operations, Oxy is increasing the recycling 
and reuse of water, which decreases our need for both freshwater withdrawals and transportation and disposal of surplus produced water. Oxy has implemented major water treatment, reuse and recycling projects in many locations, including the United States and Oman. Oxy is also developing or enhancing water-related technologies and our experts participate actively in produced water consortia in New Mexico and Texas to share our experiences with academics, regulators, NGOs and other operators. These include new approaches for the treatment of produced water and wastewater streams. Oxy continues to evaluate new opportunities for beneficial reuse of treated produced water, such as for agricultural and ecological use, ranching operations or the construction and operation of DAC facilities.In the Permian Basin in New Mexico, our industry-leading water recycling program achieves more than a 90 percent recycling rate at new locations; and less than 10 percent 
of water used for drilling and completions comes from fresh water sources. Since the inception of this program in 2016, approximately 26 million barrels of produced water have been recycled.WATER USE FOR 
HYDRAULIC FRACTURINGOxy is committed to public disclosure of our hydraulic fracturing operations. We participate in FracFocus®, a website created by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission to provide for well-specific voluntary disclosure of hydraulic fracturing operations, including the chemical ingredients used in fracturing fluids. In addition to providing a national registry, the website provides factual information about hydraulic fracturing and groundwater protection. Oxy is further committed to conducting hydraulic fracturing
in a manner that does not impact the environment or the communities in which we operate. Oxy and our service companies employ a range of mitigation techniques to recycle and manage drilling materials and flowback fluids. Oxy also submits in FracFocus® all ingredients identified by the vendors, including de minimis trace components as 
well as a description and class of any ingredients that the manufacturers protect as trade secrets or confidential information. Oxy maintains Safety Data Sheets (SDS) for the chemicals and fracturing fluids it uses. Several states also use FracFocus® for regulatory disclosures. Through improved technologies and industry and stakeholder collaboration, Oxy applies water-delivery systems such as Water-on-Demand, water-recycling programs and closed-loop processes to conserve freshwater resources, reduce waste and to minimize road use. We 
work with municipalities and other suppliers to secure recycled water, such as treated wastewater and effluent 
that is processed to clean-water standards for use in our operations. When recycled water is not used, brackish water supplies are obtained as our next priority, followed by recharged water sources to further minimize the impacts on limited freshwater resources.Oxy also utilizes a comprehensive underground pipeline system to transport produced oil and natural gas to processing facilities, resulting in smaller tank batteries.
We are able to reduce the facility size and create compact, lower-profile development areas.Our unique Water-on-Demand system brings water resources required for hydraulic fracturing to well sites through a comprehensive pipeline system, reducing
truck traffic, impact to roads, noise and emissions. More
than 180 miles of underground, permanent pipelines in
the DJ Basin serve an area more than 600 square miles.
Oxy’s Water-on-Demand benefits include: »	380 million barrels, or nearly 16 billion gallons,
of water moved via pipelines since 2012;»	60+ million traffic miles and a significant amount
of traffic emissions avoided since 2012;»	Temporary pipelines are used for short distances from trunk lines to the well pads to provide the safe and reliable delivery of water; and,»	Reduction in the number of onsite water storage tanks needed and associated surface impacts.Oxy regularly monitors surface and groundwater quality in
the vicinity of our hydraulic fracturing operations. Our deep knowledge of rock and fluid properties in formations across our acreage helps us to develop a better understanding of
the key geologic parameters that drive productivity, such as porosity, saturation, brittleness, total organic content, mineral and geochemical composition, rock and fluid compatibility, natural fractures, distribution and stress regimes.Produced water, along with varying volumes of drilling
muds and fracturing fluids, can be collected and reused in a closed-loop system. Oxy and our service companies employ a range of mitigation techniques to manage the potential environmental impacts of drilling materials and flowback fluids. We work collaboratively with our service companies to improve drilling and production techniques to enhance the efficiency of water usage and to minimize the amounts and types of additives required for hydraulic fracturing. Several techniques include the following: »	We re-use drilling fluids to the maximum extent possible; »	We drill using closed-loop systems in areas with high freshwater tables; and,»	Within our U.S. drilling operations, we store drilling
muds, other oily residuals and flowback water in closed containment systems or tanks for on-site storage, recycling in drilling or completions and eventual disposal of residuals. WATER QUALITY 
AND WASTEWATERDischarge to surface water bodies requires a permit or authorization that sets water quality parameters consistent with the receiving water body and may specify treatment requirements. Additionally, discharges or stormwater runoff from Oxy’s oil and gas and chemical facilities are evaluated for water quality under other applicable regulations and company policies. In certain locations in the United States discharges of treated water from Oxy’s facilities support riparian (or riverbank) eco-systems by providing a more consistent flow of freshwater than would otherwise exist. Oxy monitors and mitigates water discharges based on regulatory standards, compliance with permits, best practice frameworks and wastewater and effluent treatment technologies. Oxy is commited to transparently disclosing our hydraulic fracturing operations, and strives to conduct hydraulic fracturing in a manner that does not impact the environment or communities where we operate.HIGHLIGHTWATER-ON-DEMANDOxy works diligently to protect and conserve Colorado and Wyoming’s valuable resources, including freshwater. Our Water-On-Demand system delivers water for hydraulic fracturing to well sites in the Denver-Julesburg and Powder River Basins through a pipeline network, reducing truck traffic, road impacts, noise and GHG emissions. PLANETSPILL PREVENTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENTOur operations implement waste minimization and pollution prevention plans and practices that are designed to maximize the beneficial use, reuse and recycling of natural resources and by-products and to reduce the amount of waste that we dispose. We monitor our waste management through an index that tracks reportable events and citations to the appropriate government agency. Reportable events include spills or releases in excess of a level stipulated by regulatory agencies or a deviation from a regulatory standard or an established permit condition. Citations include notices of violation received from a government agency as well as initiation of government agency proceedings such as administrative orders, consent orders or agreements, civil actions or court orders to enforce environmental laws or regulations. Oxy's performance relative to our increasingly regulated industry reflects the company's standards and compliance requirements.Oxy takes proactive measures to identify, report and resolve compliance issues in cooperation with government agencies, which can also serve to mitigate potential penalties. Significant environmental proceedings are described in our Annual Report, Form 10-K.Oxy actively monitors and manages our waste, discloses reportable events to the appropriate agencies, and takes initiative to resolve any compliance issues.PLANETBIODIVERSITY, LAND USE 
AND REMEDIATIONOxy actively promotes habitat preservation and biodiversity. Minimizing the disturbance of wildlife habitat is a key tenet of our global conservation efforts. We believe that using existing production infrastructure to recover additional oil and natural gas from mature fields provides significant life-cycle environmental benefits—avoiding, in many cases, the need to develop greenfield land, or build new roads, pipelines and storage and processing facilities. Habitat quality, such as vegetation structure, is assessed at potential well locations. We strive to avoid impacts to habitats and species where possible, and where not feasible, impacts to species are minimized by co-locating infrastructure. Oxy works with national, regional and local government agencies, university researchers and nonprofit organizations to support native species in various operating locations, implementing adaptive management practices to minimize habitat disruption and to preserve and restore habitat
for those species. We continue to support conservation programs to offset impacts to species, whether they
are endangered, threatened or not at risk. Oxy amplifies its commitment to biodiversity through
active membership in and support of nonprofit conservation organizations, including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) and the Wildlife Habitat Council
(WHC). In 2020, Oxy expanded our partnership with NFWF to include the Restoration and Stewardship of Outdoor Resources and Environment (RESTORE) in Colorado and the National Coastal Resilience Fund to create more proactive conservation initiatives. NFWF has developed 
a carbon calculator for all conservation work completed across the United States, through which Oxy aims to quantify the CO2 captured as part of our habitat 
restoration projects. Oxy’s longstanding participation in the WHC has helped us to enhance habitats across the United States. WHC’s Corporate Wildlife Habitat Certification/International Accreditation Program recognizes commendable wildlife habitat management and environmental education programs at company-owned properties. We currently manage four sites certified by the WHC under the Corporate Lands for Learning and Wildlife at Work programs. Glenn Springs Holdings is Oxy’s wholly owned subsidiary that manages former or acquired operating locations and in accordance with our commitment to safeguard people and the environment. Since 2012, Glenn Springs has earned four national habitat awards from the WHC, National Wild Turkey Federation, Pheasants Forever and Ducks Unlimited.The scientists, engineers and project managers at Glenn Springs employ environmentally sound methods and innovative site restoration solutions in cooperation with stakeholders. Through engagement with relevant agencies and local communities and development and application of standardized processes and tools, Glenn Springs has at many sites taken a leadership role to achieve significant improvements in environmental quality in industrial, mining or commercial practices. As of December 31, 2020, Oxy participated in or monitored remedial activities or proceedings at 170 sites. Oxy's environmental remediation program is described in our Annual Report, Form 10-K.Among Glenn Springs' notable remediation and restoration efforts include the Copper Basin restoration project in southeast Tennessee and its work for OxyChem on former manufacturing properties in Montague, Michigan and Painesville Township, Ohio. These projects exemplify Glenn Springs' approach of combining remedial restoration and beneficial use of sites in a manner that improves environmental quality and advances community interests.HIGHLIGHTPECOS WATERSHED 
CONSERVATION INITIATIVEOxy is a founding partner of the Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative, a proactive approach to the Endangered Species Act which involves landscape-based management of multiple species and their habitats 
within the Pecos River Watershed in New Mexico and Texas. The Initiative is a collaborative endeavor between industry and local, state and federal agencies to improve habitat for native species while allowing for responsible economic development.HIGHLIGHTCOPPER BASIN RESTORATION, TENNESSEEAt this former mining site, Glenn Springs and the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation implemented a series of remediation and restoration efforts such as passive and active water treatment, ecological restoration, solids removal, engineered caps and revegetation. As a result, the water quality and aquatic diversity in the Ocoee River have improved to levels not seen in over 100 years.The lush landscape is now enjoyed by local residents for recreational activities including white water rafting and fishing. The impressive efforts and results of this project were recognized in December 2020 by the American Council of Engineering Companies with the Grand Conceptor Award, signifying the project as the year’s outstanding engineering achievement.HIGHLIGHTHIGHLIGHTMONTAGUE, MICHIGANPAINESVILLE, OHIOIn addition to ongoing environmental remediation work for OxyChem, Glenn Springs continuously engages with communities to begin new projects that will contribute to the well-being of local residents and the environment. In 2020, for example, Glenn Springs and the Lake County Ohio Port and Economic Development Authority entered into a letter of intent regarding the former Diamond Shamrock Painesville Works Site. The Port Authority and Glenn Springs are working together on potential public access to the property and redevelopment for uses such as recreation, an amphitheater or observation platforms, and commercial development.“We appreciate having the Port Authority’s assistance in engaging with the community and identifying economic development resources that can facilitate reuse of the property in a way that serves the community’s needs and objectives.” — Rick Passmore, Senior Director of Operations 
for Glenn Springs At the site of a former chemical production facility in Montague, Michigan, Glenn Springs implemented a comprehensive wildlife enhancement plan benefiting several species of mammals, birds and insects. The Montague conservation plan includes: »	Creation of a long-term forest management plan;»	Creation of 35 acres of wetlands and 
aquatic habitat;»	Creation of two timber ponds;»	Planting and maintaining over 80 acres of native prairie grasses; and,»	Establishment of nearly 30 acres of wildlife 
food plots.Glenn Springs also installed and operates a water collection and treatment system for OxyChem to contain plant groundwater on-site. The water facility treatment has been in continuous operation since remediation efforts began and currently collects and treats approximately 1 million gallons of water per day. 