PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCESustainability Strategy.Board of Directors.Corporate Governance.Risk Management and Strategic Planning.Business Ethics and Code of Business Conduct.Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying. 9CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY: OXY 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYOxy is progressing its vision as an innovative and sustainable energy leader with industry-leading initiatives and investments to enable a low-carbon future. As part of our commitment to sustainability in all facets of our business, Oxy strives to diligently identify and address our key ESG risks and opportunities. We integrate ESG criteria into our strategic planning and investment decision-making process and perform routine risk assessments to support readiness for emerging challenges and opportunities. OxyChem’s approach to sustainability and stewardship aligns with Oxy’s company-wide sustainability priorities and values. OxyChem is a central contributor to the whole company’s role as an innovative and sustainable industry leader.We utilize a variety of methods and metrics to discern 
and assess important ESG issues raised by internal 
and external stakeholders. This process informs our sustainability strategy and programs and helps us to improve transparency and report on the issues that 
matter most to our stakeholders.For example, engagements in recent years have resulted in enhancements to Oxy’s practices and disclosures regarding environmental matters, including the content of our climate reports; matters related to corporate governance, including the adoption of proxy access, and the amendments to our charter to, among other things, facilitate shareholders’ ability to act by written consent and call special meetings; and the executive compensation program, including the design of the long-term incentive program.Oxy strives to implement sustainable business practices across all of our business units. We value input from our stakeholders, and utilize their feedback to develop our sustainability strategy.PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCEBOARD OF DIRECTORSOxy’s diverse and highly qualified Board of Directors (Board) is led by an independent Chair and independent Vice Chair. The structure and operation of the Board is defined by Oxy’s corporate governance policies, and the Board is committed to strong corporate governance and board refreshment to help ensure diverse leadership
and expertise. The Board oversees Oxy’s strategy, including climate change, health and safety, environmental performance, human capital management, community relations and social investments and other sustainability matters. These matters are incorporated into regular Board and committee meetings and the Board’s annual strategic review session as central elements of the company’s strategic plan. In addition, the Board’s committee structure is designed to help ensure the Board and its committees have the appropriate oversight of relevant sustainability issues.BOARD COMMITTEES In 2019, Oxy established the Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement Committee to oversee external reporting on ESG and sustainability matters, including climate-related risks and opportunities. This committee reviews and oversees shareholder and stakeholder engagement; sustainability programs, policies and practices, including
the Human Rights Policy; our positions on climate change, including climate-related policies and regulatory matters, and OLCV’s strategies; the Political Contributions Policy; and the Charitable Contributions Program (additional details of which are available in the committee’s charter and described in Oxy’s Proxy). The Environmental, Health and Safety Committee provides oversight of health, safety and environmental (HSE) programs, performance and compliance and HSE risk management. Topics discussed with this committee include efforts to enhance energy efficiency of operations; control air emissions of GHGs such as CO2 and methane; prevent, respond to and remediate releases to air, water or land; and report to stakeholders on Oxy’s environmental performance.The Audit Committee oversees Oxy’s ethics and compliance program. This committee also oversees 
Oxy’s enterprise risk management program, which consolidates ESG-related risks discussed with the Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement Committee and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee 
with other business, financial and operational risks.The Executive Compensation Committee establishes
the parameters and goals that determine executive compensation, including annual sustainability metrics that tie to Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and climate-related targets.Led by the Governance Committee, the Board conducts 
a robust annual evaluation of its performance and the performance of each of the Board’s committees, as well
as the individual directors, to assess the leadership’s composition and effectiveness, and to identify areas of strength and areas capable of improvement. This includes assessing whether the Board and its committees have the necessary diversity of skills, backgrounds and expertise
to meet Oxy’s needs.The company’s Board is accountable to our shareholders, and Oxy is committed to regular and transparent communication and engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders. Oxy proactively offers engagement meetings with shareholders collectively representing a majority of shares outstanding and responds to engagement requests as they are received. Feedback from these meetings is shared with directors through senior management reports to the Board and its committees, 
and by virtue of independent director participation in various shareholder engagements throughout the year.PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCECORPORATE GOVERNANCE Oxy and its Board are committed to high standards of ethical conduct, institutional integrity and effective corporate governance in every part of our business as we work to benefit our shareholders, communities and society. We are dedicated to respecting the environment, operating safely and upholding high standards of ethics and sustainability throughout the company’s worldwide operations. Oxy’s governance policies are reviewed and updated periodically to reflect changing laws and regulations, evolving best practices and shareholder feedback. They align with the Investor Stewardship Group’s Corporate Governance Framework for U.S. Listed Companies.BOARD DIVERSITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2021DIVERSITYINDEPENDENCEEthnic Minorities: 310 of 11Directors are Independent36% DiverseWomen: 2PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCERISK MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGIC PLANNINGOxy recognizes that robust risk assessment and proactive risk management are essential to safe and reliable operations and consistent returns for investors. We integrate ESG criteria including climate-related risks into our strategic planning and investment decision-making process and perform routine risk assessments to prepare for and thoughtfully address emerging challenges and opportunities.As part of Oxy’s governance and risk management processes, senior management regularly reports to the Board on environmental and sustainability matters. Oxy’s President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who serves on the Board, and the Board, are committed to ensuring that Oxy’s businesses advance our net-zero goals in alignment with the Paris Agreement, respect the environment, operate safely, and uphold the highest standards of ethical business practices. The CEO and the Board approve Oxy's net-zero strategy, climate-related targets and key milestones, and regularly review Oxy's progress towards achieving the targets and milestones.Oxy’s risk management approach incorporates analyses of the short, medium and long-term financial risks of a lower-carbon economy. Oxy considers various scenarios to assess potential future climate-related opportunities and risks. In addition, larger capital projects require a carbon price sensitivity analysis before approval.Climate-related risks are integrated into the enterprise
risk management (ERM) system and strategic planning process to advance a net-zero transition in accordance with the Paris Agreement and enhance our preparedness for other emerging issues.Taking into consideration a range of energy scenarios, Oxy factors carbon pricing and energy intensity assumptions into scenario planning around commodity prices, returns 
on capital, and the risks and opportunities of emissions abatement and CO2 utilization options. The process of risk evaluation also includes potential physical and social impacts relating to severe weather events and disruption due to proximity to flood-prone and water-stressed areas. Other potential physical or resource risks that could 
arise from long-term shifts in climate, including water 
or raw material scarcity, changes or disruptions in energy 
markets, geopolitical risks or other supply and logistics challenges, are considered in our routine business 
planning and ERM processes.ESG performance is critical to Oxy's overall risk management and strategic planning processes. Both the management team and 
the Board are engaged in assessing future climate-related risks and opportunities. PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCEBUSINESS ETHICS AND CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCTOxy has implemented a range of policies that establish clear performance expectations for business conduct by our workforce, including respect for the cultural values of our employees, contractors and neighboring communities, and the promotion of human rights. The company's Code of Business Conduct (Code) reaffirms Oxy's commitment to high standards of ethical behavior and embodies Oxy’s business ethics, policies and procedures. The Code covers ethical business activities, including compliance with laws and regulations (such as antitrust, anti-bribery, and insider trading laws), conflicts of interest (including corporate opportunities and assets), political contributions and lobbying, equal employment opportunity, human rights and protecting health, safety and the environment. The Code also addresses cyber security, data privacy, and the use of company information systems.New employees receive an electronic copy of the Code
and are required to acknowledge they have reviewed and understand it. Through a combination of live and virtual platforms, we offer training on the Code. Annually, all employees must certify compliance with the Code and related policies and procedures. The Code explains the many ways that questions or concerns may be raised with the company, including Oxy's Integrity Helpline, an anonymous toll-free compliance hotline with web reporting options, which is available 24/7 and is managed by an independent third party. We maintain an ethics and compliance homepage on Oxy’s intranet, where employees can also ask questions and seek approvals, and a policy alert system to notify employees of the issuance of new policies. Oxy investigates all credible reports of suspected policy violations and has a zero-tolerance policy regarding threats or acts of retaliation for raising a concern in good faith or cooperating in an investigation. Grievances are logged to determine the appropriate department to conduct an investigation, if warranted. Escalation protocols are in place for serious issues to be flagged to the Audit Committee and other applicable Board Committees, as warranted. In addition, the status of reports, if they are open or closed, substantiated or not, is provided to the Audit Committee 
on an annual basis.ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY Oxy prohibits bribery in all forms. Everyone subject to the Code must understand and comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and any other applicable anti-bribery laws, regardless of their location or nationality. ETHICAL BUSINESS STANDARDS WITH PARTNERS, SUPPLIERS 
AND CONTRACTORS Oxy strives to work with partners, suppliers and contractors who share our commitment to ethical business practices, health and safety, people and the environment. As a part 
of Oxy’s compliance program, Oxy evaluates prospective business partners, contractors, suppliers and agents and conveys our expectation that they must comply with Oxy’s policies, including the Code. Our international procurement contracts include provisions related to human rights, ethical business conduct and other relevant policies. PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCEPUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT AND LOBBYINGOxy engages with organizations, government agencies and other entities in the public and private sectors to advance local and regional economies. These engagements are 
a critical driver of our business strategy. By working with local partners, we create shared value for the company 
and our key stakeholders, including host governments 
and local community members. In addition to engaging with host governments and local communities, Oxy participates in lobbying efforts related to legislative and regulatory issues that impact the company and its stakeholders. Oxy's policy with respect to political contributions and lobbying activities is outlined in the Code of Business Conduct and the Political Contributions Policy. Issues arise in the political process at federal, state and local levels that directly affect Oxy’s business and stakeholders. Because legislative and regulatory changes can substantially impact the company and its stakeholders, Oxy believes it
is important for the company to help inform the discussion
of such issues in an ethical and transparent manner. To
that end, Oxy, from time to time, makes political campaign contributions or engages in lobbying and other political activities. We have a robust policy and oversight procedures in place to help ensure that Oxy’s participation in the
political arena is in the best interest of the company and
its shareholders. The Code of Business Conduct defines Oxy’s political contributions broadly. They cover campaign contributions and other politically-related expenses by or on behalf of Oxy, which may be made only with the approval of the Board, the Government Affairs Committee or their designees. The Government Affairs Committee approves all political contributions and reports directly to the Board. The Vice President, Government Relations is the current chair of the Government Affairs Committee; the other members 
of the Government Affairs Committee are the President of Onshore Resources and Carbon Management, President 
of Oxy Energy Services, and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Oxy reports its federal lobbying to the U.S. Congress in quarterly lobbying disclosure reports that are publicly available via the U.S. Senate's Lobbying Disclosure Electronic Filing System website. These reports include Oxy’s direct lobbying expenses (e.g., salaries, office rent, etc.), as well as the portion of the dues paid to trade associations that is used for lobbying purposes. OXYPACUnder federal election law, Oxy may not contribute corporate funds directly to federal candidates or political parties.
Oxy is authorized to establish and fund the administrative expenses of an employee political action committee—the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Political Action Committee (OXYPAC). Oxy’s political contributions promote only the interests of the company and its shareholders,
and not the personal political preferences of its officers or directors. We have adopted robust policies to help ensure these activities and expenditures comply with all applicable lobbying and disclosure laws. Oxy annually discloses the list of OXYPAC contributions, categorized by jurisdiction, candidate and amount for the most recently ended fiscal year, including any contributions with respect to ballot initiatives. Historic reports of OXYPAC and non-OXYPAC contributions are available in the Political Contributions Archive.TRADE ASSOCIATIONS 
AND INDUSTRY GROUPSOxy is a member of and an active participant in many domestic and international trade, industry and professional groups. Membership in these groups is necessary to stay abreast of issues impacting Oxy’s business segments. While generally not the primary purpose of these organizations, many actively engage in lobbying on industry issues. These organizations represent a broad range of members and interests, and Oxy does not always share the views of these organizations and their other members. Oxy annually provides a list of trade associations of which Oxy is a member and to which it paid annual dues in excess of $50,000 in the prior fiscal year. At the direction of the Board, the Government Affairs Committee reviews, assesses and approves of Oxy’s membership in such trade associations. The federal issues on which these associations or groups engaged in lobbying are included in the lobbying disclosure forms filed by the organizations and are available via the U.S. Senate’s Lobbying Disclosure Electronic Filing System U.S. Trade Associations Archive.PLANETApproach to Environmental Stewardship.Climate Policy Positions.Climate Strategy: Pathway to Net-Zero.Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 
Methane and Flaring.Energy Utilization and Efficiency.Water Stewardship.Spill Prevention and Waste Management.Biodiversity, Land Use and Remediation. 17CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY: OXY 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT