PEOPLEAdvancing Human Capital.Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging.Workforce Development and Learning.Health, Safety and Well-being.Operational Management System.Product Stewardship.Human Rights. 36CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY: OXY 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPEOPLEADVANCING HUMAN CAPITALOur dedicated workforce and our community partners help to create value for our shareholders and stakeholders. This section articulates how people are critical to sustain our enterprise value and competitive advantage, to maintain our license to operate and strengthen stakeholder relationships, and to achieve our goal of a successful and just net-zero transition in accordance with the Paris Agreement.Oxy is proud to be a leading employer and community partner wherever we operate. We hire, recruit and develop remarkable people with a passion for producing life-enhancing energy and chemical products. Oxy is committed to providing safe, supportive and high-quality work environments, rewarding initiatives and innovation and treating every employee with dignity and respect.Our multicultural workforce is dedicated to achieving the company’s objectives, improving our environment and contributing to the communities in which we live and work.We regularly evaluate and update our compensation, benefits and workforce development programs to enable our employees to live well and work well, and to enhance our ability to recruit, develop, retain and promote a dedicated workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities where we operate. We offer educational resources, programs, time away benefits and insurance 
to support multiple factors of health including physical, financial, social and emotional well-being. Oxy’s goal is 
to give employees the tools and resources they need to succeed both personally and professionally as well as to foster a safe and collaborative work environment where every employee feels a sense of belonging.PEOPLEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION 
AND BELONGINGAs an international company, we value the ability to communicate and work effectively with people from a wide variety of backgrounds, perspectives and cultures. This diversity enriches our culture and our employees’ experience in the workplace and contributes to an innovative and effective business model that fosters the development
of local communities. Oxy strives to foster a culture that is diverse and inclusive, where every employee feels a sense of belonging. We are committed to creating an environment in which differences are celebrated and encouraged. We believe a workplace with employees of various backgrounds and unique experiences catalyzes innovation, growth, strong performance and long-term value. At Oxy, diversity is who we are, inclusion
is how we work and belonging is how we thrive. Our commitment to diversity, inclusion and belonging starts at the top. In 2021, our President and CEO, Vicki Hollub, was named one of the Top CEOs in Energy by 
The Energy Inclusion Conference hosted by The Energy Diversity & Inclusion Council. The Top CEOs in Energy Award highlights the strongest caliber of executive leadership in the energy industry. CEOs receive the award based on the evaluation of criteria such as their proven track record of advocating for diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace, leadership in advancing community well-being, demonstrated commitment to the highest ethical standards and ability to value and respect diverse points of view. To promote awareness, governance and oversight of diversity, inclusion and belonging, we established a Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Board and an Ambassador Committee. The Advisory Board oversees Oxy’s strategy and institutionalizes policies to recruit, develop, retain and promote a workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities where we live and work. The Diversity and Inclusion Ambassador Committee members serve as employee champions in training, recruiting, community outreach and educational programs. Oxy is an Equal Opportunity Employer. As part of our commitment to diversity, inclusion and belonging, we aim to provide a workplace free of unlawful discrimination, hostility and harassment. Any hostility toward, discrimination against or harassment of any employee based on race, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, legally protected medical condition, marital status, sex, gender identity, age, veteran status, sexual orientation or any other basis protected by federal, state or local law
is a violation of Oxy’s policies. Oxy works hard to attract and retain top talent, focused
on our local communities. In addition to our longstanding scholarships and internships with educational institutions,
we have expanded our talent acquisition strategy to create partnerships with several Historically Black Colleges and Universities as we seek to identify a diverse pool of candidates from underrepresented groups. PEOPLEWORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND LEARNINGEmployee development at Oxy is a planned, collaborative process. Oxy offers in-house and external training and development opportunities at all levels and locations to promote career growth. We also provide both instructor-led and e-learning opportunities for personal growth and professional development. Employees and managers share in the responsibility to align individual development needs and career opportunities with Oxy’s business requirements and growth targets. Employees can also contact the Talent Development Team for help identifying the appropriate development options to meet their needs. Many employees, including our senior leaders, have benefited from rotational assignments that expand their business acumen in various engineering disciplines, finance, law, supply chain and HSE. We recently implemented a new Strategic Technical Excellence Program to recognize and develop highly skilled geoscience and engineering experts who drive innovation, enhance performance and advance our industry. In the area of technical development, Oxy also provides a variety of computer skills training as well as function-specific training, such as the PetroSkills program for engineers. OxyChem’s Engineering Training and Development program provides technical employees 
with a curriculum designed to enhance engineering skills and provide learning and development opportunities throughout their career path. We also offer cross-functional training to increase business acumen and executive leadership skills, such as implementing a new finance rotation for early-stage engineers.Oxy provides educational assistance to eligible full-time employees who successfully complete pre-approved courses of study. Upon completion, employees are reimbursed for mandatory fees and necessary expenses including tuition, textbooks, laboratory fees, parking and admission fees. Oxy’s international operations have comprehensive programs to recruit and train national employees for jobs at all levels of the company. This is a key process that enhances economic development, transfers technical expertise to the local workforce, increases employment of local workers and suppliers and reduces dependence on expatriate workers. Investing in education and skills-based training in countries where we operate helps Oxy develop and sustain the local technical, operational and commercial talent required to build, operate and maintain critical infrastructure for our work in those markets. For example, Oxy is a leading employer of nationals
in Oman, enthusiastically expanding on programs
such as “Omanization” of the Oxy workforce. This is a
government-initiated program that seeks to increase employment of Omani nationals in the public and private sectors. Oxy has comprehensive initiatives to recruit and train Omani citizens and is committed to developing and promoting Omani citizens in positions from entry-level
to executive management. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTAt Oxy, we aim to actively engage employees on a global scale. Oxy recently conducted an extensive culture assessment to evaluate our values as a unified organization. The culture assessment was comprised of surveys, focus groups and meetings with company leaders. The results of this assessment helped us to update our Mission, Vision and Values in 2020. We have reinforced these statements over the past year to promote organizational culture despite the challenges posed by COVID-19. We have intensified our efforts through the launch of our Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging initiative and by expanding partnerships, training, recruiting and mentor programs. We partnered with Historically Black Colleges and Universities to create a pathway for additional internships and job opportunities for candidates of diverse backgrounds.We also have engaged outreach programs such as ALLY Energy, the Texas Diversity Council and the Energy Diversity 
& Inclusion Council. Additionally, we actively recruit veterans and members of the military who are completing their service. Internally at Oxy, we aim to promote employee understanding and awareness of diversity, inclusion and belonging. Our employee resource groups provide opportunities for employees to network and collaborate based on shared experiences and backgrounds. Our current employee resource groups include the Women of Oxy Network, the Early Career Network and the Veterans Mentoring Program. PEOPLEHEALTH, SAFETY 
AND WELL-BEING We are committed to seeking continuous improvement in workplace and contractor safety and preventing incidents. Oxy’s business units encourage contractors to improve their HSE programs, both in periodic safety meetings, where Oxy management discusses HSE practices with contractors, and in individual service quality meetings. These discussions include best practices such as supervision, job safety analysis, use of Stop Work Authority, equipment inspections, and emergency preparedness, including in drilling, workover and construction activities. We expect both employees and contractors to uphold Oxy's Life-Saving Rules and our safety management standards and practices.Oxy has sustained exemplary safety performance through 
a comprehensive approach that begins with establishing consistent expectations set by the company’s Board and management. Our approach includes empowering and training employees and contractors and supporting them with safe work systems, technology and proactive maintenance and asset integrity programs. For example, under our Stop Work Authority policy, we empower employees and contractors to halt production, shut down any equipment or stop any job to prevent an accident or environmental incident. Also, OxyChem's CORE 4 safety program for permitted work protects employees and contractors through a communication and verification process focusing on job scope, job hazards, proper isolation, and zero energy to further reduce accidents.We also engage with external stakeholders to improve health and safety. Each year in the Gulf of Mexico, for example, Oxy conducts an oil spill response plan exercise in conjunction with the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, other government agencies and spill response contractors. Regular engagement with external partners allows us to incorporate new ideas and sustain our strong safety culture. The health and well-being of our workforce is a top priority. Oxy is committed to offering programs that guide employees along the journey to better physical and mental health. We aim to provide employees with sufficient resources, education, tools and positive support to achieve their personal wellness goals. Oxy also provides access to a company wellness platform with information and interactive tools that help employees create personalized wellness plans specifically designed to meet their needs. Oxy has expanded its longstanding wellness initiative, Oxy Health, to encourage active lifestyles and physical fitness. Oxy Health programs support early detection of risks, which enables employees to undertake lifestyle changes to lessen or eliminate potential health concerns as well as establish and meet targets that lead to better long-term health. Oxy Health has had a direct impact on reduced absenteeism, long-term disability and short-term disability. Today, Oxy Health is investing in a worldwide well-being initiative that supports employees in all aspects of life. Employees can connect with colleagues from Oxy locations worldwide—including the Middle East, Africa and North and South America—in healthy challenges and competitions, bringing them closer together as a company and community. On an annual basis, Oxy provides employees and spouses with flu vaccinations, travel immunizations and access to 
a number of local healthcare resources. Annual physicals are fully covered for employees through Oxy’s benefit plans, and many of Oxy’s office locations host annual health 
fairs providing free health checks for employees and their families. Through its employee benefits program, Oxy offers an Employee Assistance Program that provides employees and their dependents with complimentary access to counseling services to help with personal or work-related challenges. The program provides confidential assistance 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. COVID-19 RESPONSE2020 was a critical year for public health and occupational health and safety management, as COVID-19 impacted 
the well-being of communities across the globe. Oxy’s commitment to the health and safety of our workforce and our communities was evident in our thorough response to COVID-19. Throughout the pandemic, we made significant efforts to safeguard our employees and communities while continuing to operate critical national infrastructure and supply essential products. Below are a few examples that demonstrate our robust response. In response to COVID-19, we allocated additional paid-time off to our employees to care for their loved ones during the pandemic. We also provided employees with presentations from our Medical Department and a safety website including information to understand COVID-19 statistics in their area and guidance on how to minimize exposure and transmission and on availability of the COVID-19 vaccine. During the pandemic, on-site employees were required to clear a COVID-19 screening on a daily basis before entering field, plant or office worksites. To promote a balanced and flexible workplace schedule post-pandemic, eligible employees have the option to select a work schedule that allows them to work three days in the office and two days 
at home. OxyChem supported the communities where we operate 
by providing additional personal protective equipment (PPE) to local hospitals and front line healthcare workers. OxyChem's quick response to COVID-19 enabled its plants to continue operating safely to provide essential chemicals like disinfection products to customers across the world.In the Gulf of Mexico, we implemented a COVID-19 Mitigation Plan that reflects the unique aspects of crew transportation, accommodations and platform and drilling ship operations. The plan provided information, training and PPE instructions to our workforce related to COVID-19. It also implemented procedures to provide COVID-19 testing and vaccines for 
our offshore workers, report and isolate suspected and confirmed cases promptly, transport potentially infected personnel, and provide disinfection and cleaning of workspaces, among other topics. As part of our mitigation measures, all Gulf of Mexico employees were required to provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test or vaccination and undergo quarantine as warranted before being permitted to work offshore, in addition to completing health surveys and pre-board temperature screening. Onshore 
and offshore COVID-19 testing was also instituted as part 
of the pre-screening protocols. Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than 17,000 COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction tests have been administered to Oxy employees 
in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2020, Oxy achieved the best employee safety performance in the company’s history, based on the U.S. Department
of Labor’s Injury and Illness Incident
Rate (IIR).<1.0Our employee IIR has been less than 1.0 recordable incident per 100 employees
for 21 consecutive years.0.19Our employee-only IIR in 2020 was 0.19.0.210ur combined employee and 
contractors IIR was 0.21. PEOPLEOPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMOur Operational Management System (OMS) provides a consistent and rigorous methodology to help the company identify, assess and address health, safety, environmental, social and operational risks across our business operations. We are proud that our workforce has embraced a robust health and safety culture.HSE performance is fundamental to Oxy’s core values and to the success and sustainability of our business. In 1994, Oxy’s Board of Directors adopted 10 HSE Principles that set forth our enduring commitment across our worldwide operations to: 1	Safeguard the health and safety of people and protect the environment using design procedures, work practices and employee training 2	Correct operating conditions that have 
a significant adverse HSE impact 3	Reduce waste generation and responsibly 
manage waste disposal 4	Reduce pollutant releases to the environment 5	Make efficient use of water and other 
natural resources 6	Use energy efficiently 7	Provide information on the safe use and 
disposal of Oxy's products 8	Maintain a dialogue with neighboring 
communities about HSE concerns 9	Keep Oxy's Board of Directors informed 
about HSE issues 10	Report annually on Oxy's HSE performanceToday, we’re implementing these Principles through our OMS, reflecting our focus on leadership, operational excellence, risk management and continuous improvement. Our dedicated workforce recognizes that the programs, practices and technologies we deploy to promote health and safety, enhance air and water quality, and protect habitat and biodiversity also strengthen our business, improve our products and services, and advance our net-zero strategy.Oxy also strives to continuously enhance our risk management programs, including process safety and asset integrity programs, and requires the implementation of HSE risk management policies and procedures at all operating locations and levels of the organization. Higher-level risks are reported through the management chain of command, validated and acknowledged by business segment management, and reviewed annually by senior leadership and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the Board, assuring that HSE management is among Oxy's highest priorities. In 2021, Oxy updated its longstanding HSE management system to establish an OMS that maintains a strong focus on HSE and continues to set consistent worldwide performance expectations and standards, where appropriate, across all of our business operations. The OMS is based on operational excellence standards aligned with the API’s Energy Excellence program, the ACC's Responsible Care® program, and the Operating Management System Framework of the International Oil and Gas Producers Association (IOGP) and IPIECA. The OMS facilitates compliance with laws and regulations and the management of HSE and sustainability risks to improve overall business performance. It encourages individual responsibility, values quantifiable results and promotes communication among employees, contractors, neighboring communities, government authorities and other stakeholders. All personnel are empowered and expected to report non-compliance or unsafe conditions promptly and to exercise their Stop Work Authority to prevent injuries or environmental incidents.Performance in key areas of HSE and sustainability is directly considered in the annual review and compensation of employees and executive management as well as in the selection of contractors, suppliers and business partners.PROCESS SAFETY AND 
ASSET INTEGRITYOxy applies rigorous process safety management system and Asset Integrity (AI) programs to safeguard personnel and assets, protect the environment and maintain operational reliability of equipment and systems. Individual business segments also implement procedures specific to their operations, which provide the steps necessary for personnel to comply with our company-wide standards. Many of our facilities are regulated by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the EPA, and our process safety initiatives are designed to comply with the standards set by those organizations. For facilities that are not regulated by OSHA or the EPA, our process safety programs mimic the Process Safety Management (PSM) elements laid out by OSHA. In addition to external regulations, our processes are supplemented by an internal assessment of risk level and of the procedures necessary to sustain process safety. In our oil and gas business, we have a similarly robust and established process safety and risk management program that includes a suite of policies and procedures to proactively identify and mitigate process risks. We believe the extent and rigor of the processes put into practice meet and surpass regulatory requirements, driven by our operating history and safety culture.Both our oil and gas and chemicals segments conduct regular audits, applying HSE auditing tools and guidance from the EPA and its state counterparts. During this process we consider health, safety and process safety disciplines, environmental permitting and controls, and how we maintain our equipment and monitoring devices. We track any corrective actions to completion. We additionally use third-party assessors to conduct required audits at PSM covered facilities every three years. Our risk evaluation methodology promotes consistency in assessing risks and mitigation opportunities and helps us achieve a worldwide standard of care.In addition to our performance assessment processes,
Oxy developed an innovative AI management system that 
is designed to maintain a high level of equipment reliability and systems integrity throughout our facilities, involving operations, facilities engineering, major projects, construction, supply chain, business planning and HSE systems. Oxy’s AI program leverages the experience of engineers and specialists in mechanical integrity, maintenance, corrosion and other disciplines to manage technical requirements and assist in program implementation, execution, review and improvement. Oxy uses an internationally recognized and rigorous risk-based inspection process to manage its inspection programs for critical equipment. Inspection methods include on-stream techniques that minimize impact to operations. We evaluate and deploy innovative technologies and advanced techniques to enhance our asset integrity inspections. 
This fosters a consistent approach worldwide and promotes the use of standardized tools and processes. 
We also coordinate with our joint venture partners to apply consistent risk management and AI processes.EMERGENCY PLANNING AND HURRICANE PREPAREDNESSThe key to effective emergency preparedness is practice. Oxy stresses the importance of safety drills and various emergency scenarios across our diverse operations. Employees are trained on how to respond to emergencies and to test business continuity systems, such as communications networks and data centers. Oxy coordinates its emergency plans with government institutions and public officials on issues of mutual importance, such as a storm response and evacuation. Hurricanes present a wind and flooding hazard to coastal areas of the United States, including our facilities located along the coast of and in the Gulf of Mexico. Cyclones similarly affect Oman. Oxy engages with federal, state and local agencies and local industry to coordinate severe weather plans and, on occasion, to participate in drills to simulate what would happen during a severe storm event or other emergency situation. These drills and related activities help to streamline communication among emergency response agencies, local governments and Oxy’s HSE and emergency management teams. The strength of our emergency preparedness was evident
in 2020, which was a record-breaking year for hurricanes. During that season, our Gulf of Mexico operations: »	Safely evacuated 52 offshore platforms;»	Performed 168 evacuation flights, involving 
5,206 passengers;»	Relocated 1,976 drillship miles; and,»	Continued to refine our hurricane planning and emergency response.TRANSPORTATION SAFETY Oxy is committed to maintaining the vehicles we own or operate, including tractor-trailers, railcars, light-duty trucks and passenger automobiles, in good working condition and equipping them with appropriate safety features. Transportation safety, including the transportation of hazardous materials, is managed to minimize risks. We collaborate closely with our contractors who transport our personnel, products and equipment, whether by ground, water or air, to increase transportation safety. The vast majority of products that we manufacture are delivered in bulk via pipeline, tanker trucks or rail cars to utility, refinery or midstream customers who consume or refine our products locally or export them via double-hulled oceangoing vessels. Railcars and tank trailers are placarded with appropriate hazard warnings, and hazard information
is provided to the transporter. In addition, all OxyChem products transported in drums, bags and other non-rail or trailer containers are labeled with product information that follows applicable regulations when they leave our facilities.Oxy is proud of our leading health and safety performance, including our robust approach to safety risk management and asset integrity.Oxy’s businesses implement robust auditing procedures and AI management processes
to promote equipment and systems integrity
across all of our facilities and operations.PEOPLEPRODUCT STEWARDSHIPProduct stewardship is one of the cornerstones of OxyChem’s business, and the company’s rigorous programs have helped it earn a reputation as one of the safest producers in the industry. OxyChem’s Product Stewardship systems help ensure the safe and knowledgeable use of
its products throughout the world and promote consistent compliance with product-related regulations. An active member of the ACC, OxyChem has implemented the ACC’s Responsible Care® principles as well as codes and standards of the ACC, the Chlorine Institute and the Vinyl Institute. The ACC’s Responsible Care® program has
helped member companies significantly enhance their performance, deliver high quality products, discover new business opportunities, safeguard workers and communities and improve environmental quality. The program is structured around a set of specific HSE metrics with performance goals that are often more stringent than corresponding government requirements. Conformance is verified through internal
and external audits. OxyChem assesses the health and safety of the products and byproducts that it manufactures in accordance with
the ACC’s Responsible Care® program and applicable international, federal and state laws and regulations. These assessments are used to generate product labeling and SDS that provide comprehensive product information, including chemical composition, use of personal protective equipment, instructions for safe handling and environmental and health information in accordance with OSHA requirements.OxyChem’s customer and technical service departments provide support to customers on the safe and environmentally responsible handling and use of products. Under its Responsible Care® program and ISO 9000 certification, a set of international standards on quality management and quality assurance, OxyChem surveys its customers annually to identify opportunities to improve products and services.PEOPLEHUMAN RIGHTSOxy demonstrates our commitment to respecting and upholding human rights as outlined in the company's Human Rights Policy. The Policy defines Oxy’s commitment to promoting rights and freedoms universally recognized in international and national law in our business activities. It also addresses the company’s expectations for employees, contractors and suppliers, security personnel, and other key stakeholders regarding awareness, due diligence, and risk management practices to safeguard human rights in our operations. Oxy is attentive to concerns raised by stakeholders, including the needs of the communities in which we operate, and is committed to working with stakeholders to support human rights within the spheres of the company’s activity and influence. Oxy’s Human Rights Policy reinforces the company’s commitments to:»	Operate in accordance with universally recognized rights and freedoms set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs); the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples; and the ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries;»	Respect the cultural values of the communities where we operate, including indigenous communities;»	Conduct social impact assessments, as necessary, to identify potential risks to human rights in the company’s foreign activities, and to evaluate the company’s ability 
to make a positive impact in the communities where 
we operate;»	Understand and appropriately address concerns
raised by stakeholders;»	Provide feedback mechanisms to allow stakeholders
to raise concerns or grievances, including through
the company’s anonymous Integrity Helpline available in
multiple languages;»	Provide a workplace free of child labor, harassment
and discrimination;»	Investigate any allegations or complaints that involve
a potential violation of Oxy’s Human Rights Policy; and,»	Conduct due diligence on all foreign contractors and suppliers regarding human rights risks and performance.Oxy works with partners, suppliers and contractors who share our commitment to ethical business practices. We routinely evaluate suppliers and contractors to help ensure they meet our standards of ethics and HSE, as well as human rights. As part of the Compliance Program, we require our suppliers and contractors to comply with the company's policies, including our Code of Business Conduct and Human Rights Policy. Oxy requires due diligence be conducted on all non-U.S. contractors and suppliers. This vetting process includes background checks designed to identify past corruption 
or fraud as well as human rights violations that have been confirmed through publicly available resources. Our procurement contracts routinely include provisions regarding the observance and protection of human
rights and adherence to ethical business conduct. Foreign contracts include provisions with respect to the observance of human rights, as warranted, based on the nature and risks of the types of goods or services to be provided as well as applicable laws relating to human rights. Certain locations and types of activities receive additional due diligence or training. Oxy encourages employees and contractors to report suspected violations of company policies, including the Human Rights Policy, and provides several avenues for reporting. One example is Oxy’s Integrity Helpline, which anyone may use to anonymously report suspected
policy violations for investigation by Oxy's Compliance Department.