INTEGRATING RISK MANAGEMENTSHORT-, MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM CLIMATE RISKSSCENARIO ANALYSISINTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENTTo support strategic planning discussions at senior management and Board levels, Oxy considers various scenarios to assess potential future climate-related impacts on the company’s existing assets. We factor carbon pricing and energy transition risks in a range of scenarios around commodity prices, capital returns and the risks and opportunities of GHG abatement and CO2 capture and utilization. Our risk evaluation also includes the potential physical and financial impacts of severe weather events and business disruption in flood-prone and water-stressed areas.Oxy incorporates analyses of short- (1-4 years), medium- (4-12 years) and long-term (beyond 12 years) financial risks of a lower-carbon economy to better understand the resilience of our assets and capital investments. Significantly, this risk evaluation also provides key information to target opportunities, and informs our engagement with shareholders, state and national regulators, industry associations, environmental groups and other stakeholders.SHORT-, MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS  TRANSITION RISKS Transitioning to a lower-carbon economy is expected to entail extensive policy, legal, technology, and market changes to mitigate and adapt to climate change, while providing essential resources, goods and services for society. Depending on the nature, speed, and focus of these changes, transition risks may pose varying levels of financial and reputational risk to organizations.Regulatory RiskShort- and Medium-Term Risk: The U.S. and many other countries have enacted laws and regulations to implement the Paris Agreement.  The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) enacted multiple programs to support the development of innovative technologies at commercial scale, including DAC and Point-Source Capture with the captured CO2 being utilized for EOR or low-carbon products or fuels or sequestered (collectively, CCUS).  The IRA’s support for DAC and other CCUS technologies that Oxy is actively developing is expected to accelerate their commercialization, although regulatory, technological and market risks remain.  The siting, construction and operation of both capture and storage or sequestration facilities and associated infrastructure are subject to federal, state and local regulatory and permitting requirements.   The IRA also includes an escalating methane emissions fee that the EPA will impose on certain upstream and midstream oil and gas operations per metric ton of methane emissions above certain thresholds commencing in 2024. The EPA has also proposed to regulate methane and volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from a broader set of new upstream and midstream operations, as well as various existing operations. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has proposed regulations to expand disclosure in financial reporting of GHG emissions as well as financial risks and costs associated with climate change and the energy transition. Oxy has submitted comments on both the EPA and SEC proposed regulations reflecting our support for responsible emissions and disclosure regulations and has made suggestions for enhancing their efficiency and cost effectiveness.  Similarly, several state governments have established rules aimed at reducing GHG emissions, some including GHG cap-and-trade programs and others directly regulating equipment that emits GHG, including methane and other compounds. Most of these cap-and-trade programs require major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, including refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. Other U.S. states, including Colorado, New Mexico and Texas, where Oxy operates, adopted or proposed new regulations, policies or strategies in 2021 or 2022 that increase inspection, recordkeeping, reporting, enforcement and controls on flaring, venting and equipment that emit methane and other compounds at oil and gas facilities. In certain instances, these states anticipate tying the processing and active status of oil and gas permits, including drilling permits, to air emissions and compliance. For example, Colorado has established GHG intensity targets for DJ Basin operators in 2025, 2027 and 2030, which Oxy currently meets.In addition, government actions relating to GHG and other air emissions could require Oxy to incur increased capital or operating and maintenance costs, including higher rates charged by service providers and costs to purchase, operate and maintain emissions control systems, acquire emission allowances, pay carbon or methane taxes or fees, and comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, or prevent Oxy from conducting oil and gas development activities in certain areas. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming - and thereby reduce demand for - oil, NGLs, natural gas or other products produced by Oxy’s businesses and lower the value of its reserves. Consequently, government actions designed to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on Oxy’s businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves. Long-Term Risk: The timing, scope and cost of government actions on climate change, and their ultimate effect on Oxy and our employees, partners and customers, are highly uncertain. Examples of uncertainties include the type and extent of GHG emissions reductions required, the availability and price of emission allowances or CDR credits, the availability and price of alternative fuel sources, the energy or industrial sectors covered, Oxy’s ability to recover the costs incurred through its operating agreements or the pricing of its oil, NGL, natural gas and other products, and whether service providers are able to pass increased costs through to Oxy. Long-term risks are evaluated using scenario analyses. These analyses allow our capital planners and senior management to evaluate the exposure to carbon prices when extending the operating life or reserves of existing fields or entering new projects. We anticipate that EOR and low-carbon oil can be important contributors to meet the continuing long-term demand for liquid fuels and feedstocks projected in many low-carbon scenarios.  Technology RiskShort- and Medium-Term Risk: Oxy’s oil and gas and chemicals businesses are based on mature processes that have been commercially proven for decades, and that are frequently enhanced with innovative technologies designed to increase safety, reliability, productivity and efficiency, extend the productive lives of Oxy’s assets and infrastructure, or reduce costs and operational footprints, including emissions.  In addition to risks associated with these technological innovations, Oxy’s investments in CCUS, including DAC, Point-Source Capture, sequestration hubs and development of low-carbon products and fuels, and other low-carbon ventures that have not yet been commercialized, entail technology risks. In alignment with the IPCC, IEA and other leading organizations, we believe widescale deployment of DAC and other CCUS technologies is critical to achieving global climate goals, while meeting society’s demands for energy and better standards of living. Accordingly, over the past four years, Oxy has dedicated resources with our investees and partners to advancing CCUS technologies and business opportunities. DAC technology risk in the short- and medium-term relates to availability and effectiveness of materials and processes as well as associated costs. DAC is a novel process that has not yet been implemented at commercial scale. Oxy mitigates this risk through a multi-pronged approach including: •	use of established technology wherever practical; •	use of materials produced by our OxyChem subsidiary; and•	preference for materials and equipment sourced through well-established suppliers and channels.With respect to sequestration of captured CO2 volumes, we believe that Oxy’s 50+ years of experience with integrated carbon management and large-scale carbon separation, transportation, use, recycling and storage applied in our EOR business significantly reduces technology risk in this element of the CCUS business. Legal RiskShort- and Medium-Term Risk: Oxy’s operations are subject to stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations related to improving or maintaining environmental quality. Under certain circumstances these may apply retroactively and regardless of fault, the legality of the original activities or the current ownership or control of properties. The scope of Oxy’s climate-related risk assessment includes the consideration of international accords, treaties, legislation, regulation and fiscal policy initiatives that may affect the raw materials, services and costs to produce our products, and the demand for and potential restrictions on the use of our products. For example, in 2021, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act reinstated the federal Superfund excise taxes on various chemicals that OxyChem manufactures, and the IRA imposed additional taxes on U.S. corporations, as well as the methane emissions fee described above. These taxes and fees could lead to higher costs and impact margins of Oxy’s businesses. Non-compliance with certain laws and regulations may result in strict, joint and several liability and the imposition of signifi-cant civil and criminal fines and penalties. In addition, certain governmental entities and private parties have brought litiga-tion against Oxy and other oil and gas producers regarding climate change, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain, and we intend to pursue a range of defenses that could absolve or limit Oxy’s potential liability. However, as a result of the laws, regulations and claims described above, we may incur substantial liabilities to governmental entities or third parties for which we may not have insurance coverage, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. Market RiskMedium-Term Risk: Shifting consumer preferences toward lower-carbon products could reduce demand for products and services which use oil and natural gas as inputs or feedstock. These shifts in consumer demand and preferences could promote the use of alternative sources of energy and thereby decrease demand for oil and natural gas.Oxy is focused on core domestic and international assets that are competitively advantaged through geography and scale and provide long-term business opportunities under a wide range of low-carbon scenarios. Our portfolio generally enables us to adjust to market signals and emerging risks and opportunities. We expect to manage future carbon price impacts by reducing operational emissions, reducing carbon intensity of our products and implementing DAC and other CCUS projects, while also maintaining a competitive advantage compared to higher-cost operators. Production from CO2-EOR may decline if we are not able to obtain sufficient amounts of CO2. Market conditions may cause the delay or cancellation of the development of naturally occurring CO2 sources or construction of plants that capture anthropogenic CO2, thus limiting the amount of CO2 available for use in our CO2-EOR operations. As the largest commercial purchaser and injector of CO2 for EOR in the Permian Basin and a global leader in this technology, Oxy seeks to identify and implement commercial opportunities to extend our competitive advantages in CO2-EOR while simultaneously investing in and developing CCUS technologies that can accelerate our pathway towards a net-zero economy. The profitability of these projects is dependent upon the costs of developing and operating infrastructure, demand for services from emitters and the availability of tax attributes and CDR credits generated from the capture and storage of CO2; as a result, some projects may not be economically viable to pursue. Reputation RiskShort- and Medium-Term Risk: The oil and gas and chemical industries have a significant role in achieving a successful transition to a net-zero economy, including sustaining energy supplies and essential products to meet societal needs while significantly reducing GHG emissions. Oxy’s President and CEO, senior management and Board of Directors share a commitment to effective and ethical corporate governance, which we believe enhances reputation and shareholder value. Strong governance also requires active stakeholder engagement. Oxy is taking a leadership role, including multiple actions to leverage our expertise in DAC and other CCUS technologies to enhance our businesses and help society achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. Oxy is working to apply our skills, expertise and assets to expand the use of CCUS globally, in support of our ambition to achieve net-zero emissions for our total carbon inventory before 2050. We are investing in opportunities to innovatively reduce the carbon footprint of our operations and those in other sectors in ways that sustain and expand our businesses. We also work closely with NGOs, unions, community leaders, and other stakeholders to advocate for policies that serve the goals of the Paris Agreement. We believe these capabilities position Oxy to succeed in our changing world and reinforce our reputation as a respected Partner of Choice®.PHYSICAL RISKSPhysical risks resulting from climate change can be event-driven (acute) or longer-term shifts (chronic) in climate patterns. Physical risks may have financial implications for organizations, such as direct damage to assets and indirect impacts from supply chain disruption. Organizations’ financial performance may also be affected by changes in water availability, sourcing, and quality, food security, and temperature changes affecting organizations’ premises, operations, supply chain, transport needs, and employee safety.  Oxy identifies risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K and other periodic filings with the SEC (Risk Factors), including with respect to physical risks, that may adversely affect our assets and operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and our workforce and the communities where we operate, and we evaluate and implement measures we consider reasonable to plan for and mitigate physical risks to the extent practicable. Oxy’s assets and operations have generally withstood severe weather events and changes in climate patterns without sustaining damage or losses that are material to the company’s financial position.
Acute RiskShort- and Medium-Term: Oxy operates offshore oil and gas platforms and other assets in the Gulf of Mexico and facilities along the U.S. Gulf Coast that have been affected by severe weather at times, and we have interests in similar assets operated by others. We also have numerous suppliers and customers in the Gulf of Mexico region. Beyond that region, other domestic and international assets and operations are at risk of downtime or other impacts from power outages, snow or freezing conditions, cyclones, sandstorms or excessive heat, and those conditions may affect suppliers and customers as well. In operating areas that are exposed to these physical risks, Oxy endeavors to design, build and maintain wells and facilities to withstand anticipated severe weather events to the extent practicable, and these wells and facilities are routinely inspected by Oxy personnel and specialized contractors. Larger facilities also undergo periodic turnarounds for maintenance and upgrades that can increase their efficiency and reliability, reduce emissions, implement additional mitigation measures against physical risks, and extend their productive lives. Our operations activate emergency preparedness and response plans in advance of identified storms. Following severe weather events, wells and facilities undergo detailed inspection and recovery protocols to support a safe and timely return to full production. With respect to assets in which Oxy has a non-operating interest, we collaborate with operators and seek to influence their use of similar measures to plan for and mitigate physical risks of severe weather and changes in climate patterns.Chronic RiskLong-Term: Chronic physical risks that could arise from long-term shifts in climate, including water or raw material scarcity, changes or disruptions in energy markets, geopolitical risks, or other supply and logistics challenges, are considered as applicable in our long-term field and business development planning, business continuity planning and ERM processes. As noted above, our businesses are subject to various Risk Factors, including physical risks in certain operating areas. We believe our strategy for resilience and sustainability, including investments in infrastructure, communities, resource conservation and logistics, is robust and flexible and periodically review and update our strategy.INTEGRATING RISK MANAGEMENTOxy’s proactive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program is integral to strategic and capital planning and promotes safe, reliable and sustainable operations. Oxy’s ERM program builds upon systematic risk assessment programs in functional disciplines, such as our HSE risk management, security and social responsibility programs and the work of our planning and commercial teams. Climate-related risks, including both physical risks as well as transition risks relating to regulation, legal, reputation, technology and commercial or market risks, are evaluated, prioritized for potential mitigation, and incorporated into risk factors or other disclosures as warranted.INTEGRATING CLIMATE INTO OXY’S RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACHTHE IEA’S “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SCENARIO”  AND “NET ZERO EMISSIONS BY 2050 SCENARIO”We believe sound, externally developed scenarios benefit stakeholders seeking to compare companies across industries. The TCFD recommends organizations use relevant scenarios to test asset-portfolio resilience in regulatory and market environments which are structured to keep global warming to well below a 2°C increase compared with pre-industrial levels. In this section, we discuss our carbon pricing assumptions and portfolio review process, including the performance of our assets and reserves in stress-test modeling based on the IEA’s published scenarios. During the past year, we used the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) and Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE) to model portfolio risk from the IEA 2021 WEO.The SDS reflects a pathway to achieving key energy-related components of the U.N. Sustainable Development Agenda, including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and measures to improve air quality. The SDS is aligned with holding the temperature increase to well below 2°C (more precisely, the 2021 SDS scenario is consistent with a 1.65°C increase) with the potential to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5°C  by 2100 with some level of negative emissions after 2070. The SDS scenario is also consistent with advanced economies achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. In 2022, Oxy used the 2021 SDS to complete a comprehensive stress test, modeling how a tax-like carbon burden would impact our operated oil and gas assets. This was conducted using specific production, capital investment and reserves profiles based on proved reserves as estimated at year-end 2021. 


In 2021, the IEA published the NZE, in which it introduced a model of energy markets and pricing that it ascribed to attaining net-zero globally, rather than only in advanced economies, by 2050. The NZE is a normative scenario that reflects a pathway for the global energy sector to achieve net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050. This scenario also references key energy-related U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular universal energy access by 2030 and improvements in air quality. The NZE does not rely on emissions reductions from outside the energy sector to achieve its goals but assumes that non-energy emissions will be reduced in the same proportion as energy emissions. In 2022, Oxy used the NZE to evaluate, at a high level, the potential impact of related NZE-modeled hydrocarbon prices and carbon emissions burden on proved reserves as estimated at year-end 2021. In addition to serving as a reference to evaluate the resilience of our existing portfolio and reserves, the NZE projects both the continued robust demand for liquid fuels and feedstocks through 2050 and the necessity of rapidly deploying DAC and other CCUS technologies at scale to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement.














STRATEGIC AND CAPITAL PLANNING Across our business segments, Oxy bases its strategic and capital planning processes on a capital-efficient approach that is intended to maximize the value of our portfolio and execute on our priorities. Key elements of our portfolio review and carbon modeling include:•	Referencing the SDS and NZE;•	Developing strategic alternatives expected to maximize shareholder value in a future with uncertain carbon constraints and defined carbon budgets; and •	Developing options for delivering sustainable shareholder value under scenarios with stringent regulation of CO2 emissions and potentially changing demand for oil and gas and its derived products. Portfolio impacts are assessed by applying scenarios for oil and natural gas prices and CO2 prices in the regions where we operate. Currently, no carbon tax applies to Oxy’s oil and gas operations or product sales, although the IRA enacted a methane emissions fee that will take effect in 2024 for emissions from certain upstream and midstream oil and gas operations above certain thresholds. As part of our commitment to informed capital planning and risk management, we include an assumed price on carbon in our capital approval process for the purpose of sensitivity modeling. This modeling allows our capital planners and senior management to analyze carbon price exposure when extending the operating life or reserves of existing fields or entering new projects.The results of these scenario analyses further demonstrate the strength and resiliency of Oxy’s assets, including in a lower-carbon economy. We benefit from high-return, short-cycle upstream assets. We believe our assets can generate returns under IEA’s low-carbon scenarios and we have the flexibility to shift capital to address sudden changes in policy that could impact project economics.We consider various energy scenarios, including the performance of our assets and reserves in modeling based on the International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook (WEO) and other sources, to assess potential future climate-related risks to our businesses. Larger capital projects require a carbon price-sensitivity analysis before approval. We believe our strategy for resilience — utilizing and storing CO2 at a price and volume that adjust relative to potential economic or regulatory carbon constraints or incentives — can sustain shareholder value in various carbon-constrained scenarios, advance our net-zero goals and align with the goals of the Paris Agreement. We continue to evaluate scenarios and reassess our asset portfolio to consider significant changes in leading market forecasts, carbon pricing regimes and our asset mix.PORTFOLIO RISK SCENARIO ANALYSISTHE IEA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SCENARIO (SDS) In 2022, we conducted sensitivity analysis on our portfolio of oil and gas assets by applying the SDS’s carbon price projection, which starts at $100/MT in 2030 and reaches $160/MT by 2050. We estimated an emissions burden of $3.29/BOE for our oil and gas portfolio in 2030, increasing linearly to $4.60/BOE in 2040 and $5.26/BOE in 2050, based on the recent emissions intensity of Oxy’s oil and gas operations and the SDS’s carbon pricing projections.The scenario analysis was based on applying SDS assumptions and parameters to our full portfolio of domestic and international oil and gas assets, as calculated in accordance with SEC rules for estimating proved reserves and reported in our 2021 Form 10-K  (our “2021 Reserves”). Our 2021 Reserves included planned capital spending and expected operating costs from approved development plans, consistent with SEC requirements. The 2021 Reserves used a calculated average West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil price of $66.56 and a calculated average Henry Hub gas price of $3.60, also consistent with SEC requirements. These hydrocarbon prices used in our 2021 Reserves were higher than the prices modeled under the SDS (see pricing table/chart below). The application of these SDS parameters of hydrocarbon pricing and the attributed carbon emissions burden to Oxy’s 2021 Reserves volumes was estimated in this scenario analysis to reduce the reserves volume by approximately 3% from the reserves volume reported pursuant to SEC requirements. Due primarily to the SDS’ projected reduction in hydrocarbon prices, applying this scenario modeled a reduction in the value of the 2021 Reserves of approximately 19% from the value reported pursuant to SEC requirements, if not accompanied by reductions in development and operating costs. We did not model reductions in development and operating costs, but do not expect that our capital program would be significantly modified under this scenario.DAC AND OTHER CCUS TECHNOLOGIES UNDER THE SDS Under the SDS there are expanded polices that support wide deployment of DAC and other CCUS technologies. The IEA proj.ects the contribution of CCUS to grow significantly over time as the technology improves, costs fall and cheaper abatement op.tions in some sectors are exhausted. In the SDS, global Net Zero occurs around 2070. In 2070, 10.4 gigatonnes (GT) of CO2 is es.timated to be captured from across the energy sector, of which 9.5 GT CO2 is sequestered in geologic formations and 0.9 GT is used in products. More than 90% of all the CO2 captured over 2020-70 in the SDS is stored, with 80% of the stored CO2 coming from coal, oil and natural gas sources and industrial processes and 20% from bio.energy and DAC.Reused or recycled CO2 plays an important role in supporting the decarbonization of the transport and industry sectors through the production of transport fuels and as a feedstock for the chemical industry.Carbon removal accounts for a large and increasing share of the CO2 captured over the projection horizon in the SDS.WEO SDS OXY CO2 EMISSIONS BURDENNATURAL GAS PRICES FOR PORTFOLIO ANALYSISOIL PRICES FOR PORTFOLIO ANALYSISGLOBAL CO2 CAPTURE BY SOURCE IN THE NZETHE IEA’S NET ZERO EMISSIONS BY 2050 SCENARIO (NZE) Although our planning for OLCV is informed by the NZE, we do not consider it directly relevant to our oil and gas business. The reasons for this include: (1) we believe our short-cycle assets better align with the SDS; (2) the NZE pricing assumptions preceded the increased energy demand as COVID-19 restrictions were lifted and the Russian war on Ukraine and, as a result, diverge widely from mid-2022 futures strip oil and gas pricing; and (3) the NZE scenario does not assume any differentiated pricing for carbon-neutral or lower-carbon oil and gas, which products are central to Oxy’s strategic plans and actions.  If one were to routinely apply the NZE pricing for testing our oil and gas operations, we believe it would yield unrealistic results, unless the artificially low NZE prices were offset by much lower cost assumptions, effectively requiring a completely different form of reserves analysis that we do not believe would be as useful as applying the SDS and would diverge even more significantly from reserves calculated pursuant to SEC requirements.In 2022, we performed a high-level review of potential impacts of the NZE in addition to our routine risk management processes. Due to the divergent pricing in the near-term between the NZE and the mid-2022 strip, we evaluated, at a high level, the impact of the NZE price forecast from 2030 onward. The NZE modeled prices of $36.00/bbl of crude oil and $1.90/mmbtu for natural gas in 2030. The NZE further modeled crude oil prices falling to $24/bbl in 2050, with natural gas remaining relatively flat between 2030 and 2050. Additionally, the NZE modeled a carbon price of $130/MT beginning in 2030, rising to $250/MT in 2050. At Oxy’s 2021 calculated carbon intensity for our oil and gas operations, the carbon price would be equivalent to a cost burden of $4.27/BOE using the $130/MT carbon price and $8.21/BOE using the $250/MT carbon price. The combination of NZE’s assumed low hydrocarbon prices and high carbon burden would reflect a stressed market for traditional oil and gas producers after 2030. Importantly, because of Oxy’s short-cycle assets, over 85% of Oxy’s 2021 Reserves by value and two-thirds of our 2021 Reserves by volume would have been realized by 2030.  In addition, Oxy’s strategy encompasses a market for lower-carbon crude oil and natural gas, which is not modeled in the NZE. Without reflecting those adjustments in production costs or differentiated prices due to low-carbon oil and gas, some of the longer-cycle portion of Oxy’s oil and gas asset portfolio could be uneconomical under the NZE’s pricing assumptions. Beyond oil and gas production, the NZE would galvanize other strategies for Oxy and its subsidiaries. By 2030, 1.7 GT CO2 per year is estimated to be captured globally, rising to 7.6 GT CO2 in 2050, with approximately 95% of total CO2 captured in 2050 sequestered in geologic formations and 5% used in synthetic fuel production. 630 million MT CO2 are estimated to be removed from the atmosphere using DAC. OLCV announced in March 2022 that a global net-zero support policy framework, such as envisioned in the NZE, would facilitate Oxy’s construction of up to 135 DAC facilities, and up to 6 sequestration hubs for secure geologic sequestration of CO2. CCUS and hydrogen technologies are modeled in the NZE to reduce 50% of the emissions of heavy industry, including steel, cement and chemical production. The chemical industry would see rapid growth under the NZE, as the IEA projects primary chemical demand to increase as much as 30% by 2050.   GLOBAL INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION OF BULK MATERIALS BY PRODUCTION ROUTE IN THE NZESource: IEA (2021) Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector. All rights reserved.      OXY'S NET-ZERO GOALSINTERIM TARGETS FOR GHG EMISSIONS  REDUCTIONS AND LOW CARBON VENTURESENHANCED EMISSIONS ESTIMATES AND MEASUREMENTSREVIEW OF 2019-21 GHG EMISSIONS METRICSMETRICS &TARGETSNET-ZERO GOALS Oxy has set the following key interim targets for GHG emissions reductions and low carbon ventures to address Scope 1, 2 and 3KEY INTERIM TARGETS(1)OXY OIL AND GASROUTINE FLARING ELIMINATIONTOTAL OPERATIONAL GHG(2)
EMISSIONS INTENSITY METHANE EMISSIONS
INTENSITY(3)In 2020, Oxy adopted the following goals to achieve Net Zero across our total emissions inventory in accordance with the Paris Agreement:0.02MTCO2e/BOE
BY 2025(4)BY 2030OF MARKETED GAS
BY 2025(4)Net-zero emissions in our operations and energy use (Scope 1 and 2) before 2040, with an ambition to achieve before 2035;Total carbon impactthrough carbon removal and storage technology and development past 2050.Net-zero for our totalemissions inventoryincluding product use(Scope 1, 2 and 3) with an ambition to achieve before 2050; andOXYCHEMREDUCE TOTAL OPERATIONAL GHG EMISSIONS BY TOTAL OPERATIONAL 
GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL OPERATIONAL GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY.2.7%.2.33%.187,990MTCO2eBY 2025 VS MULTI-YEAR BASELINEBY 2025 VS MULTI-YEAR BASELINEBY 2025 VS MULTI-YEAR BASELINETo achieve progress toward our net-zero goals and ambitions, Oxy has established a range of ambitious interim targets in 2020 and 2021 that address Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, applying the short-, medium- and long-term time frames adopted by Climate Action 100+. This section describes our recent progress on these targets, which are also summarized by time frame in Appendix III.Oxy’s workforce is fully engaged company-wide in a multi-year plan to advance our ambitious interim GHG targets, including: •	Our emissions reduction efforts that integrate capital projects, for which we allocated approximately $80 million in 2022; expanded inspection, repair and maintenance programs, including using fixed monitors and aerial and satellite surveillance; and changes to operating practices to minimize releases and flaring during third-party plant or pipeline outages; and •	our strategic deployment of DAC, point-source capture, NET Power, sequestration hubs and low-carbon fuels and products to achieve our medium-term targets, accelerate our pathway to net zero, and help others across industry sectors meet their net-zero goals.ADDITIONAL TARGETS SET IN 2021REDUCE TOTAL OPERATIONAL GHG EMISSIONS FROM OIL AND GAS AND OXYCHEM BYFACILITATE GEOLOGIC STORAGE OR USE OF CAPTURED CO2.3.68 MILLION
MTCO2e.25  MILLION
MTCO2BY 2032BY 2024 VS 2021 EMISSIONS	(1) These targets would be adjusted for significant transactions or changes in laws, regulations, protocols or methodologies or Oxy’s organizational boundaries. Multiple proposed or recently adopted changes to GHG reporting regulations and protocols may cause Oxy to update or modify our reported emissions and our current suite of GHG goals and targets to reflect new regulations and protocols, although we expect to retain our overarching net-zero goals.
(2) Total Operational GHG Emissions refers to Scope 1 + 2 emissions from Oxy’s operated assets. 
(3) Methane emissions intensity refers to the amount of methane emissions from Oxy’s operated oil and gas assets as a percentage of the total gas produced and marketed.
(4) In December 2021, OGCI announced new collective carbon and methane intensity ambitions of 0.017 MTCO2e/BOE and 0.20%, respectively, by 2025. Oxy is currently evaluating these ambitions with respect to our operated assets.PER YEARPER YEAROxy’s metrics and targets, and our updates of progress, are based on industry reporting criteria. For further information on our methodology and boundaries, see About Our GHG Emissions Estimates. Certain estimates have undergone a limited 
assurance verification process by ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. (ERM CVS) as described in the Independent Assurance Statement attached as Appendix II and posted on oxy.com/Sustainability.  We engage proactively with our 
shareholders and other relevant stakeholders regarding our metrics and targets as well as our climate policy positions and net-zero strategy.INTERIM TARGETS FOR GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS AND LOW CARBON VENTURESTARGETTARGETUPDATEUPDATEReduce total oil and gas operational GHG emissions intensity to 0.02 MTCO2e/BOE by 2025.   In mid-2021, Oxy initiated multiple emissions reduction projects in our oil and gas operations that significantly offset emissions from the increase in activity levels including the resumption of steam generation and injection.  As a result, our oil and gas emissions increased by only approximately 1% compared to 2020, with an 8% increase in our CO2e intensity driven by lower year-over-year oil and gas production in 2021.  Since our emissions reduction projects were implemented in the second half of 2021, we expect they will yield full-year emissions reductions in 2022, despite further increases in 2022 activity levels. OxyChem has set a target to reduce total operational GHG emissions (CO2e) by 2.33% by 2025. OxyChem is actively pursuing emission reduction projects at multiple facilities to advance this target. OxyChem’s operational emissions decreased by 9% in 2021 from 2020, and 15% from the multi-year baseline, primarily due to maintenance in OxyChem’s cogeneration facilities, as well as reduced emissions from cooling processes. In 2022, OxyChem’s emissions are expected to increase with activity levels, but to remain below the baseline for this target primarily due to emissions reduction efforts such as process changes and increased hydrogen use for fuel. Reduce methane emissions intensity to below 0.25% (based on marketed gas production), by 2025. Since 2020, our emissions reductions projects have focused on capturing methane and reducing venting and flaring, and we have increased our use of site-specific data in estimating methane emissions. As a result of these efforts, our estimated methane emissions decreased by 33% from 2020 to 2021, and the methane emissions intensity of our marketed gas production decreased by nearly 24% from 0.34% of marketed gas production in 2020 to 0.26% in 2021. OxyChem has a target to reduce total operational GHG emissions intensity of its products (CO2e/ton of product) by 2.70% by 2025. OxyChem’s emissions intensity decreased by approximately 13% in 2021 from 2020, and more than 11% from the multi-year baseline, reflecting both the 2021 decrease in emissions described above and increased production volumes in 2021. OxyChem’s emissions intensity is expected to remain below the baseline for this target for the reasons previously noted, despite the resumption of normal cogeneration operations in 2022. Oxy endorsed and committed to the World Bank’s “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative. Oxy expects to eliminate all (100%) routine flaring by 2030. Oxy applies the World Bank’s classification of routine flaring in our operations. In 2021, Oxy designed additional compression and takeaway capacity, and closed-loop gas capture and recycling projects which we successfully implemented in 2022.  Accordingly, our routine flaring volume increased in 2021 with greater activity levels prior to our installation of the flaring reduction projects. As a result of these projects, Oxy achieved zero routine flaring in our Permian Basin operations in 2022, our Rockies and Gulf of Mexico operations have sustained zero routine flaring since 2020, and our international operations significantly reduced routine flaring and expect to achieve zero routine flaring well ahead of the World Bank’s 2030 target. Facilitate 25 million metric tons per year of geologic storage or utilization of captured CO2 in our value chain by 2032, or other means of technologically feasible climate mitigation. March 2022, Oxy provided a detailed Investor Update regarding our low carbon ventures. We made significant progress in 2022 in our plans to build the world’s first commercial DAC plant, and to develop multiple sequestration hubs. We completed FEED and began site construction activities for DAC-1 in the Permian Basin, and we have started the pre-FEED for our second DAC plant. We executed agreements for more than 265,000 net acres of pore space access with a capacity of up to 6 billion metric tons of CO2 for sequestration hubs and filed permit applications for multiple Class VI sequestration wells. We also signed agreements to provide carbon dioxide removal credits from DAC and to offer future opportunities to supply net-zero oil as markets emerge. In our third quarter 2022 earnings call, we noted that, as a result of enhanced U.S. policy support in the Inflation Reduction Act, we could increase the number of DAC plants in our current development scenario from 70 online by 2035 to approximately 100 DAC plants by 2035. Fulfill The Environmental Partnership commitments for leak detection surveys and high-bleed pneumatics replacement.    In 2021 and 2022, Oxy completed thousands of leak surveys, surpassing our TEP target. In addition, we have retrofitted or eliminated over 95% of high-bleed pneumatic controllers in our U.S. operations since 2020, and are awaiting delivery of equipment to address the remaining devices in 2023. Reduce Oxy’s combined Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions from our worldwide operated assets by at least 3.68 million metric tons per year by 2024, compared to our 2021 emissions. Oxy is engaged in a company-wide, multi-year effort to meet this ambitious emissions reduction target that includes capital projects, with approximately $80 million of capital allocated in 2022. We expanded inspection, repair and maintenance programs, and made changes to operating practices such as closed-loop gas capture and injection during third-party plant or pipeline outages. In 2021, Oxy designed multiple emission reduction projects for implementation over the next several years, with the scope and timing subject to permitting and approvals, capital and availability of equipment. Continue to stress the importance of the reduction of methane emissions across Oxy’s operations and beyond. In 2021, Oxy endorsed the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 to collaborate further on methane reductions across our value chain. In 2022, Oxy joined OGCI’s Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions Initiative to galvanize industry efforts to maximize methane capture for beneficial use and reduce avoidable methane emissions.