PROSPERITYCommunity and Social Investment.Community Partnerships 
and Engagement.Industry Engagement and Leadership.Local Supply Chain Management. 48CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY: OXY 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPROSPERITYCOMMUNITY AND 
SOCIAL INVESTMENTProsperity encompasses our industry-leading innovation and operational capabilities to create shared value and advance the UN SDGs and the Paris Agreement, including investments in workforce development, energy infrastructure and technologies. By measuring and reporting on Oxy’s role in contributing to prosperity and equity, our stakeholders can become better informed and prepared to sustain, facilitate and benefit from our substantial investments in physical assets and human capital that contribute to value creation, a successful and just net-zero transition, and the UN SDGs.Oxy prioritizes strengthening local economies and helping communities thrive. We engage in numerous partnerships that address community needs, create economic opportunity and promote social welfare and cultural development. In each of our business locations, we follow established procedures to understand the potential effects of Oxy’s presence on the surrounding region. By investing our resources in initiatives that support the areas near our operations, we enhance our relationships with neighboring communities by promoting mutually beneficial outcomes. We actively engage stakeholders to better understand their interests and concerns, which helps us identify social investment opportunities.During 2020, Oxy invested more than $16 million toward both community and social investments. Oxy also paid approximately $1.6 billion in U.S. federal, state, and local property, sales, and severance taxes, out of a total of approximately $2.17 billion paid in taxes globally.PROSPERITYCOMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS AND ENGAGEMENTOur community investment approach in the U.S. focuses on six main areas that serve and empower disadvantaged communities: public health, safety and well-being; education; social services such as food security; military and veterans; the environment; and civic events and culture. In particular, we focused charitable contributions on first responders, essential workers and local food banks to aid community members who lost jobs or faced food insecurity during the COVID-19 pandemic. We distributed packages of PPE, including gloves, masks and hand sanitizers to local hospitals and charities and to employees to take home to their families. We also encouraged our workforce to obtain the COVID-19 vaccine, and supported host government agencies seeking to obtain and distribute vaccines to our workforce and their family members working in international locations.Oxy is a member company of the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP) whose mission is to enable fulfillment of the Permian Basin’s economic potential and improve the quality of life of its residents. Oxy and the PSP, along with the thousands of member company employees who live and work in the Permian Basin, are committed
to safe and environmentally responsible operations and participate in the discussions and decisions that will improve the quality of life in the Permian. The PSP has invested in educational capacity and training resources, expanded healthcare access, improved transportation safety and infrastructure, affordable housing and expanded broadband access across the region.COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPSSupporting At-Risk Youth
with the Astros Foundation Since 2013, Oxy has partnered with the Astros Foundation to serve at-risk children and teens through youth baseball and softball programs. Oxy’s ongoing support has facilitated renovation and maintenance of Denver Harbor baseball fields, reduced registration fees for youth leagues and provided uniforms, equipment and Astros tickets for young ball players from low-income families. In 2021, we expanded our partnership with the Astros Foundation by sponsoring the Astros Literacy Bus, a mobile interactive unit that supports the Houston Independent School District and the Houston Public Library by distributing books at schools, youth organizations and community centers to encourage family reading.Helping Veterans Make 
the Transition to 
Civilian Careers Demonstrating our commitment to the veteran community, Oxy has worked with American Corporate Partners (ACP) since 2011. ACP is a national non-profit organization focused on helping veterans find their next career through active
and engaging mentoring, networking and online career development. Through the Veteran Mentor Program, Oxy employees serve as mentors to veterans transitioning into the civilian workforce. Since our partnership began, Oxy employees have mentored more than 400 ACP veterans. In Oman, we strive to be recognized as a leader in promoting Oman’s Vision 2040 and its economic and social development goals. We support Vision 2040 through social investment programs supporting the people of Oman. In 2020, Oxy implemented and supported social investment projects in Oman by providing scholarships for outstanding Omani students to study at top international universities, offering English language learning for students in the Al Wusta and Al Dhahira concession areas, sponsoring human resources and jobs skills training in Al Wusta and providing computer tablets to students from low income families so they could continue online learning during the COVID-19 pandemic. In recognition of these programs, Oxy was given the award of His Majesty Sultan Qaboos for social investment and, in 2020, the Al Roya Social Responsibility Forum Award at the 4th session of the Oman Forum for Partnership and Social Responsibility. In Abu Dhabi, Oxy contributes to the Emirates Foundation,
a philanthropic organization established by the Emirati government to facilitate public-private partnerships for empowering youth. Our longstanding partnership with Emirates Foundation dates back to its establishment in 2005, with Oxy being one of the organization’s top contributors—having donated $10 million over 12 years. Oxy’s involvement focuses on student volunteerism
and support for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) learning to encourage youth-driven innovation and entrepreneurism.Oxy is also an avid supporter of the American Community School of Abu Dhabi (ACS), which delivers advanced
STEM programs to more than 1,200 students ages 4 to 18, representing more than 50 nationalities. ACS, established in 1972, is a nonprofit co-educational school affiliated with the Office of Overseas Schools and the U.S. Department
of State. Recently, Oxy funded the elementary school’s Innovation Lab.COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our Rockies operations showcase our approach to 
effective community engagement. We provide significant opportunities for neighbors, community leaders and local governmental organizations to learn about and provide input on our existing and planned operations. We value stakeholder feedback during the planning, permitting, development and operations processes, and offer a variety of ways for stakeholders to obtain information and contact us. To facilitate this input, we often provide extended hours so that people may participate in our community involvement initiatives without conflicting with their work or school schedules, we include translation services when requested, and we provide a community phone line and email address where people can direct their questions.During the planning process for new development in the Prowant and Damore communities in Colorado, Oxy engaged with the local community before filing well permit applications. Our team notified the community of our intent to develop wells, some of which were approximately 1,500 feet of neighborhoods. In response, the community sent 13 requests to our team, which we addressed during an open town-hall meeting. We held two additional community-wide meetings to provide residents the opportunity to ask questions and provide feedback to our drilling and operations teams.Our engagement with and support from communities remains strong. Prior to the legislative rulemaking period 
in 2020, the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission approved our permits with the support of Prowant and Damore communities. Community members expressed their support for oil and gas development by writing letters to the Commission and the Governor of Colorado. In 2021, Oxy conducted a drilling rig tour with 
a local homeowners association representative and regulators to demonstrate how we safeguard residential communities and the local environment. Oxy’s motivated, innovative workforce is the key to our success. We dedicate significant time and resources to train employees on their job duties, the Operational Management System, the role of industry in the economy, as well as HSE and regulatory activities and programs. These efforts empower our workforce to promote operational excellence, including workplace and community health and safety, environmental stewardship and operational improvements in energy efficiency and air quality. As members of the communities where we operate, our employees care about the places where they live and work, the people who live there and the legislative and regulatory issues impacting them. They play a critical role in our operations and proudly represent Oxy as the Partner of Choice® in their communities. As a result, we inform our workforce about public policy issues and legislative and regulatory proposals, and we routinely invite them on a voluntary basis to express their personal opinions in public hearings, written comments, or community meetings to help ensure that their voices are heard and that decision makers benefit from their knowledge and expertise. Oxy offers an Advocate and Ambassador training program to our employees that prepares them to engage and speak with public constituents about Oxy and our industry in their communities and at public forums. As part of the training, employees receive an ‘Oil and Gas 101’ overview, HSE training and information on topics such as regulatory planning, stakeholder relations and communications. The Advocate and Ambassador training program helps our employees engage with community members about Oxy's company values, our Operational Management System and standards, our efforts to serve as a good neighbor, and their personal experiences working in the industry.$48 millionThrough 2020, the PSP has contributed more than $48 million from member company investments and helped to catalyze that investment into more than $844 million in community-led investments.Oxy sponsors the Houston Astros’ ‘Operation Military Appreciation’ to honor veterans and active-duty military during every home baseball game.  In this photo, Oxy employees Michael Morrison and Angelica Cobb are recognized for Michael’s service in the U.S. Navy and Angelica’s in both the U.S. Air Force and the Army National Guard.PROSPERITYINDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT 
AND LEADERSHIPOxy’s experience in managing natural resources and CO2, coupled with our sustainability strategy, has enabled us to create partnerships with a diverse set of key stakeholders that work toward improved business and sustainability-related goals. 
In addition to organizations described in earlier sections of the report, Oxy is an active participant in the following leading 
sustainability organizations.OxyChem is a member of the Vinyl Institute and serves on its Vinyl Sustainability Council (VSC), supporting strong policies focused on product innovation and stewardship and water infrastructure. The VSC serves as the subject matter leader on sustainability issues and related technical, communications and advocacy activities pertaining to the vinyl industry in North America. The VSC champions science-based continuous improvement practices to meet the needs of current and future generations as well as its members’ sustainability efforts through educational programs and company or product-specific sustainability assessments, reporting and goals development.Oxy is an active member of the Carbon Capture Coalition, comprising over 80 stakeholder members from diverse industries, unions and NGOs working to support federal legislation, regulations and policies to incentivize CCUS.Oxy is a member of the Getting to Zero Coalition, a partnership between the Global Maritime Forum, the Friends of Ocean Action and the World Economic Forum. This coalition brings together global decision-makers 
from across the maritime shipping value chain with key stakeholders from the energy sector and from governments with a goal to reduce shipping-related emissions by at
least 50 percent by 2050.OxyChem received the industry’s highest Sustainability Leadership Award from the ACC for its partnership with Water Mission, which facilitates access to clean drinking water 
for refugees and disaster areas around the world.Oxy is also a member of the Marine Preservation Association (MPA), the leading organization supporting the development and maintenance of a broadly funded, effective spill response capability in the United States. Through the MPA, Oxy helps set the highest standards for prevention of oil spills in the marine environment.OxyChem earned a Gold rating from EcoVadis, the world’s largest provider of sustainability ratings, for supply chain sustainability leadership. This achievement places OxyChem among the top four percent of global chemical companies.OxyChem received the Green Circle certification and the Vantage Vinyl Sustainability award in 2020 and 2021 for leadership in sustainability by surpassing the Vinyl Institute’s stringent sustainability standards. OxyChem's knowledge and expertise in water disinfection has made OxyChem a key partner in the mobile Global Water Center®. OxyChem has donated over 160,000 lbs of our ACL product for use in water disinfection and $250,000 
to support the educational materials and exhibits focusing on water education. In 2021, 94 OxyChem employees volunteered over 800 hours at the mobile Global Water Center®.PROSPERITYLOCAL SUPPLY 
CHAIN MANAGEMENTOxy’s supply chain management team recognizes that 
our suppliers and contractors have a significant role in supporting our sustainability programs and reducing Oxy’s operational footprint. We are actively working with our suppliers to align our mutual sustainability goals and share ideas about reducing emissions and carbon impacts associated with their products and services. Our supply chain management group is exploring means of effectively tracking and verifying our vendors’ carbon impact within 
our sourcing and evaluation systems to reflect this in 
our performance criteria.Oxy’s local purchasing programs seek to enhance the competitiveness of contractors and suppliers near our operations and their ability to meet our quality, HSE and sustainability performance requirements. We work closely with local suppliers to promote a consistent quality of service and provide additional training opportunities to select suppliers. Investing in local scholarships and skills-based training helps Oxy and our value chain partners to secure the necessary technical, operational and commercial skill sets. This investment also provides shared economic value by increasing the potential for direct and indirect employment of workers and the retention of suppliers. In Oman, Oxy has invested extensively in small- and 
medium-sized enterprises to strengthen their institutional capacity and workforce skills and ultimately strengthen 
our local supplier network. Oxy Oman also supports innovation and training targeting youth development initiatives including government scholarships, workforce training, entrepreneurship and innovation programs. 
Oxy’s collective support and investment contributes to Oman’s In-Country Value Program resulting in increased employment opportunities for Omanis and investment in local businesses.